{"id": "3598909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3598909", "title": "Albert Leffingwell", "text": "Albert Leffingwell\n\nAlbert Leffingwell, M.D. (1845–1916) was an American physician, social reformer, and vocal advocate for vivisection reform. He authored many books bringing light to the cruel abuses of animal experimentation and calling for regulation. At the same time he sought middle ground between the anti-vivisection societies which called for the abolition of all experimentation and those who rejected any restraints. Leffingwell also was concerned with meat safety, believing that lax regulations, in particular allowing cancerous animals into the food chain, were responsible for increases in the incidence of cancer. He also served as the president of the American Humane Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1970652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1970652", "title": "Alicia O'Shea Petersen", "text": "Alicia O'Shea Petersen\n\nAlicia Teresa Jane O'Shea Petersen (2 July 1862 – 22 January 1923) was a Tasmanian suffragist and social reformer.\n\nAlicia O'Shea Petersen was born in Tasmania. She became interested in women's and labor rights as a result of her own work in sweatshops. She was also influenced by her cousin John Earle, who founded the Workers' Political League and became the first Labor Premier of Tasmania in 1909. \n\nShe was the first woman in Tasmania to stand as a political candidate, contesting the federal seat of Denison in 1913. In 1922, when women were first eligible to stand for the Tasmanian House of Assembly, she was a political candidate in Denison.\n\n"}
{"id": "59077063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59077063", "title": "Anne Newport, Baroness Torrington", "text": "Anne Newport, Baroness Torrington\n\nAnne Newport, Baroness Torrington (? - 1735) was an eighteenth-century aristocrat and social reformer. \n\nShe was the daughter of Robert Pierrepont and Anne Murray. \n\nShe was the third wife of Thomas Newport, Baron Torrington, a barrister and Lord of the Treasury. They married on 8th July 1709, and made their home at Richmond House in Twickenham. Anne would continue to live after her husband died in 1719. She was a cousin of noted woman of letters Lady Mary Wortley Montagu.\n\nOn 14 April 1730, along with her friend, Frances Byron, she was one of the signatories to the Ladies' Petition for the Establishment of a Foundling Hospital, which would be presented by Thomas Coram to King George II in 1735. These ladies are now considered pioneers in demonstrating the 'Christian, virtuous and humanitarian aspects of such an endeavour and make it socially acceptable ... [and] one of the most fashionable charities of the day.\n\nThe extensive collection of fine art developed by the couple was inherited by Thomas' brother Lord Bradford. It is now on display at Weston Park in Shropshire.\n"}
{"id": "1433512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1433512", "title": "Bachelorette party", "text": "Bachelorette party\n\nA bachelorette party, hen(s) party, hen(s) night or hen(s) do, is a party held for a woman who is about to get married. The terms \"hen party\", \"hen do\" or \"hen night\" are used in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Canada, while the terms \"hens party\" or \"hens night\" are common in Australia and New Zealand, and the term \"bachelorette party\" is common in the United States. The term stagette is occasionally used in Canada. It may also be referred to as a \"girls' night out\" or \"kitchen tea\" (South Africa in particular) or other terms in other English-speaking countries. Other pre-wedding celebrations, such as the bridesmaids luncheon, are often held in lieu of bachelorette parties due to the latter's association with licentiousness in some countries since the 1980s.\n\nThe bachelorette party is modeled after the bachelor party, which is itself historically a dinner given by the bridegroom to his friends shortly before his wedding. Despite its reputation as \"a sodden farewell to maiden days\" or \"an evening of debauchery,\" these parties are simply parties given in honor of the bride-to-be, in the style that is common to that social circle.\n\nPrior to its usage as a term for a pre-wedding party, \"hen party\" was used in the United States as a general term for an all-female gathering, usually held at a hostess's residence. In 1897, \"The Deseret News\" noted that a hen party was a \"time honored idea that tea and chitchats, gossip smart hats, constitute the necessary adjuncts to these particular gatherings\". In 1940 Eleanor Roosevelt was described as hosting a Christmas-time hen party for cabinet wives and \"ladies of the press\".\n\nThe bachelorette party is consciously modeled after the centuries-old bachelor's party, which is itself historically a black tie dinner given by the bridegroom, or sometimes his father, shortly before his wedding.\n\nThe practice of giving a party to honour the bride-to-be goes back for centuries. However, certain American bachelorette party customs involving licentiousness among some social groups may have begun during the Sexual Revolution of the 1960s. It was uncommon until at least the mid-1980s, and the first book on planning bachelorette parties was published only in 1998.\nSince the 1980s, many parties in honor of the bride-to-be that were labeled as bachelorette parties often involved displays of sexual freedom, such as trading intimate secrets, getting drunk, and watching male strippers. Parties that honored the bride-to-be without them avoided that label. Now, however, the term is used for a wide variety of parties. \n\nBachelorette parties became especially popular around the turn of the 21st century and frequently appeared in the news.\n\nThose uncomfortable with these modern customs of debauchery often celebrate the night before their wedding with a combined stag and doe party, a custom that has become increasingly popular.\n\nAuthor Beth Montemurro has tied the cultural significance of a bachelorette party to concepts of gender equality. The phrase \"hen party\" mirrors the male \"stag party\" in referencing social stereotypes of each gender at the party.\n\nMany different kinds of entertainment are selected, depending on what the organizers think will best please their guest of honor. While notions of a bachelorette party as a night of drunken debauchery have persist in some social circles since the 1980s, it is becoming widely seen in America as an opportunity for female bonding. According to etiquette expert Peggy Post, \"Whatever entertainment is planned, it should not embarrass, humiliate, or endanger the honoree or any of the guests.\"\n\nWhen held in a private venue, such as the hostess's home, the party may take any form that pleases the hostesses and honors the bride-to-be. Dinners and cocktail parties, which provide comfortable opportunities for participants to talk or to give intimate advice to the bride-to-be, are common. Other hostesses choose a themed party, such as a \"pamper party,\" with guests indulging in spa treatments, or a cooking class. While proposing a toast to the bride-to-be is common at most bachelorette parties, some center on drinking games.\n\nIn the 21st century, many companies sell products aimed at the organizers of bachelorette parties, including packs of themed games, pre-printed invitations, decorations, novelties, and sex toys. A common theme of parties is male nudity. In North America, it is common in some social circles to hire a male stripper or attend a male strip club.\n\nIn the UK, a naked butler has become a common theme and a popular hen party idea. The naked butler is often dressed in just a collar, dickie bow, cuffs and a short apron or trunks. He will wait on the hen and her party including serving drinks and food as well as hosting or taking part in hen party games and entertainment. An extension of this concept that has also become popular in the UK is the hiring of a naked chef to cater for the guests often accompanied by a naked butler to serve the food and drinks. Life drawing parties featuring a nude male model might also be held.\n\nParticipants are often all women. Bridesmaids (if any) are typically invited, but any of the bride's close friends may be included.\n\nThis party is typically hosted by one or more members of the wedding party, although it is possible for any friend to host a party in honor of the bride-to-be. Formally, a party in honor of the bride-to-be is never hosted by the bride-to-be, although she may participate in its planning. While it is normally the duty of a hostess to pay for the entertainment she gives her guests, it is common in most English-speaking countries for participants to share the costs of this event. Whether the bride-to-be pays her share, or whether her share is divided between other participants is determined by the organizers and the bride-to-be during the early stages of the planning process.\n\nParticipating in a bachelorette party is always optional, and many brides decline these parties altogether. Neither bridesmaids nor other friends can be required either to attend or to pay for any part of this party.\n\nSince it is derived from a formal dinner, a bachelorette party is properly held in the evening, usually about a week (or at least a few days) before the wedding, and usually includes dinner, although alternative approaches are not uncommon.\n\nIn the early 21st century, some bachelorette parties rivaled the drunkenness seen in Hollywood portrayals of bachelor parties. \n\nHowever, sober bachelorette parties are not unusual. Many brides and guests are staying sober in recovery from alcoholism or are not drinking alcoholic beverages due to pregnancy or health issues, for religious reasons, or because they do not want to drink alcohol. Sober parties focus on building relationships and activities beyond hanging out at a place that serves alcohol.\n\nMany bachelorette parties are held at home or at a nearby restaurant. Some people turn a bachelorette party into a weekend trip to another city. Some cities, such as Austin for people in the southwestern US and Nashville for people in the Upper Midwest, are relatively popular with American bridal parties that are seeking a weekend destination and can afford to pay hundreds of dollars per person for the experience. Other people will travel farther to cities such as Las Vegas. In the UK, parties in relatively inexpensive European destinations such as Latvia and the Canary Islands are popular. \n\nOne reason that bridal parties travel to a different city is because they want to behave differently than they normally would, but they do not want to deal with the social repercussions that might ensue if friends, family members, or professional acquaintances saw them doing this. When large numbers of bachelor and bachelorette parties choose the same cities, this can produce extra jobs and new businesses to cater to them, but it also draws complaints from local residents who are faced with the disruption and public service costs caused by the seasonal influx of noisy parties and drunken visitors. Stag parties caused so much disruption in Riga, Latvia that the city formed a police group specifically to deal with bachelor and bachelorette parties.\n\nA more traditional alternative is the \"bridesmaids luncheon\", hosted by friends of the bride's mother or mothers of the bridesmaids, usually give the day before the wedding. Attendees include the bridesmaids, their mothers and close female friends and relatives; the event is often multi-generational including mothers and even grandmothers of the bride and groom. At a bridesmaids luncheon, the bride often presents a small gift to each bridesmaid. The purpose of the luncheon is for the bride to thank her attendants and includes presenting them with bridesmaid gifts. This is also the time when the bridesmaids' gift, if any, is customarily given to the bride. If there is a cake, it may contain symbolic good luck charms.\n\nIf a significant aspect of the party is presenting small gifts to the bride-to-be, then the event is properly called a bridal shower. For the convenience of the bride-to-be, bridal showers are usually held earlier than a bachelorette party.\n\nIn Canada a stag and doe party, also called a \"Jack and Jill\", \"buck and doe\" or \"hag\" (\"hen\" + \"stag\") party, is a fundraising party that includes both men and women. These parties are held by couples wishing to distance themselves from the licentiousness associated with many post-1980s bachelorette parties and are becoming increasingly popular, especially as a means to financially support a wedding.\n\n.\n"}
{"id": "34394925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34394925", "title": "Bhoja Bhagat", "text": "Bhoja Bhagat\n\nBhoja Bhagat (1785–1850), also known as Bhojal or Bhojalram was a Hindu saint poet from Gujarat, India.\n\nBhoja or Bhojo was born in 1785 in Leva Kanbi caste at village named Fattehpur or Devkigalol near Jetpur in Saurashtra. His father's name was Karshandas and mother was Gangabai and family surname was Savalia. He met his guru, a sanyasin from Girnar at age of 12. Later, when he was 24, the family shifted to Fatehpur near Amreli, Gujarat. He came to be known as Bhoja Bhagat (Bhagat derived from \"Bhakt\", devotee) and Bhojalram in his later life.\n\nBy occupation he was a farmer. Although, he was an illiterate, but with blessings of his Guru in Girnar, he wrote poems and songs condemning social inequities, which became well known as \"Bhoja Bhagat Na Chabkha\".\n\nBhoja Bhagat died in 1850 at age of 65 at Virpur, where he had gone to visit his disciple Jalaram. His memorial temple (called \"Ota\" locally) is located at Virpur.\n\nHe liked to call himself as \"Bhojal\" in his verses. As a poet and philosopher also wrote \"Aartis\", \"Bhajans\", \"Dholas\", \"Kafis\", \"Kirtans\", \"Mahinas\" and \"Prabhatias\" but is most famous for his \"Chabkhas\". These satirical pieces are known as \"Bhoja Bhagat na Chabkha\" ( literally \"Lashes of Bhoja Bhagat\" ) in Gujarati. His rough language is seen in these \"Chabkha\" which tells about social equanimity. His tender and compassionate language his visible in his verses, \"pada\" describing separation of Gopis from Krishna in \"Bhaktamala\", \"Chalaiyakhyan\" and his \"bhajan\" of \"Kachabo ane Kachabi\" (couple of turtles). His \"Saravadan\" is about union with cosmic consciousness.\n\nHis followers visit Fatehpur today to pay their respects, where he spent major part of his life. The ashram of Bhoja Bhagat houses his paghdi, rosary beads and padukas The original brick-house of Bhoja Bhagat stands as it is and his personal belonging are kept here and there is an ashram headed by mahant, called \"gadi-pati\" (head of \"gadi\")\n\nHe had many disciples of whom the two most illustrious and known are saints Jalaram of Virpur and Valamram of Gariadhar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2992104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2992104", "title": "Brawling (legal definition)", "text": "Brawling (legal definition)\n\nBrawling (probably connected with German language \"brüllen\", to roar, shout), in law, was the offence of quarrelling, or creating a disturbance in a church or churchyard. Brawling was covered in ecclesiastic courts until 1860. It has rarely been prosecuted since then.\n\nDuring the early stages of the Reformation in England religious controversy too often became converted into actual disturbance, and the ritual lawlessness of the clergy very frequently provoked popular violence. To repress these disturbances the Brawling Act 1551 was passed in 1551, by which it was enacted: \"that if any person shall, by words only, quarrel, chide or brawl in any church or churchyard, it shall be lawful for the ordinary of the place where the same shall be done and proved by two lawful witnesses, to suspend any person so offending, if he be a layman, from the entrance of the church, and if he be a clerk, from the ministration of his office, for so long as the said ordinary shall think meet, according to the fault.\"\n\nAn Act of 1553 added the punishment of imprisonment until the party should repent. The Brawling Act 1551 was partly repealed in 1828 and wholly repealed as regards laymen by the Ecclesiastical Courts Jurisdiction Act 1860. Under that Act, which applies to Ireland as well as to England, persons guilty of riotous, violent or indecent behaviour, in churches and chapels of the Church of England or Ireland, or in any chapel of any religious denomination, or in England in any place of religious worship duly certified, or in churchyards or burial-grounds, were liable on conviction before two justices to a penalty of not more than £5, or imprisonment for any term not exceeding two months. This enactment applied to clergy as well as to laity, and a clergyman of the Church of England convicted under it could also be dealt with under the Clergy Discipline Act 1892 (\"Girt v. Fillingham\", 1901, L.R. Prob. 176).\n\nWhen Mr J. Kensit during an ordination service in St Paul's Cathedral \"objected\" to one of the candidates for ordination, on grounds which did not constitute an impediment or notable crime within the meaning of the ordination service, he was held to have unlawfully disturbed the bishop of London in the conduct of the service, and to be liable to conviction under the Act of 1860 (\"Kensit\" v. \"Dean and Chapter of St Paul's\", 1905, L.R. 2 K.B. 249). The public worship of Protestant Dissenters, Roman Catholics and Jews in England had before 1860 been protected by a series of statutes beginning with the Toleration Act of 1689, and ending with the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855. These enactments, though not repealed, were for practical purposes superseded by the summary remedy given by the Act of 1860. In Scotland disturbance of public worship is punishable as a breach of the peace (\"Dougall\" v. \"Dykes\", 1861, 4 Irvine 101).\n\nIn British possessions abroad, interference with religious worship was usually dealt with by legislation, and not as a common-law offence. In India it was an offence voluntarily to cause disturbance to any assembly lawfully engaged in the performance of religious worship or religious ceremonies (Penal Code, s. 296). Under the Queensland Criminal Code of 1899 (s. 207) penalties were imposed on persons who wilfully and without lawful justification or excuse (the proof of which lies on them) disquiet or disturb any meeting of persons lawfully assembled for religious worship, or assault any forces lawfully officiating at such meeting, or any of the persons there assembled.\n\nIn the United States disturbance of religious worship is treated as an offence under the common law, which is in many states supplemented by legislation (see Bishop, \"Amer. Crim. Law,\" 8th ed. 1892, vol. i. s. 542, vol. ii. ss. 303-305; California Penal Code, s. 302; \"Revised Laws of Massachusetts\", 1902, chap. 212, s. 30.).\n\nIn 1998, Peter Tatchell of OutRage! was prosecuted for interrupting the Archbishop of Canterbury's Easter sermon with a short gay rights speech. The 1860 legislation (which transferred jurisdiction away from the ecclesiastic courts) was used to try him; his defense focused on the Human Rights Act 1998. He was convicted and fined £18.60 (referring to the 1860 legislation) plus court costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "44680623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44680623", "title": "Civicus", "text": "Civicus\n\nCIVICUS is an international non-profit organisation, which describes itself as “a global alliance dedicated to strengthening citizen action and civil society around the world. Founded in 1993, the organisation today has members in more than 145 countries, with its headquarters in Johannesburg and offices in London, Geneva and New York.\n\nIn 1991, an international group of 20 leaders from Non Governmental Organisations (NGOs) and social movements met to explore how to support citizen participation in governmental decision-making processes. This process culminated in 1993 when a founding board established CIVICUS from the Latin term meaning \"of the community\".\n\nThe organisation works to protect and grow civic space where people can express and organise themselves. In particular, the organisation focuses on regions where participatory democracy and freedom of association are at risk. CIVICUS counts among its central values: Justice and Equality, where all people are free to exercise their rights as citizens as defined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nIn service of its mission and values, the organisation’s primary areas of activity are: \n\nCIVICUS has approximately 30 members of staff and is led by Dr Dhananjayan Sriskandarajah, who became Secretary General in January 2013. The governing body of CIVICUS is an International Board of 13 civil society leaders from 13 countries.\n\n\nRevenue to support the operations of CIVICUS is derived from multiple sources, including institutional funders, individual contributions, membership fees, and registration fees for the CIVICUS World Assembly. The aggregated income for 2013/2014 was roughly $3.5 million USD with notable contributions from SIDA, Department of Foreign Affairs (Ireland), Freedom House and the European Commission.\n\nSince its establishment in 1993, CIVICUS has built successively on its core programmatic activities:\n"}
{"id": "28964679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28964679", "title": "Collaborative e-democracy", "text": "Collaborative e-democracy\n\nCollaborative e-democracy or super-democracy is a democratic conception that combines key features of direct democracy, representative democracy, and e-democracy (i.e. the use of ICTs for democratic processes). The concept was first published at two international academic conferences in 2009 (see below).\n\nCollaborative e-democracy refers to a political system in which governmental stakeholders (politicians/parties, ministers, parliamentarians etc.) and non-governmental stakeholders (NGOs, political lobbies, local communities, individual citizens, etc.) collaborate on the development of public laws and policies. This collaborative policymaking process is conducted on a governmental social networking site in which all citizens are members (collaborative e-policy-making).\n\nWhile directly elected government officials (i.e. ‘proxy representatives’) would conduct the vast majority of law and policy-making processes (representative democracy), the citizens would retain their final voting power on each issue (direct democracy). Additionally each citizen would be empowered to propose their own policies to the electorate and thus initiate new policy processes where applicable (initiative). Collaboratively generated policies would consider the opinion of a larger proportion of the citizenry; therefore they may be more just, more sustainable, and thus easier to implement.\n\nCollaborative e-democracy involves following theory components:\n\nCollaborative e-policymaking is a process where public laws & policies are generated in collaboration of multiple stakeholders (e.g. affected people; domain experts; parties who can help to implement a solution). Each new policy cycle starts with the identification of a collective problem or goal by the collective of participants (i.e. citizens, experts, proxy representatives).\n\nTo be clear, CPM is automated as a software process that is conducted on the governmental social networking site.\n\nCollaborative e-democracy is based on following core principles:\n\nThe concept of collaborative e-democracy intends to achieve following benefits:\n\nOn the contrary the concept has several limitations:\n\nIn 2009 the two conceptions, \"collaborative e-democracy\" and \"collaborative e-policy-making\", were first published at two academic conferences on e-governance and e-democracy:\n\nCurrent research is conducted at the Queensland University of Technology in Brisbane, Australia where a prototype software for collaborative e-policymaking is being developed. The software will be featured on an independent web 2.0 platform with open participation; the volunteer participants will be facilitated to collaboratively develop Australian public laws and policies by proceeding through the phases of the CPM process. The start of the trialling period is probably 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586834", "title": "Community service", "text": "Community service\n\nCommunity service is a non-paying job performed by one person or a group of people for the benefit of the community or its institutions. Community service is distinct from volunteering, since it is not always performed on a voluntary basis. Personal benefits may be realized, but it may be performed for a variety of reasons including citizenship requirements, a substitution of criminal justice sanctions, requirements of a school or class, and requisites for receipt of certain benefits.\n\nCommunity service is a non-paying job performed by one person or a group of people for the benefit of the community or its institutions. Community service is distinct from volunteering, since it is not always performed on a voluntary basis. It may be performed for a variety of reasons.\n\nSome educational jurisdictions in the United States require students to perform community service hours to graduate from high school. In some high schools in Washington, for example, students must finish 200 hours of community service to get a diploma. Some school districts in Washington, including Seattle Public Schools, differentiate between community service and \"service learning,\" requiring students to demonstrate that their work has contributed to their education. If a student in high school is taking an AVID course, community service is often needed. Whether American public schools could require volunteer hours for high school graduation was challenged in \"Immediato v. Rye Neck School District\", but the court found no violation.\n\nMany other high schools do not require community service hours for graduation, but still see an impressive number of students get involved in their community. For example, in Palo Alto, California, students at Palo Alto High School log about 45,000 hours of community service every year. As a result, the school's College and Career Center awards about 250–300 students the President's Volunteer Service Award every year for their hard work.\n\nThough not technically considered a requirement, many colleges include community service as an unofficial requirement for acceptance. However, some colleges prefer work experience over community service, and some require that their students also continue community service for some specific number of hours to graduate. Some schools also offer unique “community service” courses, awarding credit to students who complete a certain number of community service hours. Some academic honor societies, along with some fraternities and sororities in North America, require community service to join and others require each member to continue doing community service.\n\nMany student organizations exist for the purpose of community service, the largest of which is Alpha Phi Omega. Community service projects are also done by sororities and fraternities.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, colleges began using service-learning as a pedagogy. A partnership of college presidents began in 1985 with the initiative of boosting community service in their colleges. This alliance called Campus Compact, led the way for many other schools to adopt service-learning courses and activities.\n\nService-learning courses vary widely in time span, quality, and in the balance of “service” and “learning” stressed in the course. A typical service-learning course, however, has these factors in common:\nReflection is sometimes symbolized by the hyphen in the term “service-learning” to indicate that it has a central role in learning by serving. Reflection is simply a scheduled consideration of one’s own experiences and thoughts. This can take many forms, including journals, blogs, and discussions.\n\nService-learning courses present learning the material in context, meaning that students often learn effectively and tend to apply what was learned. As the book \"Where’s the Learning in Service-Learning?\" notes, “Students engaged in service-learning are engaged in authentic situations; they get to know real people whose lives are affected by these issues… As a result, they have lots of questions—real questions that they want to have answered.\" Thus, students are interested and motivated to learn the materials to resolve their questions.\n\nCommunity service learning strives to connect or re-connect students with serving their community after they finish their course. It creates a bridge for the lack of community service found among college-age people in the United States.\n\nThe one serving may be able to take something away from the experience and be able to use any newfound knowledge or interpersonal discoveries to improve their future servitude and the people around them. To gain the most from community service requires balancing learning with serving. Learning and serving at the same time improves a student's community while teaching life lessons and building character.\n\nCommunity service-learning is “about leadership development as well as traditional information and skill acquisition.” Therefore, the combination of people doing service and learning at the same time teaches them how to be effective and, more importantly, how to be effective about what is important to them. It improves their overall experience and application opportunities they gain from it. By adding service to learning, and balancing the two, community service can become more than just the simple act of serving. It takes small steps to create big change and this is what service-learning hopes to achieve. By being a classroom, a hands-on learning experience, and an opportunity to change the community, people are able to not only serve, but impact themselves as well.\n\nFor community service-learning to be properly applied and understood, one must start with a good definition of service-learning. According to Fayetteville State University, “Service learning is a process of involving students in community service activities combined with facilitated means for applying the experience to their academic and personal development. It is a form of experiential education aimed at enhancing and enriching student learning in course material. When compared to other forms of experiential learning like internships and cooperative education, it is similar in that it is student-centered, hands-on and directly applicable to the curriculum.”\n\nProfessor Freddy Cardoza defined Community Service-Learning as “Service learning is a Pedogogy (or a specific teaching-learning approach) that has few lectures, and is a more interactive hand's on educational strategy which provides students with instruction while leading them through meaningful community service experiences and engaging them in personal reflection on those experiences in order to build character and to teach problem-solving skills and civic responsibility.” Professor Cardoza stressed that it was important for a student take some time and reflect on what they are experiencing, seeing, doing, and what problems they are encountering and how they are going to apply what they have been learning to solve these problems. In other words, service-learning aims to link the personal and interpersonal development with cognitive development, as well as equipping the student with critical knowledge to help them understand the world.\n\nCharacter.org defines Service-Learning this way: \"Service learning is different than community service in several key ways. Service learning includes student leadership, reflective and academic components, and chances for celebration once the service activity has been successfully completed. Students reflect on community needs, ways to help, and once their service has been completed, they can internalise how their efforts have helped, while learning more about academics such as geography, math, or science.\"\n\nFrom these definitions, we can come up with our own definition of Community Service-Learning: \"A teaching method that takes what is taught in a classroom and equips the student to apply that knowledge in real world situations, while equipping them to take their place in the world, become better citizens, and to be active social and economic problem solvers.\"\n\nPeople convicted of a crime may be required to perform community service or to work for agencies in the sentencing jurisdiction either entirely or partially as a substitution of other judicial remedies and sanctions, such as incarceration or fines. For instance, a fine may be reduced in exchange for a prescribed number of hours of community service. The court may allow the defendant to choose their community service, which must then be documented by \"credible agencies,\" such as non-profit organizations, or may mandate a specific service.\n\nSometimes the sentencing is specifically targeted to the defendant's crime, for example, a litterer may have to clean a park or roadside, or a drunk driver might appear before school groups to explain why drunk driving is a crime. Also, a sentence allowing for a broader choice may prohibit certain services that the offender would reasonably be expected to perform anyway; for example, a convicted lawyer might be specifically prohibited from counting \"pro bono\" legal service.\n\nSome employers involve their staff in some kind of community service programming, such as with the United Way of America. This may be completely voluntary or a condition of employment, or anything in between.\n\nIn addition, approximately 40% of Fortune 500 companies offer volunteer grant programs where companies provide monetary donations to nonprofit organizations in recognition of their employee's volunteerism (Ex. $500 volunteer grant after 25 hours of community service).\n\nCommunity service in the United States is often similar to that in Canada. In Europe and Australia, community service is an option for many criminal sentences as an alternative to incarceration. In the United Kingdom, community service is now officially referred to by the Home Office as more straightforward \"compulsory unpaid work\". Compulsory unpaid work includes up to 300 hours of activities, such as conservation work, cleaning up graffiti, or working with a charity. The Howard League for Penal Reform (the world's oldest prison reform organization) is a prominent advocate for increased community sentencing to reduce prison population and improve rehabilitation.\n\nStarting in 2010, Danish High School students receive a special diploma if they complete at least 20 hours of voluntary work.\n\nThe International Baccalaureate program formerly required 50 hours of community service, together with a written reflection on the service performed, to fulfill the requirement of 150 hours of CAS (Creativity, Action, Service) and receive an IB Diploma.\n\nFlorence Nightingale exercised the entrepreneurship trait of nursing to help improve the unstable conditions of hospitals during the mid 1800s. Her tasks compiled of planning ahead at what needed to be different and how she was going to attempt to change things for the better, acting upon the ideas she came up with, and finally leaving behind a notebook of ideas and recommendations to help the next generation prevent the same disaster of extremely high death rates from happening again. Not only did she organize fundraisers to raise money for the hospital and arrange more stable living conditions to improve the health of the soldiers in the hospital, but she also removed people who were lapsed at their job and delegated tasks to more capable people, sometimes having to do the work herself. She grew up with the desire to help people or anything that needed a hand. Her love for aid and service to others grew when she got older and despite her lack of support from her family she pursued her dream and sacrificed her life for other people. She was not afraid to do the hard things if she knew it was going to make things better or as Niccolò Machiavelli puts it, “[T]here is nothing more difficult to carry out, nor more doubtful of success, nor more dangerous to handle, than to initiate a new order of things…” Florence Nightingale is quoted as writing “The first thought I can remember, and the last was nursing work.” She served a specific group of people and benefited the public—which is community service.\n\nCommunity Service in many African countries reflects inherited colonial compulsory national service. But community service in Africa has its own historical foundation that preexists any Western influence. The village chief, in the past would summon the entire community to a project or undertaking that benefited the entire community. Among the Akans of West Africa, it was called \"oman edwuma\" which literally translates as 'state service' or 'service to the state.' \"Oman Edwuma\" is still practiced in many communities and may carry the force of traditional sanction. Recently, Aistiphi Inc, a philanthropy-based social enterprise, drew upon on this ancient tradition to pioneer Philanthropy Space™ and Our Commonwealth of Goodwill™ for African countries. The goal is to tap into this ancient practice of civic goodwill to foster development and poverty reduction.\n\nMany institutions require and/or give incentive to students or employees alike to volunteer their time to community service programs. From volunteering to participating in such charity events like walks or runs, institutes continue the practice or requiring their employees or students to grow in camaraderie while giving back to various communities. Many institutions also provide opportunities for employees and students to work together, and most student groups participate in their own form of community service. Each is unique in its own right; all are incredibly popular with employees; and in all of these programs, human resources plays an integral role. One such program, Johns Hopkins University, under the leadership of Johns Hopkins University President Ronald J. Daniels and the chief executive officer of Baltimore City Schools, the university’s human resources and community affairs departments worked with the school system to develop the Johns Hopkins Takes Time for Schools program in 2009, launching it on March 3, 2010. The program is a service partnership aimed at providing support and assistance to Baltimore City Schools (BCS) while providing faculty and staff an avenue for community service, offering their talents to the city’s youth and improving the administrative and educational capacities of the area’s school system. Some institutes even give their students or employees a guaranteed number of days or weeks of leave for certain acceptable community service programs. One example is East Carolina University, which gives 24 hours of community service leave for full-time employees per year as an incentive and compensation for community service.\n\nBeyond required community service, some religious groups emphasize serving one’s community. These groups and churches reach out by holding Vacation Bible Schools for children, hosting Red Cross blood drives, having fall carnivals, or offering free meals. Through these services, churches are able to benefit neighborhoods and families. Some churches create non-profit organizations that can help the public. Crisis pregnancy centers are often run by religious groups to promote pro-life values in local families. To meet impoverished people’s needs, some churches provide a food pantry or start a homeless shelter. Also, certain churches provide day care so that busy parents can work.\n\nChristianity, the foundation of thousands of service organizations, holds many strong beliefs about community service. Christians view serving in one’s church and community as a way of showing God’s unconditional love. According to the Christian Bible, 1 Peter 4:10–11 (NIV) says:\n\n\"“Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others, as faithful stewards of God’s grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power for ever and ever. Amen.”\"\n\nThese verses are the basis for Christian belief in outreach using one’s abilities, which they believe are given by God. According to Dr. Freddy Cardoza, a teacher at biblical Biola University, Christians are called to serve people because all people are made in God’s image. Christianity teaches that Jesus was a perfect example of serving during His time on earth. Jesus Christ healed the sick, fed thousands of people, and died for all mankind. Dedicated Christians see the importance of community service to show God’s love and to further spread the Gospel.\n\nIn addition, Christian belief states that they hold dual-citizenship, both in the kingdom of Heaven and the kingdom of earth. They believe that they have a responsibility to live life to the full while on earth, reaching out to others and meeting their needs, but also live in such a way as to prepare for eternity spent in Heaven. This means that they should be invested in both kingdoms, and everything they do should incorporate this line of thinking. 2 Corinthians 9:12-13 (NIV translation of the Bible) says:\n\n\"This service that you perform is not only supplying the needs of the Lord’s people but is also overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else.\"\n\nThese verses illustrate the act of meeting the needs of the community, while also acting with the Kingdom of Heaven in mind by encouraging spiritual growth in those individuals. Because Christians believe that all people are created in God's image, they believe that this means that they are a mortal representative of God to everyone they come in contact with. This adds meaning to everything that they do and say in the service of others. If they do not do their best to minister to both the physical and spiritual needs of others, they are not being good representatives of God's love.\n\nMany well-known non-governmental (NGO) community service organizations were founded by Christians seeking to put their beliefs into practice. Three prominent examples are Samaritan's Purse, Salvation Army, and Habitat for Humanity.\n\nSamaritan's Purse was inspired by a prayer of evangelist Robert Pierce, \"Let my heart be broken for the things which break the heart of God.\" After traveling through Asia and seeing first-hand the suffering of impoverished children, lepers, and orphans—in 1970, Pierce founded Samaritan's Purse. Today, Samaritan's Purse reaches millions of people across the globe by providing aid such as disaster relief, medical assistance, and child care. A notable Samaritan's Purse project is Operation Christmas Child headed by Franklin Graham.\n\nThe Salvation Army was founded by William Booth and his wife Catherine Booth in 1865. Booth was a Methodist minister and preacher on the streets of London. His tent meetings gathered crowds of drunkards, prostitutes and thieves who eventually became the first \"soldiers\" in the army, which has grown to 1,442,388 members in 126 countries. The Salvation Army's motto is \"Doing the Most Good\" and does so by providing aid such as shelter, food, clothing, spiritual training and disaster relief.\n\nHabitat for Humanity provides housing for people in need. Founded by Millard Fuller, its vision is to \"...put God’s love into action by bringing people together to build homes, communities and hope.\" Habitat for Humanity has built or repaired over 800,000 homes and served more than 4 million people worldwide since its creation in 1976. They describe their vision as \"...a world where everyone has a decent place to live.\"\n\nCommunity service also allows those participating to reflect on the difference they are making in society. Some participants of a community service project may find themselves gaining a greater understanding of their roles in the community, as well as the impact of their contributions towards those in need of service. Because community service outlets vary, those who serve are exposed to many different kinds of people, environments, and situations.\n\nWith each new community service project, some participants may gain insightful experience in a variety of areas. Participants may also internalize the information that they found personally insightful for future use. While simply performing community service is valuable to the recipients, those serving often find it beneficial to pause and reflect on how they are changing society for the better. Schools often take students on community service projects so they can learn how their individual actions affect the well-being of the public. Participants may find that serving the public fosters a more solidified view of self and purpose.\n\nThose involved in community service learning may also find that after serving the community for an extended period of time, they have an advantage in real-world experience. Eventually, the skills and knowledge obtained while working with the community may be applied in future areas of work. Community service may also increase a participant's social connectivity. Because most community service opportunities allow others to interact and work with other individuals, this service may help volunteers network and connect with others towards a common goal.\n\nPeople gain the most from their community service projects when they volunteer their time to help people that they have never interacted with before. This direct contact allows people to see life from a different perspective and reevaluate their opinions of others. Many young people who get involved in community service come out with a more well-rounded worldview.\n\nAnother benefit in participating in community service is a greater understanding and appreciation for diversity. Appreciating other cultures and breaking down stereotypes is important to becoming a responsible citizen and better person. By participating in a community service project where interaction is required, personal relationships can begin to grow. These personal relationships help people have informal and consistent interactions that through time,often breakdown negative stereotypes. These relationships can also facilitate more opinions and viewpoints surrounding various topics that help participants to grow in diversity. Stereotypes can be defined as, \"believing unfairly that all people or things with a specific characteristic are the same.\" Stereotypes often reveal themselves in quick judgments based solely off of visible characteristics. These judgments move into a biased opinion when you believe that these judgments are always true. These stereotypes can be harmful to both personal relationships and relationships within the work place. Community Service helps people to realize that everyone does not fall into these preconceived ideas. Along with breaking down stereotypes, community service work can assist people in realizing that those they are helping and working with are no different from themselves. This realization can lead to empathizing with others. Learning to understand the needs and motivations of others, especially those who live different lives from our own, is an important part of living a productive life. This leads to a view of humanity that can help a person stay free of biased opinions of others and can lead to a more diverse and ultimately more productive and thought provoking life.\n\nAs pointed out by de Tocqueville, America, in sharp contrast with other developed countries, has had a formidable ability to form associations. Civilians have a unique desire and aptitude to organize themselves apart from government to address the needs in their communities. However, making sure an effort has a positive effect on society requires clear analysis and a strategy. Analysis identifies root causes of problems that project implementation must address. Individuals, like neighborhoods, enjoy permanent change only if it is an inner one—and the greatest form of community service is encouraging that inner change.\n\nAbraham Kuyper advocated \"sphere sovereignty,\" which honors the independence and autonomy of the “intermediate bodies” in society, such as schools, press, business, the arts, etc. He champions the right of every community to operate its own organizations and manage its own groups, with the foundational belief that parents know what their child really needs, and that local people are more capable of helping fellow locals. Those who agree with his views perceive community service as a \"trampoline\" that seeks to launch their targets to better employment and lifestyle, avoiding what they see as destructive decision making for mal-established goals by poorly developed community service efforts.\n\nAmy L. Sherman, in her book \"Restorers of Hope\", suggests that community service planning should be made with the valuable opinion of the local residents, since they have firsthand knowledge of the inside realities of their community's current state. Making them a part of the movement, change or project creates in the members of the community a sense of belonging and hope. Joint effort: relationships – these make the difference.\n\n"}
{"id": "54946266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54946266", "title": "Dadoba Pandurang", "text": "Dadoba Pandurang\n\nDadoba Pandurang (9 May 1814 – 17 October 1882) (Pune, Maharashtra,British India) was a social reformer and linguist from Bombay. He was born with the surname Tarkhadkar but he never used it in later life. He wrote extensively on religion and social reform as an opponent of rituals and caste, while supporting widow-remarriage and education for women. He was a brother of Atmaram Pandurang.\n\nPandurang studied at a local school for four years before going to private high school followed by studies at the Bombay Native School and Book Society. He was a recipient of a West Scholarship and studied at what became the Elphinstone and he learnt several languages including Portuguese, Persian and Sanskrit.\n\nIn 1830 he became a school teacher and in 1840 he moved to Surat. The headmaster at this school in Surat was Henry Green, a noted agnostic and free thinker who influenced Pandurang. From 1846 he served as acting superintendent of vernacular schools and in 1852 he was selected for the post of Deputy Collector and Magistrate at Ahmednagar. He moved to Thana in 1858 and retired in 1861 due to troubles with superiors. Pandurang's major contribution was a grammar of Marathi. \"Maharastra Bhasheche Vyakaran\" published in 1836 that went into seven editions during his lifetime. He also published a supplement in 1881. Other publications included \"Yashoda Pandurangi\" (1865), \"Dharam Vivechan\" (1868), \"Paramhamsik Bramhadharma\" (1880), \"\" (1878), \"The absurdity of the Holi Festival as it is now practised by the Hindus\" (1829), \"Shishubodh\" (posthumously published in 1884) and \"Vidhavasrumarjan\" (1857). He wrote \"Dharam Vivechan\" under the pen-name of \"Ek Jagadwasi Arya\".\n\nPandurang taught Sanskrit briefly at the Sir Jamshedjee Jeejeebhoy Zarthosti Madresa in 1871. In 1848, he founded and presided over the \"Upayukta Jnanprasarak Sabha\", a students' literary and scientific society which met to discuss various topics every alternate Thursday.\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "7155626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7155626", "title": "Durga Mohan Das", "text": "Durga Mohan Das\n\nDurga Mohan Das ( \"Durga Mohon Das\") (1841–1897) was a Brahmo Samaj leader and a social reformer with notable contribution in the field of widow remarriage and women’s emancipation.\n\nFather: Kashishwar Das\n\nBrother: Kali Mohan Das and Bhuban Mohan Das (father of Chittaranjan Das).\n\n1st Wife: Brahmamoyee Debi\n\n2nd Wife: Hemnta Shashi Sen\n\nSon: Satya Ranjan Das; Satish Ranjan Das and Jyotish Ranjan Das \n\nDaughter: Lady Abala Bose, Sarala Ray and Sailabala Ray\n\nStep Son: Atulprasad Sen\n\nStep Daughter: Hiran Sen (wife of Dr. Ramaswamy Iyenger), Kiran Sen (wife of Sarojmohan Babu), Prova Sen (wife of Sheshadri Iyenger)\n\nDurga Mohan was born in a well-known Baidya-Brahmin family at Telirbagh, Bikrampur, Dhaka in Bengal, now part of Munshiganj District of Bangladesh. Bikrampur has a long historical and cultural trail since many centuries. In 12th Century it was the capital of Ballal Sena and Lakshmana Sena, Kings of Sena dynasty and since then considered as an important seat of learning and culture of Eastern India.\n\nDurga Mohan's father Kashiswar was a government pleader in the court of Barishal, presently in Bangladesh. Kashiswar had three sons, Kali Mohan, Durga Mohan and Bhuban Mohan, and all of then became practicing lawyer at Calcutta High Court.\n\nDurga Mohan lost his mother early in life. After studying for sometime in the village school, he joined an English school at Barisal, where his father used to practice law. Subsequently, he won a junior scholarship and joined Hindu College, Calcutta, then under the University of Calcutta. He used to stay in the house of his uncle Bireswar Dash at Kalighat. After studying for a year at Kolkata, he went to Dhaka and returned to Presidency College with a senior scholarship. \n\nAs a student of Presidency College he was greatly influenced by Edward Cowley, professor of history and an erudite Sanskrit scholar. Many of the students used to go to the residence of Cowley, who was deeply attached to Christianity. They used to discuss about religious matters. Some of students were influenced by Cowley’s deep faith. One of Durga Mohan Das’s friends, Bhagaban Chandra Chatterjee became a Christian. Durga Mohan Dash was also swayed for a period. He brought his child-wife, Brahmamoyee to the house of a Christian priest, in order that she could also understand the Christian faith before he finally decided to convert. That led to his being turned out from the house of Bireswar Das.\n\nAt that time he had passed the licentiate examination in law and had started practising at Kolkata but that was not enough to keep him going in the city and so he shifted to Barisal.\n\nHis elder brother Kali Mohan Dash, who later became a famous lawyer of Kolkata High Court, then used to practice in Barisal. He provided him shelter and gave him some books of Theodore Parker. His elder brother asked him to read the books before deciding about his religion. On reading the books he changed his opinion and instead of converting to Christianity, joined the Brahmo Samaj.\n\nHe got together his friends and established a Brahmo Samaj at Barisal. In order to enlighten devotees, he invited Brahmo preachers from Kolkata to visit Barisal and deliver lectures. Education of women was top priority. He organised many functions and festivals. Soon, Barisal became a great centre of Brahmo activity.\n\nIn the course of time, the great controversy about remarriage of widows engulfed entire society and Durga Mohan Das plunged forward into that movement. He and his friends publicly promised to organise remarriage of widows. He offered financial support to such couples because they had to undergo severe social boycott. He even went to the extent of getting his young widowed step mother married to a friend of his. That brought in opposition from entire society. His earnings dwindled because people boycotted him but he remained steadfast in his mission. There were few people, other than Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar who have contributed so much to the cause of remarriage of widows. Mention may be made of another person in East Bengal who had also contributed substantially to this cause - Braja Sundar Mitra.\n\nIt was during this period that the sons of Raj Chandra Roy, zemindar of nearby Lakhutia, joined the Brahmo Samaj and strengthened the movement. One day they took their wives with them to the residence of the English commissioner. That created such a sensation that it reverberated beyond Barisal, across Bengal and became a talking point in Kolkata society, because that was an age when women of respectable families never came out in public from the inner precincts of their houses. Later, the noted Brahmo reformer Nibaran Chandra Mukherjee married into this family. That happened to be a great social event in those days.\n\nAround 1870, Durga Mohan Dash shifted to Kolkata High Court. Dwarakanath Ganguly, the great champion of women’s emancipation, had already shifted from Dhaka to Kolkata with his newspaper \"Abalabandhab\". There were other young men such as Rajaninath Roy, who were clamouring for reforms within the Brahmo Samaj. Till then women used to sit in the Brahmo Samaj behind a screen. The reformists started bringing their wives into the open. That immediately caused some confusion but ultimately they won the day. Brahmo Samaj allowed women to sit in the open.\n\nWhen Miss Annette Akroyd opened a boarding school for girls in Kolkata, Durga Mohan Dash assisted her financially and admitted his daughters in the school. The school was later merged with Bethune School and his daughters were amongst the earlier batches to pass out of that school.\n\nIt was during that period that his wife died.\n\nBeing an outright reformist he sided with such people as Sivanath Sastri, Ananda Mohan Bose, Sib Chandra Deb, and Umesh Chandra Dutta for the establishment of Sadharan Brahmo Samaj in 1878. He extended substantial financial support for the new organisation and served as its president.\n\nHe went to England in 1888 and returned with illness. All his three sons had qualified as barristers and his daughters were married. He led a rather lonely life. He married a widowed daughter of Kali Narayan Gupta of Dhaka. However, old age had caught on and he died on 19 December 1897.\n\nChittaranjan Das was son of his brother Bhuban Mohan Dash. Amongst his children the more renowned were Satish Ranjan Das, Sarala Roy and Abala Bose. Air Marshal Subroto Mukerjee was his great grandson on his daughter's side.\n\nAfter Durga Mohan Das's first wife Bhramamoyee Devi's death, he married a highly respectable widow lady Hemantasashi Sen, daughter of a renowned Brahmo social reformer Kali Narayan Gupta of Dhaka. Hemantasashi Sen's only son by her first husband was noted music composer and songwriter Atul Prasad Sen.\n\nShastri, Shibnath. (1903). রামতনু লাহিড়ী ও তৎকালীন বঙ্গসমাজ \"(Ramtanu Lahiri O Tatkalin Banga Samaj)\" in Bengali,S. K . Lahiri & Co, Calcutta.\n\nSengipta, Subodh Chandra and Bose, Anjali, (ed) সংসদ বাঙালি চরিত্রাভিধান \"(Sansad Bangali Charitabhidhan)\" - a biographical dictionary in Bengali. (2002). Sishu Sahitya Samsad Pvt. Ltd. Kolkata.\n"}
{"id": "38673678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38673678", "title": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls", "text": "EGM: prevention of violence against women and girls\n\nThe Expert Group Meeting (EGM): prevention of violence against women and girls was convened as part of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women's multi-year programme of work for 2010-2014. The \"Elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls\" forms a priority theme for its fifty-seventh session in 2013 (CSW57).\n\nThe meeting took place in Bangkok, Thailand 17–20 September 2012 and was organised by the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women), in collaboration with the following organisations:\n\n\"EGM note 2\" The report reflects the shared discussion and analysis of the major issues, gaps and challenges identified at the EGM and presents key findings and recommendations. It was intended to build on the individual papers on specific issues provided by experts prior to the meeting, and the background paper prepared by the rapporteur. It provides inputs for the reports of the Secretary-General to the CSW and widely disseminated in preparation to the fifty-seventh session of CSW (CSW57).\n\n\"EGM notes 3 to 5\"\nThe EGM brought together a diverse group of people from different backgrounds and regions including academics, practitioners, representatives from women’s organisations and staff members of the United Nations system.\n\nThe experts elected a drafting committee (including two co-chairs) which was tasked to draft the report of the meeting, P miconclusions and recommendations. The following experts were elected to the drafting committee:\n\n\"EGM note 6\" Experts noted that violence against women and girls is defined as ‘any act of gender-based violence that results in, or is likely to result in, physical, sexual or psychological harm or suffering to women [or girls], including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.’ It exists in multiple, interrelated and sometimes recurring forms, and is a manifestation of historically unequal power relations between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 7\" Experts stressed that we are at a critical moment where international bodies, nation states and civil society can and must come together to solidify commitments to ending violence against women and girls, as fragile and – in many places – deteriorating economic conditions, persistent environmental degradation, internal conflicts and wars, all contribute to the exacerbation of violence against women and girls, and violations of their rights.\n\n\"EGM note 8\" Experts noted that the impacts of the global financial crisis, the economic pressures on Governments to reduce funding to social services and programmes, and the ongoing resource constraints faced by conflict-affected and developing countries, all risk limiting or reducing the investment States will make in preventing and responding to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 9\" However, they highlighted the enormous costs violence against women and girls entails to States and societies as a whole, in terms of reduced human capital, decreased productivity, exacerbated social inequalities, lowered overall educational outcomes, and broad strains on public services. Violence diminishes women’s and girls’ ability to gain an education, earn a living and participate in public life, and live a life free of fear. It has significant health impacts, including psychological consequences, physical injuries, sexual/reproductive health issues and death. In war-affected settings, violence against women and girls inhibits efforts towards peace-building and sustainable recovery, contributing to the risk of resurgent conflict. In development settings, it hinders progress towards achievement of several of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), including those relating to , , and . It has intergenerational impacts, given that women use disproportionately more of their income toward supporting their families, and because violence diminishes their ability to fully participate in their societies (for example in politics, work or education) they are less able to invest in their children’s futures. One study in Chile found that women’s lost earnings alone as a result of domestic violence cost US$1.56 billion or more than 2 percent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.\n\n\"EGM note 10\" Violence against women and girls therefore entails massive costs to the State, and has a dragging effect on all other social and economic development efforts, particularly in humanitarian and development contexts. It is only by lowering the incidence of violence against women and girls, preventing recurrence, and responding effectively to existing violence to minimise ongoing impacts, that the overall costs of such violence to any economy will be reduced. Experts noted that, in the face of such evidence, prevention is not only possible, but central to the social and economic advancement of developed and developing countries alike. It was reiterated that all States have not only a responsibility to significantly strengthen their planning and budgeting efforts for prevention of violence against women and girls, but that doing so will contribute to positive social and economic outcomes.\n\n\"EGM note 11\" Experts brought together experiences from across developing and developed countries, and from humanitarian contexts (arising from conflict and natural disasters), demonstrating that violence against women and girls could be prevented regardless of political, social and economic conditions. Levels of violence against women and girls vary across countries that with similar economic status or political systems – a variation that can be attributed to different laws, policies, practices, norms, behaviours and attitudes that contribute to, justify or excuse violence against women and girls. Such factors must be targeted to prevent and reduce violence within and across all settings.\n\n\"EGM note 12\" Across developing and developed countries alike, more comprehensive, multi-sectoral and sustained approaches were recognised as necessary to achieve such change, with investments commensurate to the enormous scale of the abuse and its impacts. While the allocation of more resources to prevention remained high on the priority list for experts, political will was also identified as a key factor. It was noted that organisations and communities in some developing countries have led the way in testing and expanding new models for prevention, however experts did not believe any State was currently meeting its full normative obligations in this area.\n\n\"EGM note 13\" Experts reiterated that violence against women and girls is a pervasive and systematic human rights violation, caused by – and reinforcing – gender inequality and entrenched discrimination. While most violence against women and girls is committed by non-State actors or individuals (usually men known to the victims/survivors, often husbands/intimate partners or other family members), experts were adamant that laws, policies and practices emanating from the State – as well as from traditional or customary practices – could also result in direct violence against women and girls, fail to respond to it, or create an environment where such violence was tolerated, excused or justified.\n\n\"EGM note 14\" To this end, experts noted that the prevention of violence against women and girls could not be achieved without the full implementation of the existing legal obligation on States – under the \"Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW)\" to ‘take all appropriate measures to modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ along with the more detailed obligations relating to the elimination of violence against women and girls outlined in the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action (BPfA)\". Experts emphasised, as central to the latter, the obligation on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations’ to eliminate violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 15\" A key message from experts was that the call for greater efforts to prevent violence against women and girls is not a ‘new demand,’ but well supported by international legal and normative frameworks. What is new is the emergence, in recent years, of an unprecedented evidence and practice base that provides concrete guidance on the application of proven and effective strategies, and makes prevention of violence against women and girls a tangible and measurable goal. We now know that to effectively prevent violence against women and girls, efforts must go beyond simple awareness-raising projects and instead work to actively (and measurably) transform discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and behaviours, community norms, institutional practices and systems, laws and policies, and society as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 16\" Experts noted that this holistic and comprehensive approach to prevention has the potential to create numerous benefits for communities beyond reductions in violence, because it also addresses the discrimination, inequality and other violence-supportive practices and behaviours that contribute to a range of social ills. Prevention of violence against women and girls is ultimately about building relationships, communities and organisations that are equal, non-violent and respectful of all individuals. It results in the creation of more peaceful, egalitarian and productive societies where women and girls live free from the discrimination, harassment, violence and fear of violence that can block them from reaching their full human potential.\n\n\"EGM note 17\" The focus of the meeting (and this report) was on prevention of violence against women and girls \"before it occurs\", that is, by identifying and addressing its underlying causes and promoting shifts in the social environment that ultimately reduce the number of new incidents of violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 18\" Experts noted that prevention of violence against women and girls remains a poorly understood concept across sectors and stakeholders. Prevention is often conflated with early intervention or the response to existing violence, or else limited to awareness raising or social marketing campaigns. Simplistic analyses and programmes aimed at single-cause factors such as alcohol abuse, or placing the responsibility to prevent violence on women and girls themselves (such as self-defence programmes) can in some cases do more harm than good, and are not uncommon. Cynical perceptions that violence against women and girls is somehow an inevitable part of society, and that efforts to prevent it are well-intentioned but ultimately ineffective, are also widespread. There is therefore a need to build not only evidence, but shared understandings of the complexity and causes of violence against women and girls, and of how it can be effectively prevented.\n\n\"EGM note 19\" Experts recognised that this transformative agenda engages all levels of the socio-political system, from policy and legislative development, to the development and delivery of programmes and services ‘on the ground’, and the capacity building of the institutions responsible for implementation. Confronting existing social and gendered realities that continue to use arguments based on culture, customs and ‘traditional’ values and practices to justify discrimination and violence against women and girls, and treat them as subordinate and second-class citizens, remains a major challenge in addressing the social and cultural environments that permit violence against women and girls to flourish with impunity. As the Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences has noted: ‘no form of interpersonal violence against women is devoid of structural violence – as in all places, such abuse is underpinned by beliefs about the perpetrator’s right to harm another, based on societal notions of gender and rights.’\n\n\"EGM note 20\" Experts were particularly keen to convey that, in prevention terms, violence against women and girls in the private sphere and/or perpetrated by non-State actors could \"not\" be considered as something ‘separate’ from the actions of the State. Experts stressed that violence against women and girls – in every context – can be perpetuated by State decision-making mechanisms, laws, policies and practices when these systematically marginalize women and girls and/or fail to promote their rights. These include not only legal policies and programs that fail to criminalize violence against women and girls or adequately punish it, but also State-sanctioned discrimination, for example: excluding women from political participation (such as assemblies, high-level government positions, and key decision-making bodies like constitutional committees); constitutional language that threatens women’s rights (whether existing or developing in emerging State structures); or discriminatory laws, policies and budgets which disproportionately limit women’s and girls’ rights, neglect their voices and concerns, and fail to promote full substantive, as well as formal, equality between men and women.\n\n\"EGM note 21\" State-sanctioned violence and discrimination against women is significantly tied to cultural and social norms that pervade a nation, which are then used to justify, excuse or tolerate violence against women and girls. When laws and policies limit women’s freedoms or deem women as ‘complementary’ instead of ‘equal to’ men, this trickles down to public perception of women and girls and their role in society, and undermines their safety and security within the State. These social and cultural norms are similarly impacted by the respect, or otherwise, of women’s civil and political rights (such as their political participation), and their economic, social and cultural rights (such as their access to work and education). Greater levels of social and economic equality between men and women, for instance, are closely correlated with lower levels of violence against women and girls at the population level. Similarly, greater visibility of women in leadership roles, including in constitution committees, assemblies and high-level posts in government, in peacekeeping troops and in peace-building talks, promotes positive and egalitarian norms and combats gender stereotypes in a way that counters discriminatory and violence-supportive attitudes and the marginalization of women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 22\" Prevention of violence against women and girls is often conceptualised in terms of awareness raising or community mobilisation, and these are important components. Experts reiterated the importance of grassroots community mobilisation in driving attitudinal and behavioural transformation at the local level. However, in light of the above, experts stressed the more expansive and multi-level nature of effective prevention, in particular the critical role of government to create an ‘enabling environment’ through undertaking policy, legislative and budgetary reform to promote gender equality and women’s empowerment, and actively address the multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination and disadvantage that place women and girls at risk of violence. They emphasised the additional role of States in providing support to women’s and other civil society actors, including women, men and youth community and religious leaders and opinion-makers, in their prevention efforts.\n\n\"EGM note 23\" Experts further stressed the importance of continued investment in an effective \"response\" to existing violence against women and girls – including through improving legislative, police, justice and service systems – as a fundamental ‘building block’ for prevention, establishing accountability and redress, and protecting women and girls from further violence. Effective response systems are also necessary to ensure support of women and girls who may identify violence in their own lives as a direct result of prevention activity and seek help and redress. Experts acknowledged that a separate stream of work on building an effective multi-sectoral response was being undertaken in preparation for CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 24\" Experts recommended that prevention and response strategies be developed and implemented as a holistic and integrated system that upholds the human rights of girls and women to live in societies, communities and families that are free of such violence. However, while essential, experts noted the evidence that an effective response has, in itself, only a limited impact on reducing the number of new incidents of violence. Specific actions to address the foundations of violence – discriminatory and violence-supportive practices, laws, norms, behaviours and attitudes – are also necessary in order to prevent violence against women and girls from happening in the first place, within and across all settings. These are the focus of discussions and recommendations in this Report.\n\n\"EGM note 25\" The emphasis on economic growth in the development agenda globally has led to growing inequalities and a reduced focus on redistribution. The rolling economic crises currently gripping almost all of the world’s countries has resulted in increased unemployment and poverty, a shortage of housing, and cutbacks in social spending including subsidies for health and education. These multiple crises have in turn fuelled communal and ethnic tensions, mass migration and displacement, rendering millions homeless and poor, and more vulnerable to trafficking and diverse forms of exploitation. In most communities, this also results in the heightened vulnerability of women and girls to violence and exploitation.\n\n\"EGM note 26\" Experts noted the evidence that violence against women and girls is intensified and exacerbated in situations of socio-economic stress, conflict and other crisis situations. In addition to the impact of economic crises described above, global warming and associated rising sea levels and severe weather events, as well as environmental degradation and resource depletion, can all contribute to conditions of social and economic vulnerability, including homelessness and mass migrations. They can also lead to the disaster or crisis situations in which violence against women and girls is known to increase.\n\n\"EGM note 27\" As discrimination based on sex and gender continues to dominate social formations even in the 21st century, experts noted that violence against women and girls continues to be perceived as ‘normal’ in many contexts. The pervasive nature of militarization and the growth of all forms of religious fundamentalisms and other forms of extreme nationalism creates cultures where women are reduced to being symbolic ‘bearers’ of their culture and have their mobility and autonomy restricted in many different ways.\n\n\"EGM note 28\" Exacerbated by the conditions described above (and even without them) women and girls experience daily harassment, abuse, discrimination and violence across the numerous settings in which they conduct their lives, from workplaces, schools and other educational institutions, community and faith organisations and groups, market places, shops, on public transport, in social settings, online and via social media, during flight and while displaced as a result of conflict and natural disasters, and above all in their homes.\n\n\"EGM note 29\" Experts also identified emerging contexts and issues that have an impact on violence against women and girls. For example, experts agreed that the role of new media presents a number of layered and complex challenges, as well as opportunities, for the prevention of violence against women and girls. In the first instance, new media is often a platform for the perpetuation of harmful masculinities and the objectification of women and girls. This can take a number of forms from everyday hyper-sexualised, one-dimensional images of women and girls to hard-core pornography which has moved from the peripheries to the mainstream of the pornography industry. Virtual spaces are also utilised to perpetuate direct attacks on women and girls. This can range from cyber-stalking to the posting of inappropriate images / videos of women. For example, women have increasingly reported incidents of footage of them engaged in sexual activity (filmed both with and without consent) being posted on internet sites without their consent. In a number of cases this has included the posting of footage of actual rapes.\n\n\"EGM note 30\" Violence in the virtual space and the wider issues of how women and girls are objectified in the media has particular implications for girls and younger women, who are much more like to engage with social networking sites, instant messaging, etc. Despite the range of violations, incidents can be hard to prosecute, especially as the internet is not limited to nation spaces. There are also real challenges around balancing the right to freedom of expression with the right to be protected from discrimination.\n\"EGM note 31\" Experts also noted with concern the emerging evidence that adolescent girls and young women may also be targeted for sexual violence in the context of serious youth violence (e.g. youth gangs) and/or broader urban violence. They may also be members of gangs themselves and involved in perpetration of violence against other young women and girls within or between gangs. Experts further expressed the concern that adolescent girls and young women were frequently overlooked in policy and programming responses designed for young men, adult women or for children in general, yet the context of their lives may be quite distinct and require specific approaches, particularly given they are the age group at greatest risk of sexual violence.\n\n\"EGM note 32\" In humanitarian crises caused by conflict and/or natural disasters, women and girls are at risk of violence throughout all stages: during crises, during flight from crises, while living in displaced settings, and during and following return. In situations of armed conflict, women and girls can be exposed to violence at the hands of armed actors, including soldiers and military assigned to protect civilians and assist in their safe flight from conflict. They may be recruited into armed groups and serve as sexual slaves to combatants. In some settings women and girls continue to be used as ‘weapons of war,’ subject to sexual assault by all parties to conflict, at times in front of their husbands, children, and other family or community members.\n\n\"EGM note 33\" While much attention has been accorded to sexual violence against women and girls during conflict, they suffer many additional forms of violence in humanitarian emergencies, including sexual exploitation, trafficking, early marriage, and intimate partner violence. Experts noted that all of these forms of violence can be averted or reduced with effective prevention programming from the contingency planning phase through to recovery, and States’ responsibilities to work towards the prevention of this violence are reinforced by a broad normative framework mandating protection of women and girls from sexual and other forms of violence in emergencies. And yet, prevention programming remains weak in virtually every humanitarian setting around the world.\n\n\"EGM note 34\" Experts further noted the evidence that while more than 740,000 men, women, and children die each year as a result of armed violence, the majority of these deaths – 490,000 – occur in countries that are not affected by conflict. The proliferation of small arms increases the vulnerability of women and girls to violence, and exacerbates the seriousness of that violence. This is particularly true in the context of urban/serious youth (e.g. gang) violence (referred to above), but also in the case of violence in the home, where the presence of small arms significantly increases the risk of the victim being killed. The violent deaths of approximately 66,000 women and girls are attributed to armed violence globally each year.\n\n\"EGM note 35\" Experts were finally keen to emphasise that – even within the same geographic or socio-political setting, ‘context’ was not the same thing for different women and girls. Women and girls often experience multiple and intersecting forms of social disadvantage and discrimination (in addition to that based on gender), and this compounds their individual and collective vulnerability to violence. The Special Rapporteur on violence against women, its causes and consequences, has recently noted that theories on violence have often ‘failed to provide a comprehensive understanding of how various forms of discrimination, beyond a male/female gender binary, contextualize, exacerbate, and correlate to high levels of violence in given societies. The lack of an intersectional approach can lead to the reinforcing of one form of discrimination in attempts to alleviate another.’ Factors such as race, ethnicity, caste, class, age, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, geographic location, disability, HIV status or status as a refugee or internally displaced person, will all influence the forms and nature of violence women and girls may suffer, and the relationship of these factors to prevention is discussed in the ‘Key Findings’ section.\n\n\"EGM note 36\" The international community is committed to eliminating violence against women and girls and has recognised – in various global and regional legal and policy instruments – the important role of prevention towards this end.\n\n\"EGM note 37\" Above all, State responsibility for prevention of violence against women and girls through social and behavioural change is supported by the foundational treaty on women’s human rights, the \"Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women\" (CEDAW), which establishes signatories’ legal obligation to take ‘all appropriate measures [to] modify the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women.’ General Recommendation 19 of the CEDAW Committee defines violence as a form of discrimination against women, and establishes the obligation of States to act with ‘due diligence’ to prevent and respond to violence against women and girls.\n\n\"EGM note 38\" The \"Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women\" enhanced the definition of violence against women and also included protection of women from violence committed in the private domain as being an obligation of the state. Responsibilities of the State to prevent violence, abuse and neglect of girls are further supported by the \"Convention on the Rights of the Child\", requiring States parties to ‘take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation, including sexual abuse’ including ‘forms of prevention,’ along with its two Optional Protocols.\n\n\"EGM note 39\" The \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" (BPfA), adopted at the Fourth World Conference on Women in 1995, recognised the complexity of the underlying causes of violence against women and girls, and the need to link prevention and response activities. Paragraph 118 notes that:\n\n\"EGM notes 40 to 51\" Other global policy and legislative / normative frameworks that are currently in place.\n\n\"EGM note 52\" In conclusion, while the normative framework has clearly developed an obligation for States to take holistic, comprehensive, strategic and well-resourced action to prevent violence against women and girls, and while States have increasingly ratified the relevant treaties and in some cases brought these obligations into their legal frameworks, much work remains to be done before the normative obligations will be fully implemented. Gaps remain in terms of resource allocation, legislative and policy development, and systems and mechanisms for coordinated and sustained action.\n\n\"EGM note 53\" In considering the above analysis, experts believed that a significant global shift in perceptions was necessary towards greater recognition of the widespread and systematic nature of violence against women and girls, deserving of more serious attention by States and the international community. Experts returned to and supported the international definition of violence against women and girls in the \"Declaration\", i.e. as a violation of human rights and a form of discrimination against them, that shall mean all acts of gender-based violence that result in, or are likely to result in, physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering to women and girls, including threats of such acts, coercion or arbitrary deprivation of liberty, whether occurring in public or in private life.\n\n\"EGM note 54\" However, some experts noted that such violence is not isolated or sporadic, but could be seen as part of a widespread or systematic practice intended to humiliate or degrade an identifiable group. As such, they called for violence against women and girls to be considered a crime against humanity. Others cautioned against linking violence against women and girls to current definitions of crimes against humanity, given the existing limitations of international law and jurisprudence. It was noted that the landmark February 2008 judgement of the Sierra Leone Appeals Chamber of the Special Court in the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council case had set an historic precedent in recognising forced marriage as a distinct category of crimes against humanity in international criminal law. Experts therefore agreed that calling for violence against women and girls to be recognised as a crime against humanity was intended as an aspirational statement and advocacy goal, one which would expand current definitions and understanding of crimes against humanity – in a way similar to the Sierra Leone case – and help drive a global shift in perceptions towards one that recognises the full seriousness of violence against women and girls, and the urgency with which we must prevent it.\n\n\"EGM note 55\" Based on comprehensive discussion at the EGM, review of the papers presented by experts, and an analysis of the global context, normative framework and evidence and practice base, experts agreed on the following key findings. Experts noted the significant development, over recent years, of guidance to States and other stakeholders in the development, implementation and monitoring of policy and programming to prevent violence against women and girls, and again\nreferred to the papers submitted to the EGM as providing further information on current practice. Rather than reiterate that guidance here, experts have confined their findings below to the emerging issues, and those perceived to be of most critical relevance to CSW.\n\n\"EGM note 56\" Experts wished to reiterate, as a finding and central tenet of their recommendations, that prevention of violence against women and girls is a positive endeavour, a precondition for enabling women and men to reach their full potential, and is essential to the creation of healthy, equitable, stable and productive communities, workplaces, schools and universities, faith and cultural institutions, sporting and recreation organisations, and societies as a whole.\n\n\"EGM note 57\" Noting recent research highlighting the unique and catalysing impact of women’s organisations on enduring and effective policy development to end violence against women and girls, experts were unanimous that effective prevention of violence against women and girls was not only often driven by, but \"required\" the involvement of women’s organisations, working in partnership with national, provincial and local Governments, communities, civil society groups, donors, the private sector and other non-state actors.\n\n\"EGM note 58\" Experts emphasized the importance of moving away from short-term, ad hoc sensitisation and awareness raising activities and towards more comprehensive, longer-term prevention efforts that are grounded in communities and work systematically to change unequal power relations between women and men. Such social norm change requires working with a cross section of the community from women and men, young people, religious and cultural leaders, health care providers, police, government officials, the media and others, over time and in varied ways, to challenge norms that perpetuate violence and emphasize the positive benefits of non-violence, justice and equality for individuals, families and the broader community. Civil society plays an essential role in mobilising communities to rethink the acceptability of violence and supporting positive change.\n\n\"EGM note 59\" However, while women’s and other civil society organisations and communities themselves have been at the forefront of developing the practice and evidence base for prevention programming, factors such as time, reach and workforce constraints can prevent many good initiatives from being evaluated, expanded or otherwise scaled-up. Research has also shown that those working to end violence against women and girls can themselves face discrimination, hostility, repudiation and even violence, precisely because they challenge traditional notions of the family and gender that contribute to such violence.\n\n\"EGM note 60\"\nTo maximise the impact and sustainability of such work, therefore, Governments have a key role to play in supporting and creating an enabling environment for women’s organisations and others working to prevent violence against women and girls to continue to drive and innovate prevention programming, safe from violence and discrimination themselves. Governments should also activate their reach and mandate to ensure the scale-up, systematisation and embedding of good practice in laws, policies and through public institutions (e.g. schools, social and health services, media and workplace regulation) for long-term sustainability.\n\n\"EGM note 61\" Experts noted that without States taking their full responsibility for sustained, systematic and coordinated policy, programming and investment for prevention, the transformative social development necessary to end violence against women and girls cannot be achieved. Few States worldwide had implemented their obligations to this end. A 2011 review of National Action Plans on Violence against Women found that most policies were limited to responding to existing violence. Those that did contain specific prevention actions largely focussed on raising awareness of new laws or where to access services, with some containing one-off or single-sector prevention activities such as social marketing campaigns or schools-based programmes. Only one identified plan took a long-term, multi-sectoral and holistic approach to prevention, with appropriate institutional support mechanisms and commensurate investment.\n\n\"EGM note 62\" Importantly, one-off, single-sector or small-scale interventions, while they may have some effectiveness for participating individuals, are unable to change the social norms at the community or society level that have a dampening effect on such attitudinal change. Therefore, they can never in themselves decrease prevalence of violence against women and girls across society as a whole. Broad and sustainable change is only achieved when such activities are implemented in a long-term and cumulative way, mutually reinforced across various settings. These should be linked to a prevention framework which is coordinated to ensure that all levels are appropriately engaged, with evaluation and monitoring for continuous improvement. It is particularly essential that all strategies and interventions are supported by policy and legislative reform that promotes gender equality, challenges discrimination, and provides an effective response to existing violence.\n\n\"EGM notes 63 to 102\" Other key findings from the EGM.\n\n\"Recommendation 103\"\nExperts stressed the critical importance of women’s organisations, civil society, international institutions, donors and States working together to go beyond ‘ad hoc’ approaches to prevention, and for States to take their responsibility for developing long-term and multi-sectoral strategies so that activity can be coordinated, and evidence built, to achieve real results. With an increased commitment from all actors to such an approach, and corresponding investment, many experts believed violence against women and girls could be ended within a generation. To this end, experts have made recommendations (see below) for a coordinated and target-focussed approach to preventing violence against women and girls, driven by two overarching activities – a Global Implementation Plan – framing the work of international, regional and national institutions (including States) toward the goal of ending violence against women and girls, along with a Global Advocacy Campaign – driven by women’s and other civil society organisations to create momentum and provide accountability for the above.\n\n\"Recommendation 104\" Also, given CSW’s specific mandate with regards to implementation of the \"Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action\" experts have made further recommendations for immediate implementation, aligned with the BPfA’s strategic objectives of taking integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women, and studying the causes and consequences of violence against women and the effectiveness of preventive measures. While the BPfA objectives cover both prevention of, and response to, violence against women and girls, and experts supported full implementation of all of these, the recommendations below build on those areas focussing on prevention.\n\n\"Recommendation 105\" Finally, experts identified recommendations arising from emerging issues or gaps in the evidence and practice base regarding prevention of violence against women and girls in certain contexts and settings. These include recommendations for prevention in settings affected by humanitarian crises such as conflict and natural disasters; contexts of serious urban or youth violence; with regards to representation of women and girls in the context of mass media as well as in new social media; and in the context of the global financial crisis and shifting geopolitics. In addition to the broad recommendations below that are relevant to all settings, special attention has been given to certain contexts and settings in order to highlight specific strategies for prevention related to these particular areas of concern. Experts have also chosen to highlight certain recommendations specific to preventing violence against girls, including adolescent girls, and young women, as a frequently overlooked group worthy of special consideration.\n\n\"Recommendation 106\"\nExperts agreed that while an international legal and normative frame work for preventing violence against women and girls is already in place, there are two major barriers to its implementation. The first is that social and cultural norms and customs are often used as a shroud or excuse for laws, practices and behaviours that are either directly violent and discriminatory towards women and girls, or else contribute to and support violence against them. The BPfA clearly calls on States to ‘refrain from invoking any custom, tradition or religious consideration to avoid their obligations with respect to its elimination as set out in the Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women,’ and experts were adamant that this entails an active obligation on States to examine their own laws and policies, and challenge the communities, organisations and individuals in their jurisdictions, to eliminate norms and customs that excuse, justify or tolerate violence against women and girls, and which exist in all societies.\n\n\"Recommendation 107\"\nA second barrier to full implementation of existing obligations is the lack of a coordinated, strategic agenda at international, regional and national levels for modifying ‘the social and cultural patterns of conduct of men and women, with a view to achieving the elimination of prejudices and customary and all other practices which are based on the idea of the inferiority or the superiority of either of the sexes or on stereotyped roles for men and women,’ required by CEDAW. This is an essential precondition and support for the sustainable prevention of violence against women and girls. As noted above, such prejudices, practices and stereotypes are rampant in all societies, expressed as much through channels such as media and popular culture, as through institutions more identifiable as the bearers of custom or ‘tradition’ (e.g. faith institutions). A much greater commitment and level of resourcing is required from all States, along with significantly improved coordination of policy, programming and research at global, regional and national levels towards a shared strategic agenda to eliminate these and so meet the legal obligation under CEDAW.\n\n\"Recommendation 108\"\nTo this end, an overarching recommendation from experts was that Member States commit, at CSW in 2013, to develop a Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, to be launched in 2015, with a particular focus on prevention of violence against women and girls. This Plan should aim to provide vigilance on established international obligations (particularly the overarching BPfA and CEDAW obligations cited above), and serve as the tool for operationalising these norms into national policy and programming in a coordinated and results-based way.\n\n\"Recommendation 109\"\nThe Global Implementation Plan to End Violence against Women and Girls, endorsed and supported by Member States at its launch, would aim to:\n\"Recommendation 110\"\nDevelopment of the plan should be linked to the processes defining the post-2015 development agenda, to ensure that the prevention of violence against women and girls is rightly understood as crucial to the meeting of other internationally agreed development goals, and that targets relating to the prevention of (and response to) such violence are explicitly identified and well situated in the post-2015 development framework.\n\n\"Recommendation 111\"\nDevelopment of the plan would require, among other things:\n\"Recommendation 112\"\nDevelopment of the plan should include the proactive engagement of new partners (such as the private sector, sporting organisations, religious and cultural leaders, the media and entertainment industry), with a critical eye to the internal structures and methods of operation of such partners to ensure they fully support and in no way undermine the human rights of women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 113\"\nExperts further recognised the crucial and catalytic role of women’s organisations and called for them to help build support and momentum for the above. A global ‘movement for prevention’ is needed, engaging a critical mass of individuals, groups and institutions working together to create communities and countries that are safe for women and girls and where their rights are respected.\n\n\"Recommendation 114\"\nExperts’ second overarching recommendation was therefore that women’s organisations, in partnership with other civil society organisations and identified willing international and regional institutions, States and other relevant parties, lead a Global Advocacy Campaign to Prevent Violence against Women and Girls, as a crucial accompaniment to the development of the Implementation Plan above. The Advocacy Campaign could include the creation of plain language communications materials, mechanisms to share information and practice, avenues for capacity development, and advocacy strengthening, for example through the training of male and female youth and veteran activists and leaders to monitor progress of nations on international agreements, produce reports, and represent women’s and girls’ priorities and interests in international fora. The aim of the Advocacy Campaign would be to create momentum for the Implementation Plan, ensure the consistent promotion of evidence-informed, rights-based prevention activity, and hold international, regional and national stakeholders accountable to women and girls.\n\n\"Recommendation 115\"\"\nWhile the Global Implementation Plan may take one to two years to develop, there are many areas of work that States have already committed to under the BPfA Strategic Objective D1 – to take integrated measures to prevent and eliminate violence against women – and upon which they can and should take immediate action. Below are recommendations elaborated by the experts in line with the growing evidence and practice base on prevention, in support of these existing commitments.\n\n\"Recommendation 116\"\"\nIn line with BPfA’s Paragraph 124(j), calling on Governments to ‘formulate and implement, at all appropriate levels, plans of action to eliminate violence against women,’and Paragraph 124(p)calling for the allocation of ‘adequate resources within the government budget and mobilis[ation of]community resources for activities related to the elimination of violence against women, including resources for the implementation of plans of action at all appropriate levels,’ experts recommend that States work in partnership with funders, international and regional institutions, women’s and civil society organisations and other stakeholders to develop, implement,\nevaluate and monitor coordinated, multisectoral and sustained prevention strategies, alongside and reinforcing strategies to improve the response to existing violence. Such strategies should\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3878526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3878526", "title": "Emma Cons", "text": "Emma Cons\n\nEmma Cons (4 March 1838 – 24 July 1912) was a British social reformer, educationalist and theatre manager.\n\nBorn in St. Pancras, London, she trained as an artist and joined the Ladies' Co-operative Art Guild in London, run by Caroline Hill, mother of the future housing reformer and founder of the National Trust, Octavia Hill. As Cons's father Frederick Cons was suffering from ill health, she needed to work and the Guild helped her get work as an illuminator as well as restoring manuscripts for John Ruskin. Cons also tried working as a watch engraver, and as a stained glass designer but experienced harassment from men who resented a woman working amongst them.\n\nFrom 1864, Cons worked for Octavia Hill as a rent collector, starting work at Barrett's Court, Oxford Street. Later Cons moved to South London, and in 1879 she established the South London Dwellings Company around Surrey Lodge, Lambeth, near to Waterloo station.\n\nIn 1889, Cons became the first female alderman on the London County Council (LCC), working alongside the first elected women members Jane Cobden (elected for Bow and Bromley) and Lady Sandhurst (elected for Brixton). The elections were challenged by anti-suffragists, but as Cons had not been elected, she had been asked by the LCC Progressives to become an alderman, and it was difficult to challenge her position.\n\nWhen she voted, however, she became liable for a fine: De Souza v. Cobden, which reached the Court of Appeal in 1891, ruled Cobden and Cons could legally be members of the council but could not vote. After this, Cons' commitment to the cause of women's suffrage was energetic, and she served on the Committee for the Return of Women as Councillors, became Vice-President of the Women's Local Government Society, and Vice President of the Women's Liberal Federation.\n\nCons also helped found Swanley Horticultural College (which amalgamated with Wye College later part of Imperial College London, a part of University of London before closure in 2009), in 1892, the first such college for women, and she founded Morley College for working men and women, aided by money donated by Bristol based millionaire manufacturer and philanthropist, Samuel Morley.\n\nCons also founded the Working Girls Home, a hostel in Drury Lane, London, and she established various crèches and clinics for women including what was described as 'the Home for Feeble-Minded girls' at Bodmin.\n\nIn 1880, Emma Cons, re-opened what is now the Old Vic Theatre in Lambeth, south London, as the \"Royal Victoria Coffee and Music Hall\". It was \"a cheap and decent place of amusement on strict temperance lines\". Through this initiative, she brought the plays of William Shakespeare and also opera to working class people.\n\nIn 1882, Samuel Morley began to take an interest in the affairs of the theatre, and in 1884 he joined the executive committee. He contributed a large amount of money to the scheme, and his business advice was of value. Morley College developed from the lectures given at the Old Vic.\n\nIn 1896, Cons devoted her autumn holiday in Cyprus to trying to help refugee Armenians, who had fled from persecution in Turkey. In 1908, Cons became the first woman to speak at the Institute of Directors, on behalf of the South London Dwellings Company.\n\nEmma Cons died on 24 July 1912, of a cerebral haemorrhage, at Chippen's Bank, Hever, Kent, home of her friend, Ethel Everest.\n\nHer niece, Lilian Baylis (1874–1937), assisted in running the Old Vic. Her sister, Ellen Cons (1840–1920), was also closely associated with many philanthropic schemes, and was one of the governors of the Old Vic.\n\nPlaques honouring Emma Cons are displayed outside the Old Vic on the corner with Waterloo Road and in the basement area bar. Another round blue plaque was put up by the Greater London Council, on the street wall of 136 Seymour Place, Marylebone, where she lived and worked. Today, the building is WLM Seymour Place.\n\n"}
{"id": "1749638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1749638", "title": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential", "text": "Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\n\nThe Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential is published by the Union of International Associations (UIA). It is available online since 2000, and was previously available as a CD-ROM and as a three-volume book. The online Encyclopedia is currently in a redevelopment phase.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was started in 1972 and now comprises more than 100,000 entries and 700,000 links, as well as 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. The Encyclopedia collects information on problems, strategies, values, concepts of human development, and various intellectual resources.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" is made up from data gathered from many sources. Those data are grouped into various databases which constitute the backbone of the \"Encyclopedia\". The databases are searchable; query results may be seen as lists or as various visualizations.\n\n\n• Basic universal problems include danger, lack of information, social injustice, war, environmental degradation. \n• Cross-sectoral problems include animal suffering, irresponsible nationalism, soil degradation. \n• Detailed problems include detention of mothers, epidemics, white-collar crime.\n• Emanations of other problems include terrorism targeted against tourists, injustice of mass trials, threatened species of Caudata. \n• Fuzzy exceptional problems include blaming victims, pacifism, unconstrained free trade.\n• Very specific problems include blue baby, tomato mottle virus, costly uniforms.\n• Problems under consideration include feminist backlash, mudslide.\n• Suspect problems include threatened species of Zapus hudsonius preblei, uncommitted volunteer workers.\n\n• Abstract fundamental strategies include compromising, transcending, providing.\n• Basic universal strategies include eliminating discrimination, combating desertification, reducing unemployment.\n• Cross-sectoral strategies include orienting economic policy toward social need, managing crises. \n• Detailed strategies include establishing national government NGO departments, using psychological warfare. \n• Emanations of other strategies include lifting restrictions on human rights advocacy, reviewing provisions of the UN Charter. \n• Exceptional strategies include begging, rechanneling expenditures on defence, advocating nihilism.\n• Very specific strategies include working with young people, undertaking public works. \n• Unconfirmed strategies include abolishing zoos, ventilating air through buildings. \n• Provisional strategies include developing chest radiology, preserving internal political borders. \n• Strategy polarities include deepening-shallowing, intuiting-reasoning, supporting-opposing. \n• Strategy roles include advisor, traitor, confessor.\n• Strategy types or complexes include communication, judgement, time.\n\n• Constructive values include peace, harmony, beauty. \n• Destructive values include conflict, depravity, ugliness.\n• Value polarities include agreement-disagreement, freedom-restraint, pleasure-displeasure. \n• Value clusters include feeling complex, interaction complex, communication complex.\n\n• Concepts of human development include vocational training, benevolence, emancipation of the self.\n• Modes of awareness include compassion, sense of shame, conviction, sense of humor.\n\n• Communication: Forms of presentation include animation, statistical indicators, prophecy. \n• Metaphors include ball games, sexual intercourse, personification, stick and carrot processes.\n• Patterns (Christopher Alexander) include encirclement, internal connectedness between domains, partially isolated contexts.\n• Symbols include birds, food-related objects, sacred calendar.\n• Transformative conferencing includes aggressive participant type, lecture, team roles.\n• Transformative metaphors (I Ching) include creativity, receptivity, inexperience. \n\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" online databases consist of over 100,000 entries (also called profiles) and 700,000 links. An entry, for instance War, may include the following elements:\n1) name, alternative names, nature or definition, background or context, incidence (for problems) or implementation (for strategies), claim of importance, counter-claim, quotations or aphorisms (for values);\n2) links to the same database entries that are more general (broader), more specific (narrower), related (in some as yet unspecified manner), preceding (aggravating or reducing problems, constraining or facilitating strategies, prior modes of awareness), following (aggravated or reduced problems, constrained or facilitated strategies, subsequent modes of awareness);\n3) cross-reference links, mainly between entries in the \"Problems\", \"Strategies\", \"Values\", and \"Development\" databases;\n4) links to entries in other UIA databases, mainly the \"International Organizations\" database;\n5) reference links to entries in the \"Bibliography (issues)\" database;\n6) links to relevant websites.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" contains nearly 500 pages of introductory notes and commentaries. Some of them just provide readers with usual information about the work content and its organization. Most of them, however, represent extensive reports on the exploratory work done by the editors in eight projects (also called research areas, or sections). Here are those projects, with illustrative examples of key ideas figuring in the notes and commentaries.\n\nA first objective of the editors in that project is to collect and present information on the following topics: the problems with which humanity perceives itself to be faced; the organizational, human, and intellectual resources it believes it has at its disposal; the values by which it is believed any change should be guided; the concepts of human development considered to be either the means or the end of any such social transformation. A second objective is to clarify the conceptual challenge of interrelating such plentiful and disparate or even contradictory information. A third objective is to enable alternation between viewpoints from different cultures, ideologies, beliefs and even \"facts\", as a way for individuals and societies to become empowered with an appropriate response to the problematic conditions of the moment.\n\nIt is the disagreement amongst the advocates of different approaches to problems or solutions which hinders the formation of any consensual strategy and the mobilization of adequate resources. That is why the \"Encyclopedia\" uses an approach that is as general and minimally structured as is feasible without losing coherence and utility. The intent is first to contribute to clarify the nature, extent, and interrelationships of problems and solutions. Even the distinction between problems and solutions is not always clear. For instance, housing an increasing number of people is a solution that may aggravate the problem of urban overcrowding, and the death of individuals is a problem that contributes to the solution of reducing ecological impact of overpopulation.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" databases are much about how problems, strategies, values, development concepts, and organizations are linked together. As a result, the possibility of focusing on feedback loops has proven to be an important feature of the \"Encyclopedia\", and a program has been carried out to identify \"vicious problem loops\". A vicious problem loop is a chain of problems, each aggravating the next, and with the last looping back to aggravate the first in the chain. Here is an example: Man-made disasters, Vulnerability of ecosystem niches, Natural environment degradation, Shortage of natural resources, Unbridled competition for scarce resources, Man-made disasters. Solutions that focus on only one problem in a chain may fail or even be harmful, because the cycle has the capacity to regenerate itself, and also because several cycles may interlock, forming tangled skeins of interlinked global problems. The loop detection program detected more than 50,000 loops (of up to 9 elements) in more than 12,000 problem profiles. It is thought that a similar work could be done about mutually facilitating or constraining strategy loops, so as to constitute a dynamic response to aggravating or reducing loops of problems through a circle of matching strategies.\n\nThat project endeavors to present all the phenomena in society that are perceived negatively by groups transcending national frontiers. Those phenomena constitute a challenge to creative remedial action. Groups are strongly motivated by the problems that infringe their values and arouse their indignation. As such, problems are a major stimulus driving the development of society. Although there is agreement that problems are numerous and that many are really serious, little effort has been made to determine how many problems there are. Likewise, while it is becoming increasingly evident that problems interact with one another, and constitute complex networks or systems, little effort has been made to map that complexity. The perceptions documented in that project raise useful questions concerning the nature and existence of problems, especially when other groups consider that one perception or another is irrelevant, misleading or misinformed. An aim of that research area, then, is to assemble information whose significance is collectively repressed, displaced onto some less threatening problems, or projected in the form of blame onto some other social group.\n\nViews concerning problems are extremely varied. Several pages in the notes and commentaries deal with that variety. Problems are agenda items for assemblies or conferences; action targets for organizations; issues for political parties or governments; events or topics for the media; markets for businesses; sins for religions; puzzles for sciences. Problems can be viewed as synonymous with chaos and disorder, or as elements in an ordered array; as static or dynamic entities; as discrete or continuous phenomena; as objective things or subjective experiences; as directly experienceable phenomena or as indirect implications of seemingly innocent phenomena; as inherently comprehensible or incomprehensible entities; as the results of due processes or as spontaneous phenomena. For many people in the West problems may be considered as artifacts of concerned minds, about which reason, principles, or history are relevant, while in the East to conceive of life as presenting problems to be solved may be seen as a misconception of life. Other pages of notes and commentaries deal extensively with the variety of points of view under headings such as \"Approaches to problems\", \"Beyond the problem-lobby mindset\", or \"Problem perception and levels of awareness\".\n\nThat project aims at identifying the complete range of strategies perceived by constituencies acting at the international level.\n\nThe conventional way of addressing any problem situation is to elaborate a strategy, but given the number, variety and interrelationships of the problems, it is uncertain whether any conventional strategy could be adequate. In general, many groups have \"answers\" to the current crisis. The proponents of each such answer naturally attach special importance to their own as being of crucial relevance at this time, or even as being the only appropriate basis for a viable world society in the future. However, that focus on \"answer production\", a vital moving force in society, obscures the manner in which such answers, in the absence of integration between them, undermine each other’s significance.\n\nIt appears to the editors that the elements of the strategic challenge at this time include:\nThe strategic problem therefore is how to ensure that the appropriate organizational resources emerge, and are supported with appropriate conceptual tools, in response to emerging problem complexes. But it would seem that this must be achieved without organizing such response – for to the extent that any part of the network is organized, other parts will develop (and probably should develop) which favor alternative approaches. The challenge is therefore to clarify the conditions of a network strategy, i.e. an approach which facilitates or catalyses (rather than organizes) the development of organizational networks in response to problem networks, in the light of values perceived in various parts of the social system.\n\nMany pages of notes and commentaries describe in details various approaches to global strategies, and their limits. Such are \"Strategic ecosystem: beyond \"The Plan\"\", \"Governance\" (a series of pages on reports from the Club of Rome, the Commission on Global Governance, and four others groups), \"Strategic denial: action inhibition\", \"Post-crisis opportunities: range of strategies\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: strategies in chaos\". A long series of pages explores how to \"move beyond the unimodal answer and recognize that because each form of action has both strengths and weaknesses, the key to a more effectively multimodal answer lies in finding how to interrelate the various unimodal answers so that they correct for each others weaknesses and counteract each others excesses.” But, it must also be asked, is integrated action of any type feasible at this time? The exploration begins with \"Strategic appropriateness: questionable answers\", and finishes with \"Action implications: consensus, uncertainty and action formulation\". Conditions for progress in strategy-making are more explicitly brought up in pages such as \"Strategic ecosystem: integrating constraint and opposition\", and \"Post-crisis opportunities: in quest of radical coherence\".\n\nThat project aims at registering a complete range of values with which people identify, to which they are attracted or which they reject as abhorrent. The notion of wisdom is explored as a way, an art, of dealing with value dilemmas. For instance, \"Complexity: understanding value systems\" is a text that looks at values through a positive interpretation, a negative interpretation, a paradoxical negative interpretation of the positive, and a paradoxical positive interpretation of the negative. Another text, \"Insights: wisdom and requisite variety\", gives a list of several sources of wisdom which, in interrelation, may be required in a value system to ensure the long-term viability of a complex society.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide profiles of human development approaches and modes of awareness, and their relationships, as perceived by different beliefs systems, disciplines, religions, and cultures. Much of the material in this section is about the limitations of language in expressing levels of significance beyond that which can be effectively captured by words, so that, seemingly, what we need to understand may only be expressible in a \"language\" that we do not know! That paradox is explored in a page entitled \"Language and the reconstruction of reality\". Other challenges relative to human potential and development are explored in pages such as \"Phases of human development through challenging problems\", or \"Barriers to transcendent insight and social transformation\".\n\nThe purpose of that project is to review the range of communication possibilities of metaphor, pattern and symbol. New conceptual tools are required to configure very large quantities of information into patterns that are both memorable and meaningful, and metaphor is often the only means to deal comprehensibly with complexity. Moreover, exploring “new ways of thinking” in the light of enhanced mental imagery (or mental model) appears indispensable inasmuch as furthering “mobilization of public opinion” and the “political will to change” is dependent upon insights that are too complex to be easily communicable. For instance, limitations of dualistic thinking are well-known and holistic approaches may represent more desirable alternatives, but how is it possible to implement such alternatives? The page \"Challenge: transcending the \"switch\" metaphor\" deals with that question.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to assemble descriptions of the range of conceptual approaches which are considered integrative and which are held by some international constituencies to provide a key for strategic response to the global problematique. Buzzwords like \"global\", \"networking\" and \"systematic\" are often used as magical \"words-of-power\". Nevertheless, in a society characterized by specialization, fragmentation, disparateness, or opposition, integrative approaches until now have proved inadequate or too difficult to implement. In order to go beyond that difficulty, it seems necessary to creatively introduce novelties, such as a science or art of disagreement that could clarify how to \"disagree intelligently\" rather than do so in a mindless manner requiring some form of violent or repressive reaction to eliminate the disagreement as soon as possible. There is a wide variety of initiatives pertaining to integrative knowledge and transdisciplinarity, and a page like \"Significance: previous, parallel or related initiatives\" presents several of them. With regard to interdisciplinary relationships between organizations, problems, strategies, values and human development, there is the \"Integrative Matrix of Human Preoccupations\" which has been developed by the editors and which allows to deal with all those elements in an exploratory fashion.\n\nThe purpose of that project is to provide a context for the presentation of new approaches to the challenges highlighted in the other projects. The emphasis is on configuring information in new ways, through a variety of accessible techniques, so as to allow easier navigation through complexity, and so as to evoke imaginative insights in response to such complexity. The \"Overview\" page presents about forty of those approaches or techniques, including interactive database use, q-analysis, information visualization, confidence artistry, tensegrity organization, I Ching, transformative conferencing, or marriage between poetry and policy-making.\n\nThe project was originally conceived in 1972 by James Wellesley-Wesley, who provided financial support through the foundation Mankind 2000, and Anthony Judge, by whom the work was orchestrated.\n\nWork on the first edition started with funds from Mankind 2000, matching those of the UIA. The publisher Klaus Saur, of Munich, provided funds, in conjunction with those from the UIA, for work on the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th editions. Seed funding for the third volume of the 4th edition was also provided on behalf of Mankind 2000. In the nineties, seed funding was provided, again on behalf of Mankind 2000, for computer equipment which subsequently allowed the UIA to develop a large website and make progressively available for free the \"Encyclopedia\" databases as from the 1994–1995 edition. In turn, this proven knowledge management capacity enabled the UIA, on the initiative of Nadia McLaren, a consultant ecologist who has been a primary editor for the \"Encyclopedia\", to successfully instigate two multi-partner projects funded by the European Union, with matching funds from the UIA. The work done through those two projects, \"Ecolynx: Information Context for Biodiversity Conservation\" (mainly) and \"Interactive Health Ecology Access Links\", eventually resulted in what amounted to a fifth, web-based, edition of the \"Encyclopedia\" in 2000. In their own ways, two other persons in particular effectively supported the project over the years: Robert Jungk of Mankind 2000, and Christian de Laet of the UIA.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia\" was the fruit of a continuing processing of documents gathered from many of the thousands of the international organizations profiled in the \"Yearbook of International Organizations\". Many such bodies regularly produce a wide range of material on the areas of their concern, many regularly send documents to the UIA, and many, when requested more specifically, supplied documents for the \"Encyclopedia\". The following organizations provided documents in the greatest quantity: FAO, ILO, UNICEF, UNESCO, UNCTD, WHO, Commonwealth Secretariat, Council of Europe, OECD, World Bank group. Furthermore, the United Nations Library in Geneva facilitated access to other material over two decades. The Institute of Cultural Affairs International was contractually associated at one point to the edition and other aspects of the \"Encyclopedia\" project. The \"Goals, Processes and Indicators of Development\" project (led by Johan Galtung) of the United Nations University, in which Anthony Judge participated on behalf of the UIA between 1978 and 1982, was an experience of learning and research that had a significant impact on the editorial content of the \"Encyclopedia\". Another noticeable influence came from futures studies, with which Judge has long been associated. He reports in \"Encyclopedia Illusions\" how the narrow focus of the Club of Rome on a few socio-economic aspects of futures research prompted the much vaster exploration concerning world problems and human potential.\n\nAnthony Judge was the architect and managing editor of the \"Encyclopedia\". He was also the main author of the notes and commentaries. The principal editors over the years have been, for different editions, Jon Jenkins and Maureen Jenkins (who had also worked at the Institute of Cultural Affairs), Owen Victor, Jacqueline Nebel, Nadia McLaren, and Tomáš Fülöpp. There were also enthusiastic editorial contributions from volunteers. All people related to the UIA who worked directly on one or more of the five \"Encyclopedia\" editions figure on a list that can be found online under the heading \"Associates of the Union of Intelligible Associations\". This is because in 2005, following disagreement over the partnership contract, Anthony Judge, as Executive Secretary of Mankind 2000, reframed the \"Encyclopedia\" as having been a strategic initiative of the Union of Intelligible Associations.\nTomáš Fülöpp continued maintaining and improving \"Encyclopedia\" databases at the UIA until January 2012.\n\n\nThere has been several reviews of the \"Encyclopedia\". One of the harshest criticisms came from the American Library Association in 1987: \"The board considers the \"Encyclopedia of World Problems and Human Potential\" a problematic monument to idiosyncrasy, confusion, and obfuscation that certainly is not worth purchasing at any price.\" Similarly, The Guardian was extremely critical in a review article published in 1992, to which Anthony Judge recently responded via Transcend Media Service on the occasion of the publication in The Wall Street Journal of a page-one sympathetic review of the \"Encyclopedia\" initiative, in December 2012. The work itself is keen on presenting, in various places, disclaimers, reservations or warning texts that anticipate criticisms and explain the strengths and weaknesses of its approaches, including the failure to advocate a position, or the sometimes excessive complexity in its methods or language. Most reviews are laudatory, however. Richard Slaughter emphasized that the significance of the work is not its size or the scope of its references, impressive though these are. It is rather in the nature of what has been attempted. The accompanying notes and commentaries, he said, are good enough to be published separately because they contain highly cogent observations on the \"global problematique\", commentaries on the work of numerous great thinkers from a wide variety of fields, and an impressive array of insights about the epistemology, symbolism, metaphysics, metaphors and linguistic representations of the subject. As far as practice is concerned, the highest commendation perhaps is to be found in the words of Elise Boulding: \"Any one of us (...) can actively become a part in the world problem solving process by using this encyclopedia.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2313093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2313093", "title": "Environmental security", "text": "Environmental security\n\nEnvironmental security examines threats posed by environmental events and trends to individuals, communities or nations. It may focus on the impact of human conflict and international relations on the environment, or on how environmental problems cross state borders.\n\nThe Millennium Project assessed definitions of environmental security and created a synthesis definition:\n\nEnvironmental security is environmental viability for life support, with three sub-elements: \n\nIt considers the abilities of individuals, communities or nations to cope with environmental risks, changes or conflicts, or limited natural resources. For example, climate change can be viewed a threat to environmental security. Human activity impacts CO emissions, impacting regional and global climatic and environmental changes and thus changes in agricultural output. This can lead to food shortages which will then cause political debate, ethnic tension, and civil unrest.\n\nEnvironmental security is an important concept in two fields: international relations and international development.\n\nWithin international development, projects may aim to improve aspects of environmental security such as food security or water security, but also connected aspects such as energy security, that are now recognised as Sustainable Development Goals at UN level. Targets for MDG 7 about environmental sustainability show international priorities for environmental security. Target 7B is about the security of fisheries on which many people depend for food. Fisheries are an example of a resource that cannot be contained within state borders. A conflict before the International Court of Justice between Chile and Peru about maritime borders and their associated fisheries is a case study for environmental security.\n\nThe Copenhagen School defines the referent object of environmental security as the environment, or some strategic part of it.\n\nHistorically, the definition of international security has varied over time. After World War II, definitions typically focused on the subject of realpolitik that developed during the Cold War between the United States and the Soviet Union.\n\nAs tensions between the superpowers eased after the collapse of the Soviet Union, academic discussions of definitions of security significantly expanded to encompass a far broader range of threats to peace, including, particularly, environmental threats associated with the political implications of resource use or pollution. By the mid-1980s, this field of study was becoming known as \"environmental security\". Despite a wide range of semantic and academic debates over terms, it is now widely acknowledged that environmental factors play both direct and indirect roles in both political disputes and violent conflicts.\n\nIn the academic sphere environmental security is defined as the relationship between security concerns such as armed conflict and the natural environment. A small but rapidly developing field, it has become particularly relevant for those studying resource scarcity and conflict in the developing world. Prominent early researchers in the field include Felix Dodds, Norman Myers, Jessica Tuchman Mathews, Michael Renner, Richard Ullman, Arthur Westing, Michael Klare, Thomas Homer Dixon, Geoffrey Dabelko, Peter Gleick, Rita Floyd and Joseph Romm.\n\nAccording to Jon Barnett, environmental security emerged as an important concept in security studies because of some interrelated developments which started in 1960s. The first one was the increasing level of environmental consciousness in so called developed countries. Various occurrences and events triggered the growth of the environmental movement during this period of time. Rachel Carson's well-known book \"Silent Spring\" was one of the extraordinary publications of that time and brought greater degree of environmental awareness among ordinary people by warning them of the dangers to all natural systems including animals and food chain from the misuse of chemical pesticides such as DDT. Whilst Carson undoubtedly contributed to public debate at the time she was arguably not amongst the more radical 'social revolutionaries' who were also urging greater public awareness of environmental issues. Moreover, the number of largest well-known environmental non-governmental organizations such as the World Wildlife Fund (1961), Friends of the Earth (1969), and Greenpeace (1971) were founded during that time.\nThe second notable development which brings the emergence of concept of environmental security was number of scholars started to criticize the traditional notion of security and mainstream security debates in their work from 1970s by emphasizing its inability to handle environmental problems at national and international security level. First commentators were Richard Falk who published 'This Endangered Planet' (1971), and Harold and Margaret Sprout who wrote 'Toward a Politics of Planet Earth' (1971). These two commentators asserted in their book that the notion of security can no longer be centered only on military power, rather nations should collectively take measurements against common environmental problems since they pose threat to national well-being and thus international stability. These main ideas about environmental interdependence between countries and common security threat have remained key themes of environmental security studies. However, not until Richard Ullman publishes an academic article named \"Redefining Security\" (1983), radical departure from the dominant security discourse haven't happened. Ullman offered the following definition of national security threat as \"an action or sequence of events that (1) threatens drastically and over a relatively brief span of time to degrade the quality of life for the inhabitants of a state, or (2) threatens significantly to narrow the range of policy choices available to the government of a state, or to private, nongovernmental entities within the state\". Significant other scientists onward also linked the issue of security by focusing on the role of environmental degradation in causing violent conflict. Others, while recognizing the importance of environmental problems, argued that labeling them 'environmental security' was problematic and abandoned analytical rigor for normative and emotional power.\n\nEven though environmental degradation and climate change sometimes cause war and violent conflict within and between countries and other times not, it can weaken the national security of the state in number of profound ways. Environmental change can undermine the economic prosperity which plays big role in country’s military capacity and material power. In some developed countries, and in most developing countries, natural resources and environmental services tend to be important factors for economic growth and employment rate. Income from and employment in primary sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fishing, and mining, and from environmentally dependent services like torus, may all be adversely affected by environmental change. If natural capital base of an economy erodes, then so does the long-term capacity of its armed forces. Moreover, changes in environmental condition can exposes people to health threats, it can also undermine human capital and its well-being which are essential factors of economic development and stability of human society.\n\nClimate change also could, through extreme weather events, have a more direct impact on national security by damaging critical infrastructures such as military bases, naval yards and training grounds, thereby severely threatening essential national defense resources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37781958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781958", "title": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire", "text": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire\n\nFeudalism in the Holy Roman Empire was a politico-economic system of relationships between liege lords and enfeoffed vassals (or feudatories) that formed the basis of the social structure within the Holy Roman Empire during the High Middle Ages. In German the system is variously referred to \"Lehnswesen\", \"Feudalwesen\" or \"Benefizialwesen\".\n\nFeudalism in Europe emerged in the Early Middle Ages, based on Roman clientship and the Germanic social hierarchy of lords and retainers. It obliged the feudatory to render personal services to the lord. These included e. g. holding his stirrup, joining him on festive occasions and service as a cupbearer at the banquet table. Both pledged mutual loyalty: the lord to \"shelter and protect\", the vassal to \"help and advise\". Furthermore, feudal lord and vassal were bound to mutually respect one another, i.e. the lord could not, by law, beat his vassal, humiliate or lay hands on his wife or daughter.\n\nThe highest liege lord was the sovereign, the king or duke, who granted fiefs to his princes. In turn, they could award fiefs to other nobles, who wanted to be enfeoffed by them and who were often subordinate to the liege lord in the aristocratic hierarchy.\n\nA fief (also fee, feu, feud, tenure or fiefdom, , , \"feodum\" or \"beneficium\") was understood to be a thing (land, property), which its owner, the liege lord (\"Lehnsherr\"), had transferred to the hereditary ownership of the beneficiary on the basis of mutual loyalty, with the proviso that it would return to the lord under certain circumstances.\n\nEnfeoffment gave the vassal extensive, hereditary usufruct of the fief, founded and maintained on a relationship of mutual loyalty between the lord and the beneficiary. The Latin word \"beneficum\" implied, not only the actual estate or property, the fief - in Latin usually called the \"feodum\" - but also the associated legal relationship.\n\nThe owner was the so-called liege lord or feudal lord (German: Lehnsherr \"Lehnsgeber\"; Latin: \"dominus feudi\", \"senior\"), who was usually the territorial lord or reigning monarch. The beneficiary was his vassal, liegeman or feudatory (German: Vasall, \"Lehnsmann\", \"Knecht\", \"Lehenempfänger\" or \"Lehensträger\"; Latin: \"vassus\" or \"vasallus\"). Both parties swore an oath of fealty (Lehnseid) to one another. The rights conferred on the vassal were so similar to actual possession that it was described as beneficial ownership (\"dominium utile\"), whereas the rights of the lord were referred to as direct ownership (\"dominium directum\").\n\nThe fief (German: \"Lehen\" or Lehnsgut) usually comprised an estate or a complex of estates, but also specified rights of use and rights of taxation or duties.\n\nLinguistically the term \"Lehen\" is connected with the word \"leihen\", to lend or loan, and meant something like \"loaned property\" (c.f. the modern German \"Darlehen\", a loan), whilst the word \"feudum\", which some etymologists suggest comes from the Latin \"fides\" (loyalty), is more likely to be derived from the Old High German \"feo\", which meant \"Vieh\" i.e. \"cattle\", but later generally meant \"goods\" or \"property\".\n\nThe opposite of a fief was the freehold, allod or \"allodium\", which roughly corresponds to the present freehold estate.\n\nAn institution during the transition from feudal states to what is now the free ownership of property, was the \"allodifizierte Lehen\" (\"allodified fief\"), a fief in which the feudal lord gave up direct ownership - usually in return for the payment of compensation or an allodified rent (\"Allodifikationsrenten\") - but the vassal's ownership of the fief with an agreed agnatic succession - resembling a family entailed estate (\"Familienfideikommiß\") - remained in place.\n\nThere were numerous different types of feudal arrangement depending on regional tradition and the nature of feudal lordship (secular or ecclesiastical/monastic). The best-known of these were:\n\n\nThe king gave estates or appointments (\"Ämter\") to upper or crown vassals (\"Kronvasallen\"), who, in turn, passed them on to lower vassals (\"Untervasallen\"). The lower vassals would then hire the land to be cultivated by unfree farmers. There were no feudal relationships between farmers and the lower vassals.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages another structure developed in Germany, the so-called \"Heerschildordnung\", a medieval feudal hierarchy:\n\n\nInitially, only those of knightly birth were entitled to be enfeoffed, i.e. free knights who could bear arms and were in full possession of their title. Later, unfree ministeriales also rose to the knighthood. Vassalage consisted mainly of military campaigns (military service) and court duty (the presence of vassals at the court in order to offer advice). From court service, the state and imperial diets emerged. The fief was only given to the vassal to utilize; later, the vassal also became a sub-owner, but the feudal lord always retained the rights to this office. Eventually, the heritability of fiefs evolved later, but the landowner nevertheless remain the liege lord.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, out of the Roman system of patronage (or clientage) and the clan (\"Sippe\") relationships of the Migration Period (\"Völkerwanderungszeit\") (Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil), relations between rulers and their subjects developed into a prevailing consensus that was commonplace and accepted.\n\nIn Roman culture, it was common for a patron (a wealthy Roman citizen) to automatically retain his freed slaves in a dependent relationship, known as patronage. In some cases, populations of conquered areas would become clients of the general who conquered the area. This required the client to accompany his patron to war and protect him if the latter so wished, to accompany him to court as a vocal supporter and, if the patron held public office, to act as his assistant and to accompany him on representational events in public.\n\nIn return, the patron had to ensure the legal and practical support of his client in all aspects of life. A Roman citizen, a non-Roman and even entire tribes in the Roman Empire could have a patron-client relationship.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, this form of relationship was increasingly adopted in rural areas, because the Roman nomenklatura increasingly saw their vast estates (\"Latifundia\") as their refuge and also as economically important pillars, over which they sometimes even had their own jurisdiction and fortified prisons.\nClients at that time were usually bound to their patrons through the allocation of land.\n\nDuring the latter years of the period of clan society with Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil, it was common for all the land to belong to the king. Only he could distribute land to his subjects. These subjects were usually family members, warriors who had performed outstanding feats, and noblemen. This land did not become the property of the subject, but was handed over to him only \"in persona\". On the death of king or vassal, the land was de facto returned to the new king. Over time, a practice developed that the person enfeoffed with the land, together with his family, became the beneficiaries of the fief and remained permanently bound to it. Upon the death of one party, a new act of homage (\"Lehnseid\"), a formal legal ceremony, had to take place. These transitions were fluid and there were exceptions to the practice of enfeoffment.\n\nThe vassal often enfeoffed the estate, usually divided into smaller parcels of land, to other lesser vassals, who in turn had to swear fealty to him. In return for the lease of land, the king could demand loyalty and allegiance from the vassal and his sub-vassals. This means that, in the event of war, they had to provide soldiers and assistance, or if money ran short or a ransom was needed, they were expected to support the king.\n\nThe Roman patron-client relationship and the early clan-based feudal relationship in the Germanic kingdoms merged during the early Middle Ages into the feudal law, or \"Lehnsrecht\", a legal and social set of relationships, which effectively formed a pyramid with the king at the top.\n\nThe enforcement of \"Lehnsrecht\" is associated with the reduced circulation of money in the Late Antiquity and Early Medieval periods. Money could not bind a vassal to a king, only land. Unlike money, this was plentiful.\n\nEven kings (see Richard the Lionheart - compulsory allegiance) and at least in the early Middle Ages, the clergy (see Ottonian-Salian imperial church system) could be vassals of a king or another king.\n\nUnder the feudal system, various legal institutions came together during the Carolingian period that had previously existed independently. These institutions were:\n\nIt was from the combination of these institutions, especially as more and more lords achieved high social position, that the feudal system emerged.\nThe \"handgang\", which together with the oath of loyalty (\"Treueid\"), became referred to as \"homagium\" (Latin), \"homage\" (French), or \"mannschaft\" (German), became the decisive legal device until well into the 12th century. Not until the spread of the system of legal deeds was the \"handgang\" dropped from the oath of allegiance, which was better recorded in writing.\n\nCommendations were still carried out at all levels. In lower classes they were based on the manorial system (\"Grundherrschaft\"), at the high levels on feudalism (\"Lehnswesen\").\n\nThe award of fiefs often replaced the remuneration for work. This was necessary because the monetary system necessary to make regular payments was still far too underdeveloped during the early Middle Ages.\n\nAs the services of the vassal specifically included military service, under the Frankish monarchy the feudal system was for centuries the basis of the army as well as the social organization of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nIt was not only the king who acquired vassals in this way. He was soon imitated by secular and ecclesiastical magnates. Gradually, the principle of the heritability of fiefs was established along with the admissibility of passing them on as \"Afterlehen\" to sub-vassals. The latter were also declared as heritable in 1037 by Conrad II in the \"constitutio de feudis\". So it came to pass that as early as the 12th century, all duchies and counties were awarded as fiefs.\n\nWithin each of these ecclesiastical and secular territories, however, there was a variety of types of feudalism. Not until the 13th century, did the importance of the feudal system decline, because instead of vassals (\"Vassallen\"), liegemen (\"Dienstmannen\") - well-educated men (c.f. the development of the university system) - were appointed. The kings encouraged this development, for political reasons, and so strengthened territorial lordship (\"Landesherrschaft\"), which replaced the feudal system empire-wide. This strengthening of territorial rulers had an impact that could not be reversed, so that the power of the various principalities did not reduce, unlike the situation in France and England.\n\nIn England, feudal ties were abolished as early as the Revolution of 1649, and then by an express decree by Charles II in 1660. In France they were abolished by the decisions of the National Assembly on 4 and 5 August 1789. In Germany, the dissolution of feudal associations (\"Lehnsverband\") was a long process. Legally, it was abolished \"inter alia\" by the Confederation of the Rhine acts, in the Final Recess of the Reichsdeputation and the Frankfurt Constitution of 1849. One of the last fiefs was awarded in 1835, when the ailing Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Schlitz, known as Görtz, was enfeoffed with the spring at Salzschlirf and began to excavate it again. Those fiefs still in existence in the 20th century were abolished in 1947 by an Allied Control Council edict.\n\nIn general, the vassal (\"Lehnsmann\") was granted land or free houses (\"Freihäuser\") in return for his services. He could also provide services at the lord's residence and be accommodated there. Most of these so-called \"servi non cassati\" were given a fief as soon as one became available.\n\nOfficial positions (\"Ämter\") and sovereign rights over a particular territory (feudal regalia) could be awarded as a fief. It was in this way that the House of Thurn and Taxis received its Postlehen or postal service rights. In addition, there were numerous enfeoffments of church rights, church fiefs (\"Stifte\" or \"feudal ecclesiastica\") and enfeoffments of foundations associated with an altar (\"feudum altaragli\"). Also, cash payments from the royal treasury or profits from certain duties could be awarded as a fief.\n\nFeoffment (\"constitutio feudi, infeudatio\") involved the vassal being formally seized of his fief through a commendation ceremony. In Frankish times, commendation centered around the so-called handclasping ceremony (\"Handgang\"): the vassal clasped his hands together and placed them in the hands of his lord, who then clasped his hands around those of his vassal. He thereby symbolically received the protection of his new superior. From the end of the 9th century, this act was expanded to include an oath of allegiance, which was usually sworn on a religious relic. The oath served to affirm the binding of the liegeman to his liege, but emphasized that the vassal had not lost his status as a free knight, because only the free could be bound by oath.\n\nIn the 11th century, the commendation ceremony required the liegeman to pay homage (\"homagium\" or \"Mannschaft\"), which involved the handclasping ceremony as well as a declaration of intent. The liege lord could also make a declaration, but he would often forego this. This was followed by the loyalty oath and sometimes a kiss. Since, in the Middle Ages, a binding legal act could be constituted by a symbolic action, an object was symbolically handed over in a process known as livery of seizin and could be a staff or a banner (called a \"Fahnenlehn\"). The emperor could also symbolically hand over his sceptre (in the so-called \"Zepterlehen\"). As literacy rose, a charter of feoffment was also made out as part of the act that, over time, listed the feoffed estate and benefits that the vassal was to receive in ever increasing detail.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, an entry fee was demanded for feoffment, which was often based on the fief's annual income.\n\nThe fief (benefice) that the vassal received could be owned by the lord or have been granted in fee by another. Sometimes the vassal even sold or gifted over his possessions to the lord (\"Lehnsauftragung\") and then received it back as a fief (\"oblatio feudi\"). This was usually done in the hope that the liege lord could defend his estate better in the event of a dispute in the field or at court. The lord purchased or accepted the gift because he might have the intention or hope, for example, of merging unrelated fiefdoms into a whole and thus extending his sphere of influence, for example, in terms of jurisdiction, or the appointment of clergy.\n\nFrom the 11th century, the obligations of vassals were usually described as \"auxilium et consilium\" (help and advice). \"Auxilium\" usually implied assistance in terms of military service that the vassal had to render. This could be unlimited, i.e. the vassal had to assist his lord in every conflict, or it could be limited in time, space and in the number of troops to be raised. With the advent of the mercenaries, the reliance on vassals became less important and their service increasingly took the form of administration and court duties. \"Consilium\" meant primarily the obligation to appear at imperial assemblies or \"Hoftage\". Vassals whose feudal lord was not the king took part in the councils of their liege lords. They also had to administer justice over their subjects in the name of their master.\n\nThe vassal could even be required to pay money; though perhaps not to the extent of England, where military service became a requirement for war funds and the English king used the money to pay for his mercenaries. Monetary payments were also required in other cases, such as to pay a ransom for a captive lord, for the accolade of his eldest son, for the dowry of his eldest daughter, or for a journey to the Holy Land.\n\nThe feudal lord could also demand recompense (\"Lehnserneuerung\" or \"renovatio investiturae\") from his vassals if they lost their fief or upon changes of lord - changes of ruler at any level, local lord, prince or king (known as \"Herrenfall, Hauptfall, Thronfall\") - as well as changes of vassal (known as \"Lehnsfall, Vasallenfall\" or \"Mannfall, Nebenfall\"). The latter had to submit a written application (\"Lehnsmutung\") within a year and a day (actually 1 year, 6 weeks, 3 days) and ask for the renewal of his investiture, but this term could be extended by a decree from the lord (\"Lehnsindult\").\n\nDepending on local law, the vassal might be liable, apart from the fee, for the renewal of the enfeoffment (called the \"Schreibschilling\" or \"Lehnstaxe\"), to pay a special tax (the \"Laudemium, Lehnsgeld, Lehnsware\" or \"Handlohn\"). Finally, in the event of a felony by the vassal, the lord could confiscate the fief under the so-called \"Privationsklage\" action or step in to prevent the deterioration of the estate, if necessary, by legal means. He could also assert his claim to ownership at any time against any unauthorized third parties.\n\nThe duties of the lords were less precisely defined, however, they were largely discharged on the handover of the fief. The vassal always had a claim to loyalty from his lord (\"Lehnsprotektion\") and a breach of that by the lord meant the loss of his sovereignty over his vassal. The vassal had the \"right of use\" of the fief (the object of enfeoffment or \"Lehnsobjekt\"). The lord also had to represent his vassals in court.\n\nOriginally, a lord-vassal tie (\"Lehnsbindung\") was a lifelong, faithful relationship that could end only on death. It was also inconceivable that someone could be the vassal of more than one lord. In fact, multiple vassalage soon emerged and loosened the duty of loyalty for the liegeman (\"Lehnsmann\") considerably. Also, the opportunity to inherit a fief diminished the ability of the lord to intervene and loosened the personal loyalty of liegemen. Over time, the importance of fiefdoms increased more and more, whilst the duty of loyalty faded increasingly into the background. In the end, a fief was simply an estate for which the heir had to perform a certain ceremony.\n\nIn summary, the feudal system was based on two main components - the personal and the material elements.\n\nPersonal element:\nThe lord and vassal committed themselves to mutual loyalty. The visible expression of this commitment was the act of the vassal placing his hands in those of his lord (\"handgang\" - comparable with today's handshake, except that the \"handgang\" symbolized a hierarchical relation).\n\nMaterial element:\nBased on the pledge of loyalty between them, the lord made land available to the vassal. The vassal was obliged, in return, to render various services and taxes.\n\nAn echo of the old feudal system in Europe is found in family names such as Lehner, Lechner, Lehmann, Lehle, Horrigan and Lenherr as well as in numerous house and even place names, that even today have the term \"Lehen\" in the names (see a list at Lehen (disambiguation)).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22579001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22579001", "title": "Gender differences in social network service use", "text": "Gender differences in social network service use\n\nMen and women use social network services (SNSs) differently and with different frequencies. In general, several researchers have found that women tend to use SNSs more than men and for different and more social purposes.\n\nTechnologies, including communications technologies, have a long history of shaping and being shaped by the gender of their users. Although technologies used to perform housework have an apparent historical connection to gender in many cultures, a more ready connection to SNSs may be drawn with telephones as a communications technology readily and widely available in the home. Telephone use has long had gendered connections ranging from the widespread assumption that women simply talk more than men, and the employment of women as telephone operators. In particular, young women have been closely associated with extensive and trivial use of the telephone for purely social purposes. Similarly, women's use of and influence on the development of computers has been trivialized while significant developments in computers have been masculinized. Thus the idea that there may be both real and perceived differences in how men and women use SNSs – and that those uses may shape the SNSs – is neither new nor surprising and has historical analogues.\n\nThere is historical and contemporary evidence that current fears about young girls' online safety have historical antecedents such as telegraphs and telephones. Further, in many cases those historical reactions resulted in restrictions of girls' use of technology to protect them from predators, molesters, and other criminals threatening their innocence. Like current fears focused on computer use, particularly SNSs and other communication media, these fears are most intense when the medium enters the home. These fears have the potential to – at least temporarily – overwhelm the positive and empowering uses of these technologies. These historical fears are echoed in contemporary media accounts of youths' use of SNSs.\n\nFinally, the histories of some SNSs themselves have ties with gender. For example, gay men were one of the earliest groups to join and use the early SNS Friendster.\n\nMany studies have found that women are more likely to use either specific SNSs such as Facebook or MySpace or SNSs in general. In 2015, 73% of online men and 80% of online women used social networking sites. The gap in gender differences has become less apparent in LinkedIn. In 2015 about 26 percent of online men and 25% of online women used the business-and employee-oriented networking site.\n\nResearchers who have examined the gender of users of multiple SNSs have found contradictory results. Hargittai's groundbreaking 2007 study examining race, gender, and other differences between undergraduate college student users of SNSs found that women were not only more likely to have used SNSes than men but that they were also more likely to have used many different services, including Facebook, MySpace, and Friendster; these differences persisted in several models and analyses. Although she only surveyed students at one institution – the University of Illinois at Chicago – Hargittai selected that institution intentionally as \"an ideal location for studies of how different kinds of people use online sites and services.\" In contrast, data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project found that men were more likely to have multiple SNS profiles. Although the sample sizes of the two surveys are comparable – 1,650 Internet users in the Pew survey compared with 1,060 in Hargittai's survey – the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population.\n\nIn general, women seem to use SNSs more to explicitly foster social connections. A study conducted by Pew research centers found that women were more avid users of social media. In November 2010, the gap between men and women was as high as 15%. Female participants in a multi-stage study conducted in 2007 to discover the motivations of Facebook users scored higher on scales for social connection and posting of photographs. Studies have also been conducted on the differences between females and males with regards to blogging. The Pew Research Center found that younger females are more likely blog than males their own age, even males that are older than them. Similarly, in a study of blogs maintained in MySpace, women were found to be more likely to not only write blogs but also write about family, romantic relationships, friendships, and health in those blogs. A study of Swedish SNS users found that women were more likely to have expressions of friendship, specifically in the areas of (a) publishing photos of their friends, (b) specifically naming their best friends, and (c) writing poems to and about their friends. Women were also more likely to have expressions related to family relationships and romantic relationships. One of the key findings of this research is that those men who do have expressions of romantic relationships in their profile had expressions just as strong as the women. However, the researcher speculated that this may be in part due to a desire to publicly express heterosexual behaviors and mannerisms instead of merely expressing romantic feelings.\n\nA large-scale study of gender differences in MySpace found that both men and women tended to have a majority of female Friends, and both men and women tended to have a majority of female \"Top\" Friends in the site.\nA later study found women to author disproportionately many (public) comments in MySpace,\nbut an investigation into the role of emotion in public MySpace comments found that women both give and receive stronger positive emotion.\nIt was hypothesised that women are simply more effective at using social networking sites because they are better able to harness positive emotion.\n\nA study focused on the influence of gender and personality on individuals’ use of online social networking websites such as Facebook, reported that men use social networking sites with the intention of forming new relationships, whereas, women use them more for relationship maintenance. (Muscanell and Guadagno, 2012)\nIn addition to this, women are more likely to use Facebook or MySpace to compare themselves to others and also to search for information. Men, however, are more likely to look at other people's profiles with in the intention to find friends. (Haferkamp et al., 2012) \n\nPrivacy has been the primary topic of many studies of SNS users, and many of these studies have found differences between male and female SNS users, although some studies have found results contradictory to those found in other studies.\n\nSome researchers have found that women are more protective of their personal information and more likely to have private profiles. Other researchers have found that women are less likely to post some types of information. Acquisti and Gross found that women in their sample were less likely to reveal their sexual orientation, personal address, or cell phone number. This is similar to Pew Internet & American Life research of children users of SNSs that found that boys and girls presented different views of privacy and behaviors, with girls being more concerned about and restrictive of information such as city, town, last name, and cell phone number that could be used to locate them. At least one group of researchers has found that women are less likely to share information that \"identifies them directly – last name, cell phone number, and address or home phone number,\" linking that resistance to women's greater concerns about \"cyberstalking\", \"cyberbullying\", and security problems.\n\nDespite these concerns about privacy, researchers have found that women are more likely to maintain up-to-date photos of themselves. Further, Kolek and Saunders found in their sample of college student Facebook users that women were more likely to not only post a photograph of themselves in their profile but that they were more likely to have a publicly viewable Facebook account (a contradictory finding compared to many other studies), post photos, and post photo albums.\n\nWomen were more likely to have: (a) a publicly viewable Facebook account, (b) more photo albums, (c) more photos, (d) a photo of themselves as their profile picture, (e) positive references to alcohol, partying, or drugs, and (f) more positive references to or about the institution or institution-related activities. In general, women were more likely to disclose information about themselves in their Facebook profile, with the primary exception of sharing their telephone number. Similarly, female respondents to Strano's study were more likely to keep their profile photo recent and choose a photo that made them appear attractive, happy, and fun-loving. Citing several examples, Strano opined that there may also be a difference in how men and women Facebook users display and interpret profile photos depicting relationships.\n\nPrivacy has also been a concern for the SnapChat app, which allows you to send messages either text or photo or video which then disappear. One study has shown that security is not a major concern for the majority of users and that most do not use Snapchat to send sensitive content (although up to 25% may do so experimentally). As part of their research almost no statistically significant gender differences were found.\n\nCyberbullying\n\nPast research carried out to investigate if there are any gender differences in cyber-bulling has found that boys commit more cyber verbal bullying, cyber forgery and more violence based on hidden identity or presenting themselves as other person. (Sincek 2014).\n\nAlthough men and women users of SNSs exhibit different behavior and motivations, they share some similarities. For example, one study that examined the veracity of information shared on SNSs by college students found that men and women were as likely to \"provide accurate and complete information about their birthday, schedule of classes, partner's name, AIM, or political views.\"\n\nIn contradiction to several of the studies described above that found that women are more likely to be SNS users, at least one very reputable study has found that men and women are equally likely to be SNS users. Data gathered in December 2008 by the Pew Internet & American Life Project showed that the SNS users in their sample were equally divided among men and women. As mentioned above, the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population than the data in much of the previously described research.\n\nSome studies have found that traditional gender roles are present in SNSs, with men in this study conforming to traditional views of masculinity and the women to traditional views of femininity. Qualitative work with college student SNS users by Martínez Alemán and Wartman and Managgo \"et al.\" have found similar results for both Facebook and MySpace users. Moreover, the work by Managgo \"et al.\" discovered not only traditional gender roles and images but sexualisation of women users of MySpace. Similarly, research into the impact of comments in the profile of a Facebook users on that user's perceived attractiveness revealed a \"sexual double standard\", wherein negative statements resulted in male profile owners being judged more attractive and female profile owners less attractive. Finally, at least one study has found that men and women SNS users both left textual clues about their gender.\n\nIn February 2014, Facebook announced the vast expansion of options for choosing gender identities to list on profiles, ranging to up to 56 gender identity choices. In August 2014, Facebook followed up with allowing gender-neutral relationship identities for identifying family members.\n\n"}
{"id": "27082987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27082987", "title": "Global civics", "text": "Global civics\n\nGlobal civics suggests to understand civics in a global sense as a social contract among all world citizens in an age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth.\n\nThe advocates of the notion attempt to demonstrate that it is possible to imagine global civics. According to this notion, in an increasingly interdependent world, the world citizens need a compass that would frame mindsets on a global scale, and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility related to specific world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.\n\nThe term global civics was first coined by Hakan Altinay, a nonresident senior fellow with the Global Economy and Development program at the Brookings Institution, in a working paper published in March 2010. The concept builds upon the basic tenets behind global ethics, global justice and world citizenship, inviting everyone to question their increasingly important role in a highly interdependent world. In early 2011, Altinay published \"Global Civics: Responsibilities and Rights in an Interdependent World,\" a book of articles on global civics put forth by academics and intellectuals all around the world.\n\nOpponents of the global civics concept argue that even a modest level of exercising responsibility towards all the people living in the world is so overwhelming and nearly impossible to achieve. These arguments also posit that civics assumes an effective state and enforcement. The claim goes that since there is no such thing as a world government, global civics implementation is not feasible. Also, it has been suggested that superpowers of the world are selfish and dangerous nations, and that they do not feel constrained by international legitimacy and laws. Finally, the critics claim that any experience of pan-global solidarity among human beings cannot form the basis of constellation of rights and responsibilities as it is nascent at best and the experience of being a global citizen is a privilege restricted to international elites and a few activists.\n\nThe proponents of global civics also suggest that university campuses play a vital role in spreading a thorough understanding of how today's global world functions and contributes toward preparation of future generations for life in an interdependent world. This view calls for visionary universities that could successfully \"provide their students with the forums and the tools to discuss and figure out what their responsibilities are to their fellow human beings.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30427088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30427088", "title": "Google Science Fair", "text": "Google Science Fair\n\nThe Google Science Fair is a worldwide (excluding Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Myanmar/Burma, Syria, Zimbabwe and any other U.S. sanctioned country) online science competition sponsored by Google, Lego, Virgin Galactic, National Geographic and \"Scientific American\". It occurred annually between 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe first Google Science Fair was announced in January 2011; entries were due on April 7, 2011 and judging occurred in July 2011. The competition is open to 13- to 18-year-old students around the globe, who formulate a hypothesis, perform an experiment, and present their results. All students must have an internet connection and a free Google Account to participate, and the projects must be in English, German, Italian, Spanish, or French. The final submission must include ten sections, which are the summary, an \"About Me\" page, the steps of the project, and a works cited page.\nEntries are judged on eight core criteria, which include the student's presentation, question, hypothesis, research, experiment, data, observations, and conclusion. Prizes are awarded to three finalists. The grand prize includes a National Geographic trip to the Galapagos Islands, a US $50,000 scholarship, and an \"experience\" at a small broken shack for a small organization; finalists will receive a US $15,000 scholarship and assorted packages from sponsoring organizations. While Larry Page and Sergey Brin were PhD students at Stanford University in California, they created Google in January 1996 as a research project; Google employee Tom Oliveri highlighted the company's early days: \"Science fairs help students to explore their vision and curiosity through science. Our company was founded on an experiment. We firmly believe that science can change the world,\" he stated.\n\nThe on-line site also contains a number of highlighted guest interviews with selected individuals, each well established and prominent in their field of science, with the aim being for them to act as inspiration to young students. The individuals chosen include Mitch Resnick, Spencer Wells, Kevin Warwick, and Mariette DiChristina.\n\nShree Bose, a 17-year-old girl in Texas, won the grand prize and $50,000 for her research on the chemotherapy drug, cisplatin, that is commonly taken by women with ovarian cancer, tackling the problem of cancer cells growing resistant to cisplatin over time.\n\nNaomi Shah of Portland, OR, won the age 15–16 category with a study of the effects of air quality on lungs, particularly for people who have asthma. Ms. Shah recruited 103 test subjects, performed 24-hour air quality measurements at their homes and workplaces and had each blow into a device that measured the force of their breath.\n\nLauren Hodge of York, PA, won the age 13–14 category for research on whether marinades reduce the amount of cancer-causing compounds produced by the grilling of meat. She found that lemon juice and brown sugar cut the level of carcinogens sharply, while soy sauce increased them.\n\nPeople around the world (90 countries) had the opportunity to vote for their favorite projects in Google’s online voting gallery. Google has had more than 100,000 votes and the competition was really tight. Nimal Subramanian won the People’s Choice Award for receiving the most among the 60 semi-finalists. The public really loved Nimal's project on Cancer Busters. Nimal received a $10,000 scholarship.\n\nBrittany Wenger, who was 17, won the grand prize with her \"Global Neural Network Cloud Service for Breast Cancer\". Designed to noninvasively diagnose malignant cancerous tumors, it successfully detected over 99% of malignant breast tumors in a test set. She received $50,000, a trip to the Galapagos Islands, mentoring and internship opportunities for winning the competition.\n\nIván Hervías Rodríguez, Marcos Ochoa, and Sergio Pascual, all of Spain, won the 15-16 age group using microscopy to examine microscopic creatures in aquatic ecosystems.\n\nJonah Kohn won the age 13-14 group by designing and building a device designed to enhance the listening experience of those with hearing loss. His device attached to different parts of the body, translating sound into tactile stimulation.\n\nThe winners of the 2013 Google Science Fair were:\n\n13-14 age category: Viney Kumar (Australia) — The PART (Police and Ambulances Regulating Traffic) Program. Viney’s project looked for new ways to provide drivers with more notice when an emergency vehicle is approaching, so they can take evasive action to get out of the emergency vehicle’s way.\n\n15-16 age category: Ann Makosinski (Canada) — The Hollow Flashlight. Using Peltier tiles and the temperature difference between the palm of the hand and ambient air, Ann designed a flashlight that provides bright light without batteries or moving parts.\n\n17-18 age category Grand Prize Winner: Eric Chen (USA) — Computer-aided Discovery of Novel Influenza Endonuclease Inhibitors to Combat Flu Pandemic. Combining computer modeling and biological studies, Eric’s project looks at influenza endonuclease inhibitors as leads for a new type of anti-flu medicine, effective against all influenza viruses including pandemic strains.\n\nThe 2014 Google Science Fair started accepting entries on February 12, 2014 and the entries closed on May 13, 2014. And the results for the local, regional and Science in Action award nominees were declared. The Grand Prize was won by three girls from Ireland, Ciara Judge (16), Emer Hickey (16) and Sophie Healey (17). They were the first group winners of the competition and the youngest winners to date (they also won the 15-16 age category prize). Their project was entitled 'Combating the Global Food Crisis: Diazatroph Bacteria as a Cereal Crop Growth Promoter.'\n\nThe 13-14 age category was won by Mihir Garimella (14) from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania with a project titled 'Fruit-fly Inspired Robots.' Hayley Todesco (17) of Canada won the 17-18 age category with her project titled 'Cleaning up Oil Sands Waste.'\n\nAlong with the overall prizes for each category, a number of special awards were also announced. Kenneth Shinozuka (15) was declared as the Science In Action Award winner in recognition of the practical potential of his project 'Wearable Sensors for Aging Society.' Arsh Shah Dilbagi (16) from India won the Voter's Choice Award for creating an augmentative and alternative communication (AAC) device that converts breath into words, enabling mute people to speak.\n\nThe 2015 Google Science Fair closed for entries on May 18, 2015 with regional finalists announced in London on July 7, 2015. These included Lauren McKenzie (14) who built an automatic soil watering system, Shadab Karnachi (14) who designed a low-cost gaming device for people with visual impairments and Peter He (14) who developed an innovative wireless virtual reality system.\n\nThe global finalists were announced on August 4, 2015 and the winners on September 21, 2015. The Grand Prize was won by Olivia Hallisey (16) with her project ‘Temperature-Independent, Portable, and Rapid Field Detection of Ebola via a Silk-Derived Lateral-Flow System’. The Google Technologist Award was won by Girish Kumar (17) for his project ‘Revup: Automatically Generating Questions from Educational Texts’ and the Incubator Award was won by Elliott Sarrey (14) with his project ‘Bot2karot: Manage Your Vegetable Garden via Your Smartphone’. The Lego Education Builder Award won by Anurudh Ganesan (15), the Virgin Galactic Pioneer Award won by Jeff Cheema (15), the Scientific American Innovator Award won by Krtin Nithiyanandam (15), the National Geographic Explorer Award won by Deepika Kurup (17) and the Community Impact Award won by Lalita Prasida.\n\nThe 2016 Google Science Fair closed its entries on May 17, 2016, the Global 16 Finalist were announced on August 11, 2016. The final event took place during 24 to 27 September 2016 at Mountain View, California. Sixteen finalists competed for top five awards. The first two rounds had two age groups 13-15 and 16-18. However, unlike previous years, top awards during the finalist event did not distinguish between the two age groups of the previous rounds, thus making it particularly challenging event for the contestant compared to all previous years.\n\nThe Grand Prize was won by Kiara Nirghin (16) of South Africa for her project 'Fighting Drought with Fruit'. The Lego Education Builder award was won by Anushka Naiknaware (13) of United States, the youngest contestant to win a top award ever, for 'Smart Wound Care for the Future'. The National Geographic Explorer award was won by Mphatso Simbao (18) of Zambia. The Scientific American Innovator Award was won by a team of three for 'Fighting Foam Waste with Recycled Filters' from the US [Ashton (14), Luke (14) and Julia (14)]. The Virgin Galactic Pioneer award was won by Charlie Fenske (16) for 'Making Rockets more Efficient', also from the United States.\n\nThe competition did not begin as usual in May, 2017. Starting from the late summer, the official website stated that \"We're conducting some experiments\" and \"Coming Fall 2017\". The submissions of competition in 2018 began on 13th September 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51693407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51693407", "title": "Hybrid navigation", "text": "Hybrid navigation\n\nHybrid navigation is the simultaneous use of more than one navigation system for location data determination, needed for navigation. By using multiple systems at once, the accuracy as a whole is improved. Especially for self-driving cars, the exact and continuous knowledge of the navigating object's location is essential.\n\nGPS or other satellite based systems (GLONASS, GALILEO, BEIDOU, QZSS) provide a way to learn one's location, but these methods require free field conditions in order to receive the radio signal. Various satellite systems are subject to switching-off or reduction of data precision by the company or government that runs them. They are also prone to intentional or unintentional disturbances. Even passing through a tunnel or a garage interrupts the data flow. In situations where the signal cannot be received reliably, alternate sources of location data are needed. Combining GPS with other methods can avoid these limitations, but each method has its own specific limitations. A hybrid system provides fault tolerance for each underlying method and improves the overall precision of the result.\n\nThe hybrid system needs to decide how to choose among the different methods at any given time. One solution is a triple configuration, allowing 'result voting' for data collecting systems..\n\nAlternate systems that supply navigational data include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512045", "title": "Index of feminism articles", "text": "Index of feminism articles\n\nThis is an index of articles related to the issue of feminism, women's liberation, the women's movement, and women's rights.\n\nAct, Pornography Victims Compensation\n- Activists, women's rights, list of\n- Advertising, sex in\n- Aid societies, ladies' or soldiers'\n- All-female band\n- Amazon feminism\n- Amendment, Equal Rights\n- Anarcha-feminism\n- Anthropology, feminist\n- Antifeminism\n- Anti-pornography feminism (compare Sex-positive feminism)\n- Archaeology, feminist\n- Archaeology, gender\n- Architecture, modern, feminism and\n- Art movement, feminist\n- Atheist feminism\n- Australia, women's suffrage in\n- Authors, ecofeminist, list of\n\nBahrain, women's political rights in\n- BDSM, feminist views on\n- Binary, gender\n- Black feminism\n- Bonding, female\n- Bride burning\n- Bride kidnapping\n- Burning, bride\n\nCanada, women's rights in\n- Car, passenger, women-only\n- Chauvinism, female (compare Male chauvinism)\n- Chicana feminism\n- Christmas Letter, Open\n- Choice, pro-\n- Christian feminism\n- Cinema, women's\n- Colonial, post-, feminism\n- Comics, women in, portrayal of\n- Compensation Act, Pornography Victims\n- Composition studies, feminist theory in\n- Computing, women in\n- Consciousness raising\n- Conservative feminisms, list of\n- Constitution, United States, Nineteenth Amendment to the\n- Countries, timeline of first women's suffrage in majority-Muslim\n- Crime, gender and\n- Criminology, school of, feminist\n- Cult of Domesticity\n- Culture, feminism in\n- Cultural feminism\n- Cyberfeminism\n\nDay, International Women's\n- Dekh Le\n- Difference feminism\n- Differences, gender\n- Discrimination\n- Distinction, sex and gender\n- Domestic violence\n- Domesticity, Cult of\n\nEcofeminism\n- Ecofeminist authors, list of\n- Economics, feminist\n- Education, female\n- Education, mixed-sex\n- Effects on society, feminist\n- Egalitarianism\n- Egypt, feminism in\n- Engineering, women in\n- English, gender neutrality in\n- English, women's writing in\n- English custom, wife selling\n- Equal pay for women\n- Equal Rights Amendment\n- ERA\n- Equality, feminism and\n- Equality feminism\n- Equality, gender\n- Equity feminism\n- Erotophilia\n- Erotophobia\n- Existentialism, feminist\n\nFamily, matrifocal\n- Female bonding (compare Male bonding)\n- Female chauvinism (compare Male chauvinism)\n- Female education\n- \"Female privilege\": see Male privilege)\n- Female superiority\n- Feminazi\n- Feminine psychology (compare Masculine psychology)\n- Femininity (compare Masculinity)\n- Feminisation of the workplace\n- Feminism (compare Masculism)\n- Feminism and equality\n- Feminism and modern architecture\n- Feminism and the Oedipus complex\n- Feminism in Australia\n- Feminism in culture\n- Feminism in Egypt\n- Feminism in France\n- Feminism in India\n- Feminism in international relations\n- Feminism in Japan\n- Feminism in Nepal\n- Feminism in Poland\n- Feminist anthropology\n- Feminist archaeology\n- Feminist art movement\n- Feminist art movement in the United States\n- Feminist economics\n- Feminist effects on society\n- Feminist existentialism\n- Feminist film theory\n- Feminist geography\n- Feminist history\n- Feminist history in the United Kingdom\n- Feminist history in the United States (see also Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution)\n- Feminist legal theory\n- Feminist literary criticism\n- Feminist movement\n- Feminist movement in the United States\n- Feminist movements and ideologies\n- Feminist philosophy\n- Feminist political ecology\n- Feminist revisionist mythology\n- Feminist rhetoricians, list of\n- Feminist school of criminology\n- Feminist science fiction\n- Feminist Sex Wars\n- Feminist sexology\n- Feminist sociology\n- Feminist Studies\n- Feminist theology\n- Feminist theory\n- Feminist theory in composition studies\n- Feminist therapy\n- Feminist views on BDSM\n- Feminist views on pornography\n- Feminist views on prostitution\n- Feminist views on sexuality\n- Feminist views on transgenderism and transsexualism\n- Feminists, list of\n- Feminization of poverty\n- Fiction, women's\n- Film theory, feminist\n- Fiction, science, feminist\n- Fiction, science, women in\n- First-wave feminism\n- First women's suffrage in majority-Muslim countries, timeline of\n- First World War, women in the\n- France, feminism in\n- French structuralist feminism\n\nGender and crime\n- Gender archaeology\n- Gender binary\n- Gender differences\n- Gender equality\n- Gender feminism\n- Gender history\n- Gender identity\n- Gender inequality\n- Gender mainstreaming\n- Gender-neutral language\n- Gender neutrality in English\n- Gender performativity\n- Gender role\n- Gender roles in Islam\n- Gender, sex and, distinction\n- Gender, sociology of\n- Gender-specific job title\n- Gender studies\n- Gendercide\n- Gendered division of labour\n- Geography, feminist\n- Geology, women in\n- Girl Power\n- Girls, women, and information technology\n- Girly girl\n- Glass ceiling\n- Global feminism\n- Grrrl, riot\n- Gynarchy\n- Gynocentrism (compare Androcentrism)\n- \"Gynocracy\" (compare Androcracy)\n- Gynocriticism\n- Gynophobia\n\nHarassment, sexual\n- Health, women's (compare Men's health)\n- Herstory (compare History)\n- Hikes, Suffrage\n- History, feminist\n- History, gender\n- History in the United Kingdom, feminist\n- History in the United States, feminist (see also Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution)\n- History, in, legal rights of women\n- History of feminism\n- History of women in the military\n- History of women in the United States\n- History, women's\n- History Month, Women's\n- Husband-selling\n\nIdentity, gender\n- Ideologies, feminist movements and\n- Income disparity\n- Income disparity in the United States, male-female\n- Income inequality in the United States\n- India, feminism in\n- Individualist feminism (also Libertarian feminism)\n- Inequality, gender\n- Information technology, women, and girls\n- International relations, feminism in\n- International Women's Day\n- International Women's Year\n- Islam, gender roles in\n- Islam, women and\n- Islamic feminism\n\nJapan, feminism in\n- Japan, women's suffrage in\n- Jewish feminism\n- Job title, gender-specific\n- Journalism and media professions, women in\n\nKidnapping, bride\n- Kuwait, women's suffrage in\n\nLabour, gendered division of\n- Ladies' aid societies\n- Language, gender-neutral\n- Led, women-, uprisings\n- Left, the, and feminism\n- Legal rights of women in history\n- Legal theory, feminist\n- Lesbian\n- Lesbian Sex Wars\n- Letter, Open Christmas\n- Liberal feminism\n- Liberation, women's (compare Men's liberation)\n- Life, pro-, feminism\n- Lipstick feminism\n- List of conservative feminisms\n- List of ecofeminist authors\n- List of feminist rhetoricians\n- List of feminists\n- List of suffragists and suffragettes\n- List of women's rights activists\n- List of women's studies journals\n- Literary criticism, feminist\n\nMainstreaming, gender\n- Majority-Muslim countries, timeline of first women's suffrage in\n- Male-female income disparity in the United States\n- Marianismo (compare Machismo)\n- Marxist feminism\n- Material feminism\n- \"Maternalism\" (compare Paternalism)\n- Matriarchy (compare Patriarchy)\n- Matrifocal family\n- Matrilineal succession (compare Patrilineal succession)\n- Matrilineality (compare Patrilineality)\n- Matrilocal residence (compare Patrilocal residence)\n- Media professions, journalism and, women in\n- Medicine, women in (compare Men in nursing)\n- Men and feminism\n- Military, history of women in the\n- Millie Tant\n- Misogyny (compare Misandry, Philandry, Philogyny)\n- Mixed-sex education\n- Modern architecture, feminism and\n- Modern, post-, feminism\n- Month, History, Women's\n- Motherhood, sociology of (compare Sociology of fatherhood)\n- Mother's rights (compare Father's rights)\n- Movement, feminist\n- Movement in the United States, feminist\n- Movement, women's (compare Men's movement)\n- Movements and ideologies, feminist\n- Muliebrity (compare Virility)\n- Music, women's\n- Muslim, majority-, countries, timeline of first women's suffrage in\n- Mythology, feminist revisionist\n\nNepal, feminism in\n- New feminism (also \"Catholic feminism\")\n- New Woman\n- New Zealand, timeline of feminist art in\n- Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution)\n\nObjectification\n- Objectification, sexual\n- Occupational sexism\n- Oedipus complex, feminism and\n- Open Christmas Letter\n\nPassenger car, women-only\n- Patriarchy\n- Pay, equal, for women\n- Performativity, gender\n- Philosophy, feminist\n- Philosophy, women in\n- Philandry (compare Philogyny, Misandry, Misogyny)\n- Philogyny\n- Pink-collar worker\n- Playgirl\n- Poland, feminism and\n- Political ecology, feminist\n- Political rights in Bahrain, women's\n- Politics, women in\n- Porn wars\n- Pornography, anti-, feminism (compare Sex-positive feminism)\n- Pornography, feminist views on\n- Pornography Victims Compensation Act\n- Portrayal of women in comics\n- Postcolonial feminism\n- Postmodern feminism\n- Poverty, feminization\n- Privilege: see Male privilege\n- Pro-choice\n- Pro-feminism\n- Pro-life feminism\n- Prostitution, feminist views on\n- Protective laws\n- Protofeminism\n- Psychology, feminine (compare Masculine psychology)\n\nQueer studies\n- Queer theory\n\nRadical feminism\n- Red Tent Meetings\n- Reproductive justice\n- Reproductive rights\n- Republican motherhood\n- Residence, matrilocal (compare Patrilocal residence)\n- Revisionist mythology, feminist\n- Revolution, sexual\n- Rhetoricians, feminist, list of\n- Rights activists, women's, list of\n- Rights Amendment, Equal\n- Rights, legal, of women in history\n- Rights (other than voting), women's, timeline of\n- Rights, political, in Bahrain, women's\n- Rights, women's (compare Men's rights)\n- Rights in Canada, women's\n- Riot grrrl\n- Role, gender\n- Roles in the World Wars, women's\n\nScience fiction, feminist\n- Science, women in\n- Science fiction, women in\n- Second-wave feminism\n- Segregation, sex\n- Selling, husband-\n- Selling, wife\n- Selling, wife, English custom\n- Separatist feminism\n- Sex and gender distinction\n- Sex in advertising\n- Sex-positive feminism (compare Anti-pornography feminism)\n- Sex segregation\n- Sex wars, feminist\n- Sexism\n- Sexology, feminist\n- Sexual harassment\n- Sexual objectification\n- Sexual revolution\n- Sexuality, feminist views on\n- Sexualization (as a political term)\n- Shelter, women's (compare \"Men's shelter\")\n- Socialist feminism\n- Societies, ladies' aid or soldiers' aid\n- Society, effects on, feminist\n- Sociology, feminist\n- Sociology of gender\n- Sociology of motherhood (compare Sociology of fatherhood)\n- Soldiers' aid societies\n- Standpoint feminism\n- Standpoint theory\n- State feminism\n- Structuralist feminism, French\n- Studies, Feminist\n- Succession, matrilineal (compare Patrilineal succession)\n- Suffrage\n- Suffrage, women's\n- Suffrage Hikes\n- Suffrage, women's, in Switzerland\n- Suffrage, women's, timeline of\n- Suffrage, women's, timeline in majority-Muslim countries\n- Suffrage in Australia, women's\n- Suffrage in Japan, women's\n- Suffrage in Kuwait, women's\n- Suffrage in Switzerland, women's\n- Suffrage in the United Kingdom, women's\n- Suffrage in the United States, women's\n- Suffragette\n- Suffragists and suffragettes, list of\n\nTant, Millie\n- Thealogy\n- Theology, feminist\n- Theology, womanist\n- Theory, feminist\n- Therapy, feminist\n- Third-wave feminism\n- Timeline of first women's suffrage in majority-Muslim countries\n- Timeline of women's suffrage\n- Timeline of women's rights (other than voting)\n- Tomboy\n- Transfeminism\n- Transgenderism and transsexualism, feminist views on\n- Transnational feminism\n- Transsexualism, feminist views on transgenderism and\n- Trophy wife\n\nUnited Kingdom, women's suffrage in the\n- United States Constitution, Nineteenth Amendment to the\n- United States, feminist movement in the\n- United States, income disparity in the, male-female\n- United States, women in the, history of\n- United States, women's suffrage in the\n- Uprisings, women-led\n\nV-Day\n- Vésuviennes\n- Victims Compensation Act, Pornography\n- Victorian era, women in the\n- Views, feminist, on BDSM\n- Views, feminist, on prostitution\n- Views, feminist, on sexuality\n- Views, feminist, on transgenderism and transsexualism\n- Views on pornography, feminist\n- Violence against women\n- Violence, domestic\n\nWaves of feminism\n- Wave, first-, feminism\n- Wave, second-, feminism\n- Wave, third-, feminism\n- Wife selling\n- Wife selling (English custom)\n- Wife, trophy\n- Woman question, the\n- Womanism\n- Womanist theology\n- Women and Islam\n- Women in comics, portrayal of\n- Women in computing\n- Women in engineering\n- Women in World War I\n- Women in geology\n- Women in journalism and media professions\n- Women in medicine (compare Men in nursing)\n- Women in military, history of\n- Women in philosophy\n- Women in politics\n- Women in science\n- Women in science fiction\n- Women in the First World War\n- Women in the military, history of\n- Women in the United States, history of\n- Women in the Victorian era\n- Women in the workforce\n- Women in United States, history of\n- Women in World War I\n- Women-only passenger car\n- Women's cinema\n- Women's Day, International\n- Women's Equal Rights Law of Israel (1951)\n- Women's fiction\n- Women's health (compare Men's health)\n- Women's history\n- Women's History Month\n- Women's liberation (compare Men's liberation)\n- Women's movement (compare Men's movement)\n- Women's music\n- Women's political rights in Bahrain\n- Women's rights (compare Men's rights)\n- Women's rights (other than voting), timeline of\n- Women's rights activists, list of\n- Women's rights in Canada\n- Women's roles in the World Wars\n- Women's shelter (compare \"Men's shelter\")\n- Women's studies (compare Men's studies)\n- Women's suffrage\n- Women's suffrage in Australia\n- Women's suffrage in Japan\n- Women's suffrage in Kuwait\n- Women's suffrage in Switzerland\n- Women's suffrage in the United Kingdom\n- Women's suffrage in the United States\n- Women's suffrage, first, in majority-Muslim countries, timeline of\n- Women's suffrage, timeline of\n- Women's writing in English\n- Women's Year, International\n- Women, girls, and information technology\n- Wimmin\n- Womyn\n- Worker, pink-collar\n- Workforce, women in the\n- Workplace, feminisation of the\n- World War I, women in the\n- World Wars, women's roles in the\n- Writing in English, women's\n- Women-led uprisings\n\nYear, International Women's\n"}
{"id": "11885125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11885125", "title": "Irene Ighodaro", "text": "Irene Ighodaro\n\nIrene Ighodaro (16 May 1916 – 29 November 1995) was a Sierra Leonean physician and social reformer. She was president of the Young Women's Christian Association of Nigeria. She was also the first President of the Medical Association of Nigerian Women. She was notable for being one of the first female physicians in West Africa.\n\nIghodaro was born Irene Elizabeth Beatrice Wellesley-Cole in Freetown, Sierra Leone, one of seven children of engineer Wilfred Wellesley-Cole. Her elder brother was physician Robert Wellesley-Cole. She attended the Government Model School and graduated from the Annie Walsh Memorial School. She decided to become a physician after nursing her mother through a terminal illness. She received her M.B.B.S. from the University of Durham in England. She later married Samuel Ighodaro of Benin City with whom she had four children; Tony, Wilfred, Ayo, and Yinka. They moved to Nigeria, where he became a judge on the High Court of Midwestern Nigeria.\n\nIghodaro maintained a private medical practice and was a member of a number of western Nigerian medical advisory committees. She consulted the World Health Organization on child and maternal health and authored the book \"Baby's First Year\". She also chaired the University of Benin Teaching Hospital's board of management and was a member of the YWCA World Executive Committee. She was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in 1958.\n\nIghodaro died on 29 November 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "4753845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753845", "title": "Issues in social nudity", "text": "Issues in social nudity\n\nSocial nudity is the nude appearance of the human body in relatively public settings not restricted by gender. This occurs both in public spaces and on commercial property, such as at a naturist resort. It is sometimes controversial for addressing and exploring a myriad of sometimes taboo subjects, stereotypes, and mores. Although many issues are discussed, it does not necessarily mean that they occur frequently.\n\nSome isolated indigenous nudity still exists in the tropics, though this way of life is highly endangered, as is male nude swimming in public, which used to be very commonplace in Western civilization. Modern European-style naturism began around the turn of the 20th century in British India and Northern Germany, and it was later adopted in America as well.\n\nThe terms naturism, nudism and social nudity are generally defined as the practice of going nude, especially in a mixed social setting. The terms naturism and nudism generally also mean that the activities are done in non-sexualized, family-friendly contexts.\n\nThe usage and definition of these terms varies both geographically and historically. In his book, \"Cinema Au Naturel\", author Mark Storey states: \"two related terms that we will continually run across are \"nudist\" and \"naturist\". Although the meanings of the two terms are virtually identical, they often have different connotations for those who prefer one to the other. In America, people who believe that it is physically, socially, emotionally, and perhaps spiritually healthy to go about fully nude individually and in groups of mixed gender, wherever the weather permits and others are not offended, generally refer to themselves as \"nudists\". In Europe, such people more often than not, refer to themselves as \"naturists\".\n\nMost nudist resort require full-nudity only for the swimming pool, sauna, Jacuzzi, hot tub bath, with a clothing optional policy elsewhere. Full nudity requirements at free public naturist beaches are not common.\n\nAdvocates of full nudity maintain it provides a better sense of equality when everyone is without clothing. First-timers to a resort may be uncomfortable with other clothed people around and feel \"naked.\" Since naturism is not a spectator sport, anyone not already nude would be disallowed entry (except the periphery for undressing).\n\nAs the French social psychologist Marc-Alain Descamps wrote (translated): The reciprocal sight of complete nudity defuses the exhibitionist—voyeur relationship.\n\nOther sites welcome everyone whether dressed or nude (subject to other miscellaneous rules and requirements)\n\nMany countries or provinces/states within a country have laws which adversely affect naturists. These laws are often intended to address \"indecent exposure\", but are so broadly written that they criminalize ordinary, non-sexual nudity. Muslim-majority countries may prohibit exposing areas of the body that are not considered indecent in Western culture, although exact details vary substantially. \n\nPublic nudity in England and Wales is permitted anywhere provided it is not done with the intention \"to cause harassment, alarm or distress\".\nNaturism was specifically excluded from the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (SOA) for England and Wales, under Section 66. Police and the Crown Prosecution Service were not adequately informed, and any report of nudity was then prosecuted under Section 5 of The Public Order Act 1986, which was created to deal with people who joined in riots. The Equalities Act of 2010 afforded Naturists with a protected status and use of the Public Order Act route was defeated in the courts in 2013. British Naturism felt police officers needed to be better informed, and after having discussions with the senior police officer in the College of Policing in April 2018 mutually satisfactory wording was agreed, and the resultant preamble and “decision tree” for dealing with complaints about public nudity has been uploaded to the Police Training manuals. \nSome laws specifically target naturism. In the U.S. State of Arkansas, nudism is illegal beyond the immediate family unit, even on private property. It is also a crime to \"promote\" or \"advocate\" nudism.\n\nIn Islam, the area of the body not meant to be exposed in public is called the \"awrah\". Examples include prohibitions on males wearing shorts, and females exposing their head. Precisely which body parts must be covered varies between different schools of Islamic thought.\n\nAt some beaches, taking photographs might be restricted. Private nude resorts might prohibit cameras altogether, while others may require permission be granted by anyone being photographed, in addition to management in some cases.\n\nThe American Association for Nude Recreation issues a photo release form to allow people to give permission for the publication of photos of themselves or their children.\n\nMost nudists and naturist clubs consider it essential for reasons of hygiene to sit on a towel whenever sitting on a chair, bench, or any other place where others might sit (unless under water) and they consider it poor etiquette to do otherwise. Some clubs encourage members or guests to bring their own chairs. Likewise, sitting on someone else's towel is considered a breach of etiquette. Similar rules may also apply to clothing-optional bike rides. Often in situations involving shared use of pools or tubs people are asked to shower first to minimize contamination and prolong the amount of time the water can be used before further maintenance is needed. This practice is also common in non-nudist pools.\n\nStatistics show that more men than women participate in social nudity activities. To address this, some nudist organizations do not allow unaccompanied men, while encouraging unaccompanied women. Some venues ban all single people, and accept only families and male/female couples. Others have quotas for single males.\n\nMany naturist and nudist clubs have few young members. This has been the case for the past few decades, though previously it was not so.\n\nReasons for this decline include parents being concerned about the possibility of false accusations or suspicions of child abuse by those who are unfamiliar with non-sexual nudity. In the United States, Child Protective Services (CPS) may investigate even if no laws have been allegedly broken. Although such incidents are rare among its members, the American Association for Nude Recreation (AANR) has an attorney on hand to assist. Many private nudist venues require that one or both parents, including absent parents, be consulted regarding the documentation of their minor children. This may also include situations with partial custody, stepchildren, etc.\n\nOrganized social nudity usually attracts more people of European ethnic backgrounds. This may be due to it becoming a social movement in Europe, before spreading to other parts of the world. Other reasons include the fact that most resorts are located far from the cities, and have done little to promote themselves to those of non-European ethnic backgrounds.\n\nIf someone is from an ethnicity whose recent ancestors had no problem with public nudity (parts of Africa, Asia, pre-European Americas, Australia, and the Pacific Islands), it might be thought of as being \"primitive\" by modern standards, and lacking in social status. (i.e. \"Only the poorest of the poor would go about without clothing.\") This contrasts with the more Western attitude that nudity and sexuality are somehow related, but nonetheless causes them to shy away from social nudity.\n\nMany people casually enjoy social nudity without adhering to any term and without associating with any traditional naturist, nudist or FKK organization or any other groups or movements. That is common, for example on nude beaches and other forms of public nudity, such as seen at cultural events like Burning Man or clothing-optional bike rides.\n\nSeveral activists, such as Vincent Bethell, claim that associations to promote naturism or nudism are unnecessary, leading only to \"nudity in tolerated ghettos\". Activist Daniel Johnson believes that labels and affiliations overly complicate a relatively simple phenomenon, alienate others from a fear of over-commitment or undesirable stereotypes, and thus get in the way of integrating nudity into everyday life. Naturists and nudists counter that associating with established terms and philosophies such as nudism and naturism makes it easier to understand a common set of principles and values.\n\nNon-naturists may get very concerned by issues that naturists do not perceive as problems.\n\nStaring at others is generally discouraged by most nudist and naturist groups, and could result in eviction if someone complains that it made them uncomfortable. In the early days of naturism in the U.S. (1930s-1950s), the rules at many resorts stipulated that when conversing, you must only look at each other face to face.\n\nOn the other hand, staring has been acceptable at the largely abandoned female beauty contests. In the 1960s and 1970s nudist royalty pageants and \"Miss Nude\" contests were held by some naturist clubs in the US and Canada. The former were open to men, women and children and were judged on the basis of audience applause, while the latter were typically open to women aged between 18 and 30 and were judged by panels drawn from the local community, businesses and the media as well as minor celebrities.\n\nSmith and King pose the following points in their 2009 peer reviewed paper \"Naturism and Sexuality: Broadening our approach to sexual well-being \"\n\n\nWhile most nudists and naturists condemn any sort of overt sexual activity, the issue of non-sexual spontaneous erections is highly debatable. \"What if I get an erection?\" is the number one question among males who are considering joining social nudity. Unfortunately, this topic is routinely ignored by anthropologists who study traditional cultures, and it is not widely known what rules of etiquette exist among peoples who have lived nude since antiquity.\n\nNon-sexual erections tend to be more problematic with nudists and naturists in the United States than in continental Europe. The world's largest naturist resort at Cap d'Agde in France is well known among the nudist community to be nonchalant about erections. Clubs and resorts disallowing erections commonly suggest covering the waist with a towel, lying on one's stomach, or going into the swimming pool (if within the pool fence).\n\nMales of some indigenous tribes of the Amazon Basin live nude except for a light string worn around the waistline. This is used to conceal the foreskin of the penis from females, which is considered taboo in communal settings. Since the penis is normally held upright just below the navel, erections are much less noticeable.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "357042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=357042", "title": "Jehudi Ashmun", "text": "Jehudi Ashmun\n\nJehudi Ashmun (April 21, 1794 – August 25, 1828) was an American religious leader and social reformer who became involved in the American Colonization Society. He emigrated to the colony of Liberia in 1822, where he served as the United States government's agent (de facto governor) for two different terms: one from August 1822 until April 1824, and another from August 1824 until March 1828.\n\nBorn in Champlain, New York in 1794, Ashmun first studied at Middlebury College in Vermont. He spent his senior year at the University of Vermont and was ordained in Maine as a minister.\n\nAshmun married in 1818 and his wife accompanied him to Bangor, Maine, where he took his first position.\n\nAshmun was appointed as the first principal, and one of the first two professors, of the Bangor Theological Seminary in Bangor, Maine. He retained this professorship until 1827, despite leaving the country for a few years while living and working in the new colony of Monrovia, Liberia.\n\nDrawn by other opportunities, Ashmun moved to Washington, DC, where he worked as the editor of an Episcopalian monthly. Interested in the work of the American Colonization Society (ACS), he founded the newspaper \"The African Intelligencer\" and wrote about their mission. His articles about the ACS, which was committed to repatriating free blacks to a colony in Liberia, led to his political appointment as representative of the U.S. government to the colony. At the age of 26, Ashmun was the leader in 1822 of a group of settlers and missionaries to Liberia on the ship \"Elizabeth\". His wife went with him but was among the many settlers who died of malaria in Liberia.\n\nAs United States representative to Liberia as well as agent of the ACS, Ashmun effectively became governor of the colony from 1822 to 1828, from ages 28 to 34. He took a leadership role in what he found to be a demoralized colony and helped build the defenses of Monrovia, as well as developing trade. During his tenure in Liberia, Ashmun increased agricultural production, annexed more lands from neighboring tribes, and exploited commercial opportunities in the interior.\n\nHe helped create a constitution for Liberia that enabled blacks to hold positions in the government. African Americans and their descendants, known as Americo-Liberians, dominated the government into the late 20th century. This was unlike what happened in the early decades of the neighboring British colony of Sierra Leone, which was dominated by whites although also founded for the resettlement of free blacks from Britain and Upper Canada. Ashmun's letters home and his book, \"History of the American Colony in Liberia, 1821–1823\" (1826) constitute the earliest written history of the Liberia colony.\n\nIn ill health in Liberia, Ashmun returned to the United States. He died in New Haven, Connecticut soon after. He was interred in Grove Street Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "8724959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8724959", "title": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)", "text": "Joseph Rowntree (philanthropist)\n\nJoseph Rowntree (24 May 1836 – 24 February 1925) was an English Quaker philanthropist and businessman from York. Rowntree is perhaps best known for being a champion of social reform, partner and friend of Charles Booth, and his time as a chocolatier at family business \"Rowntree's\", one of the most important in Britain. Even as a powerful businessman, he was deeply interested in improving the quality of life of his employees; this led to him becoming a philanthropist, pursuing many charitable causes. In 1904 he created three trusts, the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust (JRVT) which was originally set up to build and manage the garden village of New Earswick, the Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust (JRCT) and the Joseph Rowntree Social Services Trust (JRSST). The latter two were both set up to effect social reform, the difference between them being that whereas the Charitable Trust was set up as a charity, the Social Services Trust was set up as a limited company so that if necessary it would be able to undertake social and political work not legally allowed by a charitable Trust. He suggested that only the JRVT would be permanent but in fact all the trusts are still in existence although the Social Services Trust has changed its name to the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust and with the separation of the Joseph Rowntree Housing Trust from the Village Trust in 1968, there are now four trusts that exist today.\n\nRowntree was born the son of Sarah and Joseph Rowntree, on Pavement Street in York where his father owned a grocer's shop. He attended Bootham School. At fourteen he accompanied his father on a visit to Ireland, and witnessed the effects of the potato famine. This experience was to provide the grounding for his political views and business ideas later in life.\n\nHe started working in his father's grocery business as an apprentice the following year, and after his father's death in 1859 he took over the running, jointly managing the business with his brother John Stephenson Rowntree.\n\nIn 1869 he joined his brother, Henry Isaac Rowntree, who owned a chocolate factory in York. When Henry Isaac died in 1883, Joseph became the owner of the company. Joseph pursued his progressive ideas within the running of Rowntree's, in the design of the new factory opened in 1881, and in the business practices followed therein, including the founding of one of the first Occupational Pension Schemes.\n\nThe company, Rowntree's, grew from 30 to over 4,000 employees by the end of the 19th century making it Britain's eightieth largest manufacturing employer. It merged with John Mackintosh and Co. in 1969 and was taken over by Nestlé in 1988.\n\nHe had two marriages, to Julia Eliza Seebohm in 1862 who died in 1863, and then to her cousin Emma Antoinette Seebohm in 1867 with whom he had six children. The social investigator Seebohm Rowntree was one of their children.\n\nJoseph Rowntree's grave, along with many other members of his family, can be seen in the Quaker cemetery within the grounds of The Retreat on Heslington Road, York.\n\nPhilosophical and political views: Joseph Rowntree was a supporter of liberal values, and was anxious to improve the quality of life of his employees. He provided them with a library, free education, a works magazine, a social welfare officer, a doctor, a dentist and a pension fund.\n\nThe Joseph Rowntree School was built in York in 1942 by the Joseph Rowntree Village Trust. In 2010 the school relocated to new premises costing £29 million. Students refer to it as \"Jo Ro\".\n\nA campaign was started in summer 2012 to put a statue of Joseph Rowntree at a prominent site in the centre of York, with a Facebook page – \"A Joseph Rowntree statue for York City Centre\" – that stated: \"York should be proud of its greatest son! This campaign aims to place a statue of Joseph Rowntree, philanthropist, social reformer, and chocolatier, in Parliament Square, York, on the site of the repulsed and now-demolished toilet block.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39784978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39784978", "title": "Landstände", "text": "Landstände\n\nThe Landstände (singular \"Landstand\") or Landtage (singular \"Landtag\") were the various territorial estates or diets in the Holy Roman Empire in the Middle Ages and the early modern period, as opposed to their respective territorial lords (the \"Landesherrn\").\n\nThe structure of the \"Landstände\" was highly variable depending on the country and period of history. Furthermore, both the representatives of the older system, the \"Ständeordnung\", where the estates were predominant, and the parliaments of the newer people's representative systems were called \"Landstände\". The term \"Landtag\" was used, both under the \"Ständeordnung\" as well as the newer representative structures, for a general assembly of the estates or the parliament. The totality of the \"Landstände\" in a sovereign territory was also called the \"Landschaft\".\n\nIn the older feudal system the estates originally consisted of the assembly of deputies of the privileged estates of a country, the nobility and the clergy, who had joined together to form an organised body. Later, representatives of the towns were added. In some cases (for example, in Vienna, Württemberg or Mecklenburg) yeomen (\"Freibauer\") were also given the right to participate as representatives of the peasants. An unusual exception were the estates in the land of Hadler, which were formed almost exclusively of the farmers of large farms (\"Großbauer\").\n\nAt the \"Landtage\" the \"Landstände\" were divided into separate \"curiae\" (divisions). As a rule, three \"curiae\" were usually distinguished: the prelates, the knights and the towns. However, the early \"Landstände\" initially only represented the rights of their own estate and could only indirectly be considered to represent the whole population in their domain at the same time. In the \"Ständeordnungen\", unlike absolutist systems of rule, the prince could not raise new taxes or adopt new laws outside his own personal estate (\"chamber goods\" or \"Kämmergüter\") without the consent of the \"Landstände\". In some cases, the estates also shared in the administration of justice and other public affairs. The limits of their powers were not usually accurately determined.\n\nSometimes the term \"Landstände\" was retained even for the constitutional assemblies of newer representative systems, which in many countries took the place of the privileged assemblies of the \"Ständeordnung\" during the 19th century.\n\nThe \"Landstände\" first emerged in the 14th century, although the term itself was not used in Middle High German and was probably first translated later from the French word \"états\". But it was not a new concept. The records of the Roman historian, Tacitus, show that co-determination was already being practised in the classical period at important public occasions. And according to the old Germanic law, public meetings and court hearings - the so-called \"things\" - were held, in the open. Even in the later Frankish Empire, alongside the general assemblies of the nobility and clergy, so-called \"placita\" are recorded; a form of representation of the people.\n\nIn individual tribes, for example the Bavarians and Saxons, there were such meetings too. However, these gatherings did not represent a formal grouping of the estates, as had evolved by the 14th century. Even the imperial and knightly assemblies and the state \"things\" of the 12th and 13th centuries were structures that dealt with the general welfare of the land, but these meetings still lacked the character of an independent body.\n\n"}
{"id": "5234361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5234361", "title": "Legal working age", "text": "Legal working age\n\nThe legal working age is the minimum age required by law for a person to work, in each country or jurisdiction.\n\nSome types of labor are commonly prohibited even for those above the working age, if they have not reached yet the age of majority. Activities that are dangerous, harmful to the health or that may affect the morals of minors fall into this category.\n\n"}
{"id": "4519333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519333", "title": "List of people with the longest marriages", "text": "List of people with the longest marriages\n\nThis list contains marriages which have been reported as setting records for length, both extant and historical (by order of length). The length of marriage is based on the reported death of either member, or reported divorce, or the most recent report that both members of the couple were still living.\n"}
{"id": "4866474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866474", "title": "Max O. Stephenson Jr.", "text": "Max O. Stephenson Jr.\n\nMax Olin Stephenson Jr. (born April 17, 1955) is a scholar of civil society and public administration at Virginia Tech. He is also co-founder and director of the Institute for Policy and Governance at Virginia Tech, a center for the study of civil society and its institutions.\n\nStephenson was a student of Frederick C. Mosher at the University of Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3078590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3078590", "title": "Mohanlal Pandya", "text": "Mohanlal Pandya\n\nMohanlal Pandya was an Indian freedom fighter, social reformer and one of the earliest followers of Mahatma Gandhi. Along with fellow Gandhians like Narhari Parikh and Ravi Shankar Vyas, Pandya was a key organizer of nationalist revolts in Gujarat, and a leading figure in the fight against alcoholism, illiteracy, untouchability, and a major proponent of women's freedoms and Gandhian values.\n\nPandya was a close associate of both Gandhi and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel during the Indian Independence Movement. \n\nMohanlal Pandya was nicknamed as \"Onion Thief\" (\"Dungli Chor\") by Gandhi because he had harvested onion from the land which was taken away by the British Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "26206891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26206891", "title": "Namık Kemal", "text": "Namık Kemal\n\nNamık Kemal (21 December 1840 – 2 December 1888) was an Ottoman democrat, writer, intellectual, reformer, journalist, playwright, and political activist who was influential in the formation of the Young Ottomans and their struggle for governmental reform in the Ottoman Empire during the late Tanzimat period, which would lead to the First Constitutional Era in the Empire in 1876. Kemal was particularly significant for championing the notions of freedom and fatherland in his numerous plays and poems, and his works would have a powerful impact on the establishment of and future reform movements in Turkey, as well as other former Ottoman lands. He is often regarded as being instrumental in redefining Western concepts like natural rights and constitutional government.\n\nAn Albanian by origin, Namık Kemal was born in Tekirdağ (then part of the Ottoman Empire, today in Turkey) on 21 December 1840, to Fatma Zehra and Mustafa Asım Bey, the latter of whom was chief astrologer in the Sultan’s Palace. Since surnames or family names were not in use during the Ottoman Empire, \"Kemal\" was not his surname, but part of his first name. During his youth, Kemal traveled throughout the Ottoman Empire, staying in Constantinople, Kars, and Sofia, and studied a number of subjects, including poetry. In 1857, at the age of 17, Kemal worked in the \"Tercüme Odası\" (\"The Translation Office\") of the government. However, as a result of the political nature of his writings, Kemal was forced to leave this job by Grand Vizier Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and so joined his friend and fellow Young Ottoman, İbrahim Şinasi, on his newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" (\"Herald of Ideas\"). Kemal worked on \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" until his exile and flight to Paris in 1867.\n\nThe Young Ottomans were a group of political activists whose members came principally from the young elite of Ottoman society. The major goal of this group was to institute political reform according to the Western ideas of representative government.\n\nAfter joining the Young Ottomans in 1862, Kemal continually wrote essays on the subjects of political, administrative, social, and foreign policy reform. In 1864, Kemal took over the pro-reform newspaper \"Tasvir-i Efkar\" after its previous owner and Kemal's friend İbrahim Şinasi was forced into exile. In 1868, after being forced to seek refuge in Paris, Kemal began to handle the publication of the newspaper \"Hürriyet\" (\"Liberty\"), which also espoused the purpose of the Young Ottomans. Kemal’s papers rapidly became a popular venue for Young Ottomans to express their anti-sultanate and pro-parliamentary sentiments. However, as a result of their outspokenness, many Young Ottomans were, like Kemal, forced to flee the empire and seek refuge in Western Europe.\n\nNamik Kemal admired the constitution of the French Third Republic, he summed up the Young Ottomans' political ideals as \"the sovereignty of the nation, the separation of powers, the responsibility of officials, personal freedom, equality, freedom of thought, freedom of press, freedom of association, enjoyment of property, sanctity of the home\".\n\nNamık Kemal was heavily influenced by Western conceptions of the relationship between the government and the people. As such, he and his compatriots spoke out against the movement to centralize the government being undertaken by Sultan Abdülaziz (ruled 1861–1876), and his advisors Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha and Mehmed Fuad Pasha. As a result of his criticism of the government, Namık Kemal was exiled from the Ottoman Empire in 1867 and fled to Paris, where many other exiled Young Ottomans had found refuge.\n\nIn 1869 or 1870, Kemal was allowed to return to Constantinople and proceeded to write for a number of Young Ottoman-run newspapers, and eventually published one of his own, \"Ibret\" (\"Admonition\"), in which he addressed more intellectual, social, and national subjects. In addition, it was after his return to Constantinople that Kemal wrote his most significant and influential work: the play \"Vatan Yahut Silistre\", or \"Silistra\", which translates to \"Fatherland.\" The play tells the story of an Ottoman soldier whose loyalty to his nation, and not his religion or allegiance to the Sultan, motivates him to defend the town of Silistra, Bulgaria from the Russians during the Crimean War. The impact these nationalist sentiments, unheard of in the Ottoman Empire prior to Kemal, had on the Turkish people was so profound that Kemal’s newspaper, \"Ibret\", was shut down, and Kemal himself was banished from the Empire for the second time. During this second exile, Kemal took refuge in Cyprus, in a building known as the Namık Kemal Dungeon in Famagusta, where he remained for three years.\n\nLike many Young Ottomans, Namık Kemal supported Murad V’s ascension to the throne after the abdication of Abdülaziz in 1876. However, their hope that Murad would institute the reforms they desired was dashed, for it rapidly became apparent that he was not suited for rule; his weak nerves and alcoholism leading to his abdication after only three months. Namık Kemal protested against Murad’s deposition, and continued to support Murad’s Western political perspectives, but ultimately, his pleas failed to have any effect and Murad V stepped down in 1876.\n\nDespite Murad’s abdication, the first Ottoman Parliament, the General Assembly of the Ottoman Empire, was established in 1876, largely as a result of pressure from the Young Ottomans, as well as Midhat Pasha’s political influence. However, while, at first, Abdul Hamid II, the sultan who succeeded Murad V, was willing to allow Parliament to function, he quickly decided that it was easier for him to enact reform by seizing autocratic powers instead of waiting for the approval of elected officials. In order to successfully implement his autocratic rule, Abdul Hamid II exiled many Young Ottomans, including Namık Kemal, who were critical of his decision to disregard the Parliament. Thus, for the third time, Kemal was removed from Constantinople by being forced into an administrative position in Chios, where he would die in 1888.\n\nNamık Kemal had an enormous influence on the formation of a Turkish national identity. Kemal’s focus on national loyalty, rather than loyalty to a monarch, influenced, as it was, by Western European ideals of self-government, contributed not only to the spread of democracy during the early 20th century, but also to the formation of the modern Republic of Turkey after the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire. The founder of modern Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, often remarked that he had been influenced by Kemal’s writing as a young man, and that they had subsequently been a source of inspiration for his goals in the formation of the Turkish government and state.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58915267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58915267", "title": "Nob Yoshigahara Puzzle Design Competition", "text": "Nob Yoshigahara Puzzle Design Competition\n\nNob Yoshigahara Puzzle Design Competition – is an annual competition of design of mechanical puzzles. The location of the competition rotate between North America, Europe, and Japan.\nPuzzle design competition exists since 2001, known since 2005 as the Nob Yoshigahara Puzzle Design Competition, after renowned puzzler Nob Yoshigahara.\n\nThe competition is held in conjunction with International Puzzle Parties founded by Jerry Slocum in 1978, an event dedicated to discussing, showing, and trading, mechanical puzzles.\n\nThe Puzzle of the Year (Jury Grand Prize and Puzzlers’ Award) went to Casino by Volker Latussek. The Grand Jury 1st Prize was awarded to both the 5L Box by Hajime Katsumoto and Trinity by Kyoo Wong. \n\nJury Honorable Mentions went to: Auzzle A2 by Ilya Osipov, Jigsaw Puzzle 29 by Yuu Asaka, Nosey Puzzle by Alexander E Holroyd, and TicTac’s Tactics by Eric Harshbarger.\n\nPuzzlers' Award: Identical Twins by Osanori Yamamoto; Jury Grand Prize: Kakoi by Shiro Tajima; Jury 1st Prize: Barreled Bolt by Eitan Cher and David Tzur, No Full Pirouette! by Namick Salakhov; Jury Honorable Mention: BurrNova by Jerry McFarland, Free Me 5 by Joe Turner, Puzzle Bracelet by Yael Friedman, and In a Cage by Shiro Tajima.\n\n"}
{"id": "34407451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34407451", "title": "Parallel society", "text": "Parallel society\n\nParallel society refers to the self-organization of an ethnic or religious minority, often immigrant groups, with the intent of a reduced or minimal spatial, social and cultural contact with the majority society into which they immigrate.\n\nThe term was introduced into the debate about migration and integration in the early 1990s by the German sociologist Wilhelm Heitmeyer . It rose to prominence in the European public discourse following the murder of Dutch director and critic of Islam Theo van Gogh. In 2004, it was elected by the Association for the German Language second as Word of the year.\n\n"}
{"id": "47418754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47418754", "title": "Pornographication", "text": "Pornographication\n\nPornographication or pornification, sometimes referred to as raunch culture, denotes the intrusion of the style and contents of the sex industry into mainstream culture (music, television, Hollywood movies) and the sexualisation of Western culture. Pornographication, particularly sexualising the images of women, is said to demonstrate \"how patriarchal power operates in the field of gender representation\". In \"Women in Popular Culture\", Marion Meyers argues that the portrayal of women in modern society is primarily influenced by \"the mainstreaming of pornography and its resultant hypersexualization of women and girls, and the commodification of those images for a global market\".\n\nThe phenomenon has been discussed by authors such as Marian Meyers and Kath Woodward. Pornographication also features in discussions of post-feminism by Ariel Levy, Natasha Walter, Feona Attwood, and Brian McNair.\n\nPornography and the modern sex culture has been around for many decades, but has its roots in the Greek word \"\"porni\", which means prostitute and \"graphein\", which means to write. It is shown throughout various global cultures. In ancient Greece and Rome, there was many sexually charged images on the walls. When the printing press was invented, it was much easier to distribute information to the masses, which is how the first versions of erotica came about. What most people think about Western pornography and the sex culture started with the Enlightenment of the 18th century. Many more people had access to pornographic material during the Enlightenment, and in England books such as \"Fanny Hill; or, Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure\" had commercial success as one of the earliest forms of erotica. During this time, people started thinking more freely, so pornography could challenge the norms of the time, as with Marquis de Sade's book \"Justine.\" While most pornographic images before the 19th century were images or books, when the motion picture was invented, it created a whole new medium for sexual imagery. At the start of the 1920s, it became popular throughout the West. \n\n\"Blue Movie\", a 1969 American film written, produced, and directed by Andy Warhol, is the first adult erotic film depicting explicit sex to receive wide theatrical release in the United States, \"Blue Movie\", a seminal film in the Golden Age of Porn (1969–1984), helped inaugurate the \"porno chic\" phenomenon in modern American culture, and later, in many other countries throughout the world. According to Warhol, \"Blue Movie\" was a major influence in the making of \"Last Tango in Paris\", an internationally controversial erotic drama film, starring Marlon Brando, and released a few years after \"Blue Movie\" was made. In 1970, \"Mona\", the second adult erotic film, after \"Blue Movie\", depicting explicit sex that received a wide theatrical release in the United States, was shown. Later, other adult films, such as \"Boys in the Sand\", \"Deep Throat\", \"Behind the Green Door\" and \"The Devil in Miss Jones\" were released, continuing the Golden Age of Porn begun with \"Blue Movie\". In 1973, the phenomenon of porn being publicly discussed by celebrities (like Johnny Carson and Bob Hope) and taken seriously by film critics (like Roger Ebert). began, for the first time, in modern American culture. In 1976, \"The Opening of Misty Beethoven\", based on the play \"Pygmalion\" by George Bernard Shaw (and its derivative, \"My Fair Lady\"), and directed by Radley Metzger, was released theatrically and is considered, by award-winning author Toni Bentley, the \"crown jewel\" of the Golden Age of Porn.\n\nAfter the Internet was invented in the 1990s, more people could express themselves sexually online, and anyone could post pictures or videos if they chose to. Pornography in the West is generally much more widely accepted, and \"66% of men and 41% of women consume pornography on a monthly basis\".\n\nIn slasher movies, sex and violence are often coupled together. In famous horror films such as \"Friday the 13th\", women are portrayed as weak and often are victims. Because of repeated viewing of these movies, people may become desensitized, and especially with males, could be prone to \"be less disturbed by scenes of extreme violence and degradation directed at women\". Men, after repeated exposure to violent films, were less likely to feel empathy and remorse. Men could think that violence towards women is normal, which therefore leads to more sexual violence towards women. These movies are just one example of how sexuality is translated to men and women, explicitly showing men as dominant and powerful, and women as weak.\n\nTeens who were exposed to highly sexual content on TV were more likely to \"act older\" than their age. If what was being shown on TV was educational, it could yield a positive result on teenagers. For example, on one specific episode of \"Friends\", which had nearly 2 million viewers at the time, one of the characters had gotten pregnant even after using contraception. After the episode, teens were actually more likely to engage in safer sexual activity, and as much as 65% remembered what was in that episode.\n\nLiterature which people read for sexual satisfaction is one of the earliest forms of media portraying sexuality. Now, there are various websites to satisfy most people's varied sexual preferences and tastes. As erotica was a form of social protest against the values of the culture at the time, as was with the famous book \"The Romance of Lust\", written as a few volumes between 1873–1876. Described in the book are homosexuality, incest, and other socially unacceptable concepts. The values of the Victorian era perpetuated purity and innocence. So this book offered a new perspective. In recent years, erotica has become the new norm, and is extremely popular. The most recent commercial success was \"Fifty Shades Of Grey\", describing in detail scenes of sadomasochism and other forms of kink. It sold over \"31 million worldwide\", and has been adapted into a film starring Dakota Johnson and Jamie Dornan.\n\nMagazines often portray sex in a very indirect way. As seen in advertisements throughout, sex is portrayed without anyone needing to say a word. However, in a lot of ways, this can be devastating to people's psyches, especially women. Magazines feature women barely clothed in provocative positions, which can communicate that women are not good enough. One of the more unlikely effects is it affecting dieting patterns.\n\nIn order to understand how sex culture is so prevalent, we need to look at human sexuality as a whole and why people gravitate towards such mediums as described above.\n\nStructuralism is commonly defined as \"analyzing a specific field as a complex system of interrelated parts\". This term used in sociology was popularized with Michel Foucault, in France where most of the early research took place on it. Sociologists who look at sexuality focus on the idea of social institutions, such as the family, law, and the economy. The economy requires money to go in and out of the system. People could say sexual relationships are a social institution. Due to the Western acceptance of Judeo-Christianity, incest is rarely represented in the media. The idea of the family is so powerful and strong that dating someone or having relations with a member of one's family is highly taboo. A structuralist would argue that sex culture is an offshoot of these institutions. When it comes to pornography, it is another way of income and is an offshoot of the economy and the highly capitalistic ideas of the West. This is also expressed in how the family affects teenagers who view certain types of media, and those who are marginalized may be more susceptible to the negative impacts of sexuality.\n\nSymbolic interactionism was first coined by George Herbert Mead, who came up with this school of sociological thought in the 1930s. Its premise is primarily based on \"objects acquire meaning, thus becoming symbols, through communication\". One of his most famous books \"Mind, Self And Society\" is famous for describing this theory in depth. Here, he pinpoints the self as an object and other create meaning around it. At the same time, we change the self depending on how we perceive other's ideas of our selves. So in studying something like sexuality or acts related to sex, a sociologist under this perspective could look at pornography and the messages it communicates, or look at magazines and the messages they send to people. One graphic example provided is the \"power\" symbol communicated in pornography. In pornography, men are implied to be powerful and dominant, whereas women are not. This is especially true in violent pornography, where the person watching feels like they have a complete sense of control over the content, where women are depicted as enjoying it, so that communicates that it may be okay to be violent towards women.\n\nWith scripting theory, it \"is the result of elaborate prior learning that teaches us an etiquette of sexual behavior\". It is all about social learning and scripting theory states that everything we see and do sexually in our culture is influenced by a set of social scripts that are conditioned into people. These provide details and instructions to guide us into how people choose partners and therefore, who they find attractive or desirable. As mentioned before, magazines can indirectly send this message. Since what is shown primarily is a woman's appearance, so women instinctively realize they need to appear a certain way for a mate. It is a socially learned behavior that happens from repeated exposure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36071642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36071642", "title": "Public interest design", "text": "Public interest design\n\nPublic interest design is a human-centered and participatory design practice that places emphasis on the “triple bottom line” of sustainable design that includes ecological, economic, and social issues and on designing products, structures, and systems that address issues such as economic development and the preservation of the environment.\n\nStarting in the late 1990s, several books, convenings, and exhibitions have generated new momentum and investment in public interest design. Since then, public interest design—frequently described as a movement or field—has gained public recognition.\n\nPublic interest design grew out of the community design movement, which got its start in 1968 after American civil rights leader Whitney Young issued a challenge to attendees of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) national convention:\n\n\". . . \"you are not a profession that has distinguished itself by your social and civic contributions to the cause of civil rights, and I am sure this does not come to you as any shock. You are most distinguished by your thunderous silence and your complete irrelevance\".\"\n\nThe response to Young’s challenge was the establishment of community design centers (CDCs) across the United States. CDCs, which were often established with the support of area universities, provided a variety of design services – such as affordable housing - within their own neighborhoods.\n\nIn architecture schools, “design/build programs” provided outreach to meet local design needs, particularly in low-income and underserved areas. One of the earliest design/build programs was Yale University’s Vlock Building Project. The project, which was initiated by students at Yale University School of Architecture in 1967, requires graduate students to design and build low-income housing.\n\nOne of the most publicized programs is the Auburn University Rural Studio design/build program, which was founded in 1993. The Rural Studio’s first project, Bryant House, was completed in 1994 for $16,500.\n\nInterest in public interest design – particularly socially responsible architecture – began to grow during the 1990s and continued into the first decade of the new millennium. Conferences, books, and exhibitions began to showcase the design work being done beyond the community design centers, which had greatly decreased in numbers since their peak in the seventies.\n\nNon-profit organizations – including Architecture for Humanity, BaSiC Initiative, Design Corps, Public Architecture, Project H, Project Locus, and MASS Design Group – began to provide design services that served a larger segment of the population than had been served by traditional design professions.\n\nMany public interest design organizations also provide training and service-learning programs for architecture students and graduates. In 1999, the Enterprise Rose Architectural Fellowship was established, giving young architects the opportunity to work on three-year-long design and community development projects in low-income communities.\n\nTwo of the earliest formal public interest design programs include the Gulf Coast Community Design Studio at Mississippi State University and the Public Interest Design Summer Program at the University of Texas\n. In February 2015, Portland State University launched the first graduate certificate program in Public Interest Design in the United States.\n\nThe first professional-level training was conducted in July 2011 by the Public Interest Design Institute (PIDI) and held at the Harvard Graduate School of Design.\n\nAlso in 2011, a survey of American Institute of Architects (AIA), 77% of AIA members agreed that the mission of the professional practice of public interest design could be defined as the belief that every person should be able to live in a socially, economically, and environmentally healthy community.\n\nSeveral books have been published that showcase a variety of public interest design projects and practitioners:\n\n\nThe annual Structures for Inclusion conference showcases public interest design projects from around the world. The first conference, which was held in 2000, was called “Design for the 98% Without Architects.\" Speaking at the conference, Rural Studio co-founder Samuel Mockbee challenged attendees to serve a greater segment of the population: “I believe most of us would agree that American architecture today exists primarily within a thin band of elite social and economic conditions...in creating architecture, and ultimately community, it should make no difference which economic or social type is served, as long as the status quo of the actual world is transformed by an imagination that creates a proper harmony for both the affluent and the disadvantaged.\" \n\nIn 2007, the Cooper Hewitt National Design Museum held an exhibition, titled “Design for the Other 90%,” curated by Cynthia Smith. Following the success of this exhibit, Smith developed the \"Design Other 90\" initiative into an ongoing series, the second of which was titled “Design for the Other 90%: CITIES” (2011), held at the United Nations headquarters. In 2010, Andres Lipek of the Museum of Modern Art in New York curated an exhibit, called “Small Scale, Big Change: New Architectures of Social Engagement.”\n\nOne of the oldest professional networks related to public interest design is the professional organization is the Association for Community Design (ACD), which was founded in 1977.\n\nIn 2005, adopting a term coined by architect Kimberly Dowdell, the Social Economic Environmental Design (SEED) Network was co-founded by a group of community design leaders, during a meeting hosted by the Loeb Fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. The SEED Network established a common set of five principles and criteria for practitioners of public interest design. An evaluation tool called the SEED Evaluator is available to assist designers and practitioners in developing projects that align with SEED Network goals and criteria.\n\nIn 2006, the Open Architecture Network was launched by Architecture for Humanity in conjunction with co-founder Cameron Sinclair's TED Wish. Taking on the name Worldchanging in 2011, the network is an open-source community dedicated to improving living conditions through innovative and sustainable design. Designers of all persuasions can share ideas, designs and plans as well as collaborate and manage projects. while protecting their intellectual property rights using the Creative Commons \"some rights reserved\" licensing system.\n\nIn 2007, DESIGN 21: Social Design Network, an online platform built in partnership with UNESCO, was launched.\n\nIn 2011, the Design Other 90 Network was launched by the Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum, in conjunction with its Design with the Other 90%: CITIES exhibition.\n\nIn 2012, IDEO.org, with the support of The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, launched HCD Connect, a network for social sector leaders committed to human-centered design. In this context, human-centered design begins with the end-user of a product, place, or system — taking into account their needs, behaviors and desires. The fast-growing professional network of 15,000 builds on \"The Human-Centered Design Toolkit,\" which was designed specifically for people, nonprofits, and social enterprises that work with low-income communities throughout the world. People using the HCD Toolkit or human-centered design in the social sector now have a place to share their experiences, ask questions, and connect with others working in similar areas or on similar challenges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5298959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5298959", "title": "Public open space", "text": "Public open space\n\nPublic open space is often referred to by urban planners and landscape architects by the acronym 'POS'. Varied interpretations of the term are possible.\n\n'Public' can mean:\n\n'Open' can mean:\n\nDepending on which of these definitions are adopted, any of the following could be called Public Open Space:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4816797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4816797", "title": "Race and society", "text": "Race and society\n\nSocial interpretations of race regard the common categorizations of people into different races, often with biologist tagging of particular \"racial\" attributes beyond mere anatomy, as more socially and culturally determined than based upon biology. Some interpretations are often deconstructionist and poststructuralist in that they critically analyze the historical construction and development of racial categories.\n\nMarks (1995) argued that even as the idea of \"race\" was becoming a powerful organizing principle in many societies, the shortcomings of the concept were apparent. In the Old World, the gradual transition in appearances from one racial group to adjacent racial groups emphasized that \"one variety of mankind does so sensibly pass into the other, that you cannot mark out the limits between them,\" as Blumenbach observed in his writings on human variation. In parts of the Americas, the situation was somewhat different. The immigrants to the New World came largely from widely separated regions of the Old World—western and northern Europe, western Africa, and, later, eastern Asia and southern and eastern Europe. In the Americas, the immigrant populations began to mix among themselves and with the indigenous inhabitants of the continent. In the United States, for example, most people who self-identify as African American have some European ancestors—in one analysis of genetic markers that have differing frequencies between continents, European ancestry ranged from an estimated 7% for a sample of Jamaicans to ∼23% for a sample of African Americans from New Orleans. In a survey of college students who self-identified as white in a northeastern U.S. university, the west African and Native American genetic contribution were 0.7% and 3.2%.\n\nIn the United States, social and legal conventions developed over time that forced individuals of mixed ancestry into simplified racial categories. An example is the \"one-drop rule\" implemented in some state laws that treated anyone with a single known African American ancestor as black. The decennial censuses conducted since 1790 in the United States also created an incentive to establish racial categories and fit people into those categories. In other countries in the Americas, where mixing among groups was more extensive, social non racial categories have tended to be more numerous and fluid, with people moving into or out of categories on the basis of a combination of socioeconomic status, social class, ancestry.\n\nEfforts to sort the increasingly mixed population of the United States into discrete racial categories generated many difficulties. Additionally, efforts to track mixing between census racial groups led to a proliferation of categories (such as mulatto and octoroon) and \"blood quantum\" distinctions that became increasingly untethered from self-reported ancestry. A person's racial identity can change over time. One study found differences between self-ascribed race and Veterans Affairs administrative data.\n\nThe notion of a biological basis for race originally emerged through speculations surrounding the \"blood purity\" of Jews during the Spanish Inquisition, eventually translating to a general association of one's biology with their social and personal characteristics. In the 19th century, this recurring ideology was intensified in the development of the racial sciences, eugenics and ethnology, which meant to further categorize groups of humans in terms of biological superiority or inferiority. While the field of racial sciences, also known as scientific racism, has expired in history, these antiquated conceptions of race have persisted throughout the 21st century. (See also: Historical origins of racial classification)\n\nContrary to popular belief that the division of the human species based on physical variations is natural, there exists no clear, reliable distinctions that bind people to such groupings. According to the American Anthropological Association, \"Evidence from the analysis of genetics (e.g., DNA) indicates that most physical variation, about 94%, lies within so-called racial groups. Conventional geographic \"racial\" groupings differ from one another only in about 6% of their genes.\" While there is a biological basis for differences in human phenotypes, most notably in skin color, the genetic variability of humans is found not amongst, but rather within racial groups – meaning the perceived level of dissimilarity amongst the species has virtually no biological basis. Genetic diversity has characterized human survival, rendering the idea of a \"pure\" ancestry as obsolete. Under this interpretation, race is conceptualized through a lens of artificiality, rather than through the skeleton of a scientific discovery. As a result, scholars have begun to broaden discourses of race by defining it as a social construct and exploring the historical contexts that led to its inception and persistence in contemporary society.\n\nMost historians, anthropologists, and sociologists describe human races as a social construct, preferring instead the term \"population\" or \"ancestry\", which can be given a clear operational definition. Even those who reject the formal concept of race, however, still use the word \"race\" in day-to-day speech. This may either be a matter of semantics, or an effect of an underlying cultural significance of race in racist societies. Regardless of the name, a working concept of sub-species grouping can be useful, because in the absence of cheap and widespread genetic tests, various race-linked gene mutations (see Cystic fibrosis, Lactose intolerance, Tay–Sachs disease and Sickle cell anemia) are difficult to address without recourse to a category between \"individual\" and \"species\". As genetic tests for such conditions become cheaper, and as detailed haplotype maps and SNP databases become available, identifiers of race should diminish. Also, increasing interracial marriage is reducing the predictive power of race. For example, babies born with Tay-Sachs disease in North America are not only or primarily Ashkenazi Jews, despite stereotypes to contrary; French Canadians, Louisiana Cajuns, and Irish-Americans also see high rates of the disease.\n\nExperts in the fields of genetics, law, and sociology have offered their opinions on the subject. Audrey Smedley and Brian D. Smedley of Virginia Commonwealth University Institute of Medicine discuss the anthropological and historical perspectives on ethnicity, culture, and race. They define culture as the habits acquired by a society. Smedley states \"Ethnicity and culture are related phenomena and bear no intrinsic connection to human biological variations or race\" (Smedley 17). The authors state using physical characteristics to define an ethnic identity is inaccurate. The variation of humans has actually decreased over time since, as the author states, \"Immigration, intermating, intermarriage, and reproduction have led to increasing physical heterogeneity of peoples in many areas of the world\" (Smedley 18). They referred to other experts and their research, pointing out that humans are 99% alike. That one percent is caused by natural genetic variation, and has nothing to do with the ethnic group of the subject. Racial classification in the United States started in the 1700s with three ethnically distinct groups. These groups were the white Europeans, Native Americans, and Africans. The concept of race was skewed around these times because of the social implications of belonging to one group or another. The view that one race is biologically different from another rose out of society's grasp for power and authority over other ethnic groups. This did not only happen in the United States but around the world as well. Society created race to create hierarchies in which the majority would prosper most.\nAnother group of experts in sociology has written on this topic. Guang Guo, Yilan Fu, Yi Li, Kathleen Mullan Harris of the University of North Carolina department of sociology as well as Hedwig Lee (University of Washington Seattle), Tianji Cai (University of Macau) comment on remarks made by one expert. The debate is over DNA differences, or lack thereof, between different races. The research in the original article they are referring to uses different methods of DNA testing between distinct ethnic groups and compares them to other groups. Small differences were found, but those were not based on race. They were from biological differences caused from the region in which the people live. They describe that the small differences cannot be fully explained because the understanding of migration, intermarriage, and ancestry is unreliable at the individual level. Race cannot be related to ancestry based on the research on which they are commenting. They conclude that the idea of \"races as biologically distinct peoples with differential abilities and behaviors has long been discredited by the scientific community\" (2338).\n\nOne more expert in the field has given her opinion. Ann Morning of the New York University Department of Sociology, and member of the American Sociological Association, discusses the role of biology in the social construction of race. She examines the relationship between genes and race and the social construction of social race clusters. Morning states that everyone is assigned to a racial group because of their physical characteristics. She identifies through her research the existence of DNA population clusters. She states that society would want to characterize these clusters as races. Society characterizes race as a set of physical characteristics. The clusters though have an overlap in physical characteristics and thus cannot be counted as a race by society or by science. Morning concludes that \"Not only can constructivist theory accommodate or explain the occasional alignment of social classifications and genetic estimates that Shiao et al.'s model hypothesizes, but empirical research on human genetics is far from claiming—let alone demonstrating—that statistically inferred clusters are the equivalent of races\" (Morning 203). Only using ethnic groups to map a genome is entirely inaccurate, instead every individual must be viewed as having their own wholly unique genome (unique in the 1%, not the 99% all humans share).\n\nIan Haney López, the John H. Boalt Professor of Law at the University of California, Berkeley explains ways race is a social construct. He uses examples from history of how race was socially constructed and interpreted. One such example was of the Hudgins v. Wright case. A slave woman sued for her freedom and the freedom of her two children on the basis that her grandmother was Native American. The race of the Wright had to be socially proven, and neither side could present enough evidence. Since the slave owner Hudgins bore the burden of proof, Wright and her children gained their freedom. López uses this example to show the power of race in society. Human fate, he argues, still depends upon ancestry and appearance. Race is a powerful force in everyday life. These races are not determined by biology though, they are created by society to keep power with the majority. He describes that there are not any genetic characteristics that all blacks have that non-whites do not possess and vice versa. He uses the example of Mexican. It truly is a nationality, yet it has become a catch-all for all Hispanic nationalities. This simplification is wrong, López argues, for it is not only inaccurate but it tends to treat all \"Mexicans\" as below fervent Americans. He describes that \"More recently, genetic testing has made it clear the close connections all humans share, as well as the futility of explaining those differences that do exist in terms of racially relevant gene codes\" (Lopez 199–200). Those differences clearly have no basis in ethnicity, so race is completely socially constructed.\n\nThrough this small sampling of experts, it is clear that race as a social construction is a common theory. All of the experts in this sampling say that biological race is non-existent. Race therefore must have been created by societies. They were created to do what humans do, to serve the purposes of the majority. The hierarchies created by race have kept the majority \"race\" in control of everything from public policy to the workforce to law enforcement. They benefit from this construction of race. Yet, the minorities, who are just the same genetically, suffer under this system. Most of the points made by the experts expose this issue, yet none truly suggest a way to fix the problem. Bill Nye weighs in on the issue on the same side as the experts in the sample. He says that humans are humans, we are all one species. We have to fix it. If society created the problem, society has to take it on itself to fix it.\n\nSome argue it is preferable when considering biological relations to think in terms of populations, and when considering cultural relations to think in terms of ethnicity, rather than of race.\n\nThese developments had important consequences. For example, some scientists developed the notion of \"population\" to take the place of race. It is argued that this substitution is not simply a matter of exchanging one word for another.\n\nThis view does not deny that there are physical differences among peoples; it simply claims that the historical conceptions of \"race\" are not particularly useful in accounting for these differences scientifically. In particular, it is claimed that:\n\n\nNeven Sesardic has argued that such arguments are unsupported by empirical evidence and politically motivated. Arguing that races are not completely discrete biologically is a straw man argument. He argues \"racial recognition is not actually based on a single trait (like skin color) but rather on a number of characteristics that are to a certain extent concordant and that jointly make the classification not only possible but fairly reliable as well\". Forensic anthropologists can classify a person's race with an accuracy close to 100% using only skeletal remains if they take into consideration several characteristics at the same time. A.W.F. Edwards has argued similarly regarding genetic differences in \"\".\n\nResearchers have reported significant differences in the average IQ test scores of various racial groups. The interpretation and causes of these differences are controversial, as researchers disagree about whether this gap is caused by genetic differences. The social interpretations of the race concept is incompatible with the idea that the IQ gap between racial groups is caused by genetic factors, and those who see race as a social construction posit purely environmental and sociological explanations for the gap. Such explanations include different access to education for different racial groups, different social attitudes towards test-taking, stereotype threat, lack of effort optimism due to low social status and many other proposed explanations. For example, psychologist Jefferson Fish argues that race is a social construction and argues that for this reason the question of racial differences in intelligence is not scientific, though his opinion has been repeatedly disproven. For example, one might want to compare black-white IQ differences in Brazil with those in the United States. Since many people who are considered black in the U. S. would not be considered black in Brazil, and since many people who are considered white in Brazil would not be considered white in the U. S., such a comparison is not possible. \n\nRichard Lynn, however, in his book \"Race Differences in Intelligence\" does not define races based on current social classification but on ancestral populations. Many current ethnic groups would be mixtures of several races in this classification. Arthur Jensen and J. Philippe Rushton have also defined race based on ancestral home, although somewhat differently from Lynn, when speaking of Black–White–East Asian IQ differences in the US. \"Blacks (Africans, Negroids) are those who have most of their ancestors from sub-Saharan Africa; Whites (Europeans, Caucasoids) have most of their ancestors from Europe; and East Asians (Orientals, Mongoloids) have most of their ancestors from Pacific Rim countries.\"\n\nThere is an active debate among biomedical researchers about the meaning and importance of race in their research. The primary impetus for considering race in biomedical research is the possibility of improving the prevention and treatment of diseases by predicting hard-to-ascertain factors on the basis of more easily ascertained characteristics. The most well-known examples of genetically determined disorders that vary in incidence between ethnic groups would be sickle cell disease and thalassemia among black and Mediterranean populations respectively and Tay–Sachs disease among people of Ashkenazi Jewish descent. Some fear that the use of racial labels in biomedical research runs the risk of unintentionally exacerbating health disparities, so they suggest alternatives to the use of racial taxonomies.\n\nIn the United States since its early history, Native Americans, African-Americans and European-Americans were classified as belonging to different races. For nearly three centuries, the criteria for membership in these groups were similar, comprising a person's appearance, his fraction of known non-White ancestry, and his social circle. But the criteria for membership in these races diverged in the late 19th century. During Reconstruction, increasing numbers of Americans began to consider anyone with \"one drop\" of \"Black blood\" to be Black. By the early 20th century, this notion of invisible blackness was made statutory in many states and widely adopted nationwide. In contrast, Amerindians continue to be defined by a certain percentage of \"Indian blood\" (called \"blood quantum\") due in large part to American slavery ethics.\n\nThe concept of race as used by the Census Bureau reflects self-identification by people according to the race or races with which they most closely identify. These categories are sociopolitical constructs and should not be interpreted as being scientific or anthropological in nature. They change from one census to another, and the racial categories include both racial and national-origin groups.\n\nCompared to 19th-century United States, 20th-century Brazil was characterized by a relative absence of sharply defined racial groups. This pattern reflects a different history and different social relations. Basically, race in Brazil was recognized as the difference between ancestry (which determines genotype) and phenotypic differences. Racial identity was not governed by a rigid descent rule. A Brazilian child was never automatically identified with the racial type of one or both parents, nor were there only two categories to choose from. Over a dozen racial categories are recognized in conformity with the combinations of hair color, hair texture, eye color, and skin color. These types grade into each other like the colors of the spectrum, and no one category stands significantly isolated from the rest. That is, race referred to appearance, not heredity.\n\nThrough this system of racial identification, parents and children and even brothers and sisters were frequently accepted as representatives of opposite racial types. In a fishing village in the state of Bahia, an investigator showed 100 people pictures of three sisters and they were asked to identify the races of each. In only six responses were the sisters identified by the same racial term. Fourteen responses used a different term for each sister. In another experiment nine portraits were shown to a hundred people. Forty different racial types were elicited. It was found, in addition, that a given Brazilian might be called by as many as thirteen different terms by other members of the community. These terms are spread out across practically the entire spectrum of theoretical racial types. A further consequence of the absence of a descent rule was that Brazilians apparently not only disagreed about the racial identity of specific individuals, but they also seemed to be in disagreement about the abstract meaning of the racial terms as defined by words and phrases. For example, 40% of a sample ranked moreno claro as a lighter type than mulato claro, while 60% reversed this order. A further note of confusion is that one person might employ different racial terms to describe the same person over a short time span. The choice of which racial description to use may vary according to both the personal relationships and moods of the individuals involved. The Brazilian census lists one's race according to the preference of the person being interviewed. As a consequence, hundreds of races appeared in the census results, ranging from blue (which is blacker than the usual black) to pink (which is whiter than the usual white).\n\nHowever, Brazilians are not so naïve to ignore one's racial origins just because of his (or her) better social status. An interesting example of this phenomenon has occurred recently, when the famous football (soccer) player Ronaldo declared publicly that he considered himself as White, thus linking racism to a form or another of class conflict. This caused a series of ironic notes on newspapers, which pointed out that he should have been proud of his African origin (which is obviously noticeable), a fact that must have made life for him (and for his ancestors) more difficult, so, being a successful personality was, in spite of that, a victory for him. What occurs in Brazil that differentiates it largely from the US or South Africa, for example, is that black or mixed-race people are, in fact, more accepted in social circles if they have more education, or have a successful life (a euphemism for \"having a better salary\"). As a consequence, inter-racial marriages are more common, and more accepted, among highly educated Afro-Brazilians than lower-educated ones.\n\nSo, although the identification of a person by race is far more fluid and flexible in Brazil than in the U.S., there still are racial stereotypes and prejudices. African features have been considered less desirable; Blacks have been considered socially inferior, and Whites superior. These white supremacist values were a legacy of European colonization and the slave-based plantation system. The complexity of racial classifications in Brazil is reflective of the extent of miscegenation in Brazilian society, which remains highly, but not strictly, stratified along color lines. Henceforth, Brazil's desired image as a perfect \"post-racist\" country, composed of the \"cosmic race\" celebrated in 1925 by José Vasconcelos, must be met with caution, as sociologist Gilberto Freyre demonstrated in 1933 in \"Casa Grande e Senzala\".\n\nMichel Foucault argued the popular historical and political use of a non-essentialist notion of \"race\" used in the \"race struggle\" discourse during the 1688 Glorious Revolution and under Louis XIV's end of reign. In Foucault's view, this discourse developed in two different directions: Marxism, which seized the notion and transformed it into \"class struggle\" discourse, and racists, biologists and eugenicists, who paved the way for 20th century \"state racism\".\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, racial classifications were used to justify enslavement of those deemed to be of \"inferior\", non-White races, and thus supposedly best fitted for lives of toil under White supervision. These classifications made the distance between races seem nearly as broad as that between species, easing unsettling questions about the appropriateness of such treatment of humans. The practice was at the time generally accepted by both scientific and lay communities.\n\nArthur Gobineau's \"An Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races\" (1853–1855) was one of the milestones in the new racist discourse, along with Vacher de Lapouge's \"anthroposociology\" and Johann Gottfried Herder (1744–1803), who applied race to nationalist theory to develop militant ethnic nationalism. They posited the historical existence of national races such as German and French, branching from basal races supposed to have existed for millennia, such as the Aryan race, and believed political boundaries should mirror these supposed racial ones.\n\nLater, one of Hitler's favorite sayings was, \"Politics is applied biology\". Hitler's ideas of racial purity led to unprecedented atrocities in Europe. Since then, ethnic cleansing has occurred in Cambodia, the Balkans, Sudan, and Rwanda. In one sense, \"ethnic cleansing\" is another name for the tribal warfare and mass murder that has afflicted human society for ages.\n\nRacial inequality has been a concern of United States politicians and legislators since the country's founding. In the 19th century most White Americans (including abolitionists) explained racial inequality as an inevitable consequence of biological differences. Since the mid-20th century, political and civic leaders as well as scientists have debated to what extent racial inequality is cultural in origin. Some argue that current inequalities between Blacks and Whites are primarily cultural and historical, the result of past and present racism, slavery and segregation, and could be redressed through such programs as affirmative action and Head Start. Others work to reduce tax funding of remedial programs for minorities. They have based their advocacy on aptitude test data that, according to them, shows that racial ability differences are biological in origin and cannot be leveled even by intensive educational efforts. In electoral politics, many more ethnic minorities have won important offices in Western nations than in earlier times, although the highest offices tend to remain in the hands of Whites.\n\nIn his famous \"Letter from Birmingham Jail\", Martin Luther King Jr. observed:\n\nKing's hope, expressed in his I Have a Dream speech, was that the civil rights struggle would one day produce a society where people were not \"judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character\".\n\nBecause of the identification of the concept of race with political oppression, many natural and social scientists today are wary of using the word \"race\" to refer to human variation, but instead use less emotive words such as \"population\" and \"ethnicity\". Some, however, argue that the concept of race, whatever the term used, is nevertheless of continuing utility and validity in scientific research. Science and politics frequently take opposite sides in debates that relate to human intelligence and biomedicine.\n\nIn an attempt to provide general descriptions that may facilitate the job of law enforcement officers seeking to apprehend suspects, the United States FBI employs the term \"race\" to summarize the general appearance (skin color, hair texture, eye shape, and other such easily noticed characteristics) of individuals whom they are attempting to apprehend. From the perspective of law enforcement officers, a description needs to capture the features that stand out most clearly in the perception within the given society.\n\nThus, in the UK, Scotland Yard use a classification based on the ethnic composition of British society: W1 (White British), W2 (White Irish), W9 (Other White); M1 (White and black Caribbean), M2 (White and black African), M3 (White and Asian), M9 (Any other mixed background); A1 (Asian-Indian), A2 (Asian-Pakistani), A3 (Asian-Bangladeshi), A9 (Any other Asian background); B1 (Black Caribbean), B2 (Black African), B3 (Any other black background); O1 (Chinese), O9 (Any other).\n\nIn the United States, the practice of racial profiling has been ruled to be both unconstitutional and also to constitute a violation of civil rights. There also an ongoing debate on the relationship between race and crime regarding the disproportional representation of certain minorities in all stages of the criminal justice system.\n\nStudies in racial taxonomy based on DNA cluster analysis (See Lewontin's Fallacy) has led law enforcement to pursue suspects based on their racial classification as derived from their DNA evidence left at the crime scene. DNA analysis has been successful in helping police determine the race of both victims and perpetrators.\nThis classification is called \"biogeographical ancestry\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4317712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4317712", "title": "Racialization", "text": "Racialization\n\nIn sociology, racialization or ethnicization is the process of ascribing ethnic or racial identities to a relationship, social practice, or group that did not identify itself as such. Racialization or ethnicization is often borne out of the interaction of a group with a group that it dominates and ascribes identity for the purpose of continued domination. While it is often borne out of domination, the racialized and ethnicized group often gradually identifies with and even embraces the ascribed identity and thus becomes a self-ascribed race or ethnicity. These processes have been common across the history of imperialism, nationalism, and racial and ethnic hierarchies.\n\nRacial categories have historically been used as a way to allow an oppressive figure or group discriminate against other groups or individuals which were seen as different from that of the oppressor. In nineteenth and early twentieth century Europe, artwork was a common form of racialization which targeted countries in the Middle East and Asia. The artwork, predominantly paintings, were portrayed in order to instill prejudice in the Western populations through sexualizing and manipulating images. One of the most prominent examples of Orientalist work in art is a piece by Eugène Delacroix titled \"Women of Algiers in their Apartment.\" Dating back to 1834, it portrays three women resting in a harem in exotic clothing while an African woman is dressed in plain clothing, depicting her role as a servant. Fine textiles, hookahs, and other paraphernalia adorn the room, which represents a European fantasy of an exotic scene. Attempts to portray these cultures as strange, foreign and exotic through Orientalism led to intolerance towards the Arab and Asian communities in Europe and the United States.\n\nMany North African and Middle Eastern countries were colonized by European nations, such as Tunisia, Algeria, and Syria. These countries were not fully independent until the mid-twentieth century, a time in which globalization began to rise both economically and politically. With the rise of globalization came an expanding cultural influence and an increase in immigration to Western nations. New cultures, ethnic groups, and ideals have contributed to the process of racialization which is familiar in modern society. Racialization is a long process, and members of each group are categorized based on their perceived differences relative to those who are considered elite within a society. Another major contributor to the process of racialization is the media. News outlets, films, television shows, and other forms of public communication portray racial groups to often reflect stereotypes which contribute to the public’s opinion of certain cultural groups. These opinions and stereotypes may become institutionalized and racial groups must then encounter the institutionalized racism that is a result. Dominant groups in a society tend to racialize others because new cultural and racial groups are seen as threatening to their society. These threats instill fear into the dominant members of the society due to the possibility of downward mobility or perceived loss of national security. While threats can be imagined or real, they are most prominent when there is some other issue in the nation, such as a poorly performing economy. The effects of racialization are often more harmful to racial and ethnic groups than the actual racialization itself, a few examples being systemic and structural racism. Further significant research in this area is aiding politicians and policy makers in creating a more equal society that embraces and supports different racial and ethnic groups.\n\nThe process of racialization can affect newly arriving immigrants as well as their second-generation children in the United States. The concept of racialized incorporation bridges the idea of assimilation with critical race studies in general and the concept of racialization in particular. While immigrants may possess specific ethnic and cultural identities associated with their countries of origin, once they arrive in the U.S., they are incorporated into a society that is largely organized along the lines of race. The racial hierarchy in the United States is pervasive in many aspects of life including housing, education, and employment. The racialized incorporation perspective argues that regardless of the ethnic and cultural differences across immigrant groups, racial identification is the ultimate and primary principle of social organization in the United States. So an immigrant from Sweden and his/her U.S. born second-generation children are likely to be incorporated into the White mainstream, while an immigrant from Ghana and his/her U.S. born second-generation children are likely to be incorporated into the Black community. Because the lived experiences of Whites and Blacks in U.S. society diverge in most areas of social life, the racialized category that immigrants and their children are incorporated into will largely determine their experiences and opportunities in the United States. The concept of racialized incorporation is relatively new and was recently applied in a study of self-employment in the United States.\n\nAn ongoing scholarly debate covers the racialization of religious communities. Adherents to Judaism and Islam can be racialized when they are portrayed as possessing certain physical characteristics, despite many individual adherents to those religions not visibly sharing in those characteristics. This racialization extends to the descendants of the adherents, even though those descendants may often convert away from active observance of the religion of their forebears but also retain the lingering cultural aspects of the religion for familial and community purposes.\n\nThe most immediate effect of the racialization of religion is said to be the internalization of such racialization by the descendants of adherents, whereby the descendants of adherents accept and internalize their religiously-influenced familial culture as an ethnoracial distinction and identity. One of the applications of this racialization is nationalism, whereby the created race seeks to assert cultural and national aspirations which are compatible and accommodating to other groups. Another one of the applications of this racialization is racism and discrimination, whereby those who are racialized are barred from participation in any public or private function of society due to the negative \"attributes\" of the race assigned to them.\n\nThe racialization of labor is said to involve the segregation and appointment of workers based on perceived ethnic differences. This racialization of labor is said to produce a hierarchical arrangement which limits employee agency and mobility based on their race. The process of racialization is reinforced through presupposed, stereotypical qualities which are imposed upon the racialized person by the racializer. Racialization is then normalized by the promotion of \"colourblindness\" through the use of \"soft\" language which avoids highlighting ethnic differences.\n\nThe racialization of labor specially limits labor mobilization up the workforce ladder based on race. Dominant racialized labor groups, mainly White/European workers, are generally presented more privileges than subordinate labor groups, mainly Black or Hispanic workers. The subordinate labor groups face the denial of basic citizenship rights, more exploitation, and inferior working conditions. Furthermore, they are less likely to move up in rank within a company or advance to a higher job position.\n\nMembers of the dominant race (e.g., whites) benefit from the privileges of whiteness, whether these are material or psychological, and are maintained and reproduced within social systems As a result, immigrant workers, especially Latino and Black workers, experience poor working conditions in day labor work. Day laborers experience \"race\" and this has impacted their integration into the labor market.\n\nFurthermore, research by Edna Bonacich, Sabrina Alimahomed Jake B. Wilson, 2008 regarding the effects of race and criminal background on employment indicates that black men need to work more than twice as hard as white men to secure the same job. Being black in America today is about the same as having a felony conviction in terms of one’s chances of finding a job. Specifically, “the combination of minority status and criminal background appears to intensify employers’ negative reactions, leaving few employment prospects for black ex-offenders (200 applications resulted in only 10 callbacks)”. Additionally, According to Chetty, Hendren, Kline, and Saez, the effect of race segregation impacts the labor market, saying “upward income mobility is significantly lower in areas with larger African American Populations”. Race segregation may lead to divergent economic outcomes due to the fact that areas with larger black population tend to be more segregated by income and race and have adverse effects.\n\nLastly, the decline of labor unions has negatively affected racialization of labor. Those who would have benefited from union membership no longer will as labor unions continue to diminish. In Jake Rosenfeld’s article, \"Little Labor: How Union Decline Is Changing the American Landscape\", he describes the people what no longer can benefit from labor unions: “an immigrant employee who once would have been organized, a female African -American worker no longer able to rely on a union wage to reduce pay gaps with her white counterpart, or a less-educated worker lacking the training, resources, and knowledge to participate in politics”. There is less upward mobility when unions are not controlling wages and benefits.\n\nRacialization in an educational setting is apparent based on the teacher and the background they come from. The teacher’s race along with their views that came along through socialization growing up can affect the way the students portray themselves in a classroom setting. It also has to do with the amount of people who come from the same background because the majority of a population will dictate which group is being racialized. An example of students being racialized by their teachers and institutions can be seen through the way high schools teach in America today. Schools tend to teach classes that focus on a more Anglo-Saxon point of view without incorporating any diverse classes that would accommodate for the population of students that come from diverse backgrounds like Latinos, African, and Native Americans.\n\nThrough the process of racializing social groups are distinguished and subjected to differential and unequal treatment on the basis of supposedly biological, phenotypic, cultural, and gender characteristics. Racialization can affect anyone in any race. Therefore, racialization and gender can often intersect (Elabor-Idemudia. 1999). Just as racism and gender intersect or discrimination and gender intersect it is easy for racialization to overlap with gender. During racialization, certain racial categories are created and distinctive and stereotypical characteristics are attributed to that specific category. Within these categories, there can also be subcategories of racialization such as Caucasian man or African American women. Often immigrants who migrate to the U.S are affected by racialization if they are not white and fit more into a minority group. For example, African American women may often be stereotyped as uneducated, loud, or improper. Through Racialization if a woman of African descent immigrated to the U.S people will attribute those same stereotypes to her because through a racial lens she fits the African American woman category. Therefore, those same stereotypes will be applied to her as well. Racialization combined with gender can also be seen through the actions of the person that is racializing the other. Such as someone crossing the street so they do not have to walk past men who appear to be African American due to the stereotypes related to African American men.\n\nComing to fruition in the 1980s, the United States began to enact extensive legal reforms that worked to create a more punitive society. These reforms include mandatory minimum sentences, trying juveniles as adults, three strikes and you’re out laws, truth in sentencing practices, and many other policies and practices which served to increase our reliance on imprisonment in response to crime. As a result, U.S. society has been pegged with a “mass incarceration” structure. A recent report has concluded that nearly 1 in 100 U.S. adults are incarcerated and nearly 7.3 million Americans are either in prison or under parole. Although these reforms were intended to apply to all citizens regardless of race, this has not proven to be the reality. Statistically, these punitive reforms have disproportionately impacted African Americans. Specifically, those who are uneducated and/or live in low-income areas. Some have renamed the emergence of the “mass incarceration” society as rather the emergence of “racialized mass incarceration.” The numbers are much more alarming for African Americans behind bars. Nearly 1 in 15 African Americans are incarcerated and more narrowly 1 in 9 African American Men are incarcerated. These numbers point to an obvious discrimination towards blacks in the U.S. criminal justice system. \nOne clear reason for these disproportionate imprisonment rate can be tied to poverty and social structures. In particular, a pronounced weak attachment to labor among many working-age adults in black communities has fostered a common experience of poverty and economic hardship. Ultimately this has served to create social spaces where bonds of family and community begin to fray and fall apart. These types of environments have created higher levels of juvenile crime, drug use, and even violent and gang-oriented crimes. Although white Americans too have a history of living in poverty, the average national rate of family disruption and poverty among blacks is two to four times higher than among whites. Furthermore, another reason for the United States racialized prison system can be seen with the war on drugs. Despite similar rates of drug use among blacks and whites, blacks make up 50% of those incarcerated for drug use compared to only 26% of whites. \nWhile the two examples above point to definite explanations for the United States racialized prison system, ultimately the most salient explanation for disproportionate imprisonment rates is public opinion and prejudice. Social stereotypes and stigmas have created assumptions about African Americans that make them more susceptible to arrest and imprisonment. These latter factors are often influenced by society’s outlook on the prison system. Most educated, middle to upper-class individuals, are in favor of things such as the death penalty, minimum sentences, and trying juveniles as adults, which combined with social stigmas make blacks unfairly disadvantaged in the realm of criminal justice. For example, in recent times, these effects can be seen in an increase in police brutality towards minorities. Statistically, it is 2.5 times more likely for blacks to be killed than whites.\n\n"}
{"id": "323481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323481", "title": "Robert Owen", "text": "Robert Owen\n\nRobert Owen (; 14 May 1771 – 17 November 1858) was a Welsh textile manufacturer, philanthropic social reformer, and one of the founders of utopian socialism and the cooperative movement. Owen is best known for his efforts to improve the working conditions of his factory workers and his promotion of experimental socialistic communities. In the early 1800s Owen became wealthy as an investor and eventual manager of a large textile mill at New Lanark, Scotland. (He initially trained as a draper in Stamford, Lincolnshire, and worked in London before relocating at the age of 18 to Manchester and going into business as a textile manufacturer.) In 1824 Owen travelled to America, where he invested the bulk of his fortune in an experimental socialistic community at New Harmony, Indiana, the preliminary model for Owen's utopian society. The experiment was short-lived, lasting about two years. Other Owenite utopian communities met a similar fate. In 1828 Owen returned to the United Kingdom and settled in London, where he continued to be an advocate for the working class. In addition to his leadership in the development of cooperatives and the trade union movement, he also supported passage of child labour laws and free, co-educational schools.\n\nRobert Owen was born in Newtown, a small market town in Montgomeryshire, Wales, on 14 May 1771, to Anne (Williams) and Robert Owen. His father was a saddler, ironmonger, and local postmaster; his mother was the daughter of a Newtown farming family. Young Robert was the sixth of the family's seven children, two of whom died at a young age. His surviving siblings were William, Anne, John, and Richard.\n\nOwen received little formal education, but he was an avid reader. He left school at the age of ten and was apprenticed to a Stamford, Lincolnshire, draper for four years. He also worked in London draper shops as a teenager. Around the age of eighteen, Owen moved to Manchester, where he spent the next twelve years of his life. Initially, he was employed at Satterfield's Drapery in Saint Ann's Square.\n\nWhile living in Manchester, Owen borrowed £100 from his brother, William, to enter into a partnership to make spinning mules, a new invention for spinning cotton thread, but exchanged his share of the business within a few months for six spinning mules that he operated in a rented factory space. In 1792, when Owen was about twenty-one years old, mill-owner Peter Drinkwater made him manager of the Piccadilly Mill at Manchester; however, after two years of working for Drinkwater, Owen voluntarily gave up a contracted promise of partnership, left the company, and went into partnership with other entrepreneurs to establish and eventually manage the Chorlton Twist Mills in the Chorlton-on-Medlock area of Manchester.\n\nBy the early 1790s, Owen's entrepreneurial spirit, management skills, and progressive moral views were emerging. In 1793, he was elected as a member of the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society, where the ideas of reformers and philosophers of the Enlightenment were discussed. He also became a committee member of the Manchester Board of Health, which was instigated, principally by Thomas Percival, to promote improvements in the health and working conditions of factory workers.\n\nDuring a visit to Scotland, Owen met and fell in love with Ann (or Anne) Caroline Dale, the daughter of David Dale, a Glasgow philanthropist and the proprietor of New Lanark Mills, a large textile mill in New Lanark, Scotland. Robert and Caroline Owen were married on 30 September 1799. Following their marriage, the Owens established their home in New Lanark, but later moved to Braxfield, Scotland.\n\nRobert and Caroline Owen had eight children, the first of whom died in infancy. Their seven surviving children included four sons and three daughters: Robert Dale (1801–77), William (1802–42), Ann (or Anne) Caroline (1805–31), Jane Dale (1805–61), David Dale (1807–60), Richard Dale (1809–90) and Mary (1810–32). Owen's four sons, Robert Dale, William, David Dale, and Richard, as well as his daughter, Jane Dale, followed their father to the United States, becoming U.S. citizens and permanent residents of New Harmony, Indiana. Owen's wife, Caroline, and two of their daughters, Anne Caroline and Mary, remained in Britain, where they died in the 1830s.\n\nIn July 1799 Owen and his partners bought the New Lanark mill from David Dale, and Owen became the New Lanark mill's manager in January 1800. Encouraged by his success in the management of cotton mills in Manchester, Owen hoped to conduct the New Lanark mill on higher principles than purely commercial ones. David Dale and Richard Arkwright had established the substantial mill at New Lanark in 1785. With its water power provided by the falls of the River Clyde, the cotton-spinning operation became one of Britain's largest. About 2,000 individuals were associations with the mill; 500 of them were children who were brought to the mill at the age of five or six from the poorhouses and charities of Edinburgh and Glasgow. Dale, who was known for his benevolence, treated the children well, but the general condition of New Lanark's residents was unsatisfactory. Over the years, Dale and his son-in-law, Owen, worked to improve the factory workers' lives.\n\nMany of the workers were in the lowest levels of the population; theft, drunkenness, and other vices were common; education and sanitation were neglected; and most families lived in one room. The respectable country people refused to submit to the long hours and demoralising drudgery of the mills.\nUntil a series of Truck Acts (1831–1887) required employees to be paid in common currency, many employers operated the truck system that paid workers in total or in part with tokens. The tokens had no monetary value outside the mill owner's \"truck shop,\" where the owners could supply shoddy goods and charge top prices. In contrast to other employers, Owen's store offered goods at prices slightly above their wholesale cost.\nHe also passed on the savings from the bulk purchase of goods to his workers, and placed the sale of alcohol under strict supervision. These principles became the basis for the cooperative shops in Britain, which continue in an altered form to trade today.\n\nOwen tested his social and economic ideas at New Lanark, where he won the confidence of his workers and continued to have great success due to the improved efficiency at the mill. The community also earned an international reputation. Social reformers, statesmen, and royals, including the future Tsar Nicholas I of Russia, visited New Lanark to study its operations and educational methods. The opinions of many of these visitors were favourable.\n\nOwen's greatest success was his support of youth education and early childcare. As a pioneer of infant care in Britain, especially Scotland, Owen provided an alternative to the \"normal authoritarian approach to child education.\" The manners of the children brought up under his system were beautifully graceful, genial and unconstrained; health, plenty, and contentment prevailed; drunkenness was almost unknown; and illegitimacy extremely rare. Owen's relationship with the workers remained excellent, and all the operations of the mill proceeded with smoothness and regularity. Furthermore, the business was a commercial success.\n\nHowever, some of Owen's schemes displeased his partners, forcing him to arrange for other investors to buy his share of the business in 1813 for $800,000 (US). The new investors, who included Jeremy Bentham and William Allen, a well-known Quaker, were content to accept a £5000 return on their capital. The ownership change also provided Owen with an opportunity to widen the scope for his philanthropy. He became an advocate for improvements in workers' rights, child labour laws, and free education for children.\n\nIn 1813 Owen authored and published \"A New View of Society, or Essays on the Principle of the Formation of the Human Character\", the first of four essays that he wrote to explain the principles behind his reform-minded and socialistic philosophy. Owen had originally been a follower of the classical liberal and utilitarian Jeremy Bentham, who believed that free markets, in particular, the right of workers to move and choose their employers, would release the workers from the excessive power of capitalists. However, Owen developed his own, pro-socialist outlook. In addition, Owen, a deist, criticised organised religion, including the Church of England, and developed a belief system of his own.\n\nOwen felt that human character is formed by circumstances over which individuals have no control. As a result, individuals cannot be praised or blamed for their behaviour or situation in life. This principle led Owen to the conclude that the secret behind the correct formation of people's characters is to place them under proper environmental influences – physical, moral and social – from their earliest years. These notions of the irresponsibility of humans and of the effect of early influences on an individual's character formed the basis of Owen's system of education and social reform.\n\nRelying on his own observations, experiences, and thoughts, Owen considered his view of human nature to be original and \"the most basic and necessary constituent in an evolving science of society. \" Owen's philosophy was influenced by Sir Isaac Newton 's views on natural law, and his views resembled those of Plato, Denis Diderot, Claude Adrien Helvétius, William Godwin, John Locke, James Mill, and Jeremy Bentham, among others. Owen did not have the direct influence of Enlightenment philosophers.\n\nOwen's work at New Lanark continued to have significance throughout Britain and in continental Europe. He was a \"pioneer in factory reform, the father of distributive cooperation, and the founder of nursery schools.\" His schemes for the education of his workers included the opening of the Institute for the Formation of Character at New Lanark in 1818. The institute and other educational programmes at New Lanark provided free education from infancy to adulthood. In addition, he zealously supported factory legislation that culminated in the Cotton Mills and Factories Act of 1819. Owen also had interviews and communications with the leading members of the British government, including its premier, Robert Banks Jenkinson, and Lord Liverpool. Owen met with many of the rulers and leading statesmen of Europe.\n\nOwen also adopted new principles to raise the standard of goods his workers produced. A cube with faces painted in different colours was installed above each machinist's workplace. The colour of the face showed to everyone who saw it the quality and quantity of goods the worker completed. The intent was to provide incentives to workers to do their best. Although it was not a great incentive by itself, the conditions at New Lanark for the workers and their families were idyllic for the time.\n\nOwen raised the demand for an eight-hour day in 1810, and instituted the policy at New Lanark. By 1817 he had formulated the goal of the eight-hour workday and coined the slogan: \"Eight hours labour, Eight hours recreation, Eight hours rest.\"\n\nOwen embraced socialism in 1817, a turning point in his life, and began making specific efforts to implement what he described as his \"New View of Society.\" Owen outlined his position in a report to the committee of the House of Commons regarding the country's Poor Laws. In addition, when misery and trade stagnation after the Napoleonic Wars were capturing the attention of the country, the British government invited Owen to offer his advice on what could be done to alleviate the industrial concerns. Although Owen attributed the immediate causes of misery to the wars, he also argued that the underlying cause of distress was the competition of human labour with machinery and recommended the establishment of self-sufficient communities.\n\nOwen proposed that communities of about 1,200 people should be settled on land from , with all of them living in one large building that had a public kitchen and dining halls. (The size of his proposed community is likely to have been influenced by the size of the village of New Lanark.) Owen also recommended that each family should have its own private apartments and the responsibility for the care of their children until they reached the age of three. Thereafter, children would be raised by the community-at-large, but their parents would have access to them at mealtimes and on other occasions. Owen further suggested that these socialistic communities might be established by individuals, parishes, counties, or other governmental units. In every case there would be effective supervision by qualified persons. The work and the enjoyment of its results should be experienced communally. Owen believed that his idea would be the best form for the re-organisation of society in general. He called his vision for a socialistic utopia the \"New Moral World.\"\n\nOwen's utopian model changed little during his lifetime. His fully developed model considered an association of 500 to 3,000 people as the optimum number for a good working community. While mainly agricultural, it would possess the best machinery, offer a variety of employment, and, as far as possible, be self-contained. Owen further explained that as the number of these communities increased, \"unions of them federatively united shall be formed in circle of tens, hundreds and thousands\" linked in a common interest.\n\nOwen always tried to spread his ideas to wider communities. First of all, he started publishing his ideas in newspapers. Owen then sent these newspapers to parliamentarians, politicians all over the country, and other important people. The first negative reactions to his ideas appeared after these newspaper articles were published. \n\nThe opponents of Owen’s ideas thought that Owen’s plans would result in an uncontrollable increase in population and poverty. The other main criticism stated that Owen’s plan and the common use of everything would essentially make the country one large workshop. William Hone claimed that Owen saw people as unravelled plants from his roots, and that he wanted to plant them into rectangles. Another spokesman accused Owen of wanting to imprison people in workshops like barracks and eradicate their personal independence. \n\nOwen’s opponents had begun to regard him as an enemy of religion. His influence with the ruling circles, which he had hoped would help him to accomplish his “Plan”, started diminishing and rumours about his lack of religious conviction spread. Owen believed that, unless a change can be made in the character of the individuals and the environment in which they live, these people will be hostile to those around them. As long as such a social order is perpetuated, the positive aspects of Christianity can never be put into practice. Owen also considered it necessary to give people more freedom in order to improve the situation of the poor and working classes. Unless people are better educated, unless they gain more useful information and have permanent employment, they are a danger to the security of the state when given more freedom than the British Constitution of the time. Without having to make any changes in the national institutions, he believed that even merely reorganizing the working classes would result in great benefits. Owen was thus opposed to the views of radicals who wanted to bring about a change in the public's mentality through the expansion of voting rights.\n\nTo test the viability of his ideas for self-sufficient working communities, Owen began experiments in communal living in America in 1825. Among the most famous of these was the one established at New Harmony, Indiana. Of the 130 identifiable communitarian experiments in America before the American Civil War, at least sixteen were Owenite or Owenite-influenced communities. New Harmony was Owen's earliest and most ambitious experiment.\n\nOwen and his son, William, sailed to America in October 1824 to establish an experimental community in Indiana. In January 1825 Owen used a portion of his own funds to finalise the purchase of an existing town that included 180 buildings and several thousand acres of land along the Wabash River in Indiana. (In 1824\nGeorge Rapp's Harmony Society, the religious group that owned the property and had founded the communal village of Harmony (or Harmonie) on the site in 1814, decided to relocate to Pennsylvania.) Owen renamed it New Harmony and established the village as his preliminary model for a utopian community.\n\nOwen attempted to gain support for his socialist vision among American thinkers, reformers, intellectuals, and public statesmen. On 25 February and 7 March 1825, Owen delivered addresses in the U.S. House of Representatives to the U.S. Congress and others in the U.S. government that outlined his vision and plans for the utopian community at New Harmony, Indiana, as well as his socialist beliefs. The audience to hear his ideas included three former U.S. presidents (John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and James Madison), in addition to outgoing U.S. president James Monroe, and president-elect John Quincy Adams. His meetings were possibly the first discussions about socialism in the Americas; they were certainly a major step towards the beginnings of discussions about socialist thought in the United States. Owenism, among the first socialist ideologies active in the United States, is considered the starting-point of the modern Socialist movement in the United States.\n\nOwen convinced William Maclure, a wealthy scientist, philanthropist, and Scot who was living in Philadelphia to join him at New Harmony. Maclure became Owen's financial partner. Maclure's involvement in the project subsequently attracted scientists, educators, and artists such as Thomas Say, Charles-Alexandre Lesueur, and Madame Marie Duclos Fretageot, among others. These individuals helped to establish the utopian community at New Harmony as a centre for educational reform, scientific research, and artistic expression.\n\nAlthough he intended to build a \"Village of Unity and Mutual Cooperation\" south of town, his grand plan was never fully realised, and Owen returned to Britain to continue his work. During his long absences from New Harmony, Owen left the experiment under the day-to-day management of his sons, Robert Dale Owen and William Owen, and his business partner, Maclure. The New Harmony communal experiment proved to be an economic failure, lasting about two years, but it attracted more than a thousand residents by the end of its first year. The socialistic society was dissolved in 1827; however, many of the town's scientists, educators, and artists, and other inhabitants, including Owen's four sons, Robert Dale, William, David Dale, and Richard Dale Owen, and his daughter, Jane Dale Owen Fauntleroy, resided at New Harmony after the social experiment ended.\n\nOther utopian experiments in the United States included communal settlements at Blue Spring, near Bloomington, Indiana; Yellow Springs, Ohio; and the Owenite community of Forestville Commonwealth at Earlton, New York, as well as other projects in New York, Pennsylvania, and Tennessee. Nearly all of these experiments ended before New Harmony was dissolved in April 1827.\n\nOwen's utopian communities attracted a mix of people, many of whom had the highest aims; however, their members also included vagrants, adventurers, and crotchety, and other reform-minded enthusiasts. In the words of Owen's son, David Dale Owen, the communities attracted \"a heterogeneous collection of Radicals\", \"enthusiastic devotees to principle,\" and \"honest latitudinarians, and lazy theorists,\" with \"a sprinkling of unprincipled sharpers thrown in.\"\n\nJosiah Warren, one of the participants at New Harmony, asserted that community was doomed to failure due to a lack of individual sovereignty and personal property. In describing the Owenite community, Warren explained: \"We had a world in miniature — we had enacted the French revolution over again with despairing hearts instead of corpses as a result. ... It appeared that it was nature's own inherent law of diversity that had conquered us ... our \"united interests\" were directly at war with the individualities of persons and circumstances and the instinct of self-preservation ...\" Warren's observations on the reasons for the community's failure led to the development of American individualist anarchism, of which he was its original theorist.\n\nSocial experiments also began in Scotland in 1825, when Abram Combe, an Owenite disciple, attempted the development of a utopian experiment at Orbiston, near Glasgow, but the project failed after a trial of about two years.\n\nAlthough Owen made brief visits to the United States, London became his permanent home and the centre of his activities in 1828. After an extended period of friction with William Allen and some of his other business partners, Owen relinquished all of connections to New Lanark. He is often quoted as comment Allen at the time, \"All the world is queer save thee and me, and even thou art a little queer\". Having invested most of his personal fortune in the failed New Harmony communal experiment, Owen was no longer a wealthy capitalist; however, he remained the head of a vigorous propaganda effort to promote industrial equality, free education for children, and adequate living conditions in factory towns. In addition, he delivered lectures in Europe and published a weekly newspaper to gain support for his ideas.\n\nIn 1832 Owen opened the National Equitable Labour Exchange system, a time-based currency in which the exchange of goods was effected by means of labour notes; this system superseded the usual means of exchange and middlemen. The London exchange continued until 1833; a Birmingham branch operated for only a few months until July 1833.\n\nSocialism first became current in British terminology in the discussions of the Association of all Classes of all Nations, which Owen formed in 1835 and served as its initial leader. Owen's secular views also gained enough influence among the working classes to cause the \"Westminster Review\" to comment in 1839 that his principles were the actual creed of a great portion of them. However, by 1846, the only long-lasting result of Owen's agitation for social change, carried on through public meetings, pamphlets, periodicals, and occasional treatises, remained the co-operative movement, and for a time even that seemed to have utterly collapsed.\n\nIn 1817, Owen publicly claimed that all religions were false. In 1854, at the age of 83, Owen converted to spiritualism after a series of sittings with Maria B. Hayden, the American medium who is credited with introducing spiritualism to England. Owen made a public profession of his new faith in his publication \"The Rational Quarterly Review\" and in \"The future of the Human race; or great glorious and future revolution to be effected through the agency of departed spirits of good and superior men and women\", a pamphlet that he also wrote.\n\nOwen claimed to have had mediumistic contact with the spirits of Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, and others. He explained that the purpose of these communications was to change \"the present, false, disunited and miserable state of human existence, for a true, united and happy state ... to prepare the world for universal peace, and to infuse into all the spirit of charity, forbearance and love.\"\n\nSpiritualists have claimed that after Owen's death his spirit dictated to the medium Emma Hardinge Britten in 1871 the \"Seven Principles of Spiritualism,\" which the Spiritualists' National Union used as \"the basis of its religious philosoply.\"\n\nAs Owen grew older and more radical in his views, his influence began to decline. Owen published his memoirs, \"The Life of Robert Owen\" (1857), a year prior to his death.\n\nAlthough he had spent the majority of his life in England and Scotland, Owen returned to his native village of Newtown at the end of his life. He died at Newtown on 17 November 1858, and was buried there on 21 November. With the exception of an annual income drawn from a trust established by his sons in 1844, Owen died penniless.\n\nOwen was a reformer, philanthropist, community builder, and spiritualist who spent his adult life seeking to improve the lives of others. An advocate of the working class, he improved working conditions of factory workers, which he successfully demonstrated at New Lanark, Scotland; became a leader in trade unionism; promoted social equality through his experimental utopian communities; and supported passage of child labour laws and free education for children.\n\nOwen was ahead of his time as a social reformer. He offered his vision for a communal society that others could consider and apply as they wished. In \"Revolution in the Mind and Practice of the Human Race\" (1849), Owen further elaborated that character is formed by a combination of Nature or God and the circumstances of the individual's experience. Citing the beneficial results achieved at New Lanark, Scotland, during his thirty years of work in the community, Owen concluded that a person's \"character is not made \"by\", but \"for\" the individual,\" and that nature and society are responsible for each person's character and conduct.\n\nOwen's agitation for social change and the Owenites whose work he inspired, including the efforts of his own children, helped to establish and promote long-lasting social reforms in the area of women's and workers' rights; the establishment of free public libraries and museums; childcare and public, co-educational schools; pre-Marxian communism; and the development of the cooperative and the trade union movement. New Harmony, Indiana, and New Lanark, Scotland, the two towns with which he is most closely associated, remain as lasting reminders of his efforts.\n\nOwen's legacy of public service continued with his four sons, Robert Dale, William, David Dale, and Richard Dale, and his daughter, Jane, who followed him to America to live at New Harmony, Indiana:\n\n\n\nCollected works:\n\nArchival collections:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3549197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3549197", "title": "Science Media Centre", "text": "Science Media Centre\n\nThe Science Media Centre is an organisation which formed in 2002,\ntwo years after the United Kingdom House of Lords Select Committee on Science and Technology's third report on \"Science and Society\" in 2000.\n\nThis report stated that while science was generally reported accurately in the mass media, there was a need for the promotion of more expert information at times when science is under attack in the headlines, mentioning the public reaction to GM crops, in particular.\n\nIn order to promote more informed science in the media, the Centre's main function is as a service to journalists, providing background briefings on current scientific issues and facilitating interviews with scientists. Its director is Fiona Fox who is a former member of the Revolutionary Communist Party and a former contributor to its magazine \"Living Marxism. \n\nThe SMC's stated aim is to \"facilitate more scientists to engage with the media, in the hope that the public will have improved access to accurate, evidence-based scientific information about the stories of the day\".\n\nThe setting up of the Science Media Centre was assisted by Susan Greenfield, the director of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. While the Centre is still based in a specially refurbished wing of the Royal Institution, full independence is claimed from all funders and supporters.\n\nThe Science Media Centre is funded by over 60 organisations, with individual donations capped at £12,500 per annum. The SMC receives sponsorship from a range of funders including media organisations, universities, scientific and learned societies, the UK Research Councils, government bodies, Quangos, charities, private donors and corporate bodies. For an up-to-date list of funders, see .\n\nA 2013 article in \"Nature\" stated about the SMC, \"Perhaps the biggest criticism of Fox and the SMC is that they push science too aggressively — acting more as a PR agency than as a source of accurate science information.\"\n\nIn 2002, Ronan Bennett and Alan Rusbridger described the SMC as a lobby group.\n\nDuring Professor Greenfield's term as Thinker in Residence in South Australia, a new Australian Science Media Centre was set up in Adelaide, Australia in August 2005. Science Media Centres now exist in other countries; Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, and Germany. Except for the relation between the Science Media Centre in UK and the Australian Science Media Centre, these centres are independent of each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "222291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222291", "title": "Social history", "text": "Social history\n\nSocial history, often called the new social history, is a field of history that looks at the lived experience of the past. In its \"golden age\" it was a major growth field in the 1960s and 1970s among scholars, and still is well represented in history departments in Britain, Canada, France, Germany, and the United States. In the two decades from 1975 to 1995, the proportion of professors of history in American universities identifying with social history rose from 31% to 41%, while the proportion of political historians fell from 40% to 30%. In the history departments of British and Irish universities in 2014, of the 3410 faculty members reporting, 878 (26%) identified themselves with social history while political history came next with 841 (25%).\n\nThe older social history (before 1960) included numerous topics that were not part of the mainstream historiography of political, military, diplomatic and constitutional history. It was a hodgepodge without a central theme, and it often included political movements, like Populism, that were \"social\" in the sense of being outside the elite system. People's history was sometimes so Marxist that non-Marxists were alienated by it. Social history was contrasted with political history, intellectual history and the history of great men. English historian G. M. Trevelyan saw it as the bridging point between economic and political history, reflecting that, \"Without social history, economic history is barren and political history unintelligible.\" While the field has often been viewed negatively as history with the politics left out, it has also been defended as \"history with the people put back in.\"\n\nThe \"new social history\" exploded on the scene in the 1960s, quickly becoming one of the dominant styles of historiography in the U.S., Britain and Canada. The French version, promulgated by the Annales School, was very well organized and dominated French historiography, and influenced much of Europe and Latin America. Jürgen Kocka finds two meanings to \"social history.\" At the simplest level, it was the subdivision of historiography that focused on social structures and processes. In this regard it stood in contrast to political or economic history. The second meaning was broader, and the Germans called it \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte.\" It is the history of an entire society from a social-historical viewpoint.\n\nIn Germany the \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" movement introduced a vast range of topics, as Kocka, a leader of the Bielefeld School recalls:\n\nAmericanist Paul E. Johnson recalls the heady early promise of the movement in the late 1960s:\n\nThe Social Science History Association was formed in 1976 to bring together scholars from numerous disciplines interested in social history. It is still active and publishes \"Social Science History\" quarterly. The field is also the specialty of the \"Journal of Social History\", edited since 1967 by Peter Stearns It covers such topics as gender relations; race in American history; the history of personal relationships; consumerism; sexuality; the social history of politics; crime and punishment, and history of the senses. Most of the major historical journals have coverage as well.\n\nHowever, after 1990 social history was increasingly challenged by cultural history, which emphasizes language and the importance of beliefs and assumptions and their causal role in group behavior.\n\nThe study of the lives of ordinary people was revolutionized in the 1960s by the introduction of sophisticated quantitative and demographic methods, often using individual data from the census and from local registers of births, marriages, deaths and taxes, as well as theoretical models from sociology such as social mobility. H-DEMOG is a daily email discussion group that covers the field broadly.\n\nHistorical demography is the study of population history and demographic processes, usually using census or similar statistical data. It became an important specialty inside social history, with strong connections with the larger field of demography, as in the study of the Demographic Transition.\n\nBlack history or African-American history studies African Americans and Africans in American history. The Association for the Study of African American Life and History was founded by Carter G. Woodson in 1915 and has 2500 members and publishes the \"Journal of African American History,\" formerly the \"Journal of Negro History.\" Since 1926 it has sponsored Black History Month every February.\n\nEthnic history is especially important in the U.S. and Canada, where major encyclopedias helped define the field. It covers the history of ethnic groups (usually not including blacks or Native Americans). \nTypical approaches include critical ethnic studies; comparative ethnic studies; critical race studies; Asian-American, and Latino/a or Chicano/a studies. In recent years Chicano/Chicana studies has become important as the Hispanic population has become the largest minority in the U.S.\n\nLabor history, deals with labor unions and the social history of workers. See for example Labor history of the United States The Study Group on International Labor and Working-Class History was established: 1971 and has a membership of 1000. It publishes \"International Labor and Working-Class History\". H-LABOR is a daily email-based discussion group formed in 1993 that reaches over a thousand scholars and advanced students. the Labor and Working-Class History Association formed in 1988 and publishes \".\"\n\nKirk (2010) surveys labour historiography in Britain since the formation of the Society for the Study of Labour History in 1960. He reports that labour history has been mostly pragmatic, eclectic and empirical; it has played an important role in historiographical debates, such as those revolving around history from below, institutionalism versus the social history of labour, class, populism, gender, language, postmodernism and the turn to politics. Kirk rejects suggestions that the field is declining, and stresses its innovation, modification and renewal. Kirk also detects a move into conservative insularity and academicism. He recommends a more extensive and critical engagement with the kinds of comparative, transnational and global concerns increasingly popular among labour historians elsewhere, and calls for a revival of public and political interest in the topics. Meanwhile, Navickas, (2011) examines recent scholarship including the histories of collective action, environment and human ecology, and gender issues, with a focus on work by James Epstein, Malcolm Chase, and Peter Jones.\n\nWomen's history exploded into prominence in the 1970s, and is now well represented in every geographical topic; increasingly it includes gender history. Social history uses the approach of women's history to understand the experiences of ordinary women, as opposed to \"Great Women,\" in the past. Feminist women's historians have critiqued early studies of social history for being too focused on the male experience.\n\nGender history focuses on the categories, discourses and experiences of femininity and masculinity as they develop over time. Gender history gained prominence after it was conceptualized in 1986 by Joan W. Scott in her article \"Gender: A Useful Category of Historical Analysis.\" Many social historians use Scott's concept of \"perceived differences\" to study how gender relations in the past have unfolded and continue to unfold. In keeping with the cultural turn, many social historians are also gender historians who study how discourses interact with everyday experiences.\n\nThe History of the family emerged as a separate field in the 1970s, with close ties to anthropology and sociology. The trend was especially pronounced in the U.S. and Canada. It emphasizes demographic patterns and public policy, but is quite separate from genealogy, though often drawing on the same primary sources, such as censuses and family records. \n\nThe influential pioneering study \"Women, Work, and Family\" (1978) was done by Louise A. Tilly and Joan W. Scott. It broke new ground with their broad interpretive framework and emphasis on the variable factors shaping women's place in the family and economy in France and England. The study considered the interaction of production, or traditional labor, and reproduction, the work of caring for children and families, in its analysis of women's wage labor and thus helped to bring together labor and family history. Much work has been done on the dichotomy in women's lives between the private sphere and the public. For a recent worldwide overview covering 7000 years see Maynes and Waltner's 2012 book and ebook, \"The Family: A World History\" (2012). For comprehensive coverage of the American case, see Marilyn Coleman and Lawrence Ganong, eds. \"The Social History of the American Family: An Encyclopedia\" (4 vol, 2014).\n\nThe history of childhood is a growing subfield.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, the dominant American historiography, as exemplified by Ellwood Patterson Cubberley (1868-1941) at Stanford, emphasized the rise of American education as a powerful force for literacy, democracy, and equal opportunity, and a firm basis for higher education and advanced research institutions. It was a story of enlightenment and modernization triumphing over ignorance, cost-cutting, and narrow traditionalism whereby parents tried to block their children's intellectual access to the wider world. Teachers dedicated to the public interest, reformers with a wide vision, and public support from the civic-minded community were the heroes. The textbooks help inspire students to become public schools teachers and thereby fulfill their own civic mission.\n\nThe crisis came in the 1960s, when a new generation of New Left scholars and students rejected the traditional celebratory accounts, and identified the educational system as the villain for many of America's weaknesses, failures, and crimes. Michael Katz (1939-2014) states they:\n\nThe old guard fought back and bitter historiographical contests, with the younger students and scholars largely promoting the proposition that schools were not the solution to America's ills, they were in part the cause of Americans problems. The fierce battles of the 1960s died out by the 1990s, but enrollment in education history courses and never recovered.\n\nBy the 1980s, compromise had been worked out, with all sides focusing on the heavily bureaucratic nature of the American public schooling.\n\nIn recent years most histories of education deal with institutions or focus on the ideas histories of major reformers, but a new social history has recently emerged, focused on who were the students in terms of social background and social mobility. In the U.S. attention has often focused on minority and ethnic students. In Britain, Raftery et al. (2007) looks at the historiography on social change and education in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales, with particular reference to 19th-century schooling. They developed distinctive systems of schooling in the 19th century that reflected not only their relationship to England but also significant contemporaneous economic and social change. This article seeks to create a basis for comparative work by identifying research that has treated this period, offering brief analytical commentaries on some key works, discussing developments in educational historiography, and pointing to lacunae in research.\n\nHistorians have recently looked at the relationship between schooling and urban growth by studying educational institutions as agents in class formation, relating urban schooling to changes in the shape of cities, linking urbanization with social reform movements, and examining the material conditions affecting child life and the relationship between schools and other agencies that socialize the young.\n\nThe most economics-minded historians have sought to relate education to changes in the quality of labor, productivity and economic growth, and rates of return on investment in education. A major recent exemplar is Claudia Goldin and Lawrence F. Katz, \"The Race between Education and Technology\" (2009), on the social and economic history of 20th-century American schooling.\n\nThe \"new urban history\" emerged in the 1950s in Britain and in the 1960s in the U.S. It looked at the \"city as process\" and, often using quantitative methods, to learn more about the inarticulate masses in the cities, as opposed to the mayors and elites. A major early study was Stephan Thernstrom's \"Poverty and Progress: Social Mobility in a Nineteenth Century City\" (1964), which used census records to study Newburyport, Massachusetts, 1850-1880. A seminal, landmark book, it sparked interest in the 1960s and 1970s in quantitative methods, census sources, \"bottom-up\" history, and the measurement of upward social mobility by different ethnic groups. Other exemplars of the new urban history included Kathleen Conzen, \"Immigrant Milwaukee, 1836-1860\" (1976); Alan Dawley, \"Class and Community: The Industrial Revolution in Lynn\" (1975; 2nd ed. 2000); Michael B. Katz, \"The People of Hamilton, Canada West\" (1976); Eric H. Monkkonen, \"The Dangerous Class: Crime and Poverty in Columbus Ohio 1860-1865\" (1975); and Michael P. Weber, \"Social Change in an Industrial Town: Patterns of Progress in Warren, Pennsylvania, From Civil War to World War I.\" (1976).\n\nRepresentative comparative studies include Leonardo Benevolo, \"The European City\" (1993); Christopher R. Friedrichs, \"The Early Modern City, 1450-1750\" (1995), and James L. McClain, John M. Merriman, and Ugawa Kaoru. eds. \"Edo and Paris\" (1994) (Edo was the old name for Tokyo).\n\nThere were no overarching social history theories that emerged developed to explain urban development. Inspiration from urban geography and sociology, as well as a concern with workers (as opposed to labor union leaders), families, ethnic groups, racial segregation, and women's roles have proven useful. Historians now view the contending groups within the city as \"agents\" who shape the direction of urbanization. The subfield has flourished in Australia—where most people live in cities.\n\nAgricultural History handles the economic and technological dimensions, while Rural history handles the social dimension. Burchardt (2007) evaluates the state of modern English rural history and identifies an \"orthodox\" school, focused on the economic history of agriculture. This historiography has made impressive progress in quantifying and explaining the output and productivity achievements of English farming since the \"agricultural revolution.\" The celebratory style of the orthodox school was challenged by a dissident tradition emphasizing the social costs of agricultural progress, notably enclosure, which forced poor tenant farmers off the land. Recently, a new school, associated with the journal \"Rural History,\" has broken away from this narrative of agricultural change, elaborating a wider social history. The work of Alun Howkins has been pivotal in the recent historiography, in relation to these three traditions. Howkins, like his precursors, is constrained by an increasingly anachronistic equation of the countryside with agriculture. Geographers and sociologists have developed a concept of a \"post-productivist\" countryside, dominated by consumption and representation that may have something to offer historians, in conjunction with the well-established historiography of the \"rural idyll.\" Most rural history has focused on the American South—overwhelmingly rural until the 1950s—but there is a \"new rural history\" of the North as well. Instead of becoming agrarian capitalists, farmers held onto preindustrial capitalist values emphasizing family and community. Rural areas maintained population stability; kinship ties determined rural immigrant settlement and community structures; and the defeminization of farm work encouraged the rural version of the \"women's sphere.\" These findings strongly contrast with those in the old frontier history as well as those found in the new urban history.\n\nThe historiography of religion focuses mostly on theology and church organization and development. Recently the study of the social history or religious behavior and belief has become important.\n\nSocial history has dominated French historiography since the 1920s, thanks to the central role of the Annales School. Its journal \"Annales\" focuses attention on the synthesizing of historical patterns identified from social, economic, and cultural history, statistics, medical reports, family studies, and even psychoanalysis.\n\nSocial history developed within West German historiography during the 1950s-60s as the successor to the national history discredited by National Socialism. The German brand of \"history of society\" - \"Gesellschaftsgeschichte\" - has been known from its beginning in the 1960s for its application of sociological and political modernization theories to German history. Modernization theory was presented by Hans-Ulrich Wehler (1931-2014) and his Bielefeld School as the way to transform \"traditional\" German history, that is, national political history, centered on a few \"great men,\" into an integrated and comparative history of German society encompassing societal structures outside politics. Wehler drew upon the modernization theory of Max Weber, with concepts also from Karl Marx, Otto Hintze, Gustav Schmoller, Werner Sombart and Thorstein Veblen.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s German historians of society, led by Wehler and Jürgen Kocka at the \"Bielefeld school\" gained dominance in Germany by applying both modernization theories and social science methods. From the 1980s, however, they were increasingly criticized by proponents of the \"cultural turn\" for not incorporating culture in the history of society, for reducing politics to society, and for reducing individuals to structures. Historians of society inverted the traditional positions they criticized (on the model of Marx's inversion of Hegel). As a result, the problems pertaining to the positions criticized were not resolved but only turned on their heads. The traditional focus on individuals was inverted into a modern focus on structures, the traditional focus on culture was inverted into a modern focus on structures, and traditional emphatic understanding was inverted into modern causal explanation.\n\nBefore World War II, political history was in decline and an effort was made to introduce social history in the style of the French Annales School. After the war only Marxist interpretations were allowed. With the end of Communism in Hungary in 1989. Marxist historiography collapsed and social history came into its own, especially the study of the demographic patterns of the early modern period. Research priorities have shifted toward urban history and the conditions of everyday life.\n\nWhen Communism ended in 1991, large parts of the Soviet archives were opened. The historians' data base leapt from a limited range of sources to a vast array of records created by modern bureaucracies. Social history flourished. The old Marxist historiography collapsed overnight.\n\nSocial history had a \"golden age\" in Canada in the 1970s, and continues to flourish among scholars. Its strengths include demography, women, labour, and urban studies.\n\nWhile the study of elites and political institutions has produced a vast body of scholarship, the impact after 1960 of social historians has shifted emphasis onto the politics of ordinary people—especially voters and collective movements. Political historians responded with the \"new political history,\" which has shifted attention to political cultures. Some scholars have recently applied a cultural approach to political history. Some political historians complain that social historians are likely to put too much stress on the dimensions of class, gender and race, reflecting a leftist political agenda that assumes outsiders in politics are more interesting than the actual decision makers.\n\nSocial history, with its leftist political origins, initially sought to link state power to everyday experience in the 1960s. Yet by the 1970s, social historians increasingly excluded analyses of state power from its focus. Social historians have recently engaged with political history through studies of the relationships between state formation, power and everyday life with the theoretical tools of cultural hegemony and governmentality.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33784314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33784314", "title": "Social stress", "text": "Social stress\n\nSocial stress is stress that stems from one's relationships with others and from the social environment in general. Based on the appraisal theory of emotion, stress arises when a person evaluates a situation as personally relevant and perceives that s/he does not have the resources to cope or handle the specific situation. An event which exceeds the ability to cope does not necessarily have to occur in order for one to experience stress, as the threat of such an event occurring can be sufficient.\n\nThere are three main categories of social stressors. Life events are defined as abrupt, severe life changes that require an individual to adapt quickly (ex. sexual assault, sudden injury). Chronic strains are defined as persistent events which require an individual to make adaptations over an extended period of time (ex. divorce, unemployment). Daily hassles are defined as minor events that occur, which require adaptation throughout the day (ex. bad traffic, disagreements). When stress becomes chronic, one experiences emotional, behavioral, and physiological changes that can put one under greater risk for developing a mental disorder and physical illness.\n\nHumans are social beings by nature, as they typically have a fundamental need and desire to maintain positive social relationships. Thus, they usually find maintaining positive social ties to be beneficial. Social relationships can offer nurturance, foster feelings of social inclusion, and lead to reproductive success. Anything that disrupts or threatens to disrupt their relationships with others can result in social stress. This can include low social status in society or in particular groups, giving a speech, interviewing with potential employers, caring for a child or spouse with a chronic illness, meeting new people at a party, the threat of or actual death of a loved one, divorce, and discrimination. Social stress can arise from one's micro-environment (e.g., family ties) and macro-environment (e.g., hierarchical societal structure). Social stress is typically the most frequent type of stressor that people experience in their daily lives and affects people more intensely than other types of stressors.\n\nResearchers define social stress and social stressors in various ways. Wadman, Durkin, and Conti-Ramsden (2011) defined social stress as \"the feelings of discomfort or anxiety that individuals may experience in social situations, and the associated tendency to avoid potentially stressful social situations\". Ilfield (1977) defined social stressors as \"circumstances of daily social roles that are generally considered problematic or undesirable\". Dormann and Zapf (2004) defined social stressors as \"a class of characteristics, situations, episodes, or behaviors that are related to psychological or physical strain and that are somehow social in nature\".\n\nSocial stress is typically measured through self-report questionnaires. In the laboratory, researchers can induce social stress through various methods and protocols.\n\nThere are several questionnaires used to assess environmental and psychosocial stress. Such self-report measures include the Test of Negative Social Exchange, the Marital Adjustment Test, the Risky Families Questionnaire, the Holmes–Rahe Stress Inventory, the Trier Inventory for the Assessment of Chronic Stress, the Daily Stress Inventory, the Job Content Questionnaire, the Perceived Stress Scale, and the Stress and Adversity Inventory.\n\nIn addition to self-report questionnaires, researchers can employ structured interview assessments. The Life Events and Difficulties Schedule (LEDS) is one of the most popular instruments used in research. The purpose of this type of measure is to probe the participant to elaborate on his/her stressful life events, rather than answering singular questions. The UCLA Life Stress Interview (LSI), which is similar to the LEDS, includes questions about romantic partners, closest friendships, other friendships, and family relationships.\n\nIn rodent models, social disruption and social defeat are two common social stress paradigms. In the social disruption paradigm, an aggressive rodent is introduced into a cage housing male rodents that have already naturally established a social hierarchy. The aggressive \"intruder\" disrupts the social hierarchy, causing the residents social stress. In the social defeat paradigm, an aggressive \"intruder\" and another non-aggressive male rodent fight.\n\nIn human research, the Trier Social Stress Task (TSST) is widely used to induce social stress in the laboratory. In the TSST, participants are told that they have to prepare and give a speech about why they would be a great candidate for their ideal job. The experimenter films the participant while s/he gives the speech and informs the participant that a panel of judges will evaluate that speech. After the public speaking component, the experimenter administers a mathematics task that involves counting backwards by certain increments. If the participant makes a mistake, the experimenter prompts him/her to start again. The threat of negative evaluation is the social stressor. Researchers can measure the stress response by comparing pre-stress salivary cortisol levels and post-stress salivary cortisol levels. Other common stress measures used in the TSST are self-report measures like the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory and physiological measures like heart rate.\n\nIn a laboratory conflict discussion, couples identify several specific areas of conflict in their relationship. The couples then pinpoint a couple topics to discuss later on in the experiment (ex. finances, child-rearing). Couples are told to discuss the conflict(s) for 10 minutes while being videotaped.\n\nBrouwer and Hogervorst (2014) designed the Sing-a-Song Stress Test (SSST) to induce stress in the laboratory setting. After viewing neutral images with subsequent 1-minute rest periods, the participant is instructed to sing a song after the next 1-minute rest period is complete. Researchers found that skin conductance and heart rate are significantly higher during the post-song message interval than the previous 1-minute intervals. The stress levels are comparable to that induced in the Trier Social Stress Task.\n\nA statistical indicator of stress, simultaneous increase of variance and correlations, was proposed for diagnosis of stress and successfully used in physiology and finance. Its applicability for early diagnosis of social stress in large groups was demonstrated by the analysis of crises. It was examined in the prolonged stress period preceding the 2014 Ukrainian economic and political crisis. There was a simultaneous increase in the total correlation between the 19 major public fears in the Ukrainian society (by about 64%) and also in their statistical dispersion (by 29%) during the pre-crisis years.\n\nResearch has consistently demonstrated that social stress increases risk for developing negative mental health outcomes. One prospective study asked over fifteen hundred Finnish employees whether they had \"considerable difficulties with [their] coworkers/superiors/inferiors during the last 6 months, 5 years, earlier, or never\". Information on suicides, hospitalizations due to psychosis, suicidal behavior, alcohol intoxication, depressive symptoms, and medication for chronic psychiatric disorders was then gathered from the national registries of mortality and morbidity. Those who had experienced conflict in the workplace with coworkers or supervisors in the last five years were more likely to be diagnosed with a psychiatric condition.\n\nResearch on the LGB population has suggested that people who identify as LGB suffer more from mental health disorders, such as substance abuse and mood disorders, compared to those who identify as heterosexual. Researchers deduce that the LGB people's higher risk of mental health issues derives from their stressful social environments. Minority groups can face high levels of stigma, prejudice, and discrimination on a regular basis, therefore leading to the development of various mental health disorders.\n\nRisk for developing clinical depression significantly increases after experiencing social stress; depressed individuals often experience interpersonal loss before becoming depressed. One study found that depressed individuals who had been rejected by others had developed depression about three times more quickly than those who had experienced stress not involving social rejection. In non-clinically depressed populations, people with friends and family who make too many demands, criticize, and create tension and conflict tend to have more depressive symptoms.\n\nConflict between spouses also leads to more psychological distress and depressive symptoms, especially for wives. In particular, unhappy married couples are 10–25 times more at risk for developing clinical depression. Similarly, social stress arising from discrimination is related to greater depressive symptoms. In one study, African-Americans and non-Hispanic whites reported on their daily experiences of discrimination and depressive symptoms. Regardless of race, those who perceived more discrimination had higher depressive symptoms.\n\nThe biological basis for anxiety disorders is rooted in the consistent activation of the stress response. Fear, which is the defining emotion of an anxiety disorder, occurs when someone perceives a situation (a stressor) as threatening. This activates the stress response. If a person has difficulty regulating this stress response, it may activate inappropriately. Stress can therefore arise when a real stressor is not present or when something isn't actually threatening. This can lead to the development of an anxiety disorder (panic attacks, social anxiety, OCD, etc.). Social anxiety disorder is defined as the fear of being judged or evaluated by others, even if no such threat is actually present.\n\nResearch shows a connection between social stress, such as traumatic life events and chronic strains, and the development of anxiety disorders. A study that examined a subpopulation of adults, both young and middle-age, found that those who had diagnosed panic disorder in adulthood also experienced sexual abuse during childhood. Children who experience social stressors, such as physical and psychological abuse, as well as parental loss, are also more at risk for developing anxiety disorders during adulthood than children who did not experience such stressors.\n\nSocial stress occurring early in life can have psychopathological effects that develop or persist in adulthood. One longitudinal study found that children were more likely to have a psychiatric disorder (e.g. anxiety, depressive, disruptive, personality, and substance use disorders) in late adolescence and early adulthood when their parents showed more maladaptive child-rearing behaviors (e.g., loud arguments between parents, verbal abuse, difficulty controlling anger toward the child, lack of parental support or availability, and harsh punishment). Child temperament and parental psychiatric disorders did not explain this association. Other studies have documented the robust relationships between children’s social stress within the family environment and depression, aggression, antisocial behavior, anxiety, suicide, and hostile, oppositional, and delinquent behavior.\n\nSocial stress can also exacerbate current psychopathological conditions and compromise recovery. For instance, patients recovering from depression or bipolar disorder are two times more likely to relapse if there is familial tension. People with eating disorders are also more likely to relapse if their family members make more critical comments, are more hostile, or are over-involved. Similarly, outpatients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder show greater psychotic symptoms if the most influential person in their life is critical and are more likely to relapse if their familial relationships are marked by tension.\n\nIn regard to substance abuse, cocaine-dependent individuals report greater cravings for cocaine following exposure to a social stressor. Traumatic life events and social stressors can also trigger the exacerbation of the symptoms of mental health disorders. Socially phobic children who experience a stressful event can become even more avoidant and socially inactive.\n\nResearch has also found a robust relationship between various social stressors and aspects of physical health.\n\nSocial status, a macro-social stressor, is a robust predictor of death. In a study of over 1700 British civil servants, socioeconomic status (SES) was inversely related to mortality. Those with the lowest SES have worse health outcomes and greater mortality rates than those with the greatest SES. Other studies have replicated this relationship between SES and mortality in a range of diseases, including infectious, digestive, and respiratory diseases. A study examining the link between SES and mortality in the elderly found that education level, household income, and occupational prestige were all related to lower mortality in men. In women, however, only household income was related to lower mortality.\n\nSimilarly, social stressors in the micro-environment are also linked to increased mortality. A seminal longitudinal study of nearly 7,000 people found that socially isolated people had greater risk of dying from any cause.\n\nSocial support, which is defined as \"the comfort, assistance, and/or information one receives through formal or informal contacts with individuals or groups\", has been linked to physical health outcomes. Research shows the three aspects of social support, available attachments, perceived social support, and frequency of social interactions, can predict mortality thirty months after assessment.\n\nSocial stress also makes people more sick. People who have fewer social contacts are at greater risk for developing illness, including cardiovascular disease. The lower one’s social status, the more likely he or she is to have a cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, musculoskeletal, neoplastic, pulmonary, renal, or other chronic diseases. These links are not explained by other, more traditional risk factors such as race, health behaviors, age, sex, or access to health care.\n\nIn one laboratory study, researchers interviewed participants to determine whether they had been experiencing social conflicts with spouses, close family members and friends. They then exposed the participants to the common cold virus and found that participants with conflict-ridden relationships were two times more likely to develop a cold than those without such social stress. Social support, especially in terms of support for socioeconomic stressors, is inversely related to physical morbidity. A study that investigated social determinants of health in an urban slum in India found that social exclusion, stress, and lack of social support are significantly related to illnesses, such as hypertension, coronary heart disease, and diabetes.\n\nExposure to social stress in childhood can also have long-term effects, increasing risk for developing diseases later in life. In particular, adults who were maltreated (emotionally, physically, sexually abused or neglected) as children report more disease outcomes, such as stroke, heart attack, diabetes, and hypertension or greater severity of those outcomes. The Adverse Childhood Experiences study (ACE), which includes over seventeen thousand adults, also found that there was a 20% increase in likelihood for experiencing heart disease for each kind of chronic familial social stressor experienced in childhood, and this was not due to typical risk factors for heart disease such as demographics, smoking, exercise, adiposity, diabetes, or hypertension.\n\nSocial stress has also been tied to worse health outcomes among patients who already have a disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease faced a 46% increased risk for mortality when there was more relationship negativity with their spouse even when controlling for severity of disease and treatment. Similarly, women who had experienced an acute coronary event were three times more likely to experience another coronary event if they experienced moderate to severe marital strain. This finding remained even after controlling for demographics, health behaviors, and disease status.\n\nWith regard to HIV/AIDS, stress may affect the progression from the virus to the disease. Research shows the HIV-positive males who have more negative life events, social stress, and lack of social support progress to a clinical AIDS diagnosis more quickly than HIV-positive males who do not have as high levels of social stress. For HIV-positive females, who have also contracted the HSV virus, stress is a risk factor for genital herpes breakouts.\n\nSocial stress leads to a number of physiological changes that mediate its relationship to physical health. In the short term, the physiological changes outlined below are adaptive, as they enable the stressed organism to cope better. Dysregulation of these systems or repeated activation of them over the long-term can be detrimental to health.\n\nThe sympathetic nervous system (SNS) becomes activated in response to stress. Sympathetic arousal stimulates the medulla of the medulla to secrete epinephrine and norepinephrine into the blood stream, which facilitates the fight-or-flight response. Blood pressure, heart rate, and sweating increase, veins constrict to allow the heart to beat with more force, arteries leading to muscles dilate, and blood flow to parts of the body not essential for the fight or flight response decreases. If stress persists in the long run, then blood pressure remains elevated, leading to hypertension and atherosclerosis, both precursors to cardiovascular disease.\n\nA number of animal and human studies have confirmed that social stress increases risk for negative health outcomes by increasing SNS activity. Studies of rodents show that social stress causes hypertension and atherosclerosis. Studies of non-human primates also show that social stress clogs arteries. Although humans cannot be randomized to receive social stress due to ethical concerns, studies have nevertheless shown that negative social interactions characterized by conflict lead to increases in blood pressure and heart rate. Social stress stemming from perceived daily discrimination is also associated with elevated levels of blood pressure during the day and a lack of blood pressure dipping at night.\n\nIn response to stress, the hypothalamus releases corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), stimulating the anterior pituitary to release adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). ACTH then stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete glucocorticoids, including cortisol. Social stress can lead to adverse health outcomes by chronically activating the HPA axis or disrupting the HPA system. There are a number of studies that link social stress and indications of a disrupted HPA axis; for instance, monkey infants neglected by their mothers show prolonged cortisol responses following a challenging event.\n\nIn humans, abused women exhibit a prolonged elevation in cortisol following a standardized psychosocial laboratory stressor compared to those without an abuse history. Maltreated children show higher morning cortisol values than non-maltreated children. Their HPA systems also fail to recover after a stressful social interaction with their caregiver. Over time, low-SES children show progressively greater output of cortisol. Although these studies point to a disrupted HPA system accounting for the link between social stress and physical health, they did not include disease outcomes. Nevertheless, a dysfunctional HPA response to stress is thought to increase risk for developing or exacerbating diseases such as diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and hypertension.\n\nInflammation is an immune response that is critical to fighting infections and repairing injured tissue. Although acute inflammation is adaptive, chronic inflammatory activity can contribute to adverse health outcomes, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis, coronary heart disease, depression, diabetes, and some cancers.\n\nResearch has elucidated a relationship between different social stressors and cytokines (the markers of inflammation). Chronic social stressors, such as caring for a spouse with dementia, lead to greater circulating levels of cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6), whereas acute social stress tasks in the laboratory have been shown to elicit increases in proinflammatory cytokines. Similarly, when faced with another type of social stress, namely social evaluative threat, participants showed increases in IL-6 and a soluble receptor for tumor necrosis factor-α. Increases in inflammation may persist over time, as studies have shown that chronic relationship stress has been tied to greater IL-6 production 6 months later and children reared in a stressful family environment marked by neglect and conflict tend to show elevated levels of C-reactive protein, a marker of IL-6, in adulthood.\n\nThere is extensive evidence that the above physiological systems affect one another's functioning. For instance, cortisol tends to have a suppressive effect on inflammatory processes, and proinflammatory cytokines can also activate the HPA system. Sympathetic activity can also upregulate inflammatory activity. Given the relationships among these physiological systems, social stress may also influence health indirectly via affecting a particular physiological system that in turn affects a different physiological system.\n\n"}
{"id": "33961741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33961741", "title": "Societal innovation", "text": "Societal innovation\n\nSocietal innovation refers to a systemic change in the interplay of the state and civil society. It is a relative of social innovation, but differs from it by considering the state to be an important co-creator in achieving sustainable systemic change. In this sense, the term's origins lie beyond the traditional anglosaxon understanding for the concept of social innovation. \n\nThe term has been used in research, see e.g.\nbut also in some official reports and documents of the European Union, where societal innovation is considered as an answer to societal challenges. A formal definition exists \n\n\"A societal innovation introduces a novel economic and/or social improvement to people’s\"\n\"everyday life. It brings a (radical or incremental) systemic change to society’s structures or\"\n\"modes of operation, and it is legitimated by the majority of societal stakeholders.\"\n\nAalto Camp for Societal Innovation\n\nSocietal Innovation Blog\n"}
{"id": "1823103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1823103", "title": "Symbolic Systems", "text": "Symbolic Systems\n\nSymbolic Systems is an academic program at Stanford University with an interdisciplinary concentration on \"the science of the mind\" including courses in computer science, linguistics, philosophy, and psychology. The program is analogous to cognitive science departments at other schools. \n\nThe program offers both bachelor's and master's degrees. The undergraduate major is split into concentrations such as artificial intelligence, human-computer interaction, decision making and rationality, and neuroscience. Student advisors and the student-led Symbolic Systems Society provide support and organize events for the major. Each year, the program hosts a \"Distinguished Speaker\", which in the past have included Daniel Dennett, Steven Pinker, Edward Snowden, and Marvin Minsky. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6327661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6327661", "title": "Technology adoption life cycle", "text": "Technology adoption life cycle\n\nThe technology adoption lifecycle is a sociological model that describes the adoption or acceptance of a new product or innovation, according to the demographic and psychological characteristics of defined adopter groups. The process of adoption over time is typically illustrated as a classical normal distribution or \"bell curve\". The model indicates that the first group of people to use a new product is called \"innovators\", followed by \"early adopters\". Next come the early majority and late majority, and the last group to eventually adopt a product are called \"Laggards\" or \"phobics.\" For example, a phobic may only use a cloud service when it is the only remaining method of performing a required task, but the phobic may not have an in-depth technical knowledge of how to use the service.\n\nThe demographic and psychological (or \"psychographic\") profiles of each adoption group were originally specified by the North Central Rural Sociology Committee, Subcommittee for the Study of the Diffusion of Farm Practices, by agricultural researchers Beal and Bohlen in 1957.\nThe report summarized the categories as:\n\nThe model has subsequently been adapted for many areas of technology adoption in the late 20th century.\n\nThe model has spawned a range of adaptations that extend the concept or apply it to specific domains of interest.\n\nIn his book \"Crossing the Chasm\", Geoffrey Moore proposes a variation of the original lifecycle. He suggests that for discontinuous innovations, which may result in a Foster disruption based on s-curve, there is a gap or chasm between the first two adopter groups (innovators/early adopters), and the vertical markets.\n\nDisruption as it is used today are of the Clayton M. Christensen variety. These disruptions are not s-curve based. \n\nIn educational technology, Lindy McKeown has provided a similar model (a pencil metaphor) describing the ICT uptake in education. In medical sociology, Carl May has proposed normalization process theory that shows how technologies become embedded and integrated in health care and other kinds of organisation.\n\nWenger, White and Smith, in their book \"Digital habitats: Stewarding technology for communities\", talk of technology stewards: people with sufficient understanding of the technology available and the technological needs of a community to steward the community through the technology adoption process.\n\nRayna and Striukova (2009) propose that the choice of initial market segment has crucial importance for crossing the chasm, as adoption in this segment can lead to a cascade of adoption in the other segments. This initial market segment has, at the same time, to contain a large proportion of visionaries, to be small enough for adoption to be observed from within the segment and from other segment and be sufficiently connected with other segments. If this is the case, the adoption in the first segment will progressively cascade into the adjacent segments, thereby triggering the adoption by the mass-market.\n\nOne way to model product adoption is to understand that people's behaviours are influenced by their peers and how widespread they think a particular action is. For many format-dependent technologies, people have a non-zero payoff for adopting the same technology as their closest friends or colleagues. If two users both adopt product A, they might get a payoff \"a\" > 0; if they adopt product B, they get \"b\" > 0. But if one adopts A and the other adopts B, they both get a payoff of 0.\n\nA threshold can be set for each user to adopt a product. Say that a node v in a graph has d neighbors: then v will adopt product A if a fraction p of its neighbors is greater than or equal to some threshold. For example, if v's threshold is 2/3, and only one of its two neighbors adopts product A, then v will not adopt A. Using this model, we can deterministically model product adoption on sample networks.\n\nThe technology adoption lifecycle is a sociological model that is an extension of an earlier model called \"the diffusion process\", which was originally published in 1957 by Joe M. Bohlen, George M. Beal and Everett M. Rogers at Iowa State University and which was originally published only for its application to agriculture and home economics.\nbuilding on earlier research conducted there by Neal C. Gross and Bryce Ryan. Their original purpose was to track the purchase patterns of hybrid seed corn by farmers.\n\nBeal, Rogers and Bohlen together developed a model called \"the diffusion process\" and later, Everett Rogers generalized the use of it in his widely acclaimed book 1962 \"Diffusion of Innovations\" (now in its fifth edition), describing how new ideas and technologies spread in different cultures. Others have since used the model to describe how innovations spread between states in the U.S.\n\n"}
{"id": "30862857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30862857", "title": "Technology and society", "text": "Technology and society\n\nTechnology society and life or technology and culture refers to cyclical co-dependence, co-influence, and co-production of technology and society upon the other (technology upon culture, and vice versa). This synergistic relationship occurred from the dawn of humankind, with the invention of simple tools and continues into modern technologies such as the printing press and computers. The academic discipline studying the impacts of science, technology, and society, and vice versa is called science and technology studies.\n\nThe importance of stone tools, circa 2.5 million years ago, is considered fundamental in the human development in the hunting hypothesis.\n\nPrimatologist, Richard Wrangham, theorizes that the control of fire by early humans and the associated development of cooking was the spark that radically changed human evolution. Texts such as \"Guns, Germs, and Steel\" suggest that early advances in plant agriculture and husbandry fundamentally shifted the way that collective groups of individuals, and eventually societies, developed.\n\nTechnology has become a huge part in society and day-to-day life. When societies know more about the development in a technology, they become able to take advantage of it. When an innovation achieves a certain point after it has been presented and promoted, this technology becomes part of the society.The use of technology in education provides students with technology literacy, information literacy, capacity for life-long learning and other skills necessary for the 21st century workplace. Digital technology has entered each process and activity made by the social system. In fact, it constructed another worldwide communication system in addition to its origin.\n\nA 1982 study by \"The New York Times\" described a technology assessment study by the Institute for the Future, \"peering into the future of an electronic world.\" The study focused on the emerging videotex industry, formed by the marriage of two older technologies, communications and computing. It estimated that 40 percent of American households will have two-way videotex service by the end of the century. By comparison, it took television 16 years to penetrate 90 percent of households from the time commercial service was begun.\n\nSince the creation of computers achieved an entire better approach to transmit and store data. Digital technology became commonly used for downloading music and watching movies at home either by DVDs or purchasing it online.\nDigital music records are not quite the same as traditional recording media. Obviously, because digital ones are reproducible, portable and free.\n\nSeveral states started to implement education technology in schools, universities and colleges. According to the statistics, in the early beginnings of 1990s the use of Internet in schools was ,on average, 2-3%. Continuously, by the end of 1990s the evolution of technology increases rapidly and reaches to 60%, and by the year of 2008 nearly 100% of schools use Internet on educational form. According to ISTE researchers, technological improvements can lead to numerous achievements in classrooms. E-learning system, collaboration of students on project based learning, and technological skills for future results in motivation of students. \n\nAlthough these previous examples only show a few of the positive aspects of technology in society, there are negative side effects as well. Within this virtual realm, social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, and Snapchat have altered the way Generation Y culture is understanding the world and thus how they view themselves. In recent years, there has been more research on the development of social media depression in users of sites like these. \"Facebook Depression\" is when users are so affected by their friends' posts and lives that their own jealousy depletes their sense of self-worth. They compare themselves to the posts made by their peers and feel unworthy or monotonous because they feel like their lives are not nearly as exciting as the lives of others.\n\nAnother instance of the negative effects of technology in society, is how quickly it is pushing younger generations into maturity. With the world at their fingertips, children can learn anything they wish to. But with the uncensored sources from the internet, without proper supervision, children can be exposed to explicit material at inappropriate ages. This comes in the forms of premature interests in experimenting with makeup or opening an email account or social media page—all of which can become a window for predators and other dangerous entities that threaten a child's innocence. Technology has a serious effect on youth's health. The overuse of technology is said to be associated with sleep deprivation which is linked to obesity and poor academic performance in the lives of adolescents.\n\nIn ancient history, economics began when spontaneous exchange of goods and services was replaced over time by deliberate trade structures. Makers of arrowheads, for example, might have realized they could do better by concentrating on making arrowheads and barter for other needs. Regardless of goods and services bartered, some amount of technology was involved—if no more than in the making of shell and bead jewelry. Even the shaman's potions and sacred objects can be said to have involved some technology. So, from the very beginnings, technology can be said to have spurred the development of more elaborate economies.Technology is seen as primary source in economic development.\n\nTechnology advancement and economic growth are related to each other.The level of technology is important to determine the economic growth.It is the technological process which keeps the economy moving.\n\nIn the modern world, superior technologies, resources, geography, and history give rise to robust economies; and in a well-functioning, robust economy, economic excess naturally flows into greater use of technology. Moreover, because technology is such an inseparable part of human society, especially in its economic aspects, funding sources for (new) technological endeavors are virtually illimitable. However, while in the beginning, technological investment involved little more than the time, efforts, and skills of one or a few men, today, such investment may involve the collective labor and skills of many millions.\n\nConsequently, the sources of funding for large technological efforts have dramatically narrowed, since few have ready access to the collective labor of a whole society, or even a large part. It is conventional to divide up funding sources into governmental (involving whole, or nearly whole, social enterprises) and private (involving more limited, but generally more sharply focused) business or individual enterprises.\n\nThe government is a major contributor to the development of new technology in many ways. In the United States alone, many government agencies specifically invest billions of dollars in new technology.\n\n[In 1980, the UK government invested just over six million pounds in a four-year program, later extended to six years, called the Microelectronics Education Programme (MEP), which was intended to give every school in Britain at least one computer, software, training materials, and extensive teacher training. Similar programs have been instituted by governments around the world.]\n\nTechnology has frequently been driven by the military, with many modern applications developed for the military before they were adapted for civilian use. However, this has always been a two-way flow, with industry often developing and adopting a technology only later adopted by the military.\n\nEntire government agencies are specifically dedicated to research, such as America's National Science Foundation, the United Kingdom's scientific research institutes, America's Small Business Innovative Research effort. Many other government agencies dedicate a major portion of their budget to research and development.\n\nResearch and development is one of the smallest areas of investments made by corporations toward new and innovative technology.\nMany foundations and other nonprofit organizations contribute to the development of technology. In the OECD, about two-thirds of research and development in scientific and technical fields is carried out by industry, and 98 percent and 10 percent, respectively, by universities and government. But in poorer countries such as Portugal and Mexico the industry contribution is significantly less. The U.S. government spends more than other countries on military research and development, although the proportion has fallen from about 30 percent in the 1980s to less than 10 percent.\n\nThe 2009 founding of Kickstarter allows individuals to receive funding via crowdsourcing for many technology related products including both new physical creations as well as documentaries, films, and webseries that focus on technology management. This circumvents the corporate or government oversight most inventors and artists struggle against but leaves the accountability of the project completely with the individual receiving the funds.\n\n\nThe implementation of technology influences the values of a society by changing expectations and realities. The implementation of technology is also influenced by values. There are (at least) three major, interrelated values that inform, and are informed by, technological innovations:\n\nTechnology often enables organizational and bureaucratic group structures that otherwise and heretofore were simply not possible. Examples of this might include:\n\nTechnology enables greater knowledge of international issues, values, and cultures. Due mostly to mass transportation and mass media, the world seems to be a much smaller place, due to the following:\n\nTechnology provides an understanding, and an appreciation for the world around us.\n\nMost modern technological processes produce unwanted by products in addition to the desired products, which is known as industrial waste and pollution. While most material waste is re-used in the industrial process, many forms are released into the environment, with negative environmental side effects, such as pollution and lack of sustainability. Different social and political systems establish different balances between the value they place on additional goods versus the disvalues of waste products and pollution. Some technologies are designed specifically with the environment in mind, but most are designed first for economic or ergonomic effects. Historically, the value of a clean environment and more efficient productive processes has been the result of an increase in the wealth of society, because once people are able to provide for their basic needs, they are able to focus on less tangible goods such as clean air and water.\n\nThe effects of technology on the environment are both obvious and subtle. The more obvious effects include the depletion of nonrenewable natural resources (such as petroleum, coal, ores), and the added pollution of air, water, and land. The more subtle effects include debates over long-term effects (e.g., global warming, deforestation, natural habitat destruction, coastal wetland loss.)\n\nEach wave of technology creates a set of waste previously unknown by humans: toxic waste, radioactive waste, electronic waste.\n\nOne of the main problems is the lack of an effective way to remove these pollutants on a large scale expediently. In nature, organisms \"recycle\" the wastes of other organisms, for example, plants produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, oxygen-breathing organisms use oxygen to metabolize food, producing carbon dioxide as a by-product, which plants use in a process to make sugar, with oxygen as a waste in the first place. No such mechanism exists for the removal of technological wastes.\n\nSociety also controls technology through the choices it makes. These choices not only include consumer demands; they also include:\n\nAccording to Williams and Edge, the construction and shaping of technology includes the concept of choice (and not necessarily conscious choice). Choice is inherent in both the design of individual artifacts and systems, and in the making of those artifacts and systems.\n\nThe idea here is that a single technology may not emerge from the unfolding of a predetermined logic or a single determinant, technology could be a garden of forking paths, with different paths potentially leading to different technological outcomes. This is a position that has been developed in detail by Judy Wajcman. Therefore, choices could have differing implications for society and for particular social groups.\n\nIn one line of thought, technology develops autonomously, in other words, technology seems to feed on itself, moving forward with a force irresistible by humans. To these individuals, technology is \"inherently dynamic and self-augmenting.\"\n\nJacques Ellul is one proponent of the irresistibleness of technology to humans. He espouses the idea that humanity cannot resist the temptation of expanding our knowledge and our technological abilities. However, he does not believe that this seeming autonomy of technology is inherent. But the perceived autonomy is because humans do not adequately consider the responsibility that is inherent in technological processes.\n\nLangdon Winner critiques the idea that technological evolution is essentially beyond the control of individuals or society in his book Autonomous Technology. He argues instead that the apparent autonomy of technology is a result of \"technological somnambulism,\" the tendency of people to uncritically and unreflectively embrace and utilize new technologies without regard for their broader social and political effects.\n\nIndividuals rely on governmental assistance to control the side effects and negative consequences of technology.\n\nRecently, the social shaping of technology has had new influence in the fields of e-science and e-social science in the United Kingdom, which has made centers focusing on the social shaping of science and technology a central part of their funding programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40076768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40076768", "title": "Telepharmacy", "text": "Telepharmacy\n\nTelepharmacy is the delivery of pharmaceutical care via telecommunications to patients in locations where they may not have direct contact with a pharmacist. It is an instance of the wider phenomenon of telemedicine, as implemented in the field of pharmacy. Telepharmacy services include drug therapy monitoring, patient counseling, prior authorization and refill authorization for prescription drugs, and monitoring of formulary compliance with the aid of teleconferencing or videoconferencing. Remote dispensing of medications by automated packaging and labeling systems can also be thought of as an instance of telepharmacy. Telepharmacy services can be delivered at retail pharmacy sites or through hospitals, nursing homes, or other medical care facilities.\n\nThe term can also refer to the use of videoconferencing in pharmacy for other purposes, such as providing education, training, and management services to pharmacists and pharmacy staff remotely.\n\nA primary appeal of telepharmacy is its potential to expand access to pharmacy care in smaller rural communities, some of which cannot support a full-time pharmacist or cannot easily recruit a pharmacist to reside in their region. Telepharmacy can potentially give patients in remote locations access to professional pharmacy care that could not be received locally, which can lower costs and improve patient safety through better patient counseling, drug administration monitoring, and compliance monitoring. Sharing of pharmacists between sites can also decrease costs in existing facilities, which might no longer need to employ a full-time pharmacist.\n\nThe potential costs of telepharmacy are broadly the same as those associated with all forms of telemedicine: potentially decreased human interaction between medical professionals and patients, an increased risk of error when medical services are delivered in the absence of a registered professional, and an increased risk that protected health information may be compromised through electronic information storage and transmission.\n\nThe implementation of telepharmacy varies by region and jurisdiction. Factors including geography, laws and regulations, and economics influence its implementation.\n\nA form of telepharmacy has been in use by Australia's Royal Flying Doctor Service since 1942. Medical chests containing medications and equipment are placed in remote communities where they can be administered to patients during a telehealth consultation. Some 3,500 chests were distributed around Australia as of 2006. In one year, Queensland recorded 21,470 telehealth consultations, of which 13.7% resulted in administration of a medication from a medical chest. The medication types administered most often are antibiotics, analgesics and gastrointestinal medications. This system improves access to both emergency and routine medical care in remote parts of Australia and reduces the need for patients to travel to seek medical care.\n\nAnother application of telepharmacy in Queensland has been the provision of pharmaceutical reviews in rural hospitals that lack on-staff pharmacists. Although broader use of telepharmacy could help alleviate a shortage of pharmacists, Australia has lagged the United States in its implementation of telepharmacy, partly because doctors, nurses, and other health care workers provide pharmacy services in rural and remote areas where there are no pharmacists.\n\nImplementation of telepharmacy in the United States began in the 2000s. A combination of factors, including changes in Medicare reimbursement for medications and the recession of 2007–8, led to a decline in the number of independent pharmacies in rural areas. In response to the need for alternative means of delivering pharmacy in services in rural communities lacking a full-time pharmacist, several midwestern and northwestern states with extensive rural areas have led much of the development of policy and implementation methods for telepharmacy.\n\nIn 2001, North Dakota became the first U.S. state to pass regulations allowing retail pharmacies to operate without requiring a pharmacist to be physically present. The next year, state agencies and grants established the North Dakota Telepharmacy Project, which now supports more than fifty remote retail and hospital pharmacy sites throughout North Dakota. In this program, a licensed pharmacist at a central site communicates with remote site pharmacy technicians and patients through videoconferencing. A 2004 study of the program found that telepharmacy delivered the same quality of pharmacy services as traditional facilities, and a study of the operation of one North Dakota telepharmacy business from 2002 through 2004 found that, while medication inventory turnover was lower than the industry average, the remote sites were able to be operated profitably. The success and expansion of this program were an inspiration and model for programs and laws in other states.\n\nThe Community Health Association of Spokane, a network of community health centers in Spokane, Washington, started a telepharmacy program in 2001. The program delivers remote medication dispensing and health counseling to patients at six urban and rural clinics; remote site personnel are connected to pharmacists at the base site by videoconferencing. A survey found that most patients at the remote sites strongly agreed or agreed that they would have had difficulty affording their medications without this program.\n\nThe Alaska Native Medical Center, a hospital in Anchorage, Alaska, providing telehealth services to Alaska Native populations, established a telepharmacy program in 2003 to improve its pharmaceutical services in rural native settlements. The American Society of Health-System Pharmacists gave the program its 2006 Award for Excellence in Medication-Use Safety, concluding that the use of telepharmacy had improved access to pharmaceutical care and enabled pharmacists to monitor medication safety and encourage medication adherence, as well as making pharmacy care more cost-effective.\n\nThe U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine operates a large-scale telepharmacy program for the use of service personnel. After piloting the program in 2006 at Naval Hospital Pensacola in Florida and Naval Hospital Bremerton in Washington, in 2010 the Navy expanded it to more sites throughout the world. This program represents the largest implementation of telepharmacy to date.\n\nCalifornia passed a Telehealth Advancement Act in 2011 to update the state's legal definitions of telehealth, simplify approval processes for telehealth services, and broaden the range of medical services that may be provided via telehealth. The law establishes legal parity between the direct and remote delivery of pharmacy care. Iowa's first telepharmacy opened in September 2012 after receiving a three-year waiver from the Iowa Board of Pharmacy that allows the facility to operate without a pharmacist on-site.\n\nA 2010 study of the various American states' rural health offices found that telepharmacy in rural medical facilities varied in prevalence across the United States but was still not widespread, and that many states had not yet clearly defined regulations for telepharmacy in hospitals. Adoption and implementation of telepharmacy methods has been slow compared to the spread of the basic technologies involved (internet access, audio/video compression algorithms, microphones and video cameras), despite periodic predictions of a forthcoming boom in the industry. Aside from more intangible factors (such as physicians' and pharmacists' personal uneasiness with the lack of physical interaction with patients), the major obstacles to telepharmacy implementation appear to have been the lack of clear legal regulations for telepharmacy, and the lack of network and software systems to manage (and secure) all of the data used in a professional pharmacy. As of 2010, many of the telepharmacy facilities in active operation were operating as pilot programs or under temporary waivers issued by state regulators because many states still had no clear legal framework for the regulation of remote pharmaceutical sites without pharmacists. Even in states that had regulated retail telepharmacy practices, regulations were often not in place to permit the implementation of telepharmacy in hospital settings. For some pharmacy facilities that might otherwise consider telepharmacy, the cost and complexity of the infrastructure needed to manage patient data across multiple sites can be prohibitive. In addition to the computer hardware required for patient data storage, distribution and teleconferencing, telepharmacy programs must deploy network security tools and procedures adequate to protect patient medical information in compliance with HIPAA and other patient privacy regulations. In 2010 the North Dakota Telepharmacy Project estimated that the computer hardware needed for a typical retail installation costs US$17,300 per site, with an additional cost of US$5,000 to buy a mobile cart for a hospital installation.\n\nAdoption of telepharmacy in Canada began as a response to a nationwide shortage of pharmacists. Canada's first telepharmacy service was started by a hospital in Cranbrook, British Columbia, in June 2003 in order to assist a hospital in a nearby town that was unable to hire a pharmacist. To meet the need for service, a hospital pharmacist in Cranbrook began using telepharmacy technology to oversee pharmacy technicians at the other hospital. A similar service was subsequently extended to other small hospitals in the province; it is also used to provide coverage when a hospital's sole pharmacist is absent due to illness or vacation. Remote dispensing machines for medication began operation in Ontario, Canada, in 2007. After a patient inserts a prescription into the dispensing machine, the prescription is scanned and the patient is connected by telephone videoconference to a pharmacist at a remote site. The pharmacist reviews the prescription, discusses the patient's medication history, and authorizes the machine to dispense medication to the patient. The machines proved successful, with one assessment revealing that 96% of patients using them had their prescription filled in under five minutes. As of 2009, a hospital in Ontario, Canada, was using telepharmacy services in addition to retaining a pharmacist at the hospital; the telepharmacist reviews medication orders, while the on-site pharmacist works with patients and oversees medication safety in the facility. Thus telepharmacy support allows the on-site pharmacist to focus on the more sensitive and nuanced tasks for which physical presence is most helpful.\n\nAfter their success in Canada, remote medication dispensing machines were scheduled to be tested at several hospital locations in the United Kingdom beginning in 2010. In 2013, Maxor National Pharmacy Services, a U.S. company, reported that its remote dispensing machines for medication were being used in Bahrain, Belgium, Cuba, England, Germany, Guam, Italy, Japan, Spain and Venezuela.\n\nIn 2010, Mannings drugstores became the first in Hong Kong to use videoconferencing to allow patients at outlets without full-time pharmacists to consult with pharmacists at other sites.\n"}
{"id": "6900765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6900765", "title": "Timeline of the American Old West", "text": "Timeline of the American Old West\n\nThis timeline of the American Old West is a chronology ordered list of events significant to the development of the American West as a region of the United States prior to 1912. The term \"American Old West\" refers to a vast geographical area and lengthy time period of imprecise boundaries, and historians' definitions vary. The events in this timeline occurred primarily in the contiguous portion of the modern United States west of the Mississippi River, and mostly in the period between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the admission of the last mainland states into the Union in 1912. A small section summarizing early exploration and settlement prior to 1803 is included to provide a foundation for later developments. Rarely, events significant to the history of the West but which occurred within the modern boundaries of Canada and Mexico are included as well.\n\nWestern North America was inhabited for millennia by various groups of Native Americans, and later served as a frontier to European powers, beginning with Spanish colonization in the 16th century. British, French, and Russian claims followed in the 18th and 19th centuries. After the American Revolution, the newly independent United States began securing its own frontier from the Appalachian Mountains westward for settlement and economic investment by American citizens. The long history of American expansion into these lands has played a central role in shaping American culture, iconography, and the modern national identity, and remains a popular topic for study by scholars and historians.\n\nEvents listed below are notable developments for the region as a whole, not just for a particular state or smaller subdivision of the region; as historians Hine and Faragher put it, they \"tell the story of the creation and defense of communities, the use of the lands, the development of markets, and the formation of states... It is a tale of conquest, but also one of survival, persistence, and the merging of peoples and cultures.\"\n\nFor almost three centuries after Columbus' voyages to the New World, much of western North America remained unsettled by European colonists, despite various territorial claims made by imperialist nations. Europeans interest in the vast territory was motivated by the search for precious metals, especially gold, and the fur trade, with miners, trappers, and hunters among the first people of European descent to permanently settle in the West. The early years were also a period of scientific exploration and survey, such that by 1830 the rough outline of the western half of the continent had been mapped to the Pacific Ocean.\n\n"}
{"id": "53348917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53348917", "title": "Women in comedy", "text": "Women in comedy\n\nWomen in comedy refers to females who participate in comedic works as well as their experience within the social environment. While primarily dominated by men throughout history, women have been represented in the field of comedy since the mid 1700s. Comedy, or creative works with the intention of humor, is thought to have originated in ancient Greek theatre in 425 BCE. Some of the first figures to enter the field, however, were faced with resistance and discrimination. A sense of humor in women was previously thought to have meant the ability to laugh at a man's joke, rather than tell the joke herself. When women did finally enter comedy (in its various forms), it was seen as niche, thus making bookings hard to come by.\n\nEarly acts were often based in the standard roles of women as a housewife and mother. Comedy was tailored to what men would find to be both funny and non-threatening. As women gained slow acceptance to their presence in comedy, they were able to expand the topics that they covered. Since then, women have made significant gains in the field, having found fame through stand-up, television, movies, and writing. Women such as Amy Schumer, Phyllis Diller, Wanda Sykes, Gina Barreca and many others have contributed to the world of comedy, spanning both time and medium.\n\nAs comedic license has grown, comedy has become a tool within the scope of feminism. By reclaiming a previously male-exclusive art form, female comedians are able to use patriarchal structure against itself. Today, feminist comedy draws attention to female issues such as menstruation, rape, gender inequality, beauty norms, and machismo. As a readily acceptable and understandable medium of communication, comedy lends itself to the feminist movement, allowing women's issues to be more wide-spread in general society.\n\nStand-up comedy is a form of comedy in which performers act in front of a live audience, creating an interactive dependency. Jokes range from short one-liners to longer monologues. The comedic form requires a takeover the stage, in order for the comedian's material to \"kill.\" For women, the direct contact with the audience puts their womanhood on display. Many female comedians choose to wear loose-fitting clothing to take their femininity out of the spotlight.\n\nAmerican late night television (\"The Tonight Show\", \"The Daily Show\" etc...) has been dominated by white men for almost its entire existence. With the exception of \"Full Frontal\" with Samantha Bee, no woman has had a late night show on a major network of her own. The platform allows a variety of comedic (monologues and shorts) and political (interviews and exposés) opportunities.\n\nFilm in general, as well as comedic film, continues to show the gender imbalance of other forms of comedy. In 2014, a study found that there were 2.24 male characters for every one female character. Of the movies surveyed, only 30.9% of the speaking characters were female. Additionally, one of the major storylines in the film industry (the romantic comedy), consistently follows traditional female roles, relegating women to simply searching for a male partner.\n\nThe gender imbalance between men and women can be found all over, even on Wikipedia. The page: list of comedians show a much higher number of males than females.\n\nIn the United States, there is a large gender gap between men and women in comedy with regards to both pay and number. In 2014, all ten of the top ten paid comedians were male, bringing in a total of $173 million. In 2016, one female entered the list: Amy Schumer, at number two.\n\nA study in 2017 found a large gender imbalance in UK comedic panel shows, with only 31% of the appearances. However, the same study also found marked improvement since 1989, when the statistic was 3%. Additionally, the UK industry website Chortle lists 269 female comedian as compared to 1,279 male comedians.\n\nImbalance can also be seen at the level of the comedy club. For example, the prestigious New York comedy club Carolines featured 20% female performers to 80% male in 2014. Within the writers room, gender imbalance persists. Women made up only 10 percent of writers working on the top 250 domestic grossing films of 2010 and 15 percent of writers and 18 percent of creators in prime-time television during the 2010–2011 season.\n\nIn South Korea, of 70 comedic variety shows, 13 had all male hosts and guests, and 23 with all male hosts, meaning that more than half of these shows lack female hosts. Only two shows had all females hosts and guests. Shows without hosts often try to model marriages by pairing up male and female celebrities. While this does achieve some sense of gender balance, it uses very traditional roles.\n\nThe early female figures in stand up, such as Phyllis Diller, were able to enter the mainstream through their willingness to self-deprecate and declare themselves ugly. Other early female comediennes, such as Mae West and Helen Kane, used sex appeal to attract male audiences. In other words, they were able to enter, but on the terms of male comedians. More modern female comedians cite a need to tailor their comedy to what men would find to be funny, with change in this mentality only coming very recently.\n\nStand up comedy, in particular, is described as a masculine art form. The words that are used to describe success are often violent, such as \"killed\" or \"annihilated.\" The performer must take charge of the stage, claiming it as their own via the phallic symbol of the microphone. The structure of joke is often centered on an attack on another party. The aggression that such an art form necessitates is encouraged in males but discouraged in females.\n\nIn many societies around the world, a woman's role has affected her flexibility in comedy. In countries that historically view women as inferior to men, comedy is seen as a masculine discipline. The common perception that women aren't funny pervades all aspects of comedy, including stand-up, television, and movies. The comedy establishment, influenced by patriarchal society, has relegated women to the \"side of tears and loss.\" Systematic sexism can be found at the level of audience members, bookers, agents, and male comics. As a powerful social tool, comedy brings women outside of the traditional role that has been defined as theirs.\n\nWomen have experience everything from heckling audience members calling them gendered terms like bitches or sluts, to being invited to fake comedic festivals (so the organizer could have sex with the female comedian), to being introduced in roasts as the girl that \"slept with one of the judges.\"\n\nHumor has been used a tool of feminism both for its ability to point out patriarchy and the structures it creates as well as identify the common female experience. A distinction must be made between female humor and feminist humor. Female humor is self-deprecatory, turning inwards to the performer herself. Feminist humor, by contrast, looks outwards at the societal structures that demean women. It is aggressive and pointed, using comedic language formerly reserved for men only as a tool of liberation. Feminist humor is to be an agent of change for women by drawing attention to their lowered position in society.\n\nBing argues that for feminist humor to be most effective at its goal of change, it should be inclusive, rather than divisive. Divisive humor, or jokes that focus on male structures or male-bashing, do not advance feminism, but rather continue to marginalize females. Inclusive humor that riffs off of the shared experience of women, can be subversive without the negative effects of divisive humor. Bing continues to say that when humor falls into this inclusive comedy it contributes to feminism by first, contradicting the age old stereotype that women cannot be funny, and second, by undermining the status quo.\n\nHumor itself can be used to make strong structural changes in a society. Many times humor has been used to subvert hierarchical structures. For example, the Guerrilla Girls used humor to point out the patriarchal, unchanging nature of the Tony awards, which give the majority of their prizes to men. It also functions to establish an in-group (those making and understanding the joke) and an out-group (those on the receiving end). Through this process, humor can create solidarity within a group, but can also make another feel excluded. For women, this can serve to strengthen them as a community.\n\nOutside of the United States, women have been having similar experiences in their attempts to enter field of comedy, colored by their own cultural influences. One such women is Farhana Muna, a Bangladeshi Muslim comic. Her material is focused on Bangladeshi life and culture, from parties to relatives commenting on weight loss. According to Muna, she often feels constrained by what is deemed appropriate or not for a Bangladeshi Muslim women. She must watch what she says and wears. Muna reemphasized the sentiment that there is a wider range of comedy acceptable for men. She has also faced criticism for her actions, including her choice to not wear the hijab, with people calling her a bad Muslim. However, she continues her comedic work due to the community of women that she has met through it. Muna sees comedy as a collective platform of expression, a way to share her experiences in a relatable way.\n\nWomen have been on the rise in India's comedy as recently as 2016. In a country that has deeply entrenched patriarchal values, these female comedians face great amounts of cultural animosity. Despite this discrimination women such as Aditi Mittal and Neeti Palta have found success in an industry that did not readily accept them.\n\nIn South Korea, female comedians do not encounter many comedic opportunities. Only two television programs are completely hosted by females, with the other major television opportunity being couples shows. South Korean TV shows only offer gender balance when women are in gendered roles. Producers see men as more advantageous hires as the shows' audiences are majority women. Additionally, there was a worry that audiences would react badly to strong women in television. As the woman's movement grows in South Korea, so too do the opportunities for women. Rather than featuring beautiful women as prizes to be won by males contestants, new shows such as \"Sisters' Slam Dunk\" (which premiered in 2016) feature women working together to solve problems.\n\nOne of the most prominent early figures in American female comedy, Phyllis Diller made her comedic debut at the Purple Onion Comedy Club in the 1950s. Her stand-up routines focused on the problems of the suburban housewife, a previous unaddressed area by male comics. By opening acknowledging her lack of physical attractiveness and by incorporating self-deprecation into her routines, Diller was able to enter comedy in a time when funny and attractive women were seen as threatening. However, by confining her comedy to her inability to fulfill her traditional role, she reinforced female stereotypes rather than dismissing them.\n\nJoan Rivers (active from 1959–2014) was one of the first female comedians to utilize the \"talk/conversational\" method, one that was suited to television talk shows. Unlike Phyllis Diller, who was quite unlike her comedic personality, the comedy of Joan Rivers more closely reflected her personality. She often drew on her own personal experiences as a self-proclaimed Jewish princess. Unlike her predecessors, Rivers did not downplay her attractiveness, but rather incorporated it into her riffs on life as a single woman. Still, her comedy was focused on the traditional problems of a women (trying to find a boyfriend and husband, being a good wife etc).\n\nJane Curtin was a part of the inaugural class of Not Ready for Prime Time Players on \"Saturday Night Live\" in 1975. On SNL, she was the anchor for Weekend Update and started in many well known skits including \"Coneheads\". On Weekend Update, she served as the liberal counterpart to Dan Aykroyd’s conservative perspective. In 2008, when asked about the environment at Saturday Night Live, Curtin said that female writers faced an extremely difficult battle, especially when cast member like John Belushi were actively working against them. While fundamentally believing that women are not capable of humor, he also would sabotage pieces written by women. Despite this atmosphere, Jane Curtin had a very successful career at SNL and went on to work on sitcoms, Broadway, and various movies.\n\nFigures such as Tina Fey have paved the way in the modern era for large-scale growth in female comedy. Her public appointment as the first female head writer of Saturday Night Live placed her in a position to serve as a feminist comedy icon. Many of her sketches became iconic, particularly her satirical portrayal of Vice Presidential Candidate Sarah Palin. Her comedic writing (Mean Girls, 30 Rock, Bossypants, Baby Mama, Date Night etc...), in addition to achieving great public notice, was well received by critics.\n\nMiranda Hart is a female comedian from the UK. She is most well-known for her television series \"Miranda.\" Her awkward and clumsy character in the show is a embodiment of all the society neuroses that women face in daily life. Such a style of comedy makes her into an everywoman. Hart herself sees a divide in comedy, with some using comedy as a tool to increase their coolness (others) and some using comedy as a tool for clowning around (her). By staying within the clowning realm of comedy, she achieved a cult following.\n\nAmy Schumer is a female comedian from the United States, and was the highest paid entertainer in her field in 2016. She has been one of the most successful female comedians of all time, appealing to a wide audience of both men and women. Schumer is most well-known for her movie \"Trainwreck\" (2015) and her Comedy Central show, \"Inside Amy Schumer.\" In 2015, she was named one of Time Magazine's most influential people. Her comedy is often focused on gender politics, touching on the issues that women face throughout their lives. One of her most famous skits centers around women not being able to accept compliments, resulting in escalating forms of self-deprecation - culminating in mass suicide, rather than accepting the compliment.\n\nGina Barreca is a female comedian from the United States, known around the world for her books. These include Babes in Boyland, I Used to be Snow White but I Drifted, If you Lean In will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse and many others. Dr. Gina Barreca has appeared on \"20/20\", \"The Today Show\", \"CNN\", the \"BBC\", \"NPR\" and \"Oprah\" to discuss gender, power, politics, and humor.\n\n"}
