{"id": "5334607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5334607", "title": "Africa", "text": "Africa\n\nAfrica is the world's second largest and second most-populous continent (behind Asia in both categories). At about 30.3 million km (11.7 million square miles) including adjacent islands, it covers 6% of Earth's total surface area and 20% of its land area. With\n/1e9 round 1 billion people as of , it accounts for about 16% of the world's human population. The continent is surrounded by the Mediterranean Sea to the north, the Isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea to the northeast, the Indian Ocean to the southeast and the Atlantic Ocean to the west. The continent includes Madagascar and various archipelagos. It contains 54 fully recognised sovereign states (countries), nine territories and two \"de facto\" independent states with limited or no recognition. The majority of the continent and its countries are in the Northern Hemisphere, with a substantial portion and number of countries in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nAfrica's average population is the youngest amongst all the continents; the median age in 2012 was 19.7, when the worldwide median age was 30.4. Algeria is Africa's largest country by area, and Nigeria is its largest by population. Africa, particularly central Eastern Africa, is widely accepted as the place of origin of humans and the Hominidae clade (great apes), as evidenced by the discovery of the earliest hominids and their ancestors as well as later ones that have been dated to around 7 million years ago, including \"Sahelanthropus tchadensis\", \"Australopithecus africanus\", \"A. afarensis\", \"Homo erectus\", \"H. habilis\" and \"H. ergaster\"—the earliest \"Homo sapiens\" (modern human), found in Ethiopia, date to circa 200,000 years ago. Africa straddles the equator and encompasses numerous climate areas; it is the only continent to stretch from the northern temperate to southern temperate zones.\n\nAfrica hosts a large diversity of ethnicities, cultures and languages. In the late 19th century, European countries colonised almost all of Africa; most present states in Africa originated from a process of decolonisation in the 20th century. African nations cooperate through the establishment of the African Union, which is headquartered in Addis Ababa.\n\n\"Afri\" was a Latin name used to refer to the inhabitants of then-known northern Africa to the west of the Nile river, and in its widest sense referred to all lands south of the Mediterranean (Ancient Libya). This name seems to have originally referred to a native Libyan tribe, an ancestor of modern Berbers; see Terence for discussion. The name had usually been connected with the Phoenician word \"\" meaning \"dust\", but a 1981 hypothesis has asserted that it stems from the Berber word \"ifri\" (plural \"ifran\") meaning \"cave\", in reference to cave dwellers. The same word may be found in the name of the Banu Ifran from Algeria and Tripolitania, a Berber tribe originally from Yafran (also known as \"Ifrane\") in northwestern Libya.\n\nUnder Roman rule, Carthage became the capital of the province it then named \"Africa Proconsularis\", following its defeat of the Carthaginians in the Third Punic War in 146 BC, which also included the coastal part of modern Libya. The Latin suffix \"-ica\" can sometimes be used to denote a land (e.g., in \"Celtica\" from \"Celtae\", as used by Julius Caesar). The later Muslim region of Ifriqiya, following its conquest of the Byzantine (Eastern Roman) Empire's \"Exarchatus Africae\", also preserved a form of the name.\n\nAccording to the Romans, Africa lay to the west of Egypt, while \"Asia\" was used to refer to Anatolia and lands to the east. A definite line was drawn between the two continents by the geographer Ptolemy (85–165 AD), indicating Alexandria along the Prime Meridian and making the isthmus of Suez and the Red Sea the boundary between Asia and Africa. As Europeans came to understand the real extent of the continent, the idea of \"Africa\" expanded with their knowledge.\n\nOther etymological hypotheses have been postulated for the ancient name \"Africa\":\n\nAfrica is considered by most paleoanthropologists to be the oldest inhabited territory on Earth, with the human species originating from the continent. During the mid-20th century, anthropologists discovered many fossils and evidence of human occupation perhaps as early as 7 million years ago (BP=before present). Fossil remains of several species of early apelike humans thought to have evolved into modern man, such as \"Australopithecus afarensis\" (radiometrically dated to approximately 3.9–3.0 million years BP, \"Paranthropus boisei\" (c. 2.3–1.4 million years BP) and \"Homo ergaster\" (c. 1.9 million–600,000 years BP) have been discovered.\n\nAfter the evolution of \"Homo sapiens sapiens\" approximately 150,000 to 100,000 years BP in Africa, the continent was mainly populated by groups of hunter-gatherers. These first modern humans left Africa and populated the rest of the globe during the Out of Africa II migration dated to approximately 50,000 years BP, exiting the continent either across Bab-el-Mandeb over the Red Sea, the Strait of Gibraltar in Morocco, or the Isthmus of Suez in Egypt.\n\nOther migrations of modern humans within the African continent have been dated to that time, with evidence of early human settlement found in Southern Africa, Southeast Africa, North Africa, and the Sahara.\n\nThe size of the Sahara has historically been extremely variable, with its area rapidly fluctuating and at times disappearing depending on global climatic conditions. At the end of the Ice ages, estimated to have been around 10,500 BC, the Sahara had again become a green fertile valley, and its African populations returned from the interior and coastal highlands in Sub-Saharan Africa, with rock art paintings depicting a fertile Sahara and large populations discovered in Tassili n'Ajjer dating back perhaps 10 millennia. However, the warming and drying climate meant that by 5000 BC, the Sahara region was becoming increasingly dry and hostile. Around 3500 BC, due to a tilt in the earth's orbit, the Sahara experienced a period of rapid desertification. The population trekked out of the Sahara region towards the Nile Valley below the Second Cataract where they made permanent or semi-permanent settlements. A major climatic recession occurred, lessening the heavy and persistent rains in Central and Eastern Africa. Since this time, dry conditions have prevailed in Eastern Africa and, increasingly during the last 200 years, in Ethiopia.\n\nThe domestication of cattle in Africa preceded agriculture and seems to have existed alongside hunter-gatherer cultures. It is speculated that by 6000 BC, cattle were domesticated in North Africa. In the Sahara-Nile complex, people domesticated many animals, including the donkey and a small screw-horned goat which was common from Algeria to Nubia.\n\nAround 4000 BC, the Saharan climate started to become drier at an exceedingly fast pace. This climate change caused lakes and rivers to shrink significantly and caused increasing desertification. This, in turn, decreased the amount of land conducive to settlements and helped to cause migrations of farming communities to the more tropical climate of West Africa.\n\nBy the first millennium BC, ironworking had been introduced in Northern Africa and quickly spread across the Sahara into the northern parts of sub-Saharan Africa, and by 500 BC, metalworking began to become commonplace in West Africa. Ironworking was fully established by roughly 500 BC in many areas of East and West Africa, although other regions didn't begin ironworking until the early centuries AD. Copper objects from Egypt, North Africa, Nubia, and Ethiopia dating from around 500 BC have been excavated in West Africa, suggesting that Trans-Saharan trade networks had been established by this date.\n\nAt about 3300 BC, the historical record opens in Northern Africa with the rise of literacy in the Pharaonic civilization of Ancient Egypt. One of the world's earliest and longest-lasting civilizations, the Egyptian state continued, with varying levels of influence over other areas, until 343 BC. Egyptian influence reached deep into modern-day Libya and Nubia, and, according to Martin Bernal, as far north as Crete.\n\nAn independent centre of civilization with trading links to Phoenicia was established by Phoenicians from Tyre on the north-west African coast at Carthage.\n\nEuropean exploration of Africa began with Ancient Greeks and Romans. In 332 BC, Alexander the Great was welcomed as a liberator in Persian-occupied Egypt. He founded Alexandria in Egypt, which would become the prosperous capital of the Ptolemaic dynasty after his death.\n\nFollowing the conquest of North Africa's Mediterranean coastline by the Roman Empire, the area was integrated economically and culturally into the Roman system. Roman settlement occurred in modern Tunisia and elsewhere along the coast. The first Roman emperor native to North Africa was Septimius Severus, born in Leptis Magna in present-day Libya—his mother was Italian Roman and his father was Punic.\n\nChristianity spread across these areas at an early date, from Judaea via Egypt and beyond the borders of the Roman world into Nubia; by AD 340 at the latest, it had become the state religion of the Aksumite Empire. Syro-Greek missionaries, who arrived by way of the Red Sea, were responsible for this theological development.\n\nIn the early 7th century, the newly formed Arabian Islamic Caliphate expanded into Egypt, and then into North Africa. In a short while, the local Berber elite had been integrated into Muslim Arab tribes. When the Umayyad capital Damascus fell in the 8th century, the Islamic centre of the Mediterranean shifted from Syria to Qayrawan in North Africa. Islamic North Africa had become diverse, and a hub for mystics, scholars, jurists, and philosophers. During the above-mentioned period, Islam spread to sub-Saharan Africa, mainly through trade routes and migration.\n\nPre-colonial Africa possessed perhaps as many as 10,000 different states and polities characterized by many different sorts of political organization and rule. These included small family groups of hunter-gatherers such as the San people of southern Africa; larger, more structured groups such as the family clan groupings of the Bantu-speaking peoples of central, southern, and eastern Africa; heavily structured clan groups in the Horn of Africa; the large Sahelian kingdoms; and autonomous city-states and kingdoms such as those of the Akan; Edo, Yoruba, and Igbo people in West Africa; and the Swahili coastal trading towns of Southeast Africa.\n\nBy the ninth century AD, a string of dynastic states, including the earliest Hausa states, stretched across the sub-Saharan savannah from the western regions to central Sudan. The most powerful of these states were Ghana, Gao, and the Kanem-Bornu Empire. Ghana declined in the eleventh century, but was succeeded by the Mali Empire which consolidated much of western Sudan in the thirteenth century. Kanem accepted Islam in the eleventh century.\n\nIn the forested regions of the West African coast, independent kingdoms grew with little influence from the Muslim north. The Kingdom of Nri was established around the ninth century and was one of the first. It is also one of the oldest kingdoms in present-day Nigeria and was ruled by the Eze Nri. The Nri kingdom is famous for its elaborate bronzes, found at the town of Igbo-Ukwu. The bronzes have been dated from as far back as the ninth century.\nThe Kingdom of Ife, historically the first of these Yoruba city-states or kingdoms, established government under a priestly oba ('king' or 'ruler' in the Yoruba language), called the \"Ooni of Ife\". Ife was noted as a major religious and cultural centre in West Africa, and for its unique naturalistic tradition of bronze sculpture. The Ife model of government was adapted at the Oyo Empire, where its obas or kings, called the \"Alaafins of Oyo\", once controlled a large number of other Yoruba and non-Yoruba city-states and kingdoms; the Fon \"Kingdom of Dahomey\" was one of the non-Yoruba domains under Oyo control.\n\nThe Almoravids were a Berber dynasty from the Sahara that spread over a wide area of northwestern Africa and the Iberian peninsula during the eleventh century. The Banu Hilal and Banu Ma'qil were a collection of Arab Bedouin tribes from the Arabian Peninsula who migrated westwards via Egypt between the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. Their migration resulted in the fusion of the Arabs and Berbers, where the locals were Arabized, and Arab culture absorbed elements of the local culture, under the unifying framework of Islam.\nFollowing the breakup of Mali, a local leader named Sonni Ali (1464–1492) founded the Songhai Empire in the region of middle Niger and the western Sudan and took control of the trans-Saharan trade. Sonni Ali seized Timbuktu in 1468 and Jenne in 1473, building his regime on trade revenues and the cooperation of Muslim merchants. His successor Askia Mohammad I (1493–1528) made Islam the official religion, built mosques, and brought to Gao Muslim scholars, including al-Maghili (d.1504), the founder of an important tradition of Sudanic African Muslim scholarship. By the eleventh century, some Hausa states – such as Kano, jigawa, Katsina, and Gobir – had developed into walled towns engaging in trade, servicing caravans, and the manufacture of goods. Until the fifteenth century, these small states were on the periphery of the major Sudanic empires of the era, paying tribute to Songhai to the west and Kanem-Borno to the east.\n\nSlavery had long been practiced in Africa. Between the 7th and 20th centuries, the Arab slave trade (also known as \"slavery in the east\") took 18 million slaves from Africa via trans-Saharan and Indian Ocean routes. Between the 15th and the 19th centuries, the Atlantic slave trade took an estimated 7–12 million slaves to the New World. In addition, more than 1 million Europeans were captured by Barbary pirates and sold as slaves in North Africa between the 16th and 19th centuries.\n\nIn West Africa, the decline of the Atlantic slave trade in the 1820s caused dramatic economic shifts in local polities. The gradual decline of slave-trading, prompted by a lack of demand for slaves in the New World, increasing anti-slavery legislation in Europe and America, and the British Royal Navy's increasing presence off the West African coast, obliged African states to adopt new economies. Between 1808 and 1860, the British West Africa Squadron seized approximately 1,600 slave ships and freed 150,000 Africans who were aboard.\nAction was also taken against African leaders who refused to agree to British treaties to outlaw the trade, for example against \"the usurping King of Lagos\", deposed in 1851. Anti-slavery treaties were signed with over 50 African rulers. The largest powers of West Africa (the Asante Confederacy, the Kingdom of Dahomey, and the Oyo Empire) adopted different ways of adapting to the shift. Asante and Dahomey concentrated on the development of \"legitimate commerce\" in the form of palm oil, cocoa, timber and gold, forming the bedrock of West Africa's modern export trade. The Oyo Empire, unable to adapt, collapsed into civil wars.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the European imperial powers engaged in a major territorial scramble and occupied most of the continent, creating many colonial territories, and leaving only two fully independent states: Ethiopia (known to Europeans as \"Abyssinia\"), and Liberia. Egypt and Sudan were never formally incorporated into any European colonial empire; however, after the British occupation of 1882, Egypt was effectively under British administration until 1922.\n\nThe Berlin Conference held in 1884–85 was an important event in the political future of African ethnic groups. It was convened by King Leopold II of Belgium, and attended by the European powers that laid claim to African territories. The Berlin Conference sought to end the European powers' Scramble for Africa, by agreeing on political division and spheres of influence. They set up the political divisions of the continent, by spheres of interest, that exist in Africa today.\n\nImperial rule by Europeans would continue until after the conclusion of World War II, when almost all remaining colonial territories gradually obtained formal independence. Independence movements in Africa gained momentum following World War II, which left the major European powers weakened. In 1951, Libya, a former Italian colony, gained independence. In 1956, Tunisia and Morocco won their independence from France. Ghana followed suit the next year (March 1957), becoming the first of the sub-Saharan colonies to be granted independence. Most of the rest of the continent became independent over the next decade.\n\nPortugal's overseas presence in Sub-Saharan Africa (most notably in Angola, Cape Verde, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and São Tomé and Príncipe) lasted from the 16th century to 1975, after the Estado Novo regime was overthrown in a military coup in Lisbon. Rhodesia unilaterally declared independence from the United Kingdom in 1965, under the white minority government of Ian Smith, but was not internationally recognized as an independent state (as Zimbabwe) until 1980, when black nationalists gained power after a bitter guerrilla war. Although South Africa was one of the first African countries to gain independence, the state remained under the control of the country's white minority through a system of racial segregation known as apartheid until 1994.\n\nToday, Africa contains 54 sovereign countries, most of which have borders that were drawn during the era of European colonialism. Since colonialism, African states have frequently been hampered by instability, corruption, violence, and authoritarianism. The vast majority of African states are republics that operate under some form of the presidential system of rule. However, few of them have been able to sustain democratic governments on a permanent basis, and many have instead cycled through a series of coups, producing military dictatorships.\n\nGreat instability was mainly the result of marginalization of ethnic groups, and graft under these leaders. For political gain, many leaders fanned ethnic conflicts, some of which had been exacerbated, or even created, by colonial rule. In many countries, the military was perceived as being the only group that could effectively maintain order, and it ruled many nations in Africa during the 1970s and early 1980s. During the period from the early 1960s to the late 1980s, Africa had more than 70 coups and 13 presidential assassinations. Border and territorial disputes were also common, with the European-imposed borders of many nations being widely contested through armed conflicts.\n\nCold War conflicts between the United States and the Soviet Union, as well as the policies of the International Monetary Fund, also played a role in instability. When a country became independent for the first time, it was often expected to align with one of the two superpowers. Many countries in Northern Africa received Soviet military aid, while others in Central and Southern Africa were supported by the United States, France or both. The 1970s saw an escalation of Cold War intrigues, as newly independent Angola and Mozambique aligned themselves with the Soviet Union, and the West and South Africa sought to contain Soviet influence by supporting friendly regimes or insurgency movements. In Rhodesia, Soviet and Chinese-backed leftist guerrillas of the Zimbabwe Patriotic Front waged a brutal guerrilla war against the country's white government. There was a major famine in Ethiopia, when hundreds of thousands of people starved. Some claimed that Marxist economic policies made the situation worse. The most devastating military conflict in modern independent Africa has been the Second Congo War; this conflict and its aftermath has killed an estimated 5.5 million people. Since 2003 there has been an ongoing conflict in Darfur which has become a humanitarian disaster. Another notable tragic event is the 1994 Rwandan Genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were murdered. AIDS in post-colonial Africa has also been a prevalent issue.\n\nIn the 21st century, however, the number of armed conflicts in Africa has steadily declined. For instance, the civil war in Angola came to an end in 2002 after nearly 30 years. This coincided with many countries abandoning communist-style command economies and opening up for market reforms. The improved stability and economic reforms have led to a great increase in foreign investment into many African nations, mainly from China, which has spurred quick economic growth in many countries, seemingly ending decades of stagnation and decline. Several African economies are among the world's fastest growing . A significant part of this growth, which is sometimes referred to as Africa Rising, can also be attributed to the facilitated diffusion of information technologies and specifically the mobile telephone. Migration from African nations has increased dramatically in the last decade.\n\nAfrica is the largest of the three great southward projections from the largest landmass of the Earth. Separated from Europe by the Mediterranean Sea, it is joined to Asia at its northeast extremity by the Isthmus of Suez (transected by the Suez Canal), wide. (Geopolitically, Egypt's Sinai Peninsula east of the Suez Canal is often considered part of Africa, as well.)\n\nThe coastline is long, and the absence of deep indentations of the shore is illustrated by the fact that Europe, which covers only – about a third of the surface of Africa – has a coastline of . From the most northerly point, Ras ben Sakka in Tunisia (37°21' N), to the most southerly point, Cape Agulhas in South Africa (34°51'15\" S), is a distance of approximately . Cape Verde, 17°33'22\" W, the westernmost point, is a distance of approximately to Ras Hafun, 51°27'52\" E, the most easterly projection that neighbours Cape Guardafui, the tip of the Horn of Africa.\n\nAfrica's largest country is Algeria, and its smallest country is Seychelles, an archipelago off the east coast. The smallest nation on the continental mainland is The Gambia.\n\nThe African Plate is a major tectonic plate straddling the equator as well as the prime meridian. It includes much of the continent of Africa, as well as oceanic crust which lies between the continent and various surrounding ocean ridges. Between and , the Somali Plate began rifting from the African Plate along the East African Rift. Since the continent of Africa consists of crust from both the African and the Somali plates, some literature refers to the African Plate as the \"Nubian Plate\" to distinguish it from the continent as a whole.\n\nGeologically, Africa includes the Arabian Peninsula; the Zagros Mountains of Iran and the Anatolian Plateau of Turkey mark where the African Plate collided with Eurasia. The Afrotropic ecozone and the Saharo-Arabian desert to its north unite the region biogeographically, and the Afro-Asiatic language family unites the north linguistically.\n\nThe climate of Africa ranges from tropical to subarctic on its highest peaks. Its northern half is primarily desert, or arid, while its central and southern areas contain both savanna plains and dense jungle (rainforest) regions. In between, there is a convergence, where vegetation patterns such as sahel and steppe dominate. Africa is the hottest continent on earth and 60% of the entire land surface consists of drylands and deserts. The record for the highest-ever recorded temperature, in Libya in 1922 (), was discredited in 2013.\n\nAfrica boasts perhaps the world's largest combination of density and \"range of freedom\" of wild animal populations and diversity, with wild populations of large carnivores (such as lions, hyenas, and cheetahs) and herbivores (such as buffalo, elephants, camels, and giraffes) ranging freely on primarily open non-private plains. It is also home to a variety of \"jungle\" animals including snakes and primates and aquatic life such as crocodiles and amphibians. In addition, Africa has the largest number of megafauna species, as it was least affected by the extinction of the Pleistocene megafauna.\n\nAfrica has over 3,000 protected areas, with 198 marine protected areas, 50 biosphere reserves, and 80 wetlands reserves. Significant habitat destruction, increases in human population and poaching are reducing Africa's biological diversity and arable land. Human encroachment, civil unrest and the introduction of non-native species threaten biodiversity in Africa. This has been exacerbated by administrative problems, inadequate personnel and funding problems.\n\nDeforestation is affecting Africa at twice the world rate, according to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). According to the University of Pennsylvania African Studies Center, 31% of Africa's pasture lands and 19% of its forests and woodlands are classified as degraded, and Africa is losing over four million hectares of forest per year, which is twice the average deforestation rate for the rest of the world. Some sources claim that approximately 90% of the original, virgin forests in West Africa have been destroyed. Over 90% of Madagascar's original forests have been destroyed since the arrival of humans 2000 years ago. About 65% of Africa's agricultural land suffers from soil degradation.\n\nThere are clear signs of increased networking among African organizations and states. For example, in the civil war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (former Zaire), rather than rich, non-African countries intervening, neighbouring African countries became involved (see also Second Congo War). Since the conflict began in 1998, the estimated death toll has reached 5 million.\n\nThe African Union (AU) is a 55-member federation consisting of all of Africa's states. The union was formed, with Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, as its headquarters, on 26 June 2001. The union was officially established on 9 July 2002 as a successor to the Organisation of African Unity (OAU). In July 2004, the African Union's Pan-African Parliament (PAP) was relocated to Midrand, in South Africa, but the African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights remained in Addis Ababa. There is a policy in effect to decentralize the African Federation's institutions so that they are shared by all the states.\n\nThe African Union, not to be confused with the AU Commission, is formed by the Constitutive Act of the African Union, which aims to transform the African Economic Community, a federated commonwealth, into a state under established international conventions. The African Union has a parliamentary government, known as the African Union Government, consisting of legislative, judicial and executive organs. It is led by the African Union President and Head of State, who is also the President of the Pan-African Parliament. A person becomes AU President by being elected to the PAP, and subsequently gaining majority support in the PAP. The powers and authority of the President of the African Parliament derive from the Constitutive Act and the Protocol of the Pan-African Parliament, as well as the inheritance of presidential authority stipulated by African treaties and by international treaties, including those subordinating the Secretary General of the OAU Secretariat (AU Commission) to the PAP. The government of the AU consists of all-union (federal), regional, state, and municipal authorities, as well as hundreds of institutions, that together manage the day-to-day affairs of the institution.\n\nPolitical associations such as the African Union offer hope for greater co-operation and peace between the continent's many countries. Extensive human rights abuses still occur in several parts of Africa, often under the oversight of the state. Most of such violations occur for political reasons, often as a side effect of civil war. Countries where major human rights violations have been reported in recent times include the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Sudan, Zimbabwe, and Côte d'Ivoire.\n\nAlthough it has abundant natural resources, Africa remains the world's poorest and most underdeveloped continent, the result of a variety of causes that may include corrupt governments that have often committed serious human rights violations, failed central planning, high levels of illiteracy, lack of access to foreign capital, and frequent tribal and military conflict (ranging from guerrilla warfare to genocide). According to the United Nations' Human Development Report in 2003, the bottom 24 ranked nations (151st to 175th) were all African.\n\nPoverty, illiteracy, malnutrition and inadequate water supply and sanitation, as well as poor health, affect a large proportion of the people who reside in the African continent. In August 2008, the World Bank announced revised global poverty estimates based on a new international poverty line of $1.25 per day (versus the previous measure of $1.00). 81% of the Sub-Saharan Africa population was living on less than $2.50 (PPP) per day in 2005, compared with 86% for India.\n\nSub-Saharan Africa is the least successful region of the world in reducing poverty ($1.25 per day); some 50% of the population living in poverty in 1981 (200 million people), a figure that rose to 58% in 1996 before dropping to 50% in 2005 (380 million people). The average poor person in sub-Saharan Africa is estimated to live on only 70 cents per day, and was poorer in 2003 than in 1973, indicating increasing poverty in some areas. Some of it is attributed to unsuccessful economic liberalization programmes spearheaded by foreign companies and governments, but other studies have cited bad domestic government policies more than external factors.\n\nAfrica is now at risk of being in debt once again, particularly in Sub-Saharan African countries.  The last debt crisis in 2005 was resolved with help from the heavily indebted poor countries scheme (HIPC).  The HIPC resulted in some positive and negative effects on the economy in Africa. About ten years after the 2005 debt crisis in Sub-Saharan Africa was resolved, Zambia fell back into dept.  A small reason was due to the fall in copper prices in 2011, but the bigger reason was that a large amount of the money Zambia borrowed was wasted or pocketed by the elite.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Africa's rate of economic growth increased, averaging 5% in 2005. Some countries experienced still higher growth rates, notably Angola, Sudan and Equatorial Guinea, all of which had recently begun extracting their petroleum reserves or had expanded their oil extraction capacity.\n\nIn a recently published analysis based on World Values Survey data, the Austrian political scientist Arno Tausch maintained that several African countries, most notably Ghana, perform quite well on scales of mass support for democracy and the market economy.\n\nTausch's global value comparison based on the World Values Survey derived the following factor analytical scales: 1. The non-violent and law-abiding society 2. Democracy movement 3. Climate of personal non-violence 4. Trust in institutions 5. Happiness, good health 6. No redistributive religious fundamentalism 7. Accepting the market 8. Feminism 9. Involvement in politics 10. Optimism and engagement 11. No welfare mentality, acceptancy of the Calvinist work ethics. The spread in the performance of African countries with complete data, Tausch concluded “is really amazing”. While one should be especially hopeful about the development of future democracy and the market economy in Ghana, the article suggests pessimistic tendencies for Egypt and Algeria, and especially for Africa's leading economy, South Africa. High Human Inequality, as measured by the UNDP’s Human Development Report’s Index of Human Inequality, further impairs the development of Human Security. Tausch also maintains that the certain recent optimism, corresponding to economic and human rights data, emerging from Africa, is reflected in the development of a civil society.\n\nThe continent is believed to hold 90% of the world's cobalt, 90% of its platinum, 50% of its gold, 98% of its chromium, 70% of its tantalite, 64% of its manganese and one-third of its uranium. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) has 70% of the world's coltan, a mineral used in the production of tantalum capacitors for electronic devices such as cell phones. The DRC also has more than 30% of the world's diamond reserves. Guinea is the world's largest exporter of bauxite. As the growth in Africa has been driven mainly by services and not manufacturing or agriculture, it has been growth without jobs and without reduction in poverty levels. In fact, the food security crisis of 2008 which took place on the heels of the global financial crisis pushed 100 million people into food insecurity.\n\nIn recent years, the People's Republic of China has built increasingly stronger ties with African nations and is Africa's largest trading partner. In 2007, Chinese companies invested a total of US$1 billion in Africa.\n\nA Harvard University study led by professor Calestous Juma showed that Africa could feed itself by making the transition from importer to self-sufficiency. \"African agriculture is at the crossroads; we have come to the end of a century of policies that favoured Africa's export of raw materials and importation of food. Africa is starting to focus on agricultural innovation as its new engine for regional trade and prosperity.\"\n\nDuring US President Barack Obama's visit to Africa in July 2013, he announced a US$7 billion plan to further develop infrastructure and work more intensively with African heads of state. He also announced a new programme named Trade Africa, designed to boost trade within the continent as well as between Africa and the US.\n\nAfrica's population has rapidly increased over the last 40 years, and consequently, it is relatively young. In some African states, more than half the population is under 25 years of age. The total number of people in Africa increased from 229 million in 1950 to 630 million in 1990. As of , the population of Africa is estimated at / 1e9 round 1 billion . Africa's total population surpassing other continents is fairly recent; African population surpassed Europe in the 1990s, while the Americas was overtaken sometime around the year 2000; Africa's rapid population growth is expected to overtake the only two nations currently larger than its population, at roughly the same time – India and China's 1.4 billion people each will swap ranking around the year 2022. This increase in number of babies born in Africa compared to the rest of the world is expected to reach approximately 37% in the year 2050, an increase of 21% since 1990 alone.\n\nSpeakers of Bantu languages (part of the Niger–Congo family) are the majority in southern, central and southeast Africa. The Bantu-speaking peoples from the Sahel progressively expanded over most of Sub-Saharan Africa. But there are also several Nilotic groups in South Sudan and East Africa, the mixed Swahili people on the Swahili Coast, and a few remaining indigenous Khoisan (\"San\" or \"Bushmen\") and Pygmy peoples in southern and central Africa, respectively. Bantu-speaking Africans also predominate in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, and are found in parts of southern Cameroon. In the Kalahari Desert of Southern Africa, the distinct people known as the Bushmen (also \"San\", closely related to, but distinct from \"Hottentots\") have long been present. The San are physically distinct from other Africans and are the indigenous people of southern Africa. Pygmies are the pre-Bantu indigenous peoples of central Africa.\n\nThe peoples of West Africa primarily speak Niger–Congo languages, belonging mostly to its non-Bantu branches, though some Nilo-Saharan and Afro-Asiatic speaking groups are also found. The Niger–Congo-speaking Yoruba, Igbo, Fulani, Akan and Wolof ethnic groups are the largest and most influential. In the central Sahara, Mandinka or Mande groups are most significant. Chadic-speaking groups, including the Hausa, are found in more northerly parts of the region nearest to the Sahara, and Nilo-Saharan communities, such as the Songhai, Kanuri and Zarma, are found in the eastern parts of West Africa bordering Central Africa.\n\nThe peoples of North Africa consist of three main indigenous groups: Berbers in the northwest, Egyptians in the northeast, and Nilo-Saharan-speaking peoples in the east. The Arabs who arrived in the 7th century AD introduced the Arabic language and Islam to North Africa. The Semitic Phoenicians (who founded Carthage) and Hyksos, the Indo-Iranian Alans, the Indo- European Greeks, Romans, and Vandals settled in North Africa as well. Significant Berber communities remain within Morocco and Algeria in the 21st century, while, to a lesser extent, Berber speakers are also present in some regions of Tunisia and Libya. The Berber-speaking Tuareg and other often-nomadic peoples are the principal inhabitants of the Saharan interior of North Africa. In Mauritania, there is a small but near-extinct Berber community in the north and Niger–Congo-speaking peoples in the south, though in both regions Arabic and Arab culture predominates. In Sudan, although Arabic and Arab culture predominate, it is mostly inhabited by groups that originally spoke Nilo-Saharan, such as the Nubians, Fur, Masalit and Zaghawa, who, over the centuries, have variously intermixed with migrants from the Arabian peninsula. Small communities of Afro-Asiatic-speaking Beja nomads can also be found in Egypt and Sudan.\nIn the Horn of Africa, some Ethiopian and Eritrean groups (like the Amhara and Tigrayans, collectively known as Habesha) speak languages from the Semitic branch of the Afro-Asiatic language family, while the Oromo and Somali speak languages from the Cushitic branch of Afro-Asiatic.\n\nPrior to the decolonization movements of the post-World War II era, Europeans were represented in every part of Africa. Decolonization during the 1960s and 1970s often resulted in the mass emigration of white settlers – especially from Algeria and Morocco (1.6 million \"pieds-noirs\" in North Africa), Kenya, Congo, Rhodesia, Mozambique and Angola. Between 1975 and 1977, over a million colonials returned to Portugal alone. Nevertheless, white Africans remain an important minority in many African states, particularly Zimbabwe, Namibia, Réunion, and the Republic of South Africa. The country with the largest white African population is South Africa. Dutch and British diasporas represent the largest communities of European ancestry on the continent today.\n\nEuropean colonization also brought sizable groups of Asians, particularly from the Indian subcontinent, to British colonies. Large Indian communities are found in South Africa, and smaller ones are present in Kenya, Tanzania, and some other southern and southeast African countries. The large Indian community in Uganda was expelled by the dictator Idi Amin in 1972, though many have since returned. The islands in the Indian Ocean are also populated primarily by people of Asian origin, often mixed with Africans and Europeans. The Malagasy people of Madagascar are an Austronesian people, but those along the coast are generally mixed with Bantu, Arab, Indian and European origins. Malay and Indian ancestries are also important components in the group of people known in South Africa as Cape Coloureds (people with origins in two or more races and continents). During the 20th century, small but economically important communities of Lebanese and Chinese have also developed in the larger coastal cities of West and East Africa, respectively.\n\nBy most estimates, well over a thousand languages (UNESCO has estimated around two thousand) are spoken in Africa. Most are of African origin, though some are of European or Asian origin. Africa is the most multilingual continent in the world, and it is not rare for individuals to fluently speak not only multiple African languages, but one or more European ones as well. There are four major language families indigenous to Africa:\n\nFollowing the end of colonialism, nearly all African countries adopted official languages that originated outside the continent, although several countries also granted legal recognition to indigenous languages (such as Swahili, Yoruba, Igbo and Hausa). In numerous countries, English and French (\"see African French\") are used for communication in the public sphere such as government, commerce, education and the media. Arabic, Portuguese, Afrikaans and Spanish are examples of languages that trace their origin to outside of Africa, and that are used by millions of Africans today, both in the public and private spheres. Italian is spoken by some in former Italian colonies in Africa. German is spoken in Namibia, as it was a former German protectorate.\n\nSome aspects of traditional African cultures have become less practised in recent years as a result of neglect and suppression by colonial and post-colonial regimes. For example, African customs were discouraged, and African languages were prohibited in mission schools. Leopold II of Belgium attempted to \"civilize\" Africans by discouraging polygamy and witchcraft.\n\nObidoh Freeborn posits that colonialism is one element that has created the character of modern African art. According to authors Douglas Fraser and Herbert M. Cole, \"The precipitous alterations in the power structure wrought by colonialism were quickly followed by drastic iconographic changes in the art.\" Fraser and Cole assert that, in Igboland, some art objects \"lack the vigor and careful craftsmanship of the earlier art objects that served traditional functions. Author Chika Okeke-Agulu states that \"the racist infrastructure of British imperial enterprise forced upon the political and cultural guardians of empire a denial and suppression of an emergent sovereign Africa and modernist art.\" In Soweto, the West Rand Administrative Board established a Cultural Section to collect, read, and review scripts before performances could occur. Editors F. Abiola Irele and Simon Gikandi comment that the current identity of African literature had its genesis in the \"traumatic encounter between Africa and Europe.\" On the other hand, Mhoze Chikowero believes that Africans deployed music, dance, spirituality, and other performative cultures to (re)asset themselves as active agents and indigenous intellectuals, to unmake their colonial marginalization and reshape their own destinies.\" \n\nThere is now a resurgence in the attempts to rediscover and revalue African traditional cultures, under such movements as the African Renaissance, led by Thabo Mbeki, Afrocentrism, led by a group of scholars, including Molefi Asante, as well as the increasing recognition of traditional spiritualism through decriminalization of Vodou and other forms of spirituality.\n\nAfrican art and architecture reflect the diversity of African cultures. The region's oldest known beads were made from \"Nassarius\" shells and worn as personal ornaments 72,000 years ago. The Great Pyramid of Giza in Egypt was the world's tallest structure for 4,000 years, until the completion of Lincoln Cathedral around the year 1300. The stone ruins of Great Zimbabwe are also noteworthy for their architecture, as are the monolithic churches at Lalibela, Ethiopia, such as the Church of Saint George.\n\nEgypt has long been a cultural focus of the Arab world, while remembrance of the rhythms of sub-Saharan Africa, in particular West Africa, was transmitted through the Atlantic slave trade to modern samba, blues, jazz, reggae, hip hop, and rock. The 1950s through the 1970s saw a conglomeration of these various styles with the popularization of Afrobeat and Highlife music. Modern music of the continent includes the highly complex choral singing of southern Africa and the dance rhythms of the musical genre of soukous, dominated by the music of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Indigenous musical and dance traditions of Africa are maintained by oral traditions, and they are distinct from the music and dance styles of North Africa and Southern Africa. Arab influences are visible in North African music and dance and, in Southern Africa, Western influences are apparent due to colonization.\n\nFifty-four African countries have football (soccer) teams in the Confederation of African Football. Egypt has won the African Cup seven times, and a record-making three times in a row. Cameroon, Nigeria, Senegal, Ghana, and Algeria have advanced to the knockout stage of recent FIFA World Cups. South Africa hosted the 2010 World Cup tournament, becoming the first African country to do so.\n\nCricket is popular in some African nations. South Africa and Zimbabwe have Test status, while Kenya is the leading non-test team and previously had One-Day International cricket (ODI) status (from 10 October 1997, until 30 January 2014). The three countries jointly hosted the 2003 Cricket World Cup. Namibia is the other African country to have played in a World Cup. Morocco in northern Africa has also hosted the 2002 Morocco Cup, but the national team has never qualified for a major tournament. Rugby is a popular sport in South Africa, Namibia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nAfricans profess a wide variety of religious beliefs, and statistics on religious affiliation are difficult to come by since they are often a sensitive topic for governments with mixed religious populations. According to the World Book Encyclopedia, Islam is the largest religion in Africa, followed by Christianity. According to Encyclopædia Britannica, 45% of the population are Christians, 40% are Muslims, and 10% follow traditional religions. A small number of Africans are Hindu, Buddhist, Confucianist, Baha'i, or Jewish. There is also a minority of people in Africa who are irreligious.\n\nThe countries in this table are categorized according to the scheme for geographic subregions used by the United Nations, and data included are per sources in cross-referenced articles. Where they differ, provisos are clearly indicated.\n"}
{"id": "17048535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17048535", "title": "Angiostrongylus cantonensis", "text": "Angiostrongylus cantonensis\n\nAngiostrongylus cantonensis is a parasitic nematode (roundworm) that causes angiostrongyliasis, the most common cause of eosinophilic meningitis in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Basin. The nematode commonly resides in the pulmonary arteries of rats, giving it the common name rat lungworm. Snails are the primary intermediate hosts, where larvae develop until they are infectious.\n\nHumans are incidental hosts of this roundworm, and may become infected through ingestion of larvae in raw or undercooked snails or other vectors, or from contaminated water and vegetables. The larvae are then transported via the blood to the central nervous system, where they are the most common cause of eosinophilic meningitis, a serious condition that can lead to death or permanent brain and nerve damage. Angiostrongyliasis is an infection of increasing public health importance, as globalization contributes to the geographic spread of the disease.\n\nFirst described by the renowned Chinese parasitologist Hsin-Tao Chen (1904–1977) in 1935, after examining Cantonese rat specimens, the nematode \"Angiostrongylus cantonensis\" was identified in the cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with eosinophilic meningitis by Nomura and Lim in Taiwan in 1944. They noted that raw food eaten by the patient may have been contaminated by rats. In 1955, Mackerass and Sanders identified the lifecycle of the worm in rats, defining snails and slugs as the intermediate hosts and noting the path of transmission through the blood, brain, and lungs in rats.\n\n\"A. cantonensis\" is a helminth of the phylum Nematoda, order Strongylida, and superfamily Metastrongyloidea. Nematodes are roundworms characterized by a tough outer cuticle, unsegmented bodies, and a fully developed gastrointestinal tract. The order Strongylida includes hookworms and lungworms. Metastrongyloidea are characterized as 2-cm-long, slender, threadlike worms that reside in the lungs of the definitive host. \"Angiostrongylus costaricensis\" is a closely related worm that causes intestinal angiostrongyliasis in Central and South America.\n\nFollowing World War II, \"A. cantonensis\" spread throughout Southeast Asia and Western Pacific Islands, including Australia, Melanesia, Micronesia, and Polynesia. Cases were soon reported in New Caledonia, the Philippines, Rarotonga, Saipan, Sumatra, Taiwan, and Tahiti. In the 1960s, even more cases were reported from the region from locations such as Cambodia, Guam, Hawaii, Java, Thailand, Sarawak, Vietnam, and the New Hebrides (Vanuatu).\n\nIn 1961, an epidemiological study of eosinophilic meningitis in humans was conducted by Rosen, Laigret, and Bories, who hypothesized that the parasite causing these infections was carried by fish. However, Alicata noted that raw fish was consumed by large numbers of people in Hawaii without apparent consequences, and patients presenting with meningitis symptoms had a history of eating raw snails or prawns in the weeks before presenting with symptoms. This observation, along with epidemiology and autopsy of infected brains, confirmed \"A. cantonensis\" infection in humans as the cause of the majority of eosinophilic meningitis cases in Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands.\n\nSince then, cases of \"A. cantonensis\" infestations have appeared in American Samoa, Australia, Hong Kong, Bombay, Fiji, Hawaii, Honshu, India, Kyushu, New Britain, Okinawa, Ryukyu Islands, Western Samoa, and most recently mainland China. Other sporadic occurrences of the parasite in its rat hosts have been reported in Cuba, Egypt, Louisiana, Madagascar, Nigeria, New Orleans, and Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 2013, \"A. cantonensis\" was confirmed present in Florida, USA, where its range and prevalence are expanding. In 2018, a case was found in a New Yorker, who had visited Hawaii.\n\nIn recent years, the parasite has been shown to be proliferating at an alarming rate due to modern food-consumption trends and global transportation of food products. Scientists are calling for a more thorough study of the epidemiology of \"A. cantonensis\", stricter food-safety policies, and the increase of knowledge on how to properly consume products commonly infested by the parasite, such as snails and slugs that act as intermediate hosts or those that act as paratenic hosts, such as fish, frogs, or freshwater prawns. Ingestion of food items that can be contaminated by the mucus excretions of intermediate or paratenic hosts, such as snails and slugs or by the feces of rats that act as definitive hosts, can lead to infection of \"A. cantonensis\". The most common route of infection of \"A. cantonesis\" in humans is by ingestion of either intermediate or paratenic hosts of the larvae. Unwashed fruits and vegetables, especially romaine lettuce, can be contaminated with snail and slug mucus or can result in accidental ingestion of these intermediate and paratenic hosts. These items need to be properly washed and handled to prevent accidental ingestion of \"A. cantonensis\" larvae or the larvae-containing hosts. The best mechanism of prevention of \"A. cantonesis\" outbreak is to institute an aggressive control of snail and slug population, proper cooking of intermediate and paratenic hosts such as fish, freshwater prawn, frogs, mollusks, and snails along with proper food-handling techniques. The common prevention techniques for diarrheal illness is very effective in preventing \"A. cantonensis\" infection. Not much is known about why it targets the brain in humans, but a chemically induced chemotaxis has been implicated recently. Acetylcholine has been previously reported to enhance motility of this worm via nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Experimental assays in animal models are needed to validate a chemically induced chemotaxis by use of anticholinergic drugs to prevent cerebral infection following infections by \"A. cantonesis\".\n\nIntermediate hosts of larvae of for \"A. cantonensis\" include:\n\nDefinitive host of \"A. cantonensis\" include wild rodents, especially the brown rat (\"Rattus norvegicus\") and the black rat (\"Rattus rattus\").\n\nParatenic hosts of \"A. cantonensis\" include: predatory land flatworm \"Platydemus manokwari\" and amphibians \"Bufo asiaticus\", \"Rana catesbeiana\", \"Rhacophorus leucomystax\" and \"Rana limnocharis\".\n\nIn 2004, a captive yellow-tailed black cockatoo (\"Calyptorhynchus funereus\") and two free-living tawny frogmouths (\"Podargus strigoides\") suffering neurological symptoms were shown to have the parasite. They were the first avian hosts discovered for the organism.\n\nThe presence of parasitic worms burrowed in the neural tissue of the human central nervous system will cause obvious complications. All of the following will result in damage to the CNS:\n\n\nAlthough the clinical disease caused by \"Angiostrongylus\" invasion into the central nervous system is commonly referred to as \"eosinophilic meningitis\", the actual pathophysiology is of a meningoencephalitis with invasion not just of the meninges, or superficial lining of the brain, but also deeper brain tissue. Initial invasion through the lining of the brain, the meninges, may cause a typical inflammation of the meninges and a classic meningitis picture of headache, stiff neck, and often fever. The parasites subsequently invade deeper into the brain tissue, causing specific localizing neurologic symptoms depending on where in the brain parenchyma they migrate. Neurologic findings and symptoms wax and wane as initial damage is done by the physical in-migration of the worms and secondary damage is done by the inflammatory response to the presence of dead and dying worms. This inflammation can lead in the short term to paralysis, bladder dysfunction, visual disturbance, and coma and in the long term to permanent nerve damage, mental retardation, nerve damage, permanent brain damage, or death.\n\nEosinophilic meningitis is commonly defined by the increased number of eosinophils in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In most cases, eosinophil levels rise to 10 or more eosinophils per μl in the CSF, accounting for at least 10% of the total CSF leukocyte (white blood cell) count. The chemical analysis of the CSF typically resembles the findings in \"aseptic meningitis\" with slightly elevated protein levels, normal glucose levels, and negative bacterial cultures. Presence of a significantly decreased glucose on CSF analysis is an indicator of severe meningoencephalitis and may indicate a poor medical outcome. Initial CSF analysis early in the disease process may occasionally show no increase of eosinophils, only to have classical increases in eosinophils in subsequent CSF analysis. Caution should be advised in using eosinophilic meningitis as the only criterion for diagnosing angiostrongylus infestation in someone with classic symptoms, as the disease evolves with the migration of the worms into the CNS.\n\nEosinophils are specialized white blood cells of the granulocytic cell line which contain granules in their cytoplasm. These granules contain proteins that are toxic to parasites. When these granules degranulate, or break down, chemicals are released that combat parasites such as \"A. cantonensis\". Eosinophils, which are located throughout the body, are guided to sites of inflammation by chemokines when the body is infested with parasites such as \"A. cantonensis\". Once at the site of inflammation, type 2 cytokines are released from helper T cells, which communicate with the eosinophils, signaling them to activate. Once activated, eosinophils can begin the process of degranulation, releasing their toxic proteins in the fight against the foreign parasite.\n\nAccording to a group case study, the most common symptoms in mild eosinophilic meningitis tend to be headache (with 100% of people in the study suffering from this symptom), photophobia or visual disturbance (92%), neck stiffness (83%), fatigue (83%), hyperesthesias (75%), vomiting (67%), and paresthesias (50%). Incubation period is often 3 weeks, but can be 3–36 days and even 80 days.\n\nPossible clinical signs and symptoms of mild and severe eosinophilic meningitis are:\n\nThe severity and clinical course of \"Angiostrongylus\" disease depends significantly on the ingested load of third-stage larvae, creating great variability from case to case, making clinical trials difficult to design, and effectiveness of treatments difficult to discern. Typical conservative medical management including analgesics and sedatives provide minimal relief for the headaches and hyperesthesias. Removing cerebrospinal fluid at regular 3- to 7-day intervals is the only proven method of significantly reducing intracranial pressure and can be used for symptomatic treatment of headaches. This process may be repeated until improvement is shown. There is growing evidence of moderate quality that suggests corticosteroid therapy using prednisolone or dexamethasone has beneficial effect in treating the CNS symptoms related to \"A. cantonensis\" infections. Although early research did not show treatment with antihelminthic agents (parasite-killing drugs) such as thiobendazole or albendazole effective in improving the clinical course of the illness, a number of recent studies from Thailand and China show that the combination of glucocorticoids and antihelminthics is safe and decreases the duration of headaches and the number of patients who had significant headache. Although the addition of antihelminthic agents for management of \"A. cantonensis\" infection has a theoretic risk of precipitating a neurologic crisis by releasing an overwhelming load of antigens through simultaneous death of the larvae, no study has shown this to exist in the clinical setting. Additionally, the failure to kill parasites before they attempt to migrate out of the CNS increases the risk of mechanical damage by migrating larvae. Although combination therapy using albendazole and prednisolone has no significant advantage compared to treatment using prednisolone alone in mild cases, the treatment with antihelminthics is demonstrably safe and may have significant benefit for patients with high parasite loads at risk for permanent disability or death. \nThe diagnosis of disease caused by \"A. cantonensis\" infestation is often difficult and relies heavily on the history of a likely ingestion of a commonly infested host and the presence of typical features of the disease. The presumptive diagnosis is particularly strong when eosinophilic meningoencephalitis can be confirmed. The diagnosis of eosinophilic meningitis can be arrived at through detection of elevated cranial pressure and increased numbers of eosinophils. The diagnosis of the cause of eosinophilic meningitis and the presence of \"A. cantonensis\" is remarkably more difficult. A spinal tap, or a sample of CSF, must be taken to search for \"A. cantonensis\" worms or larvae. \"A. cantonensis\" is undetectable in the CSF of more than half of the infected individuals. Current methods of detecting specific antigens associated with \"A. cantonensis\" are also unreliable. Consequently, alternative approaches to detect antigen-antibody reactions are being explored, such as immuno-PCR. A rapid dot-blot ELISA test is also available for quick, effective, and economical on-site diagnosis of \"A. cantonensis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44329400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44329400", "title": "Anthony Costello", "text": "Anthony Costello\n\nAnthony Costello (born 20 February 1953) is a British paediatrician. Until 2015. Costello was Professor of International Child Health and Director of the Institute for Global Health at the University College London. Costello was most notable for his work on improving survival among mothers and their newborn infants in poor populations of developing countries.\n\nCostello was born in Beckenham, and graduated from school at St Joseph's Academy. Costello attended St Catharine's College, Cambridge where he took a degree in Experimental Psychology and qualified as a doctor in Medical Sciences after clinical training at the Middlesex Hospital in London. He then trained in Paediatrics and Neonatology at University College London.\n\nHe and his wife, Helen, have two sons, Harry and Ned, and one daughter, Freya.<ref name=\"https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(09)60929-6/fulltext\"></ref>\n\nAfter living in Baglung district in western Nepal from 1984–1986, two days walk from a road, he became fascinated by challenges to mother and child health in poor, remote populations. His areas of scientific expertise include the evaluation of cost-effective interventions to reduce maternal and newborn deaths, women’s groups, strategies to tackle malnutrition, international aid and the health effects of climate change. In 1999 he published a pioneering book on how to improve newborn infant health in developing countries.\n\nWith a Nepali organisation (MIRA), that he helped to establish, a large community trial of participatory learning and action using women’s groups in the remote mountains of Makwanpur district, Nepal was published in The Lancet in 2004. He went on to establish partnerships and further studies with local organisations in eastern India, Mumbai, Bangladesh and Malawi. Seven cluster randomised controlled trials of women’s groups in Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Malawi, led to a meta-analysis published in the Lancet in May 2013.\n\nResults showed that in populations where more than 30% of pregnant women joined the women's group programme, maternal death and newborn deaths were cut by one third. The intervention has now been recommended by the World Health Organisation for scale-up in poor, rural populations.\nCostello chaired the 2009 Lancet Commission on Managing the Health Effects of Climate Change, and was co-chair of a new Lancet Commission which links the UK, China, Norway and Sweden on emergency actions to tackle the climate health crisis, published in June 2015.\n\nAt WHO he has helped to lead the Global Strategy for Women’s, Children’s and Adolescents’ Health (2016‒2030) with its three objectives of survive, thrive and transform – to end preventable mortality, to promote health and well-being, and to expand enabling environments. Its guiding principles include equity, universality, human rights, development effectiveness and sustainability.\n\nWith the WHO team he has also launched the global accelerated action for the health of adolescents (AA-HA!) and established an expert review group called Maternal and Newborn Information for tracking Outcomes and Results (MONITOR) to harmonize maternal and newborn health indicators.\n\nIn February 2017, together with UNICEF and UNFPA he helped to launched the Network for Improving Quality of Care for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health to introduce evidence-based interventions to improve quality of care for maternal and newborn health supported by a learning system. The Network involves Ethiopia, Nigeria, India, Bangladesh, Malawi, Côte d'Ivoire, Uganda, Tanzania and Ghana. He also leads work on community empowerment for family health - what it means, how to measure it, and how to plan interventions at district level.\n\nWith the Lancet he is a co-chair of their new Countdown Commission on Climate Change which reports progress annually on climate change adaptation, mitigation, economics, energy policy and public engagement. With UNICEF he is helping WHO to coordinate a new Lancet Commission on redesigning child health for the Sustainable Development Goals era.\n\nCostello holds fellowships of the Academy of Medical Sciences and of the Royal College of Physicians. In April 2011, Costello received the James Spence Medal, the highest honour of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health where he is a fellow. He serves on the Board of the global Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health, chaired by Dr Graca Machel. In May 2016 he received the BMJ Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "41904208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41904208", "title": "Commentary on Edward Snowden's disclosure", "text": "Commentary on Edward Snowden's disclosure\n\nCommentary on Edward Snowden's disclosure is part of the reactions to global surveillance disclosures made by Edward Snowden.\n\nOn June 8, 2013, Director of National Intelligence (DNI) James R. Clapper denounced as \"reckless\" the disclosures of \"intelligence community measures used to keep Americans safe.\" He condemned the leaks as having done \"huge, grave damage\" to the U.S. intelligence capabilities.\n\nLater that month, U.S. President Barack Obama was dismissive of Snowden, saying, \"I'm not going to be scrambling jets to get a 29-year-old hacker.\" In early August, Obama said that Snowden was no patriot and that Americans would have been better off if they had remained unaware of the NSA surveillance activities that Snowden revealed. Obama also said that he had \"called for a thorough review of our surveillance operations before Mr. Snowden made these leaks... My preference, and I think the American people's preference, would have been for a lawful, orderly examination of these laws; a thoughtful fact-based debate that would then lead us to a better place.\"\n\nOn August 4, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey said on the weekly ABC interview show \"This Week\" that Snowden \"has caused us some considerable damage to our intelligence architecture. Our adversaries are changing the way that they communicate.\"\n\nIn September, DNI Clapper acknowledged that Snowden may have done a public service and started a needed debate about the balance between privacy and security.\n\"As loath as I am to give any credit for what's happened here, which was egregious, I think it's clear that some of the conversations that this has generated, some of the debate, actually probably needed to happen,\" he said. \"It's unfortunate they didn't happen some time ago, but if there's a good side to this, that's it.\"\n\nOn January 29, 2014, DNI Clapper gave public testimony to a session of the Senate Intelligence Committee. He asked that \"Snowden and his accomplices\" return the purloined NSA documents. When Clapper was asked whether the word \"accomplices\" referred to journalists, Clapper's spokesperson Shawn Turner responded, \"Director Clapper was referring to anyone who is assisting Edward Snowden to further threaten our national security through the unauthorized disclosure of stolen documents related to lawful foreign intelligence collection programs.\"\n\nIn late June 2013, Former US President Jimmy Carter said: \"He's obviously violated the laws of America, for which he's responsible, but I think the invasion of human rights and American privacy has gone too far ... I think that the secrecy that has been surrounding this invasion of privacy has been excessive, so I think that the bringing of it to the public notice has probably been, in the long term, beneficial.\"\n\nEarlier that month, former Vice President Dick Cheney suggested that Snowden might be a spy working for the Chinese government.\n\nSome former U.S. intelligence officials speculated that Chinese or Russian intelligence agents might have gleaned additional classified material from Snowden, a view shared by some former Russian agents. Snowden, however, told journalist Glenn Greenwald in July, \"I never gave any information to either government, and they never took anything from my laptops.\"\n\nStewart Baker, a former NSA general counsel in the early 1990s, said at a July 18, 2013 hearing, \"I am afraid that hyped and distorted press reports orchestrated by Edward Snowden and his allies may cause us – or other nations – to construct new restraints on our intelligence gathering, restraints that will leave us vulnerable to another security disaster.\"\n\nFormer CIA and NSA chief General Michael Hayden in late June 2013 welcomed the public debate about the balance between privacy and security that the leaks had provoked: \"I am convinced the more the American people know exactly what it is we are doing in this balance between privacy and security, the more they know the more comfortable they will feel.\" In September 2013, Hayden stressed the indisputable legality of \"what the NSA is doing\" and called Snowden a \"troubled young man\", albeit \"morally arrogant to a tremendous degree\"; he also said about his prospects in Russia: \"I suspect he will end up like most of the rest of the defectors who went to the old Soviet Union: Isolated, bored, lonely, depressed -- and most of them ended up alcoholics.\"\n\nSpeaking at the University of Connecticut on April 23, 2014, former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton insinuated that she found Snowden's motives suspicious. \"When he emerged and when he absconded with all that material, I was puzzled because we have all these protections for whistle-blowers. If he were concerned and wanted to be part of the American debate, he could have been,\" she said. \"But it struck me as—I just have to be honest with you—as sort of odd that he would flee to China, because Hong Kong is controlled by China, and that he would then go to Russia—two countries with which we have very difficult cyberrelationships, to put it mildly.\" Clinton added, \"I think turning over a lot of that material—intentionally or unintentionally—drained, gave all kinds of information, not only to big countries, but to networks and terrorist groups and the like. So I have a hard time thinking that somebody who is a champion of privacy and liberty has taken refuge in Russia, under Putin's authority.\"\n\nReactions to Snowden's disclosures among members of Congress initially were largely negative. Speaker of the House John Boehner and senators Dianne Feinstein and Bill Nelson called Snowden a traitor, and several senators and representatives joined them in calling for Snowden's arrest and prosecution.\n\nRepresentative Thomas Massie was one of few members of Congress to question the constitutional validity of the government surveillance programs and suggest that Snowden should be granted immunity from prosecution. Senators Ted Cruz and Rand Paul offered tentative support for Snowden, saying they were reserving judgment on Snowden until more information about the surveillance programs and about Snowden's motives were known. Senator Paul said, \"I do think when history looks at this, they are going to contrast the behavior of James Clapper, our National Intelligence Director, with Edward Snowden. Mr. Clapper lied in Congress in defiance of the law, in the name of security. Mr. Snowden told the truth in the name of privacy.\" Paul later called Snowden a \"civil disobedient\", like Martin Luther King Jr., but who faced life imprisonment. Representative John Lewis made comparisons between Snowden and Gandhi, saying the leaker was appealing to a \"higher law\".\n\nSenator Bill Nelson, \"What Edward Snowden did amounts to an act of treason.\" Similar comments have also been made by Rep. Peter T. King, Rep. John Boehner, and Sen. Dianne Feinstein.\n\nOn July 25, the US Senate Committee on Appropriations unanimously adopted an amendment by Senator Lindsey Graham to the \"Fiscal Year 2014 Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill\" that would seek sanctions against any country that offers asylum to Snowden.\n\nIn response to the information release by Snowden, Rep. Justin Amash (R-Mich.) and Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) proposed an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to curtail the NSA gathering and storage of the personal records, but the House rejected it by a narrow margin of 205–217. Amash subsequently told Fox News that Snowden was \"a whistle-blower. He told us what we need to know.\"\n\nOn the Sunday ABC interview show \"This Week\", Rep. Dutch Ruppersberger, D-Maryland, of the United States House Select Committee on Intelligence was asked by Raddatz, \"Are efforts being thwarted in trying to get information for members of Congress?\" He replied,\n\n...[S]ince this incident occurred with Snowden, we've had three different hearings for members of our Democratic Caucus, and the Republican Caucus, where General Alexander has come with his deputy, Chris Inglis, to ask any questions that people have as it relates to this information. And we will continue to do that because what we're trying to do now is to get the American public to know more about what's going on...But we can do better. I have to educate my caucus more, the Democratic Caucus. And we're trying to declassify as much as we can.\n\nU.S. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) said on the August 11 edition of \"Fox News Sunday\" that Snowden had become a hero to young Americans, as he reminded them of the Jason Bourne character. McCain attributed it to generation change and a lack of confidence in the federal government. \"Right now there's kind of a generational change,\" he said. \"Young Americans do not trust this government.\"\n\nGordon Humphrey, the conservative Republican senator for New Hampshire from 1979–1991, expressed support for Snowden. Glenn Greenwald revealed that Humphrey, a former member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, had been in contact with Snowden via email. Humphrey told Snowden, \"Provided you have not leaked information that would put in harms way any intelligence agent, I believe you have done the right thing in exposing what I regard as massive violation of the United States Constitution.\" Humphrey cited Snowden as a \"courageous whistle-blower\".\n\nTom McClintock (R-Calif) came out in favor of amnesty for Snowden, saying \n\nI think it would be best if the American government granted him amnesty to get him back to America where he can answer questions without the threat of prosecution... We have some very good laws against sharing secrets and he broke those laws. On the other hand, he broke them for a very good reason because those laws were being used in direct contravention of our 4th Amendment rights as Americans.\n\nArizona Senator John McCain criticized politicians who voted in favor of the PATRIOT Act but were outraged by the NSA spying on phone calls by saying, \"We passed the Patriot Act. We passed specific provisions of the act that allowed for this program to take place, to be enacted in operation. Now, if members of Congress did not know what they were voting on, then I think that that's their responsibility a lot more than it is the government's.\"\n\nGlenn Greenwald, one of the journalists who received the documents, praised Snowden for having done a service by revealing the surveillance on the American public. John Cassidy of \"The New Yorker\" called Snowden \"a hero\" and said that \"in revealing the colossal scale of the US government's eavesdropping on Americans and other people around the world, [Snowden] has performed a great public service that more than outweighs any breach of trust he may have committed.\" CNN columnist Douglas Rushkoff also called Snowden's leak an act of heroism. Amy Davidson, writing in \"The New Yorker\", was thankful for the \"overdue\" conversation on privacy and the limits of domestic surveillance.\n\nAmerican political commentators and public figures such as Noam Chomsky, Chris Hedges, Michael Moore, Cornel West, Glenn Beck,<ref name=\"Michael Moore/Glenn Beck\"></ref> Matt Drudge, Alex Jones, Andrew Napolitano, Oliver Stone, Michael Savage, and Stephen Walt praised Snowden for exposing secret government surveillance.\n\nOther commentators were more critical of Snowden's methods and motivations. Jeffrey Toobin, for example, denounced Snowden as \"a grandiose narcissist who deserves to be in prison.\" Writing in \"The New Yorker\", Toobin argued that the programs exposed were not illegal, therefore Snowden was not a whistleblower. Further, Toobin questioned \"whether the government can function when all of its employees (and contractors) can take it upon themselves to sabotage the programs they don’t like\".\n\nThe editors of Bloomberg News argued that, while the government ought to prosecute Snowden, the media's focus on Snowden took attention away from issues of U.S. government surveillance, the interpretations of the Patriot Act, and the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court actions, all of which are \"what really matters in all this.\" Greenwald accused the media in the U.S. of focusing on Edward Snowden instead of on wrongdoing by Director of National Intelligence James R. Clapper and other U.S. officials. In an op-ed, author Alex Berenson argued that the federal government should have flown a representative to Hong Kong to ask Snowden to give testimony in front of the U.S. Congress and offer him a fair criminal trial, with a view to preventing further unintended disclosures of classified information to other countries.\n\nCybersecurity scholar Peter Singer divided the material disclosed by Snowden into three categories: \"smart, useful espionage against enemies of the United States; legally questionable activities that involved US citizens through backdoors and fudging of policy/law; un-strategic (stupid) actions targeting American allies that has had huge blowback on US standing and US business.\" It was postulated that these were differing ways people viewed Snowden, which could explain why he was so polarizing. Singer also spoke of a \"double legacy\" from the NSA revelations released by Snowden: \"One, it's hollowed out the American ability to operate effectively in ensuring the future of the internet itself, in the way we would hope it would be. That has huge long-term consequences. And the second is, it's been and will be a hammer-blow to American technology companies. The cloud computing industry, for example, had a recent estimate that they'll lose $36 billion worth of business because of this.\"\n\nSurveys conducted by news outlets and professional polling organizations found that American public opinion was divided on Snowden's disclosures, and that those polled in Canada and Europe were more supportive of Snowden than respondents in the U.S.\n\n\n\nIn a June 2013 Emnid survey, 50 percent of Germans polled considered Snowden a hero, and 35 percent would hide him in their homes.\n\nIn October 2013, 67 percent of Canadians polled considered Snowden a hero, as did 60 percent of UK respondents.\n\nIn an April 2014 UK YouGov poll, 46 percent of British people thought that newspapers reporting on the materials given to them by Snowden was good for society, while 22 percent thought it was bad for society and 31 percent didn't know.\n\nOn January 1, 2014, the editorial board of \"The New York Times\" praised Snowden as a whistleblower and wrote in favor of granting him clemency, arguing that while Snowden may have broken the law, he had \"done his country a great service\" by bringing the abuses of the NSA to light. \"When someone reveals that government officials have routinely and deliberately broken the law,\" they wrote, \"that person should not face life in prison at the hands of the same government.\" \"The Times\" cast doubt on the claim made by Snowden's critics that he had damaged national security, and concluded with a request to President Obama to discontinue the \"vilification\" of Snowden and to give him \"an incentive to return home.\" The article garnered an unusual amount of blowback for an editorial, with responses from multiple media outlets. \"The Guardian\" called for a pardon in an editorial coincidentally published the same day, saying Snowden should be allowed to return home with dignity.\n\nIn a January 4, 2014 article, Peter Baker of \"The New York Times\" laid out the polarization of opinions throughout the U.S. and the impetus toward clemency gained by public reaction to Snowden's revelations. Yet despite a growing backlash against government surveillance, Baker noted, calls for leniency had made little headway in the White House, Justice Department, or national security establishment.\n\nIn September 2016, the editorial board of \"The Washington Post\" characterized the issue of whether Snowden deserved a presidential pardon as \"a complicated question\" to which the president's answer should be \"no\". The editors of the \"Post\" credited Snowden for \"necessary reforms\" brought about by his revelations of \"en masse\" collection of telephone data by the NSA, but stressed Snowden's separate leak of information about the agency's PRISM program and other \"basically defensible\" intelligence operations as reasons why he should face trial, saying that Snowden hurt his credibility as \"an avatar of freedom\" by accepting asylum in Russia. The editors of the \"Post\" dismissed calls from human-rights organizations for clemency because of Snowden's \"noble purposes\" and the policy changes resulting from the leaks, and urged the president not to pardon Snowden despite the \"Post\" itself being responsible for publishing some of the leaked material. According to \"The Guardian\", the editorial stunned many American journalists. Glenn Greenwald, one of the journalists to whom Snowden had initially leaked the classified documents, characterized the \"Post\" editorial as \"an act of journalistic treachery\" and \"cowardice\", noting that the \"Post\" had accepted a Pulitzer Prize for publishing Snowden's leaks concerning PRISM and the other operations mentioned in its editorial.\n\nAfter Amnesty International met Edward Snowden in Moscow in mid July 2013, the organization said: \n\nWhat he has disclosed is patently in the public interest and as a whistleblower his actions were justified. He has exposed unlawful sweeping surveillance programmes that unquestionably interfere with an individual’s right to privacy. States that attempt to stop a person from revealing such unlawful behaviour are flouting international law. Freedom of expression is a fundamental right.\n\nWidney Brown, Senior Director of Amnesty, feared that Snowden would be at \"great risk\" of human rights violations if forcibly transferred to the United States, and urged no country to return Snowden to the US. Michael Bochenek, Director of Law and Policy at Amnesty International deplored the US pressure on governments to block Snowden's asylum attempts, saying \"It is his unassailable right, enshrined in international law\".\n\nHuman Rights Watch said that if Snowden were able to raise the issue of NSA mass surveillance without facing espionage charges, he would not have left the United States in the first place. Human Rights Watch writes that any country where Snowden seeks asylum should consider his claim fairly and protect his rights under international law, which recognizes that revealing official secrets is sometimes justified in the public interest.\n\nNavi Pillay, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, said: \"Snowden's case has shown the need to protect persons disclosing information on matters that have implications for human rights, as well as the importance of ensuring respect for the right to privacy\".\n\nTransparency International, International Association of Lawyers against Nuclear Arms and Vereinigung Deutscher Wissenschaftler awarded Snowden the German Whistleblowerpreis 2013.\n\nThe Humanist Union awarded him the Fritz Bauer Prize 2013.\n\nDaniel Ellsberg, the whistleblower and leaker of the top-secret Pentagon Papers in 1971, stated in an interview with CNN that he thought Snowden had done an \"incalculable\" service to his country and that his leaks might prevent the United States from becoming a surveillance state. He said Snowden had acted with the same sort of courage and patriotism as a soldier in battle. In an op-ed the following morning, Ellsberg added that \"there has not been in American history a more important leak than Edward Snowden's release of NSA material ... including the Pentagon Papers.\" Ray McGovern, a retired CIA officer turned political activist, agreed with Ellsberg and added, \"This time today I'm feeling much more hopeful for our democracy than I was feeling this time yesterday.\"\n\nWilliam Binney, a whistleblower who disclosed details of the NSA's mass surveillance activities, said that Snowden had \"performed a really great public service to begin with by exposing these programs and making the government in a sense publicly accountable for what they're doing.\" After Snowden cited a conversation with a \"reliable source\" about allegations that the US was \"hacking into China\", Binney felt he was \"transitioning from whistle-blower to a traitor.\"\n\nThomas Drake, former senior executive of NSA and whistleblower, said that he feels \"extraordinary kinship\" with Snowden. \"What he did was a magnificent act of civil disobedience. He's exposing the inner workings of the surveillance state. And it's in the public interest. It truly is.\"\n\nWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange hailed Snowden as a \"hero\" who has exposed \"one of the most serious events of the decade – the creeping formulation of a mass surveillance state.\" After charges against Snowden were revealed, Assange released a statement asking people to \"step forward and stand with\" Snowden. Following President Obama's assurances that changes are planned for the NSA surveillance program, Assange said in a written statement that Obama had \"validated Edward Snowden's role as a whistle-blower\".\n\nShamai Leibowitz, who leaked details about an FBI operation, said that the legal threats and \"smear campaign\" against Snowden are a \"grave mistake\" because \"If the government really wanted to keep more secrets from coming out, they would do well to let this man of conscience go live his life in some other country.\"\n\nIn October 2013, four US whistleblowers and activists visited Moscow to present Snowden with an award for truth-telling titled The Sam Adams Award for Integrity in Intelligence. Thomas Drake, one of the presenters, told reporters after the event that the US had \"unchained itself from their own constitution\" by banning the \"real law and [using] a secret law and secret interpretations of law.\" He further explained that Snowden \"had to escape the US to ensure any chance of freedom\", claiming the US had made Snowden stateless by revoking his passport while in Russia, leading to his temporary asylum in the country. Drake praised Russia, saying it had \"actually recognized the international law and granted him political asylum\".\n"}
{"id": "49644336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644336", "title": "Cristina Possas", "text": "Cristina Possas\n\nCristina Possas de Albuquerque (born 5 June 1948) is a Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases and emerging infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective. However, her approach to social ecosystem complexity is quite different from the four-fold eco-social approach of Harvard's Nancy Krieger in that she has proposed in a 2001 English-language article in the \"Brazilian Journal of Public Health Reports\" the concept of \"social ecosystem health\" where ecosystems are increasingly changed by social human activity, favoring the emergence of diseases, so the term \"social\" should precede the prefix \"eco\".\n\nShe is a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University in Boston, where for 10 years she has been a Visiting Scientist and a Fulbright Fellow, and a professor at FIOCRUZ in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nAs a Brazilian Brazilian public health scientist working with infectious diseases from an eco-social perspective, Cristina Possas de Albuquerque (Cristina Possas) has as a policymaker long worked closely with public health and environmental scientists and with human rights and social justice civil organizations.\n\nShe also is a full professor at FIOCRUZ in Brazil, where in 1998 she had earned a PhD in public health, and where she now does research on infectious diseases and teaches a course named \"Scientific Methodology\" in the Masters and Doctoral Programs.\n\nShe has been also a Professor of Health Policy at the National School of Public Health at the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Brazil. She was nominated in 1987 by the Brazilian Ministry of Health/Fiocruz to be the National Technical Coordinator of seven Groups supporting the Health Reform in Brazil, whose contributions were later incorporated into the new Brazilian 1988 Constitution.\n\nFor a decade, she also has been a Takemi Fellow at Harvard University, a Visiting Scientist and Fulbright Fellow, and a member of the Harvard New Diseases Group, coordinated by the late Richard Levins and by Tamara Awerbuch-Friedlander, collaborating with them and other outstanding members of the group in the organizing committee of the Woods Hole Conference on New Diseases, with articles with the group later published in a special supplement of the \"Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences\" on this conference and in other journals. She had held for 10 years a national position as the Head of the Research and Development Unit of the Brazilian National AIDS Program.\n\nShe has worked for more than five decades in several national and international positions with the scientific community and civil society organizations. For ten years, she had been National Director of the Research and Technological Development Unit at the Brazilian AIDS Program in the Brazilian Ministry of Health, which has been recognized globally as an outstanding public health initiative with innovative approaches to the pandemics, always centering on free and universal access to prevention and treatment. She was invited by the Director of the National AIDS Program to conceive and create a new and innovative Research and Technological Development Unit in the Program’s structure.\n\nShe has given interviews on AIDS, dengue, and zika.\n\n\nFIOCRUZ\n\n1985–present - Full professor and researcher at FIOCRUZ (Master, Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Programs in Clinical Research on Infectious Diseases). Scientific Advisor for the President of the Policy and Strategy Council of Bio-Manguinhos.\n\nPositions:\n\n\nNATIONAL TECHNICAL BIOSAFETY COMMISSION - CTNBio\n\n\nNATIONAL AIDS PROGRAM\n\n\nHARVARD UNIVERSITY\n\n\nSTATE OF SÃO PAULO, BRAZIL\n\n\nPUC OF CAMPINAS, SP.\n\n\nCITY OF CAMPINAS, SP\n\n\nUNICAMP, SP\n\n\n\nDr. Possas's writings are in six broad areas:\n\n\nThese numerous writings include:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715200", "title": "Democratic globalization", "text": "Democratic globalization\n\nDemocratic globalisation is a social movement towards an institutional system of global democracy. This would, in their view, bypass nation-states, corporate oligopolies, ideological NGOs, cults and mafias. One of its most prolific proponents is the British political thinker David Held. In the last decade he published a dozen books regarding the spread of democracy from territorially defined nation states to a system of global governance that encapsulates the entire world. For some, democratic mundialisation is a variant of democratic globalisation stressing the need for the direct election of world leaders and members of global institutions by citizens worldwide; for others, it is just another name for democratic globalisation.\n\nThese proponents state that democratic globalisation's purpose is to:\n\nSupporters of the democratic globalization movement draw a distinction between their movement and the one most popularly known as the 'anti-globalization' movement, claiming that their movement avoids ideological agenda about economics and social matters. Democratic globalization supporters state that the choice of political orientations should be left to the world citizens, via their participation in world democratic institutions.\nSome proponents in the \"anti-globalization movement\" do not necessarily disagree with this position. For example, George Monbiot, normally associated with the anti-globalization movement (who prefers the term Global Justice Movement) in his work \"Age of Consent\" has proposed similar democratic reforms of most major global institutions, suggesting direct democratic elections of such bodies, and suggests a form of \"world government.\"\n\nDemocratic globalization supports the extension of political democratization to economic and financial globalization. It is based upon an idea that free international transactions benefit the global society as a whole. They believe in financially\nopen economies, where the government and central bank must be transparent in order to retain the confidence of the markets, since transparency spells doom for autocratic regimes. They promote democracy that makes leaders more accountable to the citizenry through the removal of restrictions on such transactions.\n\nThe democratic globalization movement started to get public attention when New York Times reported its demonstration to contest a World Trade Organization (WTO) in Seattle, Washington, November 1999. This gathering was to criticize unfair trade and undemocratic globalization of the WTO, World Bank, World Economic Forum (WEF), the International Monetary Fund. Its primary tactics were public rallies, street theater and civil disobedience.\n\nDemocratic globalization, proponents claim, would be reached by creating democratic global institutions and changing international organizations (which are currently intergovernmental institutions controlled by the nation-states), into global ones controlled by world citizens. The movement suggests to do it gradually by building a limited number of democratic global institutions in charge of a few crucial fields of common interest. Its long-term goal is that these institutions federate later into a full-fledged democratic world government.\n\nThus, it supports the International Campaign for the Establishment of a United Nations Parliamentary Assembly, that would allow for participation of member nations' legislators and, eventually, direct election of United Nations (UN) parliament members by citizens worldwide.\n\nSome supporters of the democratic globalization movement draw a distinction between their movement and the one most popularly known as the 'anti-globalization' movement, claiming that their movement avoids ideological agenda about economics and social matters although, in practice, it is often difficult to distinguish between the two camps. Democratic globalization supporters state that the choice of political orientations should be left to the world citizens, via their participation in world democratic institutions and direct vote for world presidents (see presidentialism).\n\nSome supporters of the \"anti-globalization movement\" do not necessarily disagree with this position. For example, George Monbiot, normally associated with the anti-globalization movement (who prefers the term Global Justice Movement) in his work \"Age of Consent\" has proposed similar democratic reforms of most major global institutions, suggesting direct democratic elections of such bodies by citizens, and suggests a form of \"federal world government\".\n\nDemocratic globalization, proponents claim, would be reached by creating democratic global institutions and changing international organizations (which are currently intergovernmental institutions controlled by the nation-states), into global ones controlled by voting by the citizens. The movement suggests to do it gradually by building a limited number of democratic global institutions in charge of a few crucial fields of common interest. Its long-term goal is that these institutions federate later into a full-fledged democratic world government.\n\nThey propose the creation of world services for citizens, like world civil protection and prevention (from natural hazards) services.\n\nThe concept of democratic globalization has supporters from all fields. Many of the campaigns and initiatives for global democracy, such as the UNPA campaign, list quotes by and names of their supporters on their websites.\n\nSome of the most prolific proponents are the British political thinker David Held and the Italian political theorist Daniele Archibugi. In the last decade they published several books regarding the spread of democracy from territorially defined nation states to a system of global governance that encapsulates the entire planet. Richard Falk has developed the idea from an international law perspective, Ulrich Beck from a sociological approach and Jürgen Habermas has elaborate the normative principles.\n\n\nJim Stark has initiated a process for a Democratic World Parliament through a Global Referendum. As of August 20, 2013, 22,126 people have voted. So far, the votes are 95.3% in favor of creating a democratic world parliament. Portable voting booths are available at http://voteworldparliament.org/shadowbox/getballot.html. Online voting at Mr. Stark's website is at voteworldparliament.org. Mr. Stark has published a companion book to the online referendum entitled \"Rescue Plan for Planet Earth\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3104716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3104716", "title": "Dispatches (radio program)", "text": "Dispatches (radio program)\n\nDispatches was a Canadian radio program, which aired on CBC Radio One from 2001 to 2012. The program, which was hosted by Rick MacInnes-Rae, aired documentary reports on international news and feature topics. Its opening music was an excerpt from Mark Knopfler's song \"What It Is.\" \n\nOriginally a half-hour program, the program expanded to a one-hour format in April 2007, incorporating some features of CBC Radio's cancelled world music series \"Global Village\".\n\nOn April 10, 2012, the CBC announced it would cancel the program as part of its budget cuts as a result of the 2012 Canadian federal budget.\n\nThe last program aired on June 21, 2012 and was repeated June 24.\n"}
{"id": "1291656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1291656", "title": "Early modern period", "text": "Early modern period\n\nThe early modern period of modern history follows the late Middle Ages of the post-classical era. Although the chronological limits of the period are open to debate, the timeframe spans the period after the late portion of the post-classical age (c. 1500), known as the Middle Ages, through the beginning of the Age of Revolutions (c. 1800) and is variously demarcated by historians as beginning with the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, with the Renaissance period, and with the Age of Discovery (especially with the voyages of Christopher Columbus beginning in 1492, but also with Vasco da Gama's discovery of the sea route to the East in 1498), and ending around the French Revolution in 1789.\n\nHistorians in recent decades have argued that from a worldwide standpoint, the most important feature of the early modern period was its globalizing character. The period witnessed the exploration and colonization of the Americas and the rise of sustained contacts between previously isolated parts of the globe. The historical powers became involved in global trade, as the exchange of goods, plants, animals, and food crops extended to the Old World and the New World. The Columbian Exchange greatly affected the human environment.\n\nNew economies and institutions emerged, becoming more sophisticated and globally articulated over the course of the early modern period. This process began in the medieval North Italian city-states, particularly Genoa, Venice, and Milan. The early modern period also included the rise of the dominance of the economic theory of mercantilism. The European colonization of the Americas, Asia, and Africa occurred during the 15th to 19th centuries, and spread Christianity around the world.\n\nThe early modern trends in various regions of the world represented a shift away from medieval modes of organization, politically and economically. Feudalism declined in Europe, while the period also included the Protestant Reformation, the disastrous Thirty Years' War, the Commercial Revolution, the European colonization of the Americas, and the Golden Age of Piracy.\n\nBy the 16th century the economy under the Ming Dynasty was stimulated by trade with the Portuguese, the Spanish, and the Dutch, while Japan engaged in the Nanban trade after the arrival of the first European Portuguese during the Azuchi-Momoyama period.\n\nOther notable trends of the early modern period include the development of experimental science, accelerated travel due to improvements in mapping and ship design, increasingly rapid technological progress, secularized civic politics, and the emergence of nation states. Historians typically date the end of the early modern period when the French Revolution of the 1790s began the \"late modern\" period.\n\nAround the beginning of the Ming dynasty (1368—1644), China was leading the world in mathematics as well as science. However, Europe soon caught up to China's scientific and mathematical achievements and surpassed them. The reason behind China's lag in advancement has speculated by many scholars. A historian named Colin Ronan claims that though there is no one specific answer, there must be a connection between China's urgency for new discoveries being weaker than Europe's and China's inability to capitalize on its early advantages. Ronan believes that China's Confucian bureaucracy and traditions led to China not having a scientific revolution, which led China to have fewer scientists who would break the existing orthodoxies, like Galileo Galilei. Despite inventing gunpowder in the 9th century, it was in Europe that the classic handheld firearms, matchlocks, were invented, with evidence of use around the 1480s. China was using the matchlocks by 1540, after the Portuguese brought their matchlocks to Japan in the early 1500s. China during the Ming Dynasty established a bureau to maintain its calendar. The bureau was necessary because the calendars were linked to celestial phenomena and that needs regular maintenance because twelve lunar months have 344 or 355 days, so occasional leap months have to be added in order to maintain 365 days per year.\n\nIn the 16th century the Ming dynasty flourished over maritime trade with the Portuguese, Spanish and Dutch Empires. The trade brought in a massive amount of silver, which China at the time needed desperately. Prior to China's global trade, its economy ran on a paper money. However, in the 14th century, China's paper money system suffered a crisis, and by the mid-15th century, crashed. The silver imports helped fill the void left by the broken paper money system, which helps explain why the value of silver in China was twice as high as the value of silver in Spain during the end of the 16th century.\n\nThe Ming Dynasty suffered an economic collapse in the seventeenth-century because of heavy inflation of silver, and the European trade depression of the 1620s. The economy sunk to the point where all of China's trading partner cut ties with them: Philip IV restricted shipments of exports from Acapulco, the Japanese cut off all trade with Macau, and the Dutch severed connections between Gao and Macau.\n\nThe damage to the economy was compounded by the effects on agriculture of the incipient Little Ice Age, natural calamities, crop failure and sudden epidemics. The ensuing breakdown of authority and people's livelihoods allowed rebel leaders, such as Li Zicheng, to challenge Ming authority.\n\nThe Ming Dynasty fell around 1644 to the Qing Dynasty, the last ruling dynasty of China, ruling from 1644 to 1912 (with a brief, abortive restoration in 1917). During its reign, the Qing Dynasty became highly integrated with Chinese culture.\n\nFollowing contact with the Portuguese on Tanegashima Isle in 1543, the Japanese adopted several of the technologies and cultural practices of their visitors, whether in the military area (the arquebus, European-style cuirasses, European ships), religion (Christianity), decorative art, language (integration to Japanese of a Western vocabulary) and culinary: the Portuguese introduced tempura and valuable refined sugar.\n\nThe Azuchi–Momoyama period saw the political unification that preceded the establishment of the Tokugawa shogunate. Although a start date of 1573 is often given, in more broad terms, the period begins with Oda Nobunaga's entry into Kyoto in 1568, when he led his army to the imperial capital in order to install Ashikaga Yoshiaki as the 15th, and ultimately final, shōgun of the Ashikaga shogunate, and it lasts until the coming to power of Tokugawa Ieyasu after his victory over supporters of the Toyotomi clan at the Battle of Sekigahara in 1600.\n\nThe Edo period from 1600 to 1868 characterized early modern Japan. The Tokugawa shogunate was a feudalist regime of Japan established by Tokugawa Ieyasu and ruled by the \"shōguns\" of the Tokugawa clan. The period gets its name from the capital city, Edo, now called Tokyo. The Tokugawa shogunate ruled from Edo Castle from 1603 until 1868, when it was abolished during the Meiji Restoration in the late Edo period (often called the Late Tokugawa shogunate).\n\nIn 1392, General Yi Seong-gye established the Joseon dynasty (1392–1910) with a largely bloodless coup. Yi Seong-gye moved the capital of Korea to the location of modern-day Seoul. The dynasty was heavily influenced by Confucianism, which also played a large role to shaping Korea's strong cultural identity. King Sejong the Great (1418–1450), one of the only two kings in Korea's history to earn the title of great in their posthumous titles, reclaimed Korean territory to the north and created the Korean alphabet, Hangeul.\n\nDuring the end of the 16th century, Korea was invaded twice by Japan, first in 1592 and again in 1597. Japan failed both times due to Admiral Yi Sun-sin, Korea's revered naval genius, who lead the Korean Navy using advanced metal clad ships called turtle ships. Because the ships were armed with cannons, Admiral Yi's navy was able to demolish the Japanese invading fleets, destroying hundreds of ships in Japan's second invasion. During the 17th century, Korea was invaded again, this time by the Manchurian, who would later take over China as the Qing Dynasty. In 1637, King Injo was forced to surrender to the Qing forces, and was ordered to send princesses as concubine to the Qing Prince Dorgon.\n\nAfter invasions from Manchuria, Joseon experienced nearly 200 years of peace. However, whatever power the kingdom recovered during its isolation further waned as the 18th century came to a close, and Korea was faced with internal strife, power struggles, international pressure and rebellions at home. The Joseon dynasty declined rapidly in the late 19th century.\n\nOn the Indian subcontinent, the Lodi dynasty ruled over the Delhi Sultanate during its last phase. The dynasty founded by Bahlul Lodi ruled from 1451 to 1526. The dynasty's last ruler, Ibrahim Lodhi, was defeated and killed by Babur in the first Battle of Panipat.\n\nThe Vijayanagara Empire was based in the Deccan Plateau, but its power was diminished after a major military defeat in 1565 by the Deccan sultanates. The empire is named after its capital city of Vijayanagara.\n\nThe rise of the Great Mughal Empire is usually dated from 1526, around the end of the Middle Ages. It was an Islamic Persianate imperial power that ruled most of the area as Hindustan by the late 17th and the early 18th centuries. The empire dominated South and Southwestern Asia.\n\nAt the start of the modern era, the Spice Route between India and China crossed Majapahit, an archipelagic empire based on the island of Java. It was the last of the major Hindu empires of Maritime Southeast Asia and is considered one of the greatest states in Indonesian history. Its influence extended to states in Sumatra, the Malay Peninsula, Borneo and eastern Indonesia, but the effectiveness of the influence is the subject of debate. Majapahit found itself unable to control the rising power of the Sultanate of Malacca, which grew to stretch from Muslim Malay settlements of Bukit (Phuket), Setol (Satun), Pantai ni (Pattani) bordering Ayutthaya Kingdom of Siam (Thailand) in the north to Sumatra in the southwest. The Portuguese invaded its capital in 1511 and in 1528 the Sultanate of Johor was established by a Malaccan prince to succeed Malacca.\n\nDuring the early modern era, the Ottoman state enjoyed an expansion and consolidation of power, leading to a \"Pax Ottomana\". This was perhaps the golden age of the Ottoman Empire. The Ottomans expanded southwest into North Africa while battling with the re-emergent Persian Shi'a Safavid Empire to the east.\n\nIn the Saracen sphere, the Ottomans seized Egypt in 1517 and established the regencies of Algeria, Tunisia, and Tripoli (between 1519 and 1551), Morocco remaining an independent Arabized Berber state under the Sharifan dynasty.\n\nIn the Ethiopian Highlands, the Solomonic dynasty established itself in the 13th century. Claiming direct descent from the old Axumite royal house, the Solomonic ruled the region well into modern history. In the 16th century, Shewa and the rest of Abyssinia were conquered by the forces of Ahmed Gurey of the Adal Sultanate to the northwest. The conquest of the area by the Oromo ended in the contraction of both Adal and Abyssinia, changing regional dynamics for centuries to come.\n\nThe Ajuran Empire, which was one of the largest and strongest empires in the Horn of Africa, began to decline in the 17th century, and several powerful successor states came to prominence. The Geledi Sultanate, established by Ibrahim Adeer, was a notable successor of the Ajuran Sultanate. The Sultanate reached its apex under the successive reigns of Sultan Yusuf Mahamud Ibrahim (reigned 1798 to 1848), who successfully consolidated Geledi power during the Bardera wars, and Sultan Ahmed Yusuf, who forced regional powers such as the Omani Empire to pay tribute. The Majeerteen Sultanate was a Somali Sultanate in the Horn of Africa. Ruled by King Osman Mahamuud during its golden age, it controlled much of northern and central Somalia in the 19th and early 20th centuries. The polity had all of the organs of an integrated modern state and maintained a robust trading network. Along with the Sultanate of Hobyo ruled by Sultan Yusuf Ali Kenadid, the Majeerteen Sultanate was eventually annexed into Italian Somaliland in the early 20th century, following the military Campaign of the Sultanates.\n\nThe Songhai Empire took control of the trans-Saharan trade at the beginning of the modern era. It seized Timbuktu in 1468 and Jenne in 1473, building the regime on trade revenues and the cooperation of Muslim merchants. The empire eventually made Islam the official religion, built mosques, and brought Muslim scholars to Gao.\n\nAround the beginning of the modern era, the Benin Kingdom was an independent trading power in the southeastern coastline of West Africa, blocking the access of other inland nations to the coastal ports. Benin may have housed 100,000 inhabitants at its height, spreading over twenty-five square kilometres, enclosed by three concentric rings of earthworks. By the late 15th century Benin was in contact with Portugal. At its apogee in the 16th and 17th centuries, Benin encompassed parts of southeastern Yorubaland and the western Igbo.\n\nThe Safavid Empire was a great Shia Persianate empire after the Islamic conquest of Persia and established of Islam, marking an important point in the history of Islam in the east. The Safavid dynasty was founded about 1501. From their base in Ardabil, the Safavids established control over all of Persia and reasserted the Iranian identity of the region, thus becoming the first native dynasty since the Sassanids to establish a unified Iranian state. Problematic for the Safavids was the powerful Ottoman Empire. The Ottomans, a Sunni dynasty, fought several campaigns against the Safavids.\n\nWhat fueled the growth of Safavid economy was its position between the burgeoning civilizations of Europe to its west and Islamic Central Asia to its east and north. The Silk Road, which led from Europe to East Asia, revived in the 16th century. Leaders also supported direct sea trade with Europe, particularly England and The Netherlands, which sought Persian carpet, silk, and textiles. Other exports were horses, goat hair, pearls, and an inedible bitter almond hadam-talka used as a spice in India. The main imports were spice, textiles (woolens from Europe, cotton from Gujarat), metals, coffee, and sugar. Despite their demise in 1722, the Safavids left their mark by establishing and spreading Shi'a Islam in major parts of the Caucasus and West Asia.\n\nIn the 16th to early 18th centuries, Central Asia was under the rule of Uzbeks, and the far eastern portions were ruled by the local Pashtuns. Between the 15th and 16th centuries, various nomadic tribes arrived from the steppes, including the Kipchaks, Naymans, Kanglis, Khongirad, and Manguds. These groups were led by Muhammad Shaybani, who was the Khan of the Uzbeks.\n\nThe lineage of the Afghan Pashtuns stretches back to the Hotaki dynasty. Following Muslim Arab and Turkic conquests, Pashtun \"ghazis\" (warriors for the faith) invaded and conquered much of northern India during the Lodhi dynasty and Suri dynasty. Pashtun forces also invaded Persia, and the opposing forces were defeated in the Battle of Gulnabad. The Pashtuns later formed the Durrani Empire.\n\nThis era in Western Europe is referred to as the early modern European period and includes the Protestant Reformation, the European wars of religion, the Age of Discovery and the beginning of European colonialism, the rise of strong centralized governments, the beginnings of recognizable nation-states that are the direct antecedents of today's states, the Age of Enlightenment, and from the associated scientific advances the first phase of the Industrial Revolution. The emergence of cultural and political dominance of the Western world during this period is known as the Great Divergence.\n\nThe early modern period is taken to end with the French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, and the dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire at the Congress of Vienna.\nAt the end of the early modern period, the British and Russian empires had emerged as world powers from the multipolar contest of colonial empires, while the three great Asian empires of the early modern period, Ottoman Turkey, Mughal India and Qing China, all entered a period of stagnation or decline.\n\nThe expression \"early modern\" is at times incorrectly used as a substitute for the term Renaissance. However, \"Renaissance\" is properly used in relation to a diverse series of cultural developments that occurred over several hundred years in many different parts of Europe — especially central and northern Italy — and it spans the transition from late medieval civilization to the opening of the early modern period. In the visual arts and architecture, the term 'early modern' is not a common designation as the Renaissance period is clearly distinct from what came later. Only in the study of literature is the early modern period a standard designation. European music of the period is generally divided between Renaissance and Baroque. Similarly, philosophy is divided between Renaissance philosophy and the Enlightenment. In other fields, there is far more continuity through the period such as warfare and science.\n\nWhen gunpowder was introduced to Europe, it was immediately used almost exclusively in weapons and explosives for warfare. Though it was invented in China, gunpowder arrived in Europe already formulated for military use and European countries took advantage of it and were the first to create the classic firearms. The advances made in gunpowder and firearms was directly tied to the decline in the use of plate armor because of the inability of the armor to protect one from bullets.\n\nIn the early modern period, the Holy Roman Empire was a union of territories in Central Europe under a Holy Roman Emperor the first of which was Otto I. The last was Francis II, who abdicated and dissolved the Empire in 1806 during the Napoleonic Wars. Despite its name, for much of its history the Empire did not include Rome within its borders.\n\nThe Renaissance was a cultural movement that spanned roughly the 14th to the 17th century, beginning in Italy in the Late Middle Ages and later spreading to the rest of Europe. The term is also used more loosely to refer to the historic era, but since the changes of the Renaissance were not uniform across Europe, this is a general use of the term. As a cultural movement, it encompassed a rebellion of learning based on classical sources, the development of linear perspective in painting, and gradual but widespread educational reform.\n\nJohannes Gutenberg is credited as the first European to use movable type printing, around 1439, and as the global inventor of the mechanical printing press. Nicolaus Copernicus formulated a comprehensive heliocentric cosmology (1543), which displaced the Earth from the center of the universe. His book, \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" (\"On the Revolutions of the Celestial Spheres\") began modern astronomy and sparked the Scientific Revolution. Another notable individual was Machiavelli, an Italian political philosopher, considered a founder of modern political science. Machiavelli is most famous for a short political treatise, The Prince, a work of realist political theory.\n\nAmong the notable royalty of the time, Charles the Bold, known as \"Charles the Bold (or Rash)\" to his enemies, he was the last Valois Duke of Burgundy, and his early death was a pivotal, if under-recognized, moment in European history. Charles has often been regarded as the last representative of the feudal spirit — a man who possessed no other quality than a blind bravery. Upon his death, Charles left an unmarried nineteen-year-old daughter, Mary of Burgundy, as his heir. Her marriage would have enormous implications for the political balance of Europe. The Habsburg Emperor secured the match for his son, the future Maximilian I, Holy Roman Emperor, with the aid of Mary's stepmother, Margaret. In 1477, the territory of the Duchy of Burgundy was annexed by France. In the same year, Mary married Maximilian, Archduke of Austria, giving the Habsburgs control of the remainder of the Burgundian Inheritance.\n\nClaude de Lorraine was the first Duke of Guise, from 1528 to his death. Claude distinguished himself at the battle of Marignano (1515), and was long in recovering from the twenty-two wounds he received in the battle. In 1521, he fought at Fuenterrabia, and Louise of Savoy ascribed the capture of the place to his efforts. In 1523 he became governor of Champagne and Burgundy, after defeating at Neufchâteau the imperial troops who had invaded this province. In 1525 he destroyed the Anabaptist peasant army, which was overrunning Lorraine, at Lupstein, near Saverne (Zabern). On the return of Francis I from captivity in 1528, Claude was made Duke of Guise in the peerage of France, though up to this time only princes of the royal house had held the title of duke and peer of France. The Guises, as cadets of the sovereign house of Lorraine and descendants of the house of Anjou, claimed precedence of the Bourbon princes of Condé and Conti.\n\nThe 3rd Duke of Alba was a nobleman of importance in the early modern period, nicknamed the \"Iron Duke\" by the Protestants of the Low Countries because of his harsh rule and cruelty. Tales of atrocities committed during his military operations in Flanders became part of Dutch and English folklore, forming a central component of the Black Legend.\n\nIn England, Henry VIII was the King of England and a significant figure in the history of the English monarchy. Although in the greater part of his reign he brutally suppressed the influence of the Protestant Reformation in England, a movement having some roots with John Wycliffe in the 14th century, he is more popularly known for his political struggles with Rome. These struggles ultimately led to the separation of the Church of England from papal authority, the Dissolution of the Monasteries, and establishing himself as the Supreme Head of the Church of England. Though Henry reportedly became a Protestant on his death-bed, he advocated Catholic ceremony and doctrine throughout his life. Royal support for the English Reformation began with his heirs, the devout Edward VI and the renowned Elizabeth I, whilst daughter Mary I temporarily reinstated papal authority over England. Henry also oversaw the legal union of England and Wales with the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542. He is also noted for his six wives, two of whom were beheaded.\n\nChristianity was challenged at the beginning of the modern period with the fall of Constantinople in 1453 and later by various movements to reform the church (including Lutheran, Zwinglian, and Calvinist), followed by the Counter Reformation.\n\nThe Hussite Crusades involved the military actions against and amongst the followers of Jan Hus in Bohemia ending ultimately with the Battle of Grotniki. Also known as the Hussite Wars, they were arguably the first European war in which hand-held gunpowder weapons such as muskets made a decisive contribution. The Taborite faction of the Hussite warriors were basically infantry, and their many defeats of larger armies with heavily armored knights helped effect the infantry revolution. In totality, the Hussite Crusades were inconclusive.\n\nThe last crusade, the \"Crusade of 1456\", was organized to counter the expanding Ottoman Empire and lift the Siege of Belgrade, and was led by John Hunyadi and Giovanni da Capistrano. The siege eventually escalated into a major battle, during which Hunyadi led a sudden counterattack that overran the Turkish camp, ultimately compelling the wounded Sultan Mehmet II to lift the siege and retreat. The siege of Belgrade has been characterized as having \"decided the fate of Christendom\". The noon bell ordered by Pope Callixtus III commemorates the victory throughout the Christian world to this day.\n\nNearly a hundred years later, the Peace of Augsburg officially ended the idea that all Christians could be united under one church. The principle of \"cuius regio, eius religio\" (\"whose the region is, [it shall have] his religion\") established the religious, political and geographic divisions of Christianity, and this was established in international law with the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, which legally ended the concept of a single Christian hegemony, i.e. the \"One, Holy, Catholic, and Apostolic Church\" of the Nicene Creed. Each government determined the religion of their own state. Christians living in states where their denomination was \"not\" the established church were guaranteed the right to practice their faith in public during allotted hours and in private at their will. With the Treaty of Westphalia, the Wars of Religion came to an end, and in the Treaty of Utrecht of 1713 the concept of the sovereign national state was born. The \"Corpus Christianum\" has since existed with the modern idea of a tolerant and diverse society consisting of many different communities.\n\nThe modern Inquisition refers to any one of several institutions charged with trying and convicting heretics (or other offenders against canon law) within the Catholic Church. In the modern era, the first manifestation was the Spanish Inquisition of 1478 to 1834. The Inquisition prosecuted individuals accused of a wide array of crimes related to heresy, including sorcery, blasphemy, Judaizing and witchcraft, as well for censorship of printed literature. Because of its objective — combating heresy — the Inquisition had jurisdiction only over baptized members of the Church (which, however, encompassed the vast majority of the population in Catholic countries). Secular courts could still try non-Christians for blasphemy (most of the witch trials went through secular courts).\n\nThe Protestant Reformation and rise of modernity in the early 16th century entailed the start of a series of changes in the \"Corpus Christianum\". Martin Luther challenged the Catholic Church with his Ninety-Five Theses, generally accepted as the beginning of the Reformation, a Christian reform movement in Europe, though precursors such as Jan Hus predate him. The Protestant movement of the 16th century occurred under the protection of the Electorate of Saxony, an independent hereditary electorate of the Holy Roman Empire. The Elector Frederick III established a university at Wittenberg in 1502. The Augustinian monk Martin Luther became professor of philosophy there in 1508. At the same time, he became one of the preachers at the castle church of Wittenberg.\n\nOn 31 October 1517, Luther posted his \"Ninety-Five Theses\" on the door of the All Saints' Church, which served as a notice board for university-related announcements. These were points for debate that criticized the Church and the Pope. The most controversial points centered on the practice of selling indulgences (especially by Johann Tetzel) and the Church's policy on purgatory. The reform movement soon split along certain doctrinal lines. Religious disagreements between various leading figures led to the emergence of rival Protestant churches. The most important denominations to emerge directly from the Reformation were the Lutherans, and the Reformed/Calvinists/Presbyterians. The process of reform had decidedly different causes and effects in other countries. In England, where it gave rise to Anglicanism, the period became known as the English Reformation. Subsequent Protestant denominations generally trace their roots back to the initial reforming movements.\n\nThe Diet of Worms in 1521, presided by Emperor Charles V, declared Martin Luther a heretic and an outlaw (although Charles V was more preoccupied with maintaining his vast empire than with arresting Luther). As a result of Charles V's distractions in East Europe and in Spain, he agreed through the Diet of Speyer in 1526 to allow German princes to effectively decide themselves whether to enforce the Edict of Worms or not, for the time being. After returning to the empire, Charles V attended the Diet of Augsburg in 1530 to order all Protestants in the empire to revert to Catholicism. In response, the Protestant territories in and around Germany formed the Schmalkaldic League to fight against the Catholic Holy Roman Empire. Charles V left again to handle the advance of the Ottoman Turks. He returned in 1547 to launch a military campaign against the Schmalkaldic League and to issue an imperial law requiring all Protestants to return to Catholic practices (with a few superficial concessions to Protestant practices). Warfare ended when Charles V relented in the Peace of Passau (1552) and in the Peace of Augsburg (1555), which formalized the law that the rulers of a land decide its religion.\n\nOf the late Inquisitions in the modern era, there were two different manifestations:\nThis Portuguese inquisition was a local analogue of the more famous Spanish Inquisition. The Roman Inquisition covered most of the Italian peninsula as well as Malta and also existed in isolated pockets of papal jurisdiction in other parts of Europe, including Avignon.\n\nThe Catholic Reformation began in 1545 when the Council of Trent was called in reaction to the \"Protestant Rebellion\". The idea was to reform the state of worldliness and disarray that had befallen some of the clergy of the Church, while reaffirming the spiritual authority of the Catholic Church and its position as the sole true Church of Christ on Earth. The effort sought to prevent further damage to the Church and her faithful at the hands of the newly formed Protestant denominations.\n\nIn development of the Third Rome ideas, the Grand Duke Ivan IV (the \"Awesome\" or \"the Terrible\") was officially crowned the first Tsar (\"Caesar\") of Russia in 1547. The Tsar promulgated a new code of laws (Sudebnik of 1550), established the first Russian feudal representative body (Zemsky Sobor) and introduced local self-management into the rural regions. During his long reign, Ivan IV nearly doubled the already large Russian territory by annexing the three Tatar khanates (parts of disintegrated Golden Horde): Kazan and Astrakhan along the Volga River, and Sibirean Khanate in South Western Siberia. Thus by the end of the 16th century Russia was transformed into a multiethnic, multiconfessional and transcontinental state.\n\nThe Age of Discovery was a period from the early 15th century and continuing into the early 17th century, during which European ships traveled around the world to search for new trading routes and partners to feed burgeoning capitalism in Europe. They also were in search of trading goods such as gold, silver and spices. In the process, Europeans encountered peoples and mapped lands previously unknown to them. This factor in the early European modern period was a globalizing character; the 'discovery' of the Americas and the rise of sustained contacts between previously isolated parts of the globe was an important historical event.\n\nThe search for new routes was based on the fact that the Silk Road was controlled by the Ottoman Empire, which was an impediment to European commercial interests, and other Eastern trade routes were not available to the Europeans due to Muslim control. The ability to outflank the Muslim states of North Africa was seen as crucial to European survival. At the same time, the Iberians learnt much from their Arab neighbors. The northwestern region of Eurasia has a very long coastline, and has arguably been more influenced by its \"maritime history\" than any other continent. Europe is uniquely situated between several navigable seas, and intersected by navigable rivers running into them in a way that greatly facilitated the influence of maritime traffic and commerce. In the maritime history of Europe, the carrack and caravel both incorporated the lateen sail that made ships far more maneuverable. By translating the Arab versions of lost ancient Greek geographical works into Latin, European navigators acquired a deeper knowledge of the shape of Africa and Asia.\n\nMercantilism was the dominant school of economic thought throughout the early modern period (from the 16th to the 18th century). This led to some of the first instances of significant government intervention and control over the economy, and it was during this period that much of the modern capitalist system was established. Internationally, mercantilism encouraged the many European wars of the period and fueled European imperialism. Belief in mercantilism began to fade in the late 18th century, as the arguments of Adam Smith and the other classical economists won out.\n\nThe Commercial Revolution was a period of economic expansion, colonialism, and mercantilism that lasted from approximately the 16th century until the early 18th century. Beginning with the Crusades, Europeans rediscovered spices, silks, and other commodities rare in Europe. This development created a new desire for trade, which expanded in the second half of the Middle Ages. European nations, through voyages of discovery, were looking for new trade routes in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which allowed the European powers to build vast, new international trade networks. Nations also sought new sources of wealth. To deal with this new-found wealth, new economic theories and practices were created. Because of competing national interest, nations had the desire for increased world power through their colonial empires. The Commercial Revolution is marked by an increase in general commerce, and in the growth of non-manufacturing pursuits, such as banking, insurance, and investing.\n\nIn the Old World, the most desired trading goods were gold, silver, and spices. Western Europeans used the compass, new sailing ship technologies, new maps, and advances in astronomy to seek a viable trade route to Asia for valuable spices that Mediterranean powers could not contest.\n\nIn terms of shipping advances, the most important developments were the creation of the carrack and caravel designs in Portugal. These vessels evolved from medieval European designs from the North Sea and both the Christian and Islamic Mediterranean. They were the first ships that could leave the relatively placid and calm Mediterranean, Baltic or North Sea and sail safely on the open Atlantic.\n\nWhen the carrack and then the caravel were developed in Iberia, European thoughts returned to the fabled East. These explorations have a number of causes. Monetarists believe the main reason the Age of Exploration began was because of a severe shortage of bullion in Europe. The European economy was dependent on gold and silver currency, but low domestic supplies had plunged much of Europe into a recession. Another factor was the centuries-long conflict between the Iberians and the Muslims to the south.\n\nThe Golden Age of Piracy is a designation given to one or more outbursts of piracy in the early modern period, spanning from the mid-17th century to the mid-18th century. The buccaneering period covers approximately the late 17th century. The period is characterized by Anglo-French seamen based on Jamaica and Tortuga attacking Spanish colonies and shipping in the Caribbean and eastern Pacific. A sailing route known as the Pirate Round was followed by certain Anglo-American pirates at the turn of the 18th century, associated with long-distance voyages from Bermuda and the Americas to rob Muslim and East India Company targets in the Indian Ocean and Red Sea. The post-Spanish Succession period extending into the early 18th century, when Anglo-American sailors and privateers left unemployed by the end of the War of the Spanish Succession turned en masse to piracy in the Caribbean, the American eastern seaboard, the West African coast, and the Indian Ocean.\n\nThe 15th to 18th century period is marked by the first European colonies, the rise of strong centralized governments, and the beginnings of recognizable European nation states that are the direct antecedents of today's states. Although the Renaissance included revolutions in many intellectual pursuits, as well as social and political upheaval, it is perhaps best known for European artistic developments and the contributions of such polymaths as Leonardo da Vinci and Michelangelo, who inspired the term \"Renaissance man\".\n\nDuring the Baroque period the Thirty Years' War in Central Europe decimated the population by up to 20%. In 1648, the Peace of Westphalia, consisting of the treaties of Osnabrück and Münster, signed on May 15 and October 24, respectively, ended several wars in Europe and established the beginning of sovereign states. The treaties involved the Holy Roman Emperor, Ferdinand III (Habsburg), the Kingdoms of Spain, France and Sweden, the Netherlands and their respective allies among the princes and the Republican Imperial States of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nThe Peace of Westphalia resulted from the first modern diplomatic congress. Until 1806, the regulations became part of the constitutional laws of the Holy Roman Empire. The Treaty of the Pyrenees, signed in 1659, ended the war between France and Spain and is often considered part of the overall accord.\n\nThe Age of Absolutism describes the monarchical power that was unrestrained by any other institutions, such as churches, legislatures, or social elites of the European monarchs during the transition from feudalism to capitalism. Monarchs described as absolute can especially be found in the 17th century through the 19th century. Nations that adopted Absolutism include France, Prussia, and Russia. Nobles tended to trade privileges for allegiance throughout the eighteenth century, so that the interests of the nobility aligned with that of the crown. Absolutism is characterized by the ending of feudal partitioning, consolidation of power with the monarch, rise of state power, unification of the state laws, drastic increase in tax revenue collected by the monarch, and a decrease in the influence of nobility.\n\nFor much of the reign of Louis XIV, who was known as the \"Sun King\" (French: \"le Roi Soleil\"), France stood as the leading power in Europe, engaging in three major wars—the Franco-Dutch War, the War of the League of Augsburg, and the War of the Spanish Succession—and two minor conflicts—the War of Devolution, and the War of the Reunions. Louis believed in the Divine Right of Kings, the theory that the King was crowned by God and accountable to him alone. Consequently, he has long been considered the archetypal absolute monarch. Louis XIV continued the work of his predecessor to create a centralized state, governed from the capital to sweep away the remnants of feudalism that persisted in parts of France. He succeeded in breaking the power of the provincial nobility, much of which had risen in revolt during his minority called the Fronde, and forced many leading nobles to live with him in his lavish Palace of Versailles.\n\nMen who featured prominently in the political and military life of France during this period include Mazarin, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, Turenne, Vauban. French culture likewise flourished during this era, producing a number of figures of great renown, including Molière, Racine, Boileau, La Fontaine, Lully, Le Brun, Rigaud, Louis Le Vau, Jules Hardouin Mansart, Claude Perrault and Le Nôtre.\n\nBefore the Age of Revolution, the English Civil War was a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists. The first and second civil wars pitted the supporters of King Charles I against the supporters of the Long Parliament, while the third war saw fighting between supporters of King Charles II and supporters of the Rump Parliament. The Civil War ended with the Parliamentary victory at the Battle of Worcester. The monopoly of the Church of England on Christian worship in England ended with the victors consolidating the established Protestant Ascendancy in Ireland. Constitutionally, the wars established the precedent that an English monarch cannot govern without Parliament's consent. The English Restoration, or simply put as the Restoration, began in 1660 when the English, Scottish and Irish monarchies were all restored under Charles II after the Commonwealth of England that followed the English Civil War. The Glorious Revolution of 1688 establishes modern parliamentary democracy in England.\n\nThe War of the Spanish Succession was a war fought between 1701 and 1714, in which several European powers combined to stop a possible unification of the Kingdoms of Spain and France under a single Bourbon monarch, upsetting the European balance of power. It was fought mostly in Europe, but it included Queen Anne's War in North America. The war was marked by the military leadership of notable generals like the duc de Villars, the Jacobite Duke of Berwick, the Duke of Marlborough and Prince Eugene of Savoy.\n\nThe Peace of Utrecht established after a series of individual peace treaties signed in the Dutch city of Utrecht concluded between various European states helped end the War of the Spanish Succession. The representatives who met were Louis XIV of France and Philip V of Spain on the one hand, and representatives of Queen Anne of Great Britain, the Duke of Savoy, and the United Provinces on the other. The treaty enregistred the defeat of French ambitions expressed in the wars of Louis XIV and preserved the European system based on the balance of power. The Treaty of Utrecht marked the change from Spanish to British naval supremacy.\n\nThe term \"colonialism\" is normally used with reference to discontiguous overseas empires rather than contiguous land-based empires, European or otherwise. European colonisation during the 15th to 19th centuries resulted in the spread of Christianity to Sub-Saharan Africa, the Americas, Australia and the Philippines.\n\nChristopher Columbus discovered the Americas in 1492. Subsequently, the major sea powers in Europe sent expeditions to the New World to build trade networks and colonies and to convert the native peoples to Christianity. Pope Alexander VI divided newly discovered lands outside Europe between Spain and Portugal along a north-south meridian 370 leagues west of the Cape Verde islands (off the west coast of Africa). The division was never accepted by the rulers of England or France. (See also the Treaty of Tordesillas, which followed the papal decree.)\n\nWhat is now called Latin America, a designation first used in the late 19th century, was claimed by Spain and Portugal. The Western Hemisphere, the New World, was divided between the two Iberian powers by the Treaty of Tordesillas in what until the late 16th-century, was an area that could be called \"Ibero-America.\" Spain called its overseas empire there \"The Indies,\" with Portugal calling its territory in South America Brazil, after the dyewood found there. Spain concentrated building its empire where there were large indigenous populations, \"Indians,\" who could be compelled to work and large deposits of precious metals, mainly silver. Both New Spain (colonial Mexico) and Peru fit those criteria and the Spanish crown established viceroyalties to rule those two large areas. As Spanish settlements and the economy grew in size and complexity, the Spanish established viceroyalties in the eighteenth century during administrative reforms Rio de la Plata (southeastern South America) and New Granada (northern South America).\n\nInitially, Portuguese settlements (Brazil) in the coastal northeast were of lesser importance in the larger Portuguese overseas empire, where lucrative commerce and small settlements devoted to trade were established in coastal Africa, India and China. With sparse indigenous populations that could not be coerced to work and no known deposits of precious metals, Portugal sought a high-value, low-bulk export product and found it in sugarcane. Black African slave labour from Portugal's West African possessions was imported to do the grueling agricultural work. As the wealth of the Ibero-America increased, some Western European powers (Dutch, French, British, Danish) sought to duplicate the model in areas that the Iberians had not settled in numbers. They seized Caribbean islands from the Spanish and transferred the model of sugar production on plantations with slave labour and settled in northern areas of North America in what are now the Eastern Seaboard of the United States and Canada.\n\nNorth America outside the zone of Spanish settlement was a contested area in the 17th century. Spain had founded small settlements in Florida and Georgia but nowhere near the size of those in New Spain or the Caribbean islands. France, The Netherlands, and Great Britain held several colonies in North America and the West Indies from the 17th century, 100 years after the Spanish and Portuguese established permanent colonies. The British colonies in North America were founded between 1607 (Virginia) and 1733 (Georgia). The Dutch explored the east coast of North America and began founding settlements in what they called New Netherland (now New York State.). France colonized what is now Eastern Canada, founding Quebec City in 1608. France's loss in the Seven Years' War resulted in the transfer of New France to Great Britain. The Thirteen Colonies, in lower British North America, rebelled against British rule in 1775, largely due to the taxation that Great Britain was imposing on the colonies. The British colonies in Canada remained loyal to the crown, and a provisional government formed by the Thirteen Colonies proclaimed their independence on July 4, 1776 and subsequently became the original 13 United States of America. With the 1783 Treaty of Paris ending the American Revolutionary War, Britain recognised the former Thirteen Colonies' independence.\n\nA recent development in early modern history is the creation of Atlantic World as a category. The term generally encompasses western Europe, West Africa, North and South and America and the Caribbean islands. It seeks to show both local and regional development and the connections between the various geographical regions.\n\nConcerning the development of Eastern philosophies, much of Eastern philosophy had been in an advanced state of development from study in the previous centuries. The various philosophies include Indian philosophy, Chinese philosophy, Iranian philosophy, Japanese philosophy, and Korean philosophy.\n\nThe Islamic Golden Age reached its peak in the High Middle Ages, stopped short by the Mongol invasions of the 13th century. The re-establishment of three major Muslim empires by the 16th century (the aforementioned Ottoman Safavid and Mughal Empires) gave rise to a Muslim cultural revival. The Safavids established Twelver Shi'a Islam as Iran's official religion, thus giving Iran a separate identity from its Sunni neighbors.\n\nThe early modern period was initiated by the Protestant Reformation and the collapse of the unity of the medieval Western Church.\nThe theology of Calvinism in particular has been argued as instrumental to the rise of capitalism (\"The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism\").\n\nThe Counter-Reformation was a period of Catholic revival in response to the Protestant Reformation during the mid-16th to mid-17th centuries. The Counter-Reformation was a comprehensive effort, involving ecclesiastical or structural reforms as well as a political dimension and spiritual movements.\n\nSuch reforms included the foundation of seminaries for the proper training of priests in the spiritual life and the theological traditions of the Church, the reform of religious life by returning orders to their spiritual foundations and new spiritual movements focusing on the devotional life and a personal relationship with Christ, including the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. It also involved political activities that included the Roman Inquisition.\n\nNew religious orders were a fundamental part of this trend. Orders such as the Capuchins, Ursulines, Theatines, Discalced Carmelites, the Barnabites, and especially the Jesuits strengthened rural parishes, improved popular piety, helped to curb corruption within the church and set examples that would be a strong impetus for Catholic renewal.\n\nWith the adoption of large-scale printing after 1500, Italian Renaissance Humanism spread northward to France, Germany, Holland and England, where it became associated with the Protestant Reformation. In France, pre-eminent Humanist Guillaume Budé (1467–1540) applied the philological methods of Italian Humanism to the study of antique coinage and to legal history, composing a detailed commentary on Justinian's Code. Although a royal absolutist (and not a republican like the early Italian \"umanisti\"), Budé was active in civic life, serving as a diplomat for Francis I and helping to found the Collège des Lecteurs Royaux (later the Collège de France). Meanwhile, Marguerite de Navarre, the sister of Francis I, herself a poet, novelist and religious mystic, gathered around her and protected a circle of vernacular poets and writers, including Clément Marot, Pierre de Ronsard and François Rabelais.\n\nThe philosophy of 17th-century Europe marks the departure from medieval scholasticism and the often occultist approach of Renaissance philosophy.\nThe period was typified in Europe by the great system-builders, philosophers who presented unified systems of epistemology, metaphysics, logic, and ethics and often politics and the physical sciences as well.\n\nImmanuel Kant classified his predecessors into two schools: the rationalists and the empiricists, The three main rationalists are normally taken to have been René Descartes, Baruch Spinoza, and Gottfried Leibniz.\n\nThe first great advances towards modern science were made in the mid-17th century, most notably the theory of gravity by Isaac Newton (1643–1727). Newton, Spinoza, John Locke (1632–1704) and Pierre Bayle (1647–1706) were philosophers sparking the Age of Enlightenment in the following century.\n\nThe Great Divergence is epitomized by the \"Age of Enlightenment\" (or \"Age of Reason\").\nThe Enlightenment, starting in the 1750s, flourished until about 1790–1800, after which the emphasis on reason gave way to Romanticism's emphasis on emotion and a Counter-Enlightenment gained force.\n\nThe centre of the Enlightenment was France, where it was based in the salons and culminated in the great \"Encyclopédie\" (1751–1772), edited by Denis Diderot (1713–1784) with contributions by hundreds of leading philosophes (intellectuals) such as Voltaire (1694–1778) and Montesquieu (1689–1755). The French Enlightenment was received in Germany, notably fostered by Frederick the Great, the king of Prussia, and gave rise to a flowering of German philosophy, represented foremost by Immanuel Kant.\n\nThe French and German developments were further influential in Scottish, Russian, Spanish and Polish philosophy.\n\nIn modern history, the end of the early period falls in the late 18th century, as an Age of Revolutions dawns, beginning with those in North America and France. Subsequent important political changes occurred throughout Europe, including upheavals following the Napoleonic Wars, the redrawing of the map of Europe through the Second Treaty of Paris, the rise of new concepts of nationalism and the reorganization in military forces. The end of the early modern period is usually also associated with the Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain in the mid-18th century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1065199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1065199", "title": "Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems", "text": "Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Life Support Systems (EOLSS) is an encyclopedia on the science of sustainable development and conservation of life support systems on earth. The extensive publication is published under the patronage of UNESCO.\n\nIn 1996, international scientists, engineers, and policy makers were invited by the UNESCO to Washington, Tokyo, Moscow, Mexico City, Beijing and the Bahamas to generate a detailed list of EOLSS contents and achieve a global consensus and acceptance of its structure. Life support system means a natural or human constructed system that furthers the life of the biosphere in a sustainable fashion. The knowledge is structured in 21 topic areas: Earth and atmospheric sciences; Mathematical sciences; Biological, physiological and health sciences; Biotechnology; Land use, land cover and soil sciences; Tropical biology and conservation management; Social sciences and humanities; Physical sciences, engineering and technology resources; Control systems, robotics and automation; Chemical sciences engineering and technology resources; Water sciences, engineering and technology resources; Energy sciences, engineering and technology resources; Environmental and ecological sciences, engineering and technology resources; Food and agricultural sciences, engineering and technology resources; Human resources policy, development and management; Natural resources policy and management; Development and economic sciences; Institutional and infrastructural resources; Technology, information and system management resources; Area studies (Africa, Brazil, Canada and USA, China, Europe, Japan, Russia); Desalination and water resources.\n\nThe way the encyclopedia is being compiled can be defined as crowdsourcing, where thousands of intellectuals from all over the world and across various academic institutions are contributing. The encyclopedia relies on strict standards of peer review and the joint Paris-based UNESCO and EOLSS secretariat manages the encyclopedia in progress. It has got a publishing wing in Oxford as well which specializes in publishing various materials such as books, e-books or scholarly subscriptions.\n\nThe web portal of EOLSS receives maximum hits from the United States and India. If each hit is assumed to originate from one unique user, then USA has about 28% and India has about 10% of the users of this portal. The number of hits falls dramatically after we consider USA and India, whereas countries like Australia, Canada, and the United Kingdom each contribute almost about 5% of the total hits. This shows that people familiar with English are feeling more comfortable in utilizing this project for their educational or knowledge seeking purposes and researches. The proportion of users from states of the European Union who do not speak English as native language is about 8 percent in total. The statistics are updated as of May 2018.\n\n1. Earth and Atmospheric Sciences\n2. Mathematical Sciences\n3. Biological, Physiological and Health Sciences\n4. Biotechnology\n5. Tropical Biology and Conservation Management\n6. Social Sciences and Humanities\n7. Physical Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n8. Control Systems, Robotics and Automation\n9. Chemical Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n10. Water Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n11. Compendium of Desalination and Water Resources\n12. Energy Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n13. Environmental and Ecological Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n14. Food and Agricultural Sciences, Engineering and Technology Resources\n15. Human Resources Policy, Development and Management\n16. Natural Resources Policy and Management\n17. Development and Economic sciences\n18. Institutional and Infrastructural Resources\n19. Technology, Information and Sytems Management Resources\n20. Land Use, Land Cover and Soil Sciences\n21. Area Studies (Regional Sustainable Development Reviews)\n\n"}
{"id": "56678291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56678291", "title": "Freedom Online Coalition", "text": "Freedom Online Coalition\n\nThe Freedom Online Coalition is a group of 30 governments that work together to advance Internet freedom, mainly through coordinating diplomatic initiatives and interventions at relevant international fora. The Freedom Online Coalition was launched at a conference of the Dutch Government in The Hague, the Netherlands in December 2011. \n\nParticipating countries commit to \"promoting the freedoms of expression, association, and peaceful assembly with respect to the Internet and connection technologies\". They endorse the principle that the human rights that people have offline should enjoy the same protection online, including freedom of assembly and the right to organize, freedom of religion and the right to be protected by the \"arbitrary\" intrude into his privacy. Its work builds on the resolution on \"The Promotion, Protection and Enjoyment of Human Rights on the Internet\" adopted by United Nations Human Rights Council in July 2012. \n\nThe group has held annual meetings in The Netherlands (2011), Kenya (2012), Tunisia (2013), Estonia (2014), Mongolia (2015) and Costa Rica (2016) . The group has 30 member countries (February 2018). In 2018, the Chairmanship of the Freedom Online Coalition is held by the German Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "30721856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30721856", "title": "GMA News TV", "text": "GMA News TV\n\nGMA News TV (GNTV) (visually rendered in its logo in all capital letters) is a commercial broadcast television network in the Philippines. It is owned and operated by Citynet Network Marketing and Productions Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of GMA Network, Inc., together with ZOE Broadcasting Network Inc. (ZOE TV) of Jesus Is Lord Church leader Eddie Villanueva as its main content provider. Launched on February 28, 2011, GNTV is the second television network joint-ventured between ZOE and GMA after its predecessor QTV, which in turn was launched in 2005. Its flagship station is DZOE-TV Channel 11, a frequency currently owned by ZOE Broadcasting, and it is beamed through provincial relay stations run by GMA Network. Its studios are located at the 22/F Strata 2000 Building, F. Ortigas Jr. Road (formerly Emerald Avenue), Ortigas Center, Pasig City and GMA Network Center, EDSA corner Timog Avenue, Diliman, Quezon City; with its transmitter facilities (also owned by ZOE-TV) located at GMA Tower of Power, Tandang Sora, Barangay Culiat, Quezon City.\n\nGMA News TV was created as a replacement for \"Q\", a network which primarily featured imported dramas and lifestyle-oriented programming aimed towards women. Both GMA News TV and Q are products of an airtime lease agreement between ZOE-TV and Citynet in 2005 in exchange of upgrading the former's facilities and air its programs on Channel 11 and its affiliate GMA Network during off-peak hours. GMA News TV was unveiled on February 7, 2011, and Q was discontinued on February 20, 2011 in preparation for the launch of the new service, which occurred on February 28, 2011.\n\nMost of GMA News TV's programming consists of news, public affairs and sports programming produced by GMA News and Public Affairs including entertainment, lifestyle, cooking shows, talk shows, infotainment, local and foreign drama, comedy and reality series, travel, foreign animated series, infomercials and local and foreign movie blocks and additional programming produced by GMA Entertainment TV carried over from Q.\n\nAs part of its agreement to operate DZOE-TV as a carrier of GMA News TV (dating back to the establishment of Q), it also airs religious programming produced by ZOE during off-peak hours.\n\nLater in 2011, GMA would also launch a 24-hour international feed of GMA News TV, as a compliment to its two other international channels (GMA Pinoy TV and GMA Life TV). It began to be offered as a preview channel in Australia on FetchTV, IPS/AccessTV in Japan, GUdTV in Guam and on OSN, with an official launch planned for the third quarter of 2011.\n\nGMA News TV International was officially launched on UBI World TV on December 1, 2011. In May 2012, Canadian IPTV provider MTS TV added GMA News TV International, becoming its first Canadian carrier. In November 2012, Optik TV added the channel to their lineup. Additionally, GMA News TV international is now also available in Singtel TV Pay TV Customers in Singapore Channel 690 in SD, on ABNXcess Pay TV Customers in Malaysia Channel 731 in SD and also on Astro\n\nUnlike its domestic counterpart, programs on GMA News TV International are air tape-delayed, except for selected special events such as live coverage of Day 1 of Eleksyon 2013.\n\nIn Hong Kong, GMA News TV International Launch in Now TV On June 2, 2015.\n\nGMA News TV can be seen via regular free-to-air television on Channel 11 in Metro Manila area, and Channel 27 in Cebu and Davao. Aside from GNTV's main free-to-air analog signal, GMA News TV can also be seen on a must carry basis on all cable and satellite TV providers nationwide. This channel is also included as a digital subchannel which can be seen on 07.02 (LCN; Channel 27 Physical frequency) of GMA Network's ISDB-T DTTV broadcast available in Manila, Channel 38 Physical frequency in Baguio, Channel 26 Physical frequency in Cebu, and Channel 37 Physical frequency in Davao, using digital set-top boxes.\n\n\n\nhttp://pinoytambayanlive.net/"}
{"id": "38346167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38346167", "title": "Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance", "text": "Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance\n\nGavi, the Vaccine Alliance (Gavi for short; previously the GAVI Alliance, and before that the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization) is a public–private global health partnership committed to increasing access to immunisation in poor countries.\n\nGavi brings together developing country and donor governments, the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the World Bank, the vaccine industry in both industrialised and developing countries, research and technical agencies, civil society, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and other private philanthropists.\n\nGavi was created in 2000 as a successor to the Children's Vaccine Initiative, which had been launched in 1990. \n\nDr. Seth Berkley has been the CEO of GAVI since 2011.\n\nThe Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has donated $1.5 billion to the alliance as of January 2013.\n\nIn August 2014, Gavi changed its name from \"GAVI Alliance\" and introduced a new logo. Both changes were revealed in August; it had by then acquired the gavi.org domain name and changed its primary domain from gavialliance.org to gavi.org.\n\n"}
{"id": "19466135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19466135", "title": "General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans", "text": "General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans\n\nThe General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) is a publicly available bathymetric chart of the world's oceans. The project was conceived with the aim of preparing a global series of charts showing the general shape of the seafloor. Over the years it has become a reference map of the bathymetry of the world’s oceans for scientists and others.\n\nGEBCO operates under the joint auspices of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO). and the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC) of UNESCO. Its work is done by an international group of experts in seafloor mapping who develop a range of bathymetric data sets and data products.\n\nAlthough originally GEBCO published paper contour charts, today it has moved into the digital age and collects digital depths of the ocean from wherever they are available. GEBCO provides a range of bathymetric data sets and data products, including:\n\nThe grids are available to download from the British Oceanographic Data Centre (BODC) in the form of netCDF files, along with free software for displaying and accessing data in ASCII and netCDF. The grids can be used with the Generic Mapping Tools (GMT) system.\n\nThe GEBCO chart series was initiated in 1903 by an international group of geographers and oceanographers, under the leadership of Prince Albert I of Monaco. At that time there was an explosion of interest in the study of the natural world and this group recognized the importance of a set of maps describing the shape of the ocean floor. The first hundred years of the project were described in the book \"The History of GEBCO 1903-2003\" published by GITC in 2003. Nowadays GEBCO’s role has become increasingly important, due to the increased interest in the oceans for scientific research and for the exploitation and conservation of resources.\n\nSince 1903, five separate editions of paper, bathymetric contour charts covering the whole world have been produced. GEBCO is now maintained in digital form as the GEBCO Digital Atlas.\n\nThe Nippon Foundation of Japan has provided funding for GEBCO to train a new generation of scientists and hydrographers in ocean bathymetry. The 12-month course, leading to a Postgraduate Certificate in Ocean Bathymetry (PCOB), has been held at the University of New Hampshire, USA, since 2004. 60 GEBCO scholars from 31 different countries have completed the course and are supporting GEBCO programs.\n\n"}
{"id": "22163671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163671", "title": "Genoese map", "text": "Genoese map\n\nThe Genoese map is a 1457 world map. The map relied extensively on the account of the traveler to Asia Niccolo da Conti, rather than the usual source of Marco Polo. The author is not known, but is a more modern development than the Fra Mauro world map, with fairly good proportions given to each continents. The map also depicts a three-masted European ship in the Indian Ocean, something which had not occurred yet at the time.\n\nA Genoese flag in the upper northwest corner of the map establishes this map’s origin, along with the coat of arms of the Spinolas, a prominent Genoese mercantile family. Niccolò de'Conti was from a noble mercantile family; at an early age he decided to follow in the family tradition by establishing a lucrative trading operation in the East.\n\nThe Genoese map’s sea monsters reflect the cartographer’s interest in exotic wonders, which is everywhere in evidence on the map, and typical of the scientific outlook of the early modern period, which was driven by curiosity and took a great interest in marvels. The demon-like monster in particular is evidence of the cartographer’s research in recent travel literature to find sea monsters for his map.\n\nThis map was done in rich color and was not made particularly used for anything but for display.They say this map was sent to the Portuguese court in 1474 and then to Columbus and this is the map that he used to travel the India sea to the Atlantic but was never proven. The map is now the property of the Italian government and is to be found in the Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale of Florence however the map was not taken care of due to the way it’s been handled throughout the years.\n\nThe ships that could carry a thousand men—six hundred seamen and four hundred soldiers. The larger vessels also carried small boats, which were used, as Marco Polo states, “to lay out the anchors, catch fish, bring supplies aboard, and the like. When the ship is under sail, she carries these boats slung to her side.” Many of the vessels had as many as four decks, and even the smaller ones, fifty or sixty cabins. Vegetables, we are told, were sometimes grown on board.\n\nThe oval form is not unknown among medieval maps. Hugh of Saint Victor had described the world as being the shape of Noah’s Ark, and Ranulf Higden world maps were oval. A standard way of describing the earth was to compare it to an egg. The main purpose of the analogy seems to have been to describe the various spheres surrounding the earth (egg white, shell), but the idea of an egg shape could have been derived from these works. Another possibility is that the oval form represents the \"mandorla\", or nimbus, which surrounded Christ in many medieval works of art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31877720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31877720", "title": "George Wood (Radio Sweden)", "text": "George Wood (Radio Sweden)\n\nGeorge MacClaren Wood III is an American journalist who has worked at Radio Sweden since 1975, He was born in Berkeley, California on August 10, 1949, and grew up in Piedmont, California. He has degrees from the University of California, Santa Barbara and the University of California, Berkeley, and participated in the university's Education Abroad Program to Lund University in Sweden, 1969-1970.\n\nGeorge Wood began as a freelance reporter at Radio Sweden in 1975. Following the retirement of Arne Skoog in 1978 he told over the writing and presenting of the program Sweden Calling DXers and its successor MediaScan, until the latter was taken off the air in 2001. In 1994 MediaScan became the first radio program in Sweden and the second in Europe (the first in English) to have its audio posted on the Internet.\n\nHe was Radio Sweden's Webmaster since Swedish Radio's first website launched in 1995, while also serving as a journalist for the Radio Swedish English Service. His was one of the voices in the satirical sketches in the program the Saturday Show. He retired from Radio Sweden in August, 2014.\n\nAfter retirement George Wood enrolled in Egyptology courses at Uppsala University.\n\nGeorge Wood was News Director of the university radio station KCSB-FM (at the University of California, Santa Barbara) in 1971-1973, and has also worked at KPFA in Berkeley, California, Earth News Service in San Francisco, and briefly as a freelancer for National Public Radio. Since the late 70's he has been the Stockholm stringer for CBS Radio News. He has written articles for a number of publications including \"Satellite Times\", \"The World Radio TV Handbook\", and the \"New Age Journal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1366094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1366094", "title": "Glenn Hauser", "text": "Glenn Hauser\n\nGlenn Hauser (born April 12, 1945 in Berkeley, California) is an internationally known American DXer and radio host from Enid, Oklahoma. He produces and presents a weekly 30-minute program, \"World Of Radio\", heard on a number of non-commercial AM and FM stations throughout the U.S. and worldwide on shortwave.\n\nHauser began his broadcasting career on Radio Canada International during the late 1970s, providing DX tips on Sunday nights, and his tips also appeared on Radio Nederland's \"DX Juke Box\" program. He wrote for \"Popular Electronics\" and \"Modern Electronics\", and published \"Review of International Broadcasting\".\n\n\"World Of Radio\" debuted in 1980 on WUOT-FM in Knoxville, Tennessee, moving to shortwave two years later. The half-hour program consists of Hauser reading news about radio around the world in a characteristic monotone. Although \"World of Radio\" focuses on shortwave news, it covers all aspects of broadcasting. Most items are contributed by listeners to the program or DX publications.\n\nHauser also produced \"Mundo Radial\", a Spanish edition of \"World of Radio\", from January 2002 to November 2007.\n\nHauser introduced \"Review of International Broadcasting\" in February 1977. The magazine published 154 issues, with columns such as \"Listener Insights on Programming,\" \"Radio Equipment Forum,\" \"DX Listening Digest,\" \"The Media Mind\" and \"Satellite Watch.\" Contributors included David Newkirk, Loren Cox and Juan Carlos Codina, and \"RIB\" also featured columns from the BBC, John Norfolk and Alan Roe. It was published monthly during the 1970s and 1980s, later decreasing to quarterly and semiannually before ceasing publication in October 1997. \"RIB\"s successor, \"DX Listening Digest\", went online in 1999.\n\nHauser is a political liberal and an agnostic, which occasionally puts him at odds with the fundamentalist-dominated American shortwave scene which carries \"World of Radio\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36988620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36988620", "title": "Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth", "text": "Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth\n\nThe Global Alliance to Prevent Prematurity and Stillbirth (GAPPS) was founded in 2007 as an initiative of Seattle Children’s. GAPPS’ mission is to lead a collaborative, global effort to increase awareness and accelerate innovative research and interventions that will improve maternal, newborn and child health outcomes around the world, with a focus on preterm birth and stillbirth.\n\nThe GAPPS Repository is a biobank of pregnancy specimens matched with data from patient questionnaires. It supports research on normal and abnormal pregnancies, including how pregnancy affects maternal and child health after delivery. The Repository is also available to researchers to study the fetal origins of persistent health problems like diabetes, obesity, and hypertension.\n\nIn November 2011 the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation provided $20 million to GAPPS for the Preventing Preterm Birth initiative, part of the foundation's Grand Challenges in Global Health. The Preventing Preterm Birth initiative focuses on finding new interventions to prevent premature birth and stillbirth by limiting infection and improving nutrition.\n"}
{"id": "55224799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55224799", "title": "Global Landscapes Forum", "text": "Global Landscapes Forum\n\nThe Global Landscapes Forum (GLF) is a knowledge-led multi-stakeholder forum dedicated to promoting the landscape approach.\n\nThe GLF is the largest knowledge-led platform on sustainable land use. Since 2013, over 3,900 organizations and 150,000 people have taken part in Forum events in person and online. It is led by the Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR).\n\nThe inaugural GLF event took place alongside to 2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 19) in Warsaw, Poland. It heralded the merger of Forest Day and Agriculture and Rural Development Day, reflecting a scientific climate that favored breaking down research silos and utilizing an integrated landscape approach. The first four major GLF events were held annually on the sidelines of the United Nations Climate Change Conference.\n\nFollowing a major funding injection from the German government, the GLF moved to establish a secretariat in Bonn, Germany. This is part of an effort on the part of the German government and the city of Bonn to establish a \"sustainability cluster\" in the city.\n\nCIFOR serves as the implementing organization of the GLF, and the current coordinating partners are the World Bank, and the United Nations Environment Programme.\n\nAs of 2017, the host country partners are the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) and Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ).\n\nFollowing a move towards more integrated landscape approaches in both the forestry and agriculture sides of the research for development sphere, the Global Landscapes Forum was born out of a merger of Forest Day and Agriculture and Rural Development Day (ARDD), both of which were formerly long-standing side events at the United Nations Climate Change conference (COP).\n\nForest Day was an annual COP side event co-organized by CIFOR and the Collaborative Partnership on Forests, since the 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP13) in Bali, Indonesia.\n\nAs of 2012, by resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on November 28, 2012, Forest Day became the International Day of Forests. Thus the sixth and final Forest Day was held on the sidelines of the 2012 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP18) in Doha, Qatar.\n\nAgriculture and Rural Development Day (ARDD) was an annual COP side event. The first event took place as a side event at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\nThe fifth and final ARDD, called Agriculture, Landscapes, and Livelihoods Day 5 (ALL-5), took place alongside Forest Day on the sidelines of the COP18.\n\nThe first major GLF event took place in Warsaw, Poland during the 2013 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP19).\n\nThe second major GLF event was held alongside the 2014 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP20) from December 6–7, 2014. There were 1700 attendees and 95 organizations in attendance.\n\nThis event saw the launch of the Youth in Landscapes initiative.\n\nThe third major GLF event was held alongside the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21), December 5–6, 2015. There were 3200 attendees from 135 countries, including 19 Ministers and Heads of State, and 148 organizations. Notably, 200 indigenous peoples’ representatives were sponsored to attend the 2015 Forum, and 45% of those in attendance were female.\n\nInitiatives launched at this event include:\n\nThe fourth major GLF event was held alongside the 2016 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP22), November 16, 2016. During this event, the German Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety (BMUB) and Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ) announced a major injection of core funding to support the development of the GLF for the next five years.\n\nInitiatives launched at this event include:\n\nFollowing the major injection of funding from the German government during the , the GLF moved to establish a more permanent presence in Bonn, Germany. While the 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP23) was held in Bonn the same year from November 6–17, 2017, the Global Landscapes Forum event took place just over a month later on December 19–20, 2017. This marked the first year that the GLF existed as its own entity and not as a COP side event. For the first time, the Wangari Maathai Forest Champion Award was presented at the GLF.\n\nThe first Investment Case event took place on June 10–11, 2015 at the Royal Society in London, United Kingdom. It was an invitation-only symposium with 220 attendees from the finance sector. It was coordinated by the European Investment Bank, UN Environment, the World Bank, and the Program on Forests (PROFOR). Sessions were hosted by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), Unilever, and the Climate Bonds Initiative.\n\nThe roadmap from this event were presented at a land use side event (WFC XIV) in Durban, South Africa, the theme of which was \"Forests and People: Investing in a Sustainable Future\".\n\nOther key outcomes were presented to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Standing Committee on Finance (SCF) workplan for 2015.\n\nRiau, Indonesia 2017: Laws and Best Practices for Reducing Fire and Haze\n\nThe AFR100 initiative was launched at the GLF in Paris, 2015, and is also supported by the German government. Thus the GLF supported the Second Annual Partnership Conference in 2017, which brought together 23 partner countries, restoration champions, and technical partners such as the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD Agency), and World Vision.\n\nOrganized with CIFOR, this policy dialogue workshop looked at gender-responsive Forest and Landscape Restoration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36579494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36579494", "title": "Global apartheid", "text": "Global apartheid\n\nGlobal apartheid is a term used to mean minority rule in international decision-making. The term comes from apartheid, the system of governmental that ruled South Africa until 27 April 1994 when people of all races were able to vote as equals for the first time.\n\nThe concept of global apartheid has been developed by many researchers, including Titus Alexander, Bruno Amoroso, Patrick Bond, Gernot Kohler, Arjun Makhijiani, Ali Mazuri, Vandana Shiva, Anthony H. Richmond, Joseph Nevins, Muhammed Asadi, Gustav Fridolin, and many others.\n\nThe first use of the term may have been by Gernot Koehler in a 1978 Working Paper for the World Order Models Project. In 1995 Koehler develop this in \"The Three Meanings of Global Apartheid: Empirical, Normative, Existential\".\n\nIts best known use was by Thabo Mbeki, then-President of South Africa, in a 2002 speech, drawing comparisons of the status of the world's people, economy, and access to natural resources to the apartheid era. Mbeki got the term from Titus Alexander, initiator of Charter 99, a campaign for global democracy, who was also present at the UN Millennium Summit and gave him a copy of \"Unravelling Global Apartheid\".\n\nMinority rule in global governance is based on national sovereignty rather than racial identity, but in many other respects the history and structures of apartheid South Africa can be seen as a microcosm of the world. Following the Great Depression in the 1930s and the Second World War, the United States and United Kingdom used their political power to create systems of economic management and protection to mitigate the worst effects of free trade and neutralise the competing appeals of communism and national socialism. In South Africa \"civilized labour\" policies restricted public employment to whites, reserved skilled jobs for whites and controlled the movement of non-whites through a system of pass laws. In the West, escalating tariff barriers reserved manufacturing work for Europeans and Americans while immigration laws controlled the movement of immigrants seeking work.\n\nAt a political level, the West still dominates global decision-making through minority control of the central banking system (Bank of International Settlements), IMF, World Bank, Security Council and other institutions of global governance. The G8 represent less than 15% of world population, yet have over 60% of its income. 80% of the permanent members of the UN Security Council represent white Western states, 60% from Europe. The West has veto power in the World Bank, IMF and WTO and regulates global monetary policy through the Bank of International Settlements (BIS). By tradition, the head of the World Bank is always a US citizen, nominated by the US President, and the IMF is a European. Although the rest of the world now has a majority in many international institutions, it does not have the political power to reject decisions by the Western minority.\n\nIn \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\", Samuel P. Huntington describes how \"the United States together with Britain and France make the crucial decisions on political and security issues; the United States together with Germany and Japan make the crucial decisions on economic issues.\" Huntington quoted Jeffrey R Bennett to claim that Western nations:\n\n\nHuntington presents a ‘framework, a paradigm, for viewing global politics’ to protect “Western civilization”. He argues that other civilizations threaten the West through immigration, cultural differences, growing economic strength and potential military power. ‘If North America and Europe renew their moral life, build on their cultural commonality, and develop close forms of economic and political integration to supplement their security collaboration in NATO, they could generate a third Euroamerican phase of Western affluence and political influence. Meaningful political integration would in some measure counter the relative decline in the West’s share of the world’s people, economic product, and military capabilities and revive the power of the West in the eyes of the leaders of other civilizations.’ However, this ‘depends overwhelmingly on whether the United States reaffirms its identity as a Western nation and defines its global role as the leader of Western civilization.’ [p308]\n\nAlexander identifies numerous \"pillars of global apartheid\" including:\n\nInternational decision-making has a legacy of inequality which some authors have compared to historical apartheid in South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "3044408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3044408", "title": "Global citizenship", "text": "Global citizenship\n\nGlobal citizenship is the idea that all people have rights and civic responsibilities that come with being a member of the world, with whole-world philosophy and sensibilities, rather than as a citizen of a particular nation or place. The idea is that one’s identity transcends geography or political borders and that responsibilities or rights are derived from membership in a broader class: \"humanity\". This does not mean that such a person denounces or waives their nationality or other, more local identities, but such identities are given \"second place\" to their membership in a global community. Extended, the idea leads to questions about the state of global society in the age of globalization. In general usage, the term may have much the same meaning as \"world citizen\" or cosmopolitan, but it also has additional, specialized meanings in differing contexts. Various organizations, such as the World Service Authority, have advocated global citizenship.\n\nIn education, the term is most often used to describe a worldview or a set of values toward which education is oriented (see, for example, the priorities of the \"Global Education First Initiative\" led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations). The term \"global society\" is sometimes used to indicate a global studies set of learning objectives for students to prepare them for global citizenship (see, for example, the Global Studies Center at the University of Pittsburgh).\n\nWithin the educational system, the concept of global citizenship education (GCED) is beginning to supersede or overarch movements such as multicultural education, peace education, human rights education, Education for Sustainable Development and international education. Additionally, GCED rapidly incorporates references to the aforementioned movements. The concept of global citizenship has been linked with awards offered for helping humanity. Teachers are being given the responsibility of being social change agents. Audrey Osler, director of the \"Centre for Citizenship and Human Rights Education\", the University of Leeds, affirms that \"Education for living together in an interdependent world is not an optional extra, but an essential foundation\".\n\nWith GCED gaining attention, scholars are investigating the field and developing perspectives. The following are a few of the more common perspectives:\n\nGlobal citizenship, in some contexts, may refer to a brand of ethics or political philosophy in which it is proposed that the core social, political, economic and environmental realities of the world today should be addressed at all levels—by individuals, civil society organizations, communities and nation states—through a global lens. It refers to a broad, culturally- and environmentally-inclusive worldview that accepts the fundamental interconnectedness of all things. Political, geographic borders become irrelevant and solutions to today's challenges are seen to be beyond the narrow vision of national interests. Proponents of this philosophy often point to Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.) as an example, given his reported declaration that \"I am a citizen of the world (κοσμοπολίτης, \"cosmopolites\")\" in response to a question about his place of origin. A Sanskrit term, \"Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam\", has the meaning of \"the world is one family\". The earliest reference to this phrase is found in the Hitopadesha, a collection of parables. In the Mahopanishad VI.71-73, ślokas describe how one finds the Brahman (the one supreme, universal Spirit that is the origin and support of the phenomenal universe). The statement is not just about peace and harmony among the societies in the world, but also about a truth that somehow the whole world has to live together like a family.\n\nGlobal pollsters and psychologists have studied individual differences in the sense of global citizenship. Beginning in 2005, the World Values Survey, administered across almost 100 countries, included the statement, “I see myself as a world citizen.” For smaller studies, several multi-item scales have been developed, including Sam McFarland and colleagues’ Identification with All Humanity scale (e.g., “How much do you identify with (that is, feel a part of, feel love toward, have concern for) . . . all humans everywhere?”), Anna Malsch and Alan Omoto’s Psychological Sense of Global Community (e.g., “I feel a sense of connection to people all over the world, even if I don’t know them personally”), Gerhard Reese and colleagues’ Global Social Identity scale (e.g. “I feel strongly connected to the world community as a whole.”), and Stephen Reysen and Katzarska-Miller's global citizenship identification scale (e.g., “I strongly identify with global citizens.”). These measures are strongly related to one another, but they are not fully identical.\n\nStudies of the psychological roots of global citizenship have found that persons high in global citizenship are also high on the personality traits of openness to experience and agreeableness from the Big Five personality traits and high in empathy and caring. Oppositely, the authoritarian personality, the social dominance orientation and psychopathy are all associated with less global human identification. Some of these traits are influenced by heredity as well as by early experiences, which, in turn, likely influence individuals' receptiveness to global human identification.\n\nResearch has found that those who are high in global human identification are less prejudiced toward many groups, care more about international human rights, worldwide inequality, global poverty and human suffering. They attend more actively to global concerns, value the lives of all human beings more equally, and give more in time and money to international humanitarian causes. They tend to be more politically liberal on both domestic and international issues. They want their countries to do more to alleviate global suffering.\n\nFollowing a social identity approach, Reysen and Katzarska-Miller tested a model showing the antecedents and outcomes of global citizenship identification (i.e., degree of psychological connection with global citizens). Individuals’ normative environment (the cultural environment in which one is embedded contains people, artifacts, cultural patterns that promote viewing the self as a global citizen) and global awareness (perceiving oneself as aware, knowledgeable, and connected to others in the world) predict global citizenship identification. Global citizenship identification then predicts six broad categories of prosocial behaviors and values, including: intergroup empathy, valuing diversity, social justice, environmental sustainability, intergroup helping, and a felt responsibility to act. Subsequent research has examined variables that influence the model such as: participation in a college course with global components, perception of one’s global knowledge, college professors' attitudes toward global citizenship, belief in an intentional worlds view of culture, participation in a fan group that promotes the identity, use of global citizen related words when describing one's values, possible self as a global citizen, religiosity and religious orientation, threat to one’s nation, interdependent self-construal prime, perception of the university environment, and social media usage.\n\nAt the same time that globalization is reducing the importance of nation-states, the idea of global citizenship may require a redefinition of ties between civic engagement and geography. Face-to-face town hall meetings seem increasingly supplanted by electronic \"town halls\" not limited by space and time. Absentee ballots opened the way for expatriates to vote while living in another country; the Internet may carry this several steps further. Another interpretation given by several scholars of the changing configurations of citizenship due to globalization is the possibility that citizenship becomes a changed institution; even if situated within territorial boundaries that are national, if the meaning of the national itself has changed, then the meaning of being a citizen of that nation changes.\n\nThe lack of a universally recognized world body can put the initiative upon global citizens themselves to create rights and obligations. Rights and obligations as they arose at the formation of nation-states (e.g. the right to vote and obligation to serve in time of war) are being expanded. Thus, new concepts that accord certain \"human rights\" which arose in the 20th century are increasingly being universalized across nations and governments. This is the result of many factors, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by the United Nations in 1948, the aftermath of World War II and the Holocaust and growing sentiments towards legitimizing marginalized peoples (e.g., pre-industrialized peoples found in the jungles of Brazil and Borneo). Couple this with growing awareness of our impact on the environment, and there is the rising feeling that citizen rights may extend to include the right to dignity and self-determination. If national citizenship does not foster these new rights, then global citizenship may seem more accessible.\n\nGlobal citizenship advocates may confer specific rights and obligations of human beings trapped in conflicts, those incarcerated as part of ethnic cleansing, and pre-industrialized tribes newly discovered by scientists living in the depths of dense jungle\nOn 10 December 1948, the UN General Assembly Adopted Resolution 217A (III), also known as \"The Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\"\n\nArticle 1 states that \"All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.\" \n\nArticle 2 states that \"Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status. Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.\"\n\nArticle 13(2) states that \"Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country.\" \n\nAs evidence in today's modern world, events such as the Trial of Saddam Hussein have proven what British jurist A. V. Dicey said in 1885, when he popularized the phrase \"rule of law\" in 1885. Dicey emphasized three aspects of the rule of law :\n\nThe opening of the United States Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson in 1776, states as follows:\n\"Global citizenship in the United States\" was a term used by former U.S. President Barack Obama in 2008 in a speech in Berlin.\n\nIn general, a world citizen is a person who places global citizenship above any nationalistic or local identities and relationships. An early expression of this value is found in Diogenes of Sinope (c. 412 B.C.; mentioned above), the founding father of the Cynic movement in Ancient Greece. Of Diogenes it is said: \"Asked where he came from, he answered: 'I am a citizen of the world (kosmopolitês)'\". This was a ground-breaking concept because the broadest basis of social identity in Greece at that time was either the individual city-state or the Greeks (Hellenes) as a group. The Tamil poet Kaniyan Poongundran wrote in \"Purananuru\", \"To us all towns are one, all men our kin.\" In later years, political philosopher Thomas Paine would declare, \"my country is the world, and my religion is to do good.\" Today, the increase in worldwide globalization has led to the formation of a \"world citizen\" social movement under a proposed world government. In a non-political definition, it has been suggested that a world citizen may provide value to society by using knowledge acquired across cultural contexts. Many people also consider themselves world citizens, as they feel at home wherever they may go.\n\nAlbert Einstein described himself as a world citizen and supported the idea throughout his life, famously saying \"Nationalism is an infantile disease. It is the measles of mankind.\" World citizenship has been promoted by distinguished people including Garry Davis, who lived for 60 years as a citizen of no nation, only the world. Davis founded the World Service Authority in Washington, DC, which sells World Passports, a fantasy passport to world citizens. In 1956 Hugh J. Schonfield founded the Commonwealth of World Citizens, later known by its Esperanto name \"Mondcivitana Respubliko\", which also issued a world passport; it declined after the 1980s.\n\nThe Bahá'í faith promotes the concept through its founder's proclamation (in the late 19th century) that \"The Earth is but one country, and mankind its citizens.\" As a term defined by the Bahá'í International Community in a concept paper shared at the 1st session of the United Nations Commission on Sustainable Development, New York, U.S.A. on 14–25 June 1993. \"World citizenship begins with an acceptance of the oneness of the human family and the interconnectedness of the nations of 'the earth, our home.' While it encourages a sane and legitimate patriotism, it also insists upon a wider loyalty, a love of humanity as a whole. It does not, however, imply abandonment of legitimate loyalties, the suppression of cultural diversity, the abolition of national autonomy, nor the imposition of uniformity. Its hallmark is 'unity in diversity.' World citizenship encompasses the principles of social and economic justice, both within and between nations; non-adversarial decision making at all levels of society; equality of the sexes; racial, ethnic, national and religious harmony; and the willingness to sacrifice for the common good. Other facets of world citizenship—including the promotion of human honour and dignity, understanding, amity, co-operation, trustworthiness, compassion and the desire to serve—can be deduced from those already mentioned.\"\n\nPhilosophically, mundialization (French, \"mondialisation\") is seen as a response to globalization’s \"dehumanisation through [despatialised] planetarisation\" (Teilhard de Chardin quoted in Capdepuy 2011). An early use of \"mondialisation\" was to refer to the act of a city or a local authority declaring itself a \"world citizen\" city, by voting a charter stating its awareness of global problems and its sense of shared responsibility. The concept was promoted by the self-declared World Citizen Garry Davis in 1949, as a logical extension of the idea of individuals declaring themselves world citizens, and promoted by Robert Sarrazac, a former leader of the French Resistance who created the Human Front of World Citizens in 1945. The first city to be officially mundialised was the small French city of Cahors (only 20,000 in 2006), the capital city of the Département of Lot in central France, on 20 July 1949. Hundreds of cities mundialised themselves over a few years, most of them in France, and then it spread internationally, including to many German cities and to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In less than a year, 10 General Councils (the elected councils of the French \"Départements\"), and hundreds of cities in France covering 3.4 million inhabitants voted mundialisation charters. One of the goals was to elect one delegate per million inhabitants to a People's World Constitutional Convention given the already then historical failure of the United Nations in creating a global institution able to negotiate a final world peace. To date, more than 1000 cities and towns have declared themselves World cities, including Beverly Hills, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, St. Louis, Philadelphia, Toronto, Hiroshima, Tokyo, Nivelles, and Königswinter.\n\nAs a social movement, mundialization expresses the solidarity of populations of the globe and aims to establish institutions and supranational laws of a federative structure common to them, while respecting the diversity of cultures and peoples. The movement advocates for a new political organization governing all humanity, involving the transfer of certain parts of national sovereignty to a Federal World Authority, Federal World Government and Federal World Court. Basing its authority on the will of the people, supporters hope it could develop new systems to draw on the highest and best wisdom of all humanity, and solve major planetary problems like hunger, access to water, war, peace-keeping, pollution and energy. The mundialization movement includes the declaration of specified territory - a city, town, or state, for example - as world territory, with responsibilities and rights on a world scale. Currently the nation-state system and the United Nations offer no way for the people of the world to vote for world officials or participate in governing our world. International treaties or agreements lack the force of law. Mundialization seeks to address this lack by presenting a way to build, one city at a time, such a system of true World Law based upon the sovereignty of the whole.\n\nAuthor Shashi Tharoor feels that an Earth Anthem sung by people across the world can inspire planetary consciousness and global citizenship among people.\n\nNot all interpretations of global citizenship are positive. For example, Parekh advocates what he calls globally oriented citizenship, and states, \"If global citizenship means being a citizen of the world, it is neither practicable nor desirable.\" He argues that global citizenship, defined as an actual membership of a type of worldwide government system, is impractical and dislocated from one's immediate community. He also notes that such a world state would inevitably be \"remote, bureaucratic, oppressive, and culturally bland.\" Parekh presents his alternative option with the statement: \"Since the conditions of life of our fellow human beings in distant parts of the world should be a matter of deep moral and political concern to us, our citizenship has an inescapable global dimension, and we should aim to become what I might call a globally oriented citizen.\" Parekh's concept of globally oriented citizenship consists of identifying with and strengthening ties towards one's political regional community (whether in its current state or an improved, revised form), while recognizing and acting upon obligations towards others in the rest of the world.\n\nMichael Byers, a professor in Political Science at the University of British Columbia, questions the assumption that there is one definition of global citizenship, and unpacks aspects of potential definitions. In the introduction to his public lecture, the UBC Internalization website states, \"'Global citizenship' remains undefined. What, if anything, does it really mean? Is global citizenship just the latest buzzword?\" Byers notes the existence of stateless persons, whom he remarks ought to be the primary candidates for global citizenship, yet continue to live without access to basic freedoms and citizenship rights. Byers does not oppose the concept of global citizenship, however he criticizes potential implications of the term depending on one's definition of it, such as ones that provide support for the \"ruthlessly capitalist economic system that now dominates the planet.\" Byers states that global citizenship is a \"powerful term\" because \"people that invoke it do so to provoke and justify action,\" and encourages the attendees of his lecture to re-appropriate it in order for its meaning to have a positive purpose, based on idealistic values.\n\nNeither criticism of global citizenship is anything new. Gouverneur Morris, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention (United States), criticized \"citizens of the world\" while he was on the floor of the convention; August 9, 1787. \"As to those philosophical gentlemen, those Citizens of the World as they call themselves, He owned he did not wish to see any of them in our public Councils. He would not trust them. The men who can shake off their attachments to their own Country can never love any other. These attachments are the wholesome prejudices which uphold all Governments, Admit a Frenchman into your Senate, and he will study to increase the commerce of France: an Englishman, and he will feel an equal biass in favor of that of England.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "882884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882884", "title": "INF World Rankings", "text": "INF World Rankings\n\nThe INF World Rankings are published by the International Netball Federation (INF) to make it possible to compare the relative strengths of internationally active national netball teams. Initially, rankings were based on the results from the World Netball Championships, and released after the conclusion of each event, every four years. A new ranking system was implemented on 11 February 2008, wherein teams are ranked based on international tests played, currently since July 2010. Teams appear on the rankings list once they have played eight international test matches, starting from July 2010. The rankings are updated by the INF every month. Australia and New Zealand have dominated the INF world rankings in previous years and they are the only two netball nations to have ever held the number one world ranking since its introduction in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "20611562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20611562", "title": "Indian subcontinent", "text": "Indian subcontinent\n\nThe Indian subcontinent is a southern region and peninsula of Asia, mostly situated on the Indian Plate and projecting southwards into the Indian Ocean from the Himalayas. Geologically, the Indian subcontinent is related to the land mass that rifted from Gondwana and merged with the Eurasian plate nearly 55 million years ago. Geographically, it is the peninsular region in south-central Asia delineated by the Himalayas in the north, the Hindu Kush in the west, and the Arakanese in the east. Politically, the Indian subcontinent includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.\n\nSometimes, the geographical term 'Indian subcontinent' is used interchangeably with 'South Asia', although that last term is used typically as a political term and is also used to include Afghanistan. Which countries should be included in either of these remains the subject of debate.\n\nAccording to \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the term \"subcontinent\" signifies a \"subdivision of a continent which has a distinct geographical, political, or cultural identity\" and also a \"large land mass somewhat smaller than a continent\". It is first attested in 1845 to refer to the North and South Americas, before they were regarded as separate continents. Its use to refer to the Indian subcontinent is seen from the early twentieth century. It was especially convenient for referring to the region comprising both British India and the princely states under British Paramountcy.\n\nThe term Indian subcontinent also has a geological significance. Similar to various continents, it was a part of the supercontinent of Gondwana. A series of tectonic splits caused formation of various basins, each drifting in various directions. The geological region called \"Greater India\" once included Madagascar, Seychelles, Antarctica and Austrolasia along with the Indian subcontinent basin. As a geological term, Indian subcontinent has meant that region formed from the collision of the Indian basin with Eurasia nearly 55 million years ago, towards the end of Paleocene.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent has been a term particularly common in the British Empire.\n\nThe geographical region has historically simply been known as \"India\" (in antiquity referring to the Indus Valley region, not the entire subcontinent). Other related terms are Greater India and South Asia. \nAnd the terms \"Indian subcontinent\" and \"South Asia\" are sometimes used interchangeably. There is no globally accepted definition on which countries are a part of South Asia or the Indian subcontinent.\nThe less common term \"South Asian subcontinent\" has seen occasional use since the 1970s.\n\nGeologically, the Indian subcontinent was first a part of so-called \"Greater India\", a region of Gondwana that drifted away from East Africa about 160 million years ago, around the Middle Jurassic period. The region experienced high volcanic activity and plate subdivisions, creating Madagascar, Seychelles, Antarctica, Austrolasia and the Indian subcontinent basin. The Indian subcontinent drifted northeastwards, colliding with the Eurasian plate nearly 55 million years ago, towards the end of Paleocene. This geological region largely includes Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. The zone where the Eurasian and Indian subcontinent plates meet remains one of the geologically active areas, prone to major earthquakes.\n\nThe English term \"subcontinent\" mainly continues to refer to the Indian subcontinent. Physiographically, it is a peninsular region in south-central Asia delineated by the Himalayas in the north, the Hindu Kush in the west, and the Arakanese in the east. It extends southward into the Indian Ocean with the Arabian Sea to the southwest and the Bay of Bengal to the southeast. Most of this region rests on the Indian Plate and is isolated from the rest of Asia by large mountain barriers.\n\nUsing the more expansive definition – counting India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan and Maldives as the constituent countries – the Indian subcontinent covers about 4.4 million km (1.7 million sq mi), which is 10% of the Asian continent or 3.3% of the world's land surface area. Overall, it accounts for about 45% of Asia's population (or over 25% of the world's population) and is home to a vast array of peoples.\n\nThe Indian subcontinent is a natural physical landmass in South Asia, geologically the dry-land portion of the Indian Plate, which has been relatively isolated from the rest of Eurasia. \nGiven the difficulty of passage through the Himalayas, the sociocultural, religious and political interaction of the Indian subcontinent has largely been through the valleys of Afghanistan in its northwest, the valleys of Manipur in its east, and by maritime routes. More difficult but historically important interaction has also occurred through passages pioneered by the Tibetans. These routes and interactions have led to the spread of Buddhism out of the Indian subcontinent into other parts of Asia. And the Islamic expansion arrived into the Indian subcontinent in two ways, through Afghanistan on land and to Indian coast through the maritime routes on the Arabian Sea.\n\nWhether called the Indian subcontinent or South Asia, the definition of the geographical extent of this region varies. Geopolitically, it had formed the whole territory of Greater India. \nIn terms of modern geopolitical boundaries, the Indian subcontinent comprises the Republic of India,\nPakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, besides, by convention, the island nation of Sri Lanka and other islands of the Indian Ocean, such as the Maldives.\nThe term \"Indian continent\" is first introduced in the early 20th century, when most of the territory was part of British India.\n\nThe Hindu Kush, centered on eastern Afghanistan, is the boundary connecting the Indian subcontinent with Central Asia to the northwest, and the Persian Plateau to the west. The socio-religious history of Afghanistan are related to the Turkish-influenced Central Asia and northwestern parts of the Indian subcontinent, now known as Pakistan. Others state Afghanistan being a part of Central Asia is not an accepted practice, and it is \"clearly not part of the Indian subcontinent\".\n\nThe precise definition of an \"Indian subcontinent\" vs. \"South Asia\" in geopolitical context is somewhat contested.\n\nThis list includes dependent territories within their sovereign states (including uninhabited territories), but does not include claims on Antarctica. EEZ+TIA is exclusive economic zone (EEZ) plus total internal area (TIA) which includes land and internal waters.\n"}
{"id": "50426357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50426357", "title": "Innovative Vector Control Consortium", "text": "Innovative Vector Control Consortium\n\nThe Innovative Vector Control Consortium (IVCC) is a product development partnership that develops new insecticides for vector control and researches ways to use existing pesticides more effectively. IVCC was established in 2005 and became registered as a nonprofit in 2008. Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine is the parent organization of IVCC.\n\nIVCC has partners across both public and private sectors, including in industry and academia, and with funders, non-governmental organizations, and nonprofits. These include NGenIRS and Innovation to Impact as well as with companies including Syngenta.\n\nIt has also partnered with the Armed Forces Pest Management Board to discuss improvements to indoor residual spraying as well as devising new methods of vector control.\n\nIt funds the Malaria Decision Support System project in Malawi. It also funds other projects that focus on malaria and dengue control.\n\n\nIVCC was originally funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation with a grant of $50.7 million over five years. In 2010 the Gates Foundation awarded it a grant of $50 million to continue its work. In May 2016, it was granted an additional $75 million by the Gates Foundation.\n\nIVCC has also been funded by UKaid, USAID, the Swiss Agency for Development, UNITAID, and Wellcome Trust.\n\n"}
{"id": "188480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188480", "title": "International community", "text": "International community\n\nThe international community is a phrase used in geopolitics and international relations to refer to a broad group of people and governments of the world. It does not refer literally to all nations or states in the world. The term is typically used to imply the existence of a common point of view towards such matters as specific issues of human rights. An example Of International Community is the united nations. Activists, politicians and commentators often use the term in calling for action to be taken; e.g., action against what is in their opinion political repression in a target country.\n\nThe term is commonly used to imply legitimacy and consensus for a point of view on a disputed issue; e.g., to enhance the credibility of a majority vote in the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nNoam Chomsky alleges the use of the is used to refer to United States and its allies and client states, as well as allies in the media of those states. The scholar and academic Martin Jacques says: \"We all know what is meant by the term 'international community', don't we? It's the west, of course, nothing more, nothing less. Using the term 'international community' is a way of dignifying the west, of globalising it, of making it sound more respectable, more neutral and high-faluting.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31014354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31014354", "title": "List of largest cuckoo clocks", "text": "List of largest cuckoo clocks\n\nSeveral unusually large cuckoo clocks have been built and installed in different cities of the world with the aim of attracting visitors, as part of publicity of a cuckoo clock shop, or to serve as a landmark for the community and town.\n\nSome have been awarded with the title of \"World's Largest Cuckoo Clock\" by the \"Guinness World Records\".\n\n\n\nBlack Forest\n\nOther parts of Germany\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52931254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52931254", "title": "List of longest prison sentences served", "text": "List of longest prison sentences served\n\nThis is a list of longest prison sentences served by a single person, worldwide, without a period of freedom followed by a second conviction. These cases rarely coincide with the longest prison sentences given, because some countries have laws that don't allow sentences without parole or for convicts to remain in prison beyond a given number of years (regardless of their original conviction).\n\nThe sentence duration refers to the time spent in solitary confinement, regardless of time spent in normal prison before or after. Death row prisoners, who are usually also held in isolation, are not included.\n\nThese prisoners were sentenced to death rather than prison, but their execution was stalled for a prolongued time due to different reasons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41311298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41311298", "title": "Medical Service Ministries", "text": "Medical Service Ministries\n\nToday, Medical Service Ministries (since 1992) is a trust organization that provides support via grants to Christian mission affiliated applicants who are looking to further their specializations in courses such as community health and tropical medicine.\nPrior to 1992, Medical Service Ministries was known as the Missionary School of Medicine (1903-1992) and provided homeopathic training to Christian missionaries who found that they were ill-equipped to help themselves and others in a tropical climate. MSM was formed through the collaborative efforts of the London Homeopathic Hospital and the British Homeopathic Association in 1903. \nWhile class size was always relatively small, the 1990s showed particularly small class size. This spurred the Missionary School of Medicine to be renamed Medical Service Ministries in 1992. The implications behind the word “missionary” were thought to be driving students away. However, the increasing cost of running the school coupled with the demands brought on by qualifications required by many developing countries at this time caused MSM to close the school portion of the organization (1996) in order to become strictly a trust fund for funding applicants supported by Christian communities/organizations.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many missionaries sought to expand trade and spread the Christian gospel in the developing British colonies. However, many found that they were ill-equipped in the tropical climate; many missionaries and their families became ill. Due to this lack of medical knowledge, many missionaries returned to England to receive first aid training at the end of the 19th century.\nAs a supporter of the newly formed British Homeopathic Association, the London Homeopathic Hospital was one such place that offered to train missionaries in first aid. The British Homeopathic Association’s Educational Committee ran these trainings in partnership with the London Homeopathic Hospital. Lectures were offered in both basic medicine and surgery.\nFinding increased interest from returning missionaries, in the autumn of 1903, the Missionary School of Medicine was opened at the London Homeopathic Hospital to accommodate the training. Upon its opening, Dr. Edwin A. Neatby became the first Dean of the Missionary School of Medicine, presiding over the 24 students enrolled in the school’s first class.\n\nThe Missionary School of Medicine was organized with a President, and a general council. There were additionally a treasurer and a warden, responsible for both running the school day-to-day and teaching nursing procedures,\n\nPresidents of the school include Edwin A. Neatby (beginning in 1903), H. Dodd (beginning in 1952), and Kathleen Priestman (serving from 1981-1991).\n\nJohn Weir was a notable treasurer for the Missionary School of Medicine due to his contributions to the formation of the school’s endowment fund. Wardens that served at the school include:\n\nThe teaching staff included homeopathic physicians experienced in tropical medicine and other specialties. M Some of the teaching staff and their subjects include:\n\nThe teaching program was delivered over the course of three terms. Early course offerings included lectures in basic medicine and surgery, and later expanded to the other medical areas, as well as to Homeopathic pharmacy\nThe goal of the curriculum was to enable missionaries to care for themselves, their families, and others when abroad and when there was no additional medical aid available.\n\nLectures were held at The Wellcome Museum as well as at the London Homeopathic Hospital. The London Homeopathic Hospital also allowed students at their clinics and to study there. Further, St. John’s Ambulance Association taught first aid at the school.\n\nUpon graduation from the school, graduates received both homeopathic remedies and certificates. The remedies were donated by homeopathic pharmacies that were involved in teaching at the school, and were given to the graduates to take with them on their missions.\n\nIn the early 1900s, the “Scholarship Fund” was formed by Reverend Omri Jenkins. It was hoped that an endowment fund could be created from this to cover costs of running the school. The treasurer was responsible for overseeing this fund. Treasurer John Weir was particularly successful in gathering donations for the fund, attracting funds through private connections.\n\nIn addition to these funds, student fees were used to help cover the cost of running the school. Since student fees were kept low, they never could fully cover the cost of running the school. Here is a progression of the student fees at the school:\n\nMost students were sponsored by the Missionary Societies that sent them abroad. MSM students were supported by 115 different Societies.\n\nMany different countries were represented in MSM. From the 1960s to the 1970s, students came from England, Japan, Norway, Germany, and Korea. In the 1980s, students also came from Angola, the Netherlands, Indonesia, South America, Finland, India, Kenya, Spain, Sri Lanka, and Switzerland.\n\nIn the first 50 years of the school, class sizes ranged from 20-30 students. In later years, class sizes were much less, averaging to about 10 students or less per class.\n\nUpon graduating from the school, many graduates went abroad to serve in places including Africa, Japan, South America, India, and Iceland. Supported by home churches and mission organizations, many graduates set up clinics in the places where they served. Often, the clinics and Mission hospitals in which MSM graduates worked formed the basic network for the development of healthcare in many countries.\n\n\"Main articles: Homeopathy\n\nHomeopathy and natural medicine were the focus of the studies of the students at MSM.\n\nTwo main principles guide the use of medicine in homeopathy: the Similia Principle and the Dose. The Similia Principle states that a substance that can cause a symptom complex in a healthy person can be used to treat similar symptoms in a sick person. The Dose states that the quantity of medicine used should be the smallest possible to affect a cure and should not be repeated as long as improvement lasts. \nIn addition, MSM focused on the use of natural medicine. Natural medicine seeks to combine the advantages of both traditional and modern medicine. Traditional medicine refers to the use of knowledge of the use of locally grown plants coupled with an understanding of the language and culture of local villages. Modern medicine refers to the use of drugs that are regulated and produced to a high standard. Through combining these two types of medicine, natural medicine seeks to develop a new culturally appropriate and cost effective health service.\n\nIn 1925, the London Homeopathic Hospital found that it needed the study room it lent to MSM as a place for it to train its own nurses. As a result, the school moved from London Homeopathic Hospital to 2 Powis Place, where it remained until it closed in 1996.\n\nIn 1936, John Weir (treasurer), stated the aims of the Missionary School of Medicine:\n\nWhile class size was always relatively small, the 1990s showed particularly small class size. Leaders in the school assumed that lack of interest could be attributed to the implications of the word “missionary” in modern day culture. As a result, the Missionary School of Medicine was renamed Medical Service Ministries in 1992. One goal of the renaming was to attract more students to take their 10-week summer courses. However, as class size did not show a significant improvement, the school closed in 1996.\n\nThe 1990s showed a major development in the health ministries of emerging nations, like Africa. As a result, these developing nations requested that those offering medical treatment have required registered qualifications. In order to provide academically recognized qualifications, Medical Service Ministries found that it would have to merge with a university. However, since class sizes were so small and the cost to run the school was only increasing, Medical Service Ministries decided to discontinue training in 1996.\n\nWhen the school closed, investment income was transferred to the Scholarship Fund, reducing administration costs. As a result, with the work of the Administrator of Trust, Mrs. Glennis Powling, Medical Service Ministries was able to make its financial resources available to fund applicants traveling elsewhere.\n\nAs a grant-making trust, Medical Service Ministries provides grants to candidates undertaking specialist training in these areas:\n\nIn addition, MSM generally considers funding applicants who are primary healthcare trainers or workers in impoverished areas of underdeveloped countries. Further, applicants must show evidence of sponsorship or support of a Christian mission or local community.\n\nOne example of a trust fund applicant success story can be found in Tamara Filmer, a missionary working in rural, undeveloped Nepal. Filmer writes:\n\n\"“With MSM’s assistance I was able to attend training in logistics and management regarding pharmaceuticals. In December 2012, I travelled from the mid-west of Nepal to India’s capital, Delhi, to attend a two-week course entitled “International Procurement and Supply Chain Management”. I walked away with a suitcase of information and resources! ... I want to thank Medical Service Ministries and their supporters for the funding that enabled me to attend this course. On our missionary living allowance, it just wouldn’t have been possible to afford the course, so I am grateful for this opportunity.”\"\n\nThe current mission statement of Medical Service Ministries is as follows:\n\n\"“To encourage full-time Christian workers in the UK and elsewhere to prepare for Personal and Community Healthcare work in the developing world, in association with Christian organizations, and to witness to their faith in obedience to Christ’s command to preach and heal. Funding is available for approved healthcare candidates.”\"\n\nRecently retired treasurer, Brian Weller, shows that this mission statement is alive in the everyday actions of MSM and its leadership when he states:\n\"“It is my belief that overseas Christian service in response to Our Lord’s commission to preach and heal calls for continued effort and support, and will not lack His supply as we rise to the challenge. Our vision is to make healthcare accessible and to raise standards. It will continue to be achieved through individuals called by God to play their part here at home and overseas.”\"\n"}
{"id": "13924377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13924377", "title": "Molecular epidemiology", "text": "Molecular epidemiology\n\nMolecular epidemiology is a branch of epidemiology and medical science that focuses on the contribution of potential genetic and environmental risk factors, identified at the molecular level, to the etiology, distribution and prevention of disease within families and across populations. This field has emerged from the integration of molecular biology into traditional epidemiological research. Molecular epidemiology improves our understanding of the pathogenesis of disease by identifying specific pathways, molecules and genes that influence the risk of developing disease. More broadly, it seeks to establish understanding of how the interactions between genetic traits and environmental exposures result in disease.\n\nThe term \"molecular epidemiology\" was first coined by Kilbourne in a 1973 article entitled \"The molecular epidemiology of influenza\". The term became more formalized with the formulation of the first book on \"Molecular Epidemiology: Principles and Practice\" by Schulte and Perera. At the heart of this book is the impact of advances in molecular research that have given rise to and enable the measurement and exploitation of the biomarker as a vital tool to link traditional molecular and epidemiological research strategies to understand the underlying mechanisms of disease in populations.\n\nWhile most molecular epidemiology studies are using conventional disease designation system for an outcome (with the use of exposures at the molecular level), compelling evidence indicates that disease evolution represents inherently heterogeneous process differing from person to person. Conceptually, each individual has a unique disease process different from any other individual (\"the unique disease principle\"), considering uniqueness of the exposome and its unique influence on molecular pathologic process in each individual. Studies to examine the relationship between an exposure and molecular pathologic signature of disease (particularly, cancer) became increasingly common throughout the 2000s. However, the use of molecular pathology in epidemiology posed unique challenges including lack of standardized methodologies and guidelines as well as paucity of interdisciplinary experts and training programs. The use of \"molecular epidemiology\" for this type of research masked the presence of these challenges, and hindered the development of methods and guidelines. Furthermore, the concept of disease heterogeneity appears to conflict with the premise that individuals with the same disease name have similar etiologies and disease processes.\n\nThe genome of a bacterial species fundamentally determines its identity. Thus, gel electrophoresis techniques like pulsed-field gel electrophoresis can be used in molecular epidemiology to comparatively analyze patterns of bacterial chromosomal fragments and to elucidate the genomic content of bacterial cells. Due to its widespread use and ability to analyse epidemiological information about most bacterial pathogens based on their molecular markers, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis is relied upon heavily in molecular epidemiological studies.\n\nMolecular epidemiology allows for an understanding of the molecular outcomes and implications of diet, lifestyle, and environmental exposure, particularly how these choices and exposures result in acquired genetic mutations and how these mutations are distributed throughout selected populations through the use of biomarkers and genetic information. Molecular epidemiological studies are able to provide additional understanding of previously-identified risk factors and disease mechanisms. Specific applications include:\n\nWhile the use of advanced molecular analysis techniques within the field of molecular epidemiology is providing the larger field of epidemiology with greater means of analysis, Miquel Porta identified several challenges that the field of molecular epidemiology faces, particularly selecting and incorporating requisite applicable data in an unbiased manner. Limitations of molecular epidemiological studies are similar in nature to those of generic epidemiological studies, that is, samples of convenience - both of the target population and genetic information, small sample sizes, inappropriate statistical methods, poor quality control, and poor definition of target populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "11803445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11803445", "title": "Montia fontana", "text": "Montia fontana\n\nMontia fontana, commonly known as blinks or water blinks, water chickweed or annual water miner's lettuce, is a herbaceous annual plant of the genus \"Montia\". It is a common plant that can be found in wet environments around the globe, from the tropics to the Arctic. It is quite variable in morphology, taking a variety of forms. It is sometimes aquatic.\n\nMontia fontana is divided into four subspecies, subsp. fontana, subsp. amporitana, subsp. chondrosperma and subsp. variabilis\n\n"}
{"id": "57302964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57302964", "title": "New Age Orientalism", "text": "New Age Orientalism\n\nNew Age Orientalism describes a modern, Western perception of Tibet, and other Asian majority countries. The term was coined by, Tibetologist Donald Swell Lopez Jr., who specializes in Western discourse on Tibet. A tibetologist is a person who studies tibetology, the study of things related to Tibet, including its history, religion, language, politics and the collection of Tibetan articles of historical, cultural and religious significance. Tibet is a historical region covering much of the Tibetan Plateau in Central Asia. It is the traditional homeland of the Tibetan people as well as some other ethnic groups such as Monpa, Qiang, and Lhoba peoples and is now also inhabited by considerable numbers of Han Chinese and Hui people.\n\nDr. Donald S. Lopez Jr. studied the depiction of Tibet in Western academic writing throughout history. He found that, before the New Age movement, the depiction of Tibet was often cynical and derogatory. The demeaning features that define Orientalism, characterized the portrayal of Tibet, before the emergence of New Age Orientalism.\n\nIn line with the logic of opposites, members of Western academia stressed their superiority (particularly regarding their academic abilities) and used this as a justification to patronize the Orient. With the modern period came Colonialism, when new knowledge of the Eastern world sparked western scholars to write about foreign histories, cultures, and traditions, despite having a sparse and incomplete understanding of them. The Western world, a majority of which was engaging in colonialism, considered The Eastern world to be incapable of representing itself due to its non-western mechanisms of knowledge. The colonial philosophy of manifest destiny led western scholars to believe that they had a more civilized and valuable way of expression, and so western academics took it upon themselves to document societies, such as Tibet, from their perspectives. Often described as 'backward' or 'incapable,' particularly in self-governance, such portrayals helped to fuel racist and white supremacist beliefs of Asian peoples across the west. Such western scholars considered both China and Tibet to be “Oriental Despotisms,” to which the politically organized and colonizing Western world was meant to civilize. \n\nManifest destiny, along with larger ideologies of racism and white supremacy, were used as a method of justifying imperialism and colonialism. When control of Tibet was taken by western forces for periods of time, western understandings of self-superiority helped to fuel the sense of entitlement, which explained such colonial violence.\n\nHowever, western powers never fully succeeded in gaining imperial control of Tibet, despite Britain and Russia's considerable military efforts. According to a western-centric understanding, Tibet never modernized, refusing to adopt European-style education systems or norms. Throughout the course of the 19th and 20th century, Tibet remained inaccessible to Western powers, and was therefore predominantly portrayed as isolated, closed, and uncivilized.\n\nEmbedded in the New Age movement, New Age Orientalism describes the positive Western perception of old Tibet (before the Chinese invasion 1950 and Tibetan diaspora 1959). This portrayal of Tibet in the modern Western Societies, has been criticized for romanticizing old Tibetan reality and neglecting negative aspects of its society, such as, violence or the clerical, feudal structure. It is, therefore, seen as a construct of Western fantasy, rather than a depiction of reality. \n\nNew Age Orientalism, subsequently, describes the orientalist perception of Tibet, in which Tibet is no longer depreciated but, rather, romanticized. It is based on the tradition of continued Romantic Orientalism, “in which the ‘West’ perceives some lack within itself and fantasizes that the answer, through a process of projection, is to be found somewhere in the ‘East.'\" In this manner, the four characteristics of Orientalism persist with slight variation. The logic of opposites, now relates to the old Tibet and China. Tibet is no longer perceived as an antiquated, \"oriental despotism,\" but as a Shangri-La -- positive, holy, pristine, and pure, which is perceived as incorrupt, since it was never dominated by the West. The Chinese constitute the opposite, as the evil, subhuman force invading the land of peaceful, devoted inhabitants. The old Tibetan culture seems removed from time and history.\n\nThis allows the West to aggrandize themselves as rescuers of Tibet and Tibetan Buddhism (see 'Free Tibet' movement), whereas, Tibetans are depicted as helpless and voiceless. Ultimately, the West again finds itself in a patronizing position, representing another culture.\n\nThe romanticized picture of Tibet has, partly, been constructed and reflected by popular culture. Hollywood movies such as Seven years in Tibet, Kundun, and Little Buddha, were found to draw a romanticized image of Tibet, and hold up the Western rescue paradigm, in line with the play of opposites, between China and Tibet. Furthermore, publications surrounding the 'Free Tibet' movement have been categorized as New Age Orientalism. The constructed fantasies of a Shangri-La Tibet, are found to reflect back on the Western struggles, within their own national identity, as well as, pitfalls of globalization.\n\nIn academic literature, the concept of New Age Orientalism, originally relating to Tibet, has been expanded and applied to other cultures and religions, such as Hinduism. The discourse and perception on Ayurveda, for instance, has been categorized as New Age Orientalism.\n\nDr. Donald Lopez's concept of New Age Orientalism, has been criticized for placing too much weight on the impact and power of Orientalism, and viewing Tibet as a closed totality, removed from history. Alternatives to Orientalism are not considered. Moreover, the concept has been criticized for neglecting the Tibetan struggle under the Chinese occupation, in addition to not covering negative Oriental pictures of Old Tibet as feudal and antiquated to their fullest extent.\n"}
{"id": "6780123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6780123", "title": "Non-communicable disease", "text": "Non-communicable disease\n\nA non-communicable disease (NCD) is a disease that is not transmissible directly from one person to another. NCDs include autoimmune diseases, strokes, most heart diseases, most cancers, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, Alzheimer's disease, cataracts, and others. NCDs may be chronic or acute. Most are non-infectious, although there are some non-communicable infectious diseases, such as parasitic diseases in which the parasite's life cycle does not include direct host-to-host transmission. \n\nNCDs are the leading cause of death globally. In 2012, they caused 68% of all deaths (38 million) up from 60% in 2000. About half were under age 70 and half were women. Risk factors such as a person's background, lifestyle and environment increase the likelihood of certain NCDs. Every year, at least 5 million people die because of tobacco use and about 2.8 million die from being overweight. High cholesterol accounts for roughly 2.6 million deaths and 7.5 million die because of high blood pressure.\n\nRisk factors such as a person's background; lifestyle and environment are known to increase the likelihood of certain non-communicable diseases. They include age, gender, genetics, exposure to air pollution, and behaviors such as smoking, unhealthy diet and physical inactivity which can lead to hypertension and obesity, in turn leading to increased risk of many NCDs. Most NCDs are considered preventable because they are caused by modifiable risk factors.\n\nThe WHO's \"World Health Report 2002\" identified five important risk factors for non-communicable disease in the top ten leading risks to health. These are raised blood pressure, raised cholesterol, tobacco use, alcohol consumption, and overweight. The other factors associated with higher risk of NCDs include a person's economic and social conditions, also known as the \"[social determinants of health].\"\n\nIt has been estimated that if the primary risk factors were eliminated, 80% of the cases of heart disease, stroke and type 2 diabetes and 40% of cancers could be prevented. Interventions targeting the main risk factors could have a significant impact on reducing the burden of disease worldwide. Efforts focused on better diet and increased physical activity have been shown to control the prevalence of NCDs .\n\nNCDs include many environmental diseases covering a broad category of avoidable and unavoidable human health conditions caused by external factors, such as sunlight, nutrition, pollution, and lifestyle choices. The diseases of affluence are non-infectious diseases with environmental causes. Examples include:\n\nGenetic disorders are caused by errors in genetic information that produce diseases in the affected people.\nThe origin of these genetic errors can be:\n\nCystic fibrosis is an example of an inherited disease that is caused by a mutation on a gene. The faulty gene impairs the normal movement of sodium chloride in and out of cells, which causes the mucus-secreting organs to produce abnormally thick mucus. The gene is recessive, meaning that a person must have two copies of the faulty gene for them to develop the disease. Cystic fibrosis affects the respiratory, digestive and reproductive systems, as well as the sweat glands. The mucus secreted is very thick and blocks passageways in the lungs and digestive tracts. This mucus causes problems with breathing and with the digestion and absorption of nutrients.\n\nReferred to as a \"lifestyle\" disease, because the majority of these diseases are preventable illnesses, the most common causes for non-communicable diseases (NCD) include tobacco use (smoking), alcohol abuse, poor diets (high consumption of sugar, salt, saturated fats, and trans fatty acids) and physical inactivity. Currently, NCD kills 36 million people a year, a number that by some estimates is expected to rise by 17–24% within the next decade.\n\nHistorically, many NCDs were associated with economic development and were so-called a \"diseases of the rich\". The burden of non-communicable diseases in developing countries has increased however, with an estimated 80% of the four main types of NCDs — cardiovascular diseases, cancers, chronic respiratory diseases and diabetes — now occurring in low- and middle-income countries. Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control of non-communicable Diseases and with two-thirds of people who are affected by diabetes now residing in developing nations, NCD can no longer be considered just a problem affecting affluent estimation of the economic impact of chronic non-communicable diseases in selected countries. New WHO report: deaths from non-communicable diseases are on the rise, with developing world hit hardest. As previously stated, in 2008 alone, NCD's were the cause of 63% of deaths worldwide; a number that is expected to rise considerably in the near future if measures are not taken.\n\nIf present growth trends are maintained, by 2020, NCDs will attribute to 7 out of every 10 deaths in developing countries, killing 52 million people annually worldwide by 2030. With statistics such as these, it comes as no surprise that international entities such as the World Health Organization & World Bank Human Development Network have identified the prevention and control of NCDs as an increasingly important discussion item on the global health agenda.\n\nThus, should policy makers and communities mobilize \"and make prevention and targeted treatment of such diseases a priority,\" sustainable measures can be implemented to stagnate (and eventually even reverse) this emerging global health threat. Potential measures currently being discussed by the(World Health Organization)-Food and Agriculture Organization includes reducing the levels of salt in foods, limiting inappropriate marketing of unhealthy foods and non-alcoholic beverages to children, imposing controls on harmful alcohol use, raising taxes on tobacco, and curbing legislation to curb smoking in public places.\n\nThe World Health Organization is the specialized agency of the United Nations (UN) that acts as coordinating authority on international public health issues, including NCDs. In May 2008, the 193 Member States of the WHO approved a six-year plan to address non-communicable diseases, especially the rapidly increasing burden in low- and middle-income countries. The plan calls for raising the priority given to NCDs in international development work'.\n\nDuring the 64th session of the United Nations General Assembly in 2010, a resolution was passed to call for a high-level meeting of the General Assembly on the prevention and treatment NCDs with the participation of heads of state and government. The resolution also encouraged UN Member States to address the issue of non-communicable diseases at the 2010 Review Summit for the Millennium Development Goals.\n\nIn order to better coordinate efforts around the globe, in 2009 the WHO announced the launch of the \"Global Non-communicable Disease Network\" (NCDnet). NCDnet will consist of leading health organizations and experts from around the world in order to fight against diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Ala Alwan, assistant director-general for Non-communicable Diseases and Mental Health at the WHO, said: \"integrating the prevention of non-communicable diseases and injuries into the national and global development agendas is not only achievable but also a priority for developing countries.\"\n\nThe NCD Alliance is a global partnership founded in May 2009 by four international federations representing cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and chronic respiratory disease. The NCD Alliance brings together roughly 900 national member associations to fight non-communicable disease. Long term aims of the Alliance include:\n\nThe United Nations Interagency Task Force on the Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases (UNIATF) was established by the United Nations Secretary-General in 2013 in order to provide scaled up action across the UN system to support governments, in particular in low- and middle-income countries, to tackle non-communicable diseases (NCDs).\n\nThe Young Professionals Chronic Disease Network, or commonly referred to as YP-CDN, is a global network of roughly 5000 young professionals across 157 countries. The organization aims to mobilize these young people \"to take action against social injustice driven by NCDs.\".\n\nPreviously, chronic NCDs were considered a problem limited mostly to high income countries, while infectious diseases seemed to affect low income countries. The burden of disease attributed to NCDs has been estimated at 85% in industrialized nations, 70% in middle income nations, and nearly 50% in countries with the lowest national incomes. In 2008, chronic NCDs accounted for more than 60% (over 35 million) of the 57 million deaths worldwide. Given the global population distribution, almost 80% of deaths due to chronic NCDs worldwide now occur in low and middle income countries, while only 20% occur in higher income countries.\n\nNational economies are reportedly suffering significant losses because of premature deaths or inability to work resulting from heart disease, stroke and diabetes. For instance, China is expected to lose roughly $558 billion in national income between 2005 and 2015 due to early deaths. In 2005, heart disease, stroke and diabetes caused an estimated loss in international dollars of national income of 9 billion in India and 3 billion in Brazil.\n\nThe burden of chronic NCDs including mental health conditions is felt in workplaces around the world, notably due to elevated levels of absenteeism, or absence from work because of illness, and presenteeism, or productivity lost from staff coming to work and performing below normal standards due to poor health. For example, the United Kingdom experienced a loss of about 175 million days in 2006 to absence from illness among a working population of 37.7 million people. The estimated cost of absences due to illness was over 20 billion pounds in the same year. The cost due to presenteeism is likely even larger, although methods of analyzing the economic impacts of presenteeism are still being developed. Methods for analyzing the distinct workplace impacts of NCDs versus other types of health conditions are also still being developed.\n\nFor the vast majority of cancers, risk factors are environmental or lifestyle-related, thus cancers are mostly preventable NCD. Greater than 30% of cancer is preventable via avoiding risk factors including: tobacco, being overweight or obesity, low fruit and vegetable intake, physical inactivity, alcohol, sexually transmitted infections, and air pollution. Infectious agents are responsible for some cancers, for instance almost all cervical cancers are caused by human papillomavirus infection.\n\nThe first studies on cardiovascular health were performed in 1949 by Jerry Morris using occupational health data and were published in 1958. The causes, prevention, and/or treatment of all forms of cardiovascular disease remain active fields of biomedical research, with hundreds of scientific studies being published on a weekly basis. A trend has emerged, particularly in the early 2000s, in which numerous studies have revealed a link between fast food and an increase in heart disease. These studies include those conducted by the Ryan Mackey Memorial Research Institute, Harvard University and the Sydney Center for Cardiovascular Health. Many major fast food chains, particularly McDonald's, have protested the methods used in these studies and have responded with healthier menu options.\n\nA fairly recent emphasis is on the link between low-grade inflammation that hallmarks atherosclerosis and its possible interventions. C-reactive protein (CRP) is a common inflammatory marker that has been found to be present in increased levels in patients at risk for cardiovascular disease. Also osteoprotegerin which involved with regulation of a key inflammatory transcription factor called NF-κB has been found to be a risk factor of cardiovascular disease and mortality.\n\nType 2 Diabetes Mellitus is a chronic condition which is largely preventable and manageable but difficult to cure. Management concentrates on keeping blood sugar levels as close to normal (\"euglycemia\") as possible without presenting undue patient danger. This can usually be with close dietary management, exercise, and use of appropriate medications (insulin only in the case of type 1 diabetes mellitus. Oral medications may be used in the case of type 2 diabetes, as well as insulin).\n\nPatient education, understanding, and participation is vital since the complications of diabetes are far less common and less severe in people who have well-managed blood sugar levels.\nWider health problems may accelerate the deleterious effects of diabetes. These include smoking, elevated cholesterol levels, obesity, high blood pressure, and lack of regular exercise.\n\nAlthough chronic kidney disease (CKD) is not currently identified as one of WHO's main targets for global NCD control, there is compelling evidence that CKD is not only common, harmful and treatable but also a major contributing factor to the incidence and outcomes of at least three of the diseases targeted by WHO (diabetes, hypertension and CVD).\nCKD strongly predisposes to hypertension and CVD; diabetes, hypertension and CVD are all major causes of CKD; and major risk factors for diabetes, hypertension and CVD (such as obesity and smoking) also cause or exacerbate CKD. In addition, among people with diabetes, hypertension, or CVD, the subset who also have CKD are at highest risk of adverse outcomes and high health care costs. Thus, CKD, diabetes and cardiovascular disease are closely associated conditions that often coexist; share common risk factors and treatments; and would benefit from a coordinated global approach to prevention and control.\n\n\"Main Article: Chronic respiratory disease\"\n\nChronic Respiratory Diseases (CRDs) are diseases of the lungs and airways. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) hundreds of millions of people suffer daily from CRDs. Common CRDs are: Asthma, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Occupational lung disease, and Pulmonary hypertension. While CRDs are not curable, various treatments are available to help improve quality of life for individuals who have them. Most treatments involve dilating major airways to improve shortness of breath among other symptoms. The main risk factors for developing CRDs are: tobacco smoking, indoor and outdoor air pollution, allergens, and occupational risks.\n\nWHO helped launch the Global Alliance against Chronic Respiratory Diseases (GARD) in 2006. GARD is voluntarily composed of national and international organizations and works toward \"reducing the global burden of chronic respiratory diseases\" and focus mainly on vulnerable populations and low and middle-income countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43846467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43846467", "title": "Partnership for Maternal, Newborn &amp; Child Health", "text": "Partnership for Maternal, Newborn &amp; Child Health\n\nThe Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health (PMNCH) is a multi-constituency partnership hosted by the World Health Organization and chaired by Graça Machel. PMNCH seeks to achieve universal access to comprehensive, high-quality reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health care. PMNCH works with more than 650 members in the reproductive, maternal, newborn and child health (RMNCH) communities across seven constituencies:\n\n\nPMNCH describes itself as \"a platform for knowledge, advocacy and accountability to improve women and children’s health\". The Partnership is governed by a Board chaired by Graça Machel.\n\nThe Partnership plays a central role in facilitating joint action on many fronts, mainly progress towards the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 4 and 5, to\nreduce child mortality and improve maternal health, as tracked by the Countdown to 2015\ninitiative, and through support for the Global Strategy for Women’s and Children’s Health (Global Strategy) and Every Woman Every Child. PMNCH enables members to share\nstrategies, align objectives and resources, and collectively agree on policy interventions.\n\nPMNCH’s work and support to partners is focused on three key Strategic Objectives: \n\nThe Partnership issues annual reports on progress of commitments from more than 250 stakeholders and estimates that the Global Strategy has leveraged over US$18 billion in new and additional money for women’s and children’s health.\n\nPMNCH was launched in September 2005 when the world’s three leading maternal, newborn and child health alliances joined forces under the new name of The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn & Child Health. 80 original members joined together from the three organizations, which included: the Partnership for Safe Motherhood and Newborn Health, hosted by the World Health Organization in Geneva; the Healthy Newborn Partnership, based at Save the Children USA; and the Child Survival Partnership, hosted by UNICEF in New York. All three partnerships focused on accelerating action by countries—both donor and\ndeveloping countries—to achieve Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 4 (reduce child\nmortality) and 5 (improve maternal health).\n\nAs of July 2014, the following bodies are represented on the PMNCH Board. The Board is chaired by Mrs Graça Machel and co-chaired by Mr CK Mishra, Government of India and Dr Flavia Bustreo, the World Health Organization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362605", "title": "Poa pratensis", "text": "Poa pratensis\n\nPoa pratensis, commonly known as Kentucky bluegrass (or blue grass), smooth meadow-grass, or common meadow-grass, is a perennial species of grass native to practically all of Europe, northern Asia and the mountains of Algeria and Morocco. Although the species is spread over all of the cool, humid parts of the U.S., it is not native to North America. The Spanish brought the seeds of Kentucky bluegrass to the New World in mixtures with other grasses. \"Poa pratensis\" forms a valuable pasture plant, characteristic of well-drained, fertile soil. It is also used for making lawns in parks and gardens and is common in cool moist climates like the northeastern United States. When found on native grasslands in Canada, however, it is considered an unwelcome exotic plant, and is indicative of a disturbed and degraded landscape.\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" was one of the many species described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark work \"Species Plantarum\" in 1753. \"Poa\" is Greek for fodder and \"pratensis\" is derived from \"pratum\", the Latin for meadow. The name Kentucky bluegrass derives from its flower heads, which are blue when the plant is allowed to grow to its natural height of .\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is the type species of the grass family Poaceae.\n\nThere are two ill-defined subspecies:\n\n\"Poa pratensis\" is a herbaceous perennial plant tall. The leaves have boat-shaped tips, narrowly linear, up to long and broad, smooth or slightly roughened, with a rounded to truncate ligule long. The conical panicle is long, with 3 to 5 branches in the basal whorls; the oval spikelets are long with 2 to 5 florets, and are purplish-green or grey. They are in flower from May to July, compared to annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") which is in flower for eight months of the year. \"Poa pratensis\" has a fairly prominent mid-vein (center of the blade).\n\nThe ligule is extremely short and square ended, making a contrast with annual meadowgrass (\"Poa annua\") and rough meadowgrass (\"Poa trivialis\") in which it is silvery and pointed. The Kentucky bluegrass is a dark green/blue compared to the apple-green color of \"Poa annua\" and \"Poa trivialis\".\n\nThe rootstock is creeping, with runners (rhizomes). The broad, blunt leaves tend to spread at the base, forming close mats.\n\nThis species is among the food plants of the caterpillars of the meadow brown (\"Maniola jurtina\") and gatekeeper (\"Pyronia tithonus\") butterflies; the common sun beetle (\"Amara aenea\") (adults feed on the developing seeds), \"Eupelix cuspidata\" of the leafhopper family, and \"Myrmus miriformis\", a grassbug (feeds on young blades and developing seeds).\n\nSince the 1950s and early 1960s, 90% of Kentucky bluegrass seed in the United States has been produced on specialist farms in Idaho, Oregon and Washington.\n\nDuring the 1990s botanists began experimenting with hybrids of \"Poa pratensis\" and Texas bluegrass (\"P. arachnifera\"), with the goal of creating a drought and heat-resistant lawn grass.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2379996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2379996", "title": "Population health", "text": "Population health\n\nPopulation health has been defined as \"the health outcomes of a group of individuals, including the distribution of such outcomes within the group\". It is an approach to health that aims to improve the health of an entire human population. This concept does not refer to animal or plant populations. It has been described as consisting of three components. These are \"health outcomes, patterns of health determinants, and policies and interventions\". A priority considered important in achieving the aim of Population Health is to reduce health inequities or disparities among different population groups due to, among other factors, the social determinants of health, SDOH. The SDOH include all the factors (social, environmental, cultural and physical) that the different populations are born into, grow up and function with throughout their lifetimes which potentially have a measurable impact on the health of human populations. The Population Health concept represents a change in the focus from the individual-level, characteristic of most mainstream medicine. It also seeks to complement the classic efforts of public health agencies by addressing a broader range of factors shown to impact the health of different populations. The World Health Organization's Commission on Social Determinants of Health, reported in 2008, that the SDOH factors were responsible for the bulk of diseases and injuries and these were the major causes of health inequities in all countries. In the US, SDOH were estimated to account for 70% of avoidable mortality.\n\nFrom a population health perspective, health has been defined not simply as a state free from disease but as \"the capacity of people to adapt to, respond to, or control life's challenges and changes\". The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health in its broader sense in 1946 as \"a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.\"\n\nHealthy People 2020 is a web site sponsored by the US Department of Health and Human Services, representing the cumulative effort of 34 years of interest by the Surgeon General's office and others. It identifies 42 topics considered social determinants of health and approximately 1200 specific goals considered to improve population health. It provides links to the current research available for selected topics and identifies and supports the need for community involvement considered essential to address these problems realistically.\n\nRecently, human role has been encouraged by the influence of population growth there has been increasing interest from epidemiologists on the subject of economic inequality and its relation to the health of populations. There is a very robust correlation between socioeconomic status and health. This correlation suggests that it is not only the poor who tend to be sick when everyone else is healthy, heart disease, ulcers, type 2 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, certain types of cancer, and premature aging. Despite the reality of the SES Gradient, there is debate as to its cause. A number of researchers (A. Leigh, C. Jencks, A. Clarkwest—see also Russell Sage working papers) see a definite link between economic status and mortality due to the greater economic resources of the better-off, but they find little correlation due to social status differences.\n\nOther researchers such as Richard G. Wilkinson, J. Lynch, and G.A. Kaplan have found that socioeconomic status strongly affects health even when controlling for economic resources and access to health care. Most famous for linking social status with health are the Whitehall studies—a series of studies conducted on civil servants in London. The studies found that, despite the fact that all civil servants in England have the same access to health care, there was a strong correlation between social status and health. The studies found that this relationship stayed strong even when controlling for health-affecting habits such as exercise, smoking and drinking. Furthermore, it has been noted that no amount of medical attention will help decrease the likelihood of someone getting type 1 diabetes or rheumatoid arthritis—yet both are more common among populations with lower socioeconomic status. Lastly, it has been found that amongst the wealthiest quarter of countries on earth (a set stretching from Luxembourg to Slovakia) there is no relation between a country's wealth and general population health—suggesting that past a certain level, absolute levels of wealth have little impact on population health, but relative levels within a country do.\nThe concept of psychosocial stress attempts to explain how psychosocial phenomenon such as status and social stratification can lead to the many diseases associated with the SES gradient. Higher levels of economic inequality tend to intensify social hierarchies and generally degrades the quality of social relations—leading to greater levels of stress and stress related diseases. Richard Wilkinson found this to be true not only for the poorest members of society, but also for the wealthiest. Economic inequality is bad for everyone's health. \nInequality does not only affect the health of human populations. David H. Abbott at the Wisconsin National Primate Research Center found that among many primate species, less egalitarian social structures correlated with higher levels of stress hormones among socially subordinate individuals. Research by Robert Sapolsky of Stanford University provides similar findings.\n\nThere is well-documented variation in health outcomes and health care utilization & costs by geographic variation in the U.S., down to the level of Hospital Referral Regions (defined as a regional health care market, which may cross state boundaries, of which there are 306 in the U.S.). There is ongoing debate as to the relative contributions of race, gender, poverty, education level and place to these variations. The Office of Epidemiology of the Maternal and Child Health Bureau recommends using an analytic approach (Fixed Effects or hybrid Fixed Effects) to research on health disparities to reduce the confounding effects of neighborhood (geographic) variables on the outcomes.\n\nFamily planning programs (including contraceptives, sexuality education, and promotion of safe sex) play a major role in population health. Family planning is one of the most highly cost-effective interventions in medicine. Family planning saves lives and money by reducing unintended pregnancy and the transmission of sexually transmitted infections.\n\nFor example, the United States Agency for International Development lists as benefits of its international family planning program:\n\n\nOne method to improve population health is population health management (PHM), which has been defined as \"the technical field of endeavor which utilizes a variety of individual, organizational and cultural interventions to help improve the morbidity patterns (i.e., the illness and injury burden) and the health care use behavior of defined populations\". PHM is distinguished from disease management by including more chronic conditions and diseases, by use of \"a single point of contact and coordination\", and by \"predictive modeling across multiple clinical conditions\". PHM is considered broader than disease management in that it also includes \"intensive care management for individuals at the highest level of risk\" and \"personal health management... for those at lower levels of predicted health risk\". Many PHM-related articles are published in \"Population Health Management\", the official journal of .\n\nThe following road map has been suggested for helping healthcare organizations navigate the path toward implementing effective population health management:\n\nHealthcare reform is driving change to traditional hospital reimbursement models. Prior to the introduction of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), hospitals were reimbursed based on the volume of procedures through fee-for-service models. Under the PPACA, reimbursement models are shifting from volume to value. New reimbursement models are built around pay for performance, a value-based reimbursement approach, which places financial incentives around patient outcomes and has drastically changed the way US hospitals must conduct business to remain financially viable. In addition to focusing on improving patient experience of care and reducing costs, hospitals must also focus on improving the health of populations (IHI Triple Aim).\n\nAs participation in value-based reimbursement models such as accountable care organizations (ACOs) increases, these initiatives will help drive population health. Within the ACO model, hospitals have to meet specific quality benchmarks, focus on prevention, and carefully manage patients with chronic diseases. Providers get paid more for keeping their patients healthy and out of the hospital. Studies have shown that inpatient admission rates have dropped over the past ten years in communities that were early adopters of the ACO model and implemented population health measures to treat \"less sick\" patients in the outpatient setting. A study conducted in the Chicago area showed a decline in inpatient utilization rates across all age groups, which was an average of a 5% overall drop in inpatient admissions.\n\nHospitals are finding it financially advantageous to focus on population health management and keeping people in the community well. The goal of population health management is to improve patient outcomes and increase health capital. Other goals include preventing disease, closing care gaps, and cost savings for providers. In the last few years, more effort has been directed towards developing telehealth services, community-based clinics in areas with high proportion of residents using the emergency department as primary care, and patient care coordinator roles to coordinate healthcare services across the care continuum.\n\nHealth can be considered a capital good; health capital is part of human capital as defined by the Grossman model. Health can be considered both an investment good and consumption good. Factors such as obesity and smoking have negative effects on health capital, while education, wage rate, and age may also impact health capital. When people are healthier through preventative care, they have the potential to live a longer and healthier life, work more and participate in the economy, and produce more based on the work done. These factors all have the potential to increase earnings. Some states, like New York, have implemented statewide initiatives to address population health. In New York state there are 11 such programs. One example is the Mohawk Valley Population Health Improvement Program (http://www.mvphip.org/). These programs work to address the needs of the people in their region, as well as assist their local community based organizations and social services to gather data, address health disparities, and explore evidence-based interventions that will ultimately lead to better health for everyone. Following a similar approach, Cullati et al. developed a theoretical framework for the development and onset of vulnerability in later life based on the concept of \"reserves\". The advantages to use the concept of reserves in interdisciplinary studies, as compared with related concepts such as resources and capital, is to strengthen the importance of constitution and sustainability of reserves (the “use it or lose it” paradigm) and the presence of thresholds, below which functioning becomes challenging. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14552", "title": "Primary sector of the economy", "text": "Primary sector of the economy\n\nAn industry involved in the extraction and collection of natural resources, such as copper and timber, as well as by activities such as farming and fishing. A company in a primary industry can also be involved in turning natural resources into products.\nPrimary industry tends to make up a larger portion of the economy of developing countries than they do for developed countries. See also service industry, secondary industry.\nThe primary sector is concerned with the extraction of raw materials. It includes fishing, farming and mining.\n\nPrimary industry is a larger sector in developing countries; for instance, animal husbandry is more common in countries in Africa than in Japan. Mining in 19th-century South Wales provides a case study of how an economy can come to rely on one form of activity.\n\nIn developed countries the primary industry has become more technologically advanced, for instance the mechanization of farming as opposed to hand picking and planting. In more developed countries, additional capital is invested in primary means of production. As an example, in the United States' corn belt, combine harvesters pick the corn, and sprayers spray large amounts of insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, producing a higher yield than is possible using less capital-intensive techniques. These technological advances and investment allow the primary sector to require less workforce and, this way, developed countries tend to have a smaller percentage of their workforce involved in primary activities, instead having a higher percentage involved in the secondary and tertiary sectors.\n\nDeveloped countries are allowed to maintain and develop their primary industries even further due to the excess wealth. For instance, European Union agricultural subsidies provide buffers for the fluctuating inflation rates and prices of agricultural produce. This allows developed countries to be able to export their agricultural products at extraordinarily low prices. This makes them extremely competitive against those of poor or underdeveloped countries that maintain free market policies and low or non-existent tariffs to counter them. Such differences also come about due to more efficient production in developed economies, given farm machinery, better information available to farmers, and often larger scale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38878700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38878700", "title": "Revolutions of 1917–1923", "text": "Revolutions of 1917–1923\n\nThe Revolutions of 1917–1923 were a period of political unrest and revolts around the world inspired by the success of the Russian Revolution and the disorder created by the aftermath of World War I. The uprisings were mainly socialist or anti-colonial in nature and were mostly short-lived, failing to have a long-term impact. Out of all the revolutionary activity of the era, the revolutionary wave of 1917–1923 mainly refers to the unrest caused by World War I in Europe.\n\nIn war-torn Imperial Russia, the liberal February Revolution toppled the monarchy. It was unstable and the Bolsheviks seized power in the October Revolution. The ascendant communist party soon withdrew from the war with some territorial concessions by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. It then battled its political rivals in the Russian Civil War, including invading forces from the Allied Powers. In response to Lenin, the Bolshevik Party and the emerging Soviet Union, anti-communists from a broad assortment of ideological factions fought against them, particularly through the counter-revolutionary White movement and the peasant Green Army, the various nationalist movements in Ukraine after the Russian Revolution and other would-be new states like those in Soviet Transcaucasia and Soviet Central Asia, through the anarchist-inspired Third Russian Revolution and Tambov Rebellion.\n\nBy 1921, due to exhaustion, the collapse of transportation and markets, and threats of starvation, even dissident elements of the Red Army itself were in revolt against the communist state, as shown by the Kronstadt rebellion. However, the multiple anti-Bolshevik forces were uncoordinated and disorganized, and in every case operated on the periphery. The Red Army, operating at the center, defeated them one by one and regained control. The complete failure of Comintern-inspired revolutions was a sobering experience in Moscow, and the Bolsheviks moved from world revolution to the theme of socialism in one country, Russia. Lenin moved to open trade relations with Britain, Germany, and other major countries. Most dramatically, in 1921, Lenin introduced a sort of small-scale capitalism with his New Economic Policy (or NEP). In this process of revolution and counter-revolution the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) was officially born in 1922.\n\nThe Leninist victories also inspired a surge by the world Communist movement: the larger German Revolution and its offspring, like the Bavarian Soviet Republic, as well as the neighboring Hungarian Revolution, and the Biennio Rosso in Italy in addition to various smaller uprisings, protests and strikes, all proved abortive.\n\nThe Bolsheviks sought to coordinate this new wave of revolution in the Soviet-led Communist International, while new communist parties separated from their former socialist organizations and the older, more moderate Second International. Despite ambitions for world revolution, the far-flung Comintern movement had more setbacks than successes through the next generation, and it was abolished in 1943. After the Second World War when the Red Army occupied most of Eastern Europe, Communists would come to power in the Baltic states, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, and East Germany.\n\nIn Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom, the nationalist Easter Rising of 1916 anticipated the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921) within the same historical period as this first wave of communist revolution. The Irish republican movement of the time was predominantly nationalist and populist, and although it had left-wing positions and included socialists and communists, it was not Communist. The Irish and Soviet Russian Republics nevertheless found common ground in their opposition to British interests, and established a trading relationship.\n\nThe same was true of the Mexican Revolution (1910–1920), which had broken out in 1910 but had devolved into factional fighting among the rebels by 1915, as the more radical forces of Emiliano Zapata and Pancho Villa lost ground to the more conservative \"Sonoran oligarchy\" and its Constitutional Army. The Felicistas, the last major group of counterrevolutionaries, abandoned their armed campaign in 1920, and the internecine power struggles abated for a time after revolutionary General Álvaro Obregón had bribed or slain his former allies and rivals alike, but the following decade witnessed the assassination of Obregon and several others, abortive military coup attempts and a massive right-wing uprising, the Cristero War, due to religious persecution of Roman Catholics.\n\nThe Sette Giugno of 1919 was a revolt characterised by a series of riots and protests by the Maltese population, initially as a reaction to the rise in the cost of living in the aftermath of World War I, and the sacking of hundreds of workers from the dockyard. This coincided with popular demands for self-government, which resulted in a National Assembly being formed in Valletta at the same time of the riots. This dramatically boosted the uprising, as many people headed to Valletta to show their support for the Assembly. This led to the British forces firing into the crowd, killing four local men. The cost of living increased dramatically after the war. Imports were limited, and as food became scarce prices rose; this made the fortune of farmers and merchants with surpluses to trade.\n\nThe Egyptian Revolution of 1919 was a countrywide revolution against the British occupation of Egypt and Sudan. It was carried out by Egyptians and Sudanese from different walks of life in the wake of the British-ordered exile of revolutionary leader Saad Zaghloul, and other members of the Wafd Party in 1919. The revolution led to Britain's recognition of Egyptian independence in 1922, and the implementation of a new constitution in 1923. Britain, however, continued in control of what was renamed the Kingdom of Egypt. British guided the king and retained control of the Canal Zone, Sudan and Egypt's external and military affairs. King Fuad died in 1936 and Farouk inherited the throne at the age of sixteen. Alarmed by the Second Italo-Abyssinian War when Italy invaded Ethiopia, he signed the Anglo-Egyptian Treaty, requiring Britain to withdraw all troops from Egypt by 1949, except at the Suez Canal. During World War II, British troops used Egypt as a major base for its operations throughout the region. British troops were withdrawn to the Suez Canal area in 1947, but nationalist, anti-British feelings continued to grow after the war.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23151656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23151656", "title": "Rise Against Hunger", "text": "Rise Against Hunger\n\nRise Against Hunger, formerly Stop Hunger Now, is an international hunger relief non-profit organization that coordinates the packaging and distribution of food and other life-changing aid to people in developing nations. Founded in 1998, Rise Against Hunger mobilizes more than 350,000 volunteers each year to package meals for people in need around the globe. Since 2005, Rise Against Hunger has distributed more than 315,000,000 meals to recipients in 74 countries with a mission to end hunger in our lifetime.\n\nRise Against Hunger is an international hunger relief agency that seeks to end global hunger by engaging local volunteers. The organization was formed in 1998 by Ray Buchanan, a United Methodist Minister, and began its meal packaging program in 2005. The organizational mission is stated as \"Rise Against Hunger is driven by the vision of a world without hunger. Its mission is to end hunger in our lifetime by providing food and life-changing aid to the world’s most vulnerable and creating a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources.\"\n\nRise Against Hunger aims to end hunger through four pathways: Nourishing Lives, Responding to Emergencies, Empowering Communities and Growing the Movement. From the implementation of sustainable development community projects to the meal packaging program that utilizes local volunteers, Rise Against Hunger strives to make a global impact on hunger by building resilience, self-sufficiency and empowerment among the world’s most vulnerable populations. \n\nRise Against Hunger supports safety net programs that support nourishment and skills trainings that help the world’s most vulnerable navigate the difficult journey out of poverty. Rise Against Hunger partners with schools in order to promote and incentivize increased attendance. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger works to partner with skills trainings and clinics in order to support adults learning new trades and encourage healthy lifestyles. Rise Against Hunger works to nourish lives through a holistic approach in the development of the most vulnerable populations.\n\nRise Against Hunger responds to emergencies. In times of floods, droughts or political unrest, to name a few, Rise Against Hunger aims to provide the immediate critical need, food. Access to food, wages and market systems are often destroyed in times of emergency. Rise Against Hunger works with its in-country partner organizations in order to address the immediate needs in the wake of crisis. Each year Rise Against Hunger reserves 10% of its projected meals to respond to crisis situations. Official Rise Against Hunger responses include the 2016 Hurricane Matthew, Syrian conflict, South Sudanese conflict and 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nIn order to create long-term solutions to hunger and poverty, Rise Against Hunger works to empower communities through agricultural and income-generating initiatives. Rise Against Hunger works to increase agriculture production and incomes through programs that promote improved agricultural methods, business skills and market access. Farmers, one of the most food insecure populations in the world, are given access to quality seeds and fertilizers to increase agricultural production and diversify their crops. Rise Against Hunger supports vocational training to help at-risk individuals increase their earning potentials and gain consistent access to food.\n\nPart of Rise Against Hunger’s mission is to create a global commitment to mobilize the necessary resources to end hunger. Rise Against Hunger works with volunteer groups from communities of faith, corporations, schools and civic clubs to package meals while developing a greater awareness of hunger-related issues. Additionally, Rise Against Hunger engages its supporters to participate in advocacy activities to work toward changing laws, policies, systems and attitudes to end hunger by 2030.\n\nThe assembly process combines rice, soy, dehydrated vegetables and a micronutrient flavoring mix formulated by Kraft Heinz Company Foundation that includes 23 essential vitamins and minerals. The cost of each meal varies between 29 and 34 cents. The food has a shelf-life of two years.\nRise Against Hunger provides over 70% of its meals to support transformational development programs such as school lunch programs, vocational training programs, early childhood development programs, orphanages, and medical clinics. Working with these programs helps enhance lives by giving beneficiaries the opportunity to break the cycle of poverty through education, skills development, and healthcare while also receiving much needed nutrition.\n\nRise Against Hunger supports partner organizations in developing countries by providing direct financial assistance to support ongoing programs that provide food, medicines or other basic necessities to impoverished populations. This program enables Rise Against Hunger to respond to crises immediately by working with organizations already on the ground. It also supports local economies in developing areas and promotes self-reliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "58098321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58098321", "title": "Sunda (continent)", "text": "Sunda (continent)\n\nSunda was a prehistoric continent that consisted of\nMainland and Maritime Southeast Asia. It was partially submerged around 18,000 years ago.\n\nSahul and Sunda were points of early human migrations after leaving Africa.\n"}
{"id": "30948300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30948300", "title": "The Flattery Show", "text": "The Flattery Show\n\nThe Flattery Show was the first English-language radio chat show aired in the south west of France and a flagship Sunday evening programme broadcast on Radio Coteaux in the Gascony region. The show was presented by Irish radio presenter John Slattery with American co-host Patricia McKinnes. It ran for twenty-one weeks and proved to be very popular with expatriates living in France.\n\nSlattery and McKinnes regularly began the show at 5pm and finished at 7pm with a handover to Patrick Martinez. \"The Flattery Show\" was a music-based programme that included light-hearted banter and whimsical jokes by the hosts. Listeners' views and comments were discussed and there were rotating segments such as \"Song of The Week\", \"Ask a Frenchie\" and \"Life in the South-West\". To keep listeners on their toes, random topics were picked from a big \"Bag O' Topics\".\n\nThe show ran interviews with regular and/or rotating guests, dealing with subjects of both local interest and of general interest to the expatriate community. The first people to be interviewed on the show were the English sisters Marcha King and Sian Cash, former proprietors of the landmark café \"Bar Memory\" in the Hautes-Pyrénées town of Castelnau-Magnoac. They recounted humorous stories of their years behind the bar at the French café. The interview proved enormously popular with English-speaking listeners in France and it served to create a pattern of jesting and buffoonery that would become an underlying trait of later interviews.\n\nThe show relied heavily on e-mailed material sent in by listeners that was then read out on air. Most of the regular contributors were local expatriates living in the Gascony region.\n\nThe show ran for twenty-one weeks in the early months of 2011. When it ceased, Radio Coteaux's Sunday evening slot was filled by a new show called \"The Gascony Show\", also hosted by John Slattery.\n\n"}
{"id": "35528221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35528221", "title": "The Task Force for Global Health", "text": "The Task Force for Global Health\n\nThe Task Force for Global Health is an international, nonprofit organization that works to improve health of people most in need, primarily in developing countries. Founded in 1984 by global health pioneer Dr. William Foege, The Task Force consists of eight programs focused on neglected tropical diseases, vaccines, field epidemiology, public health informatics, and health workforce development. Those programs include the African Health Workforce Project, the Center for Vaccine Equity, Children Without Worms, International Trachoma Initiative, Mectizan Donation Program, Neglected Tropical Diseases Support Center, Public Health Informatics Institute, and TEPHINET. The Task Force works in partnership with ministries of health and hundreds of organizations, including major pharmaceutical companies that donate billions of dollars annually in essential medicines. Major funders include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, CDC, WHO, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, de Beaumont Foundation, United States Agency for International Development, Sightsavers, Pfizer, Merck & Co., Johnson & Johnson, and GlaxoSmithKline. The Task Force is affiliated with Emory University, headquartered in Decatur, Georgia, a town in metro Atlanta, and has regional offices in Guatemala and Ethiopia. The Task Force currently supports work in 154 countries.\n\nThe Task Force for Global Health received the 2016 Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize during a symposium titled \"The Future of Humanitarian Action\" held at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City. The Task Force was selected by a panel of independent international jurors for having made \"contributions to improving the health of people living in extreme poverty.\".\n\nThe organization was co-founded by global health pioneer and former CDC Director, Dr. William Foege and two of his former CDC colleagues, Carol Walters and Bill Watson. It was founded in 1984 as The Task Force for Child Survival. The Task Force was initially launched to foster collaboration among leading health and development agencies. Under the leadership of Dr. Foege, The Task Force brought together World Bank Group, The Rockefeller Foundation, The United Nations Development Programme, WHO, and UNICEF, WHO to raise childhood immunization rates. In 1984, only 20 percent of children worldwide were receiving immunizations and 12,000 children, mostly in the world's poorest countries, were dying every day. By 1990, The Task Force had raised childhood immunization rates to 80 percent globally. Since then, The Task Force has used its strength and credibility in collaboration to positively affect a broad range of health issues affecting the world's poor. In 2015, The Task Force celebrated 30 years of contributions to global health at an event that included World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim.\n\nThe Task Force works with hundreds of partners to control and eliminate neglected tropical diseases and increase access to medicines and vaccines for multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, influenza, and cholera. Beginning with the Mectizan Donation Program, The Task Force is credited with working with the pharmaceutical industry to donate billions of dollars annually in essential medicines for the control and elimination of neglected tropical diseases.\n\nCollaboration, health equity, and social justice are the cornerstones of all Task Force programs. The organization is a major partner in the global effort to eliminate three neglected tropical diseases by 2025—blinding trachoma, river blindness, and lymphatic filariasis—which collectively threaten hundreds of millions of people each year with blindness, disfigurement, and death.\n\nInformation and laboratory technologies are vital tools in The Task Force's work to control and eliminate diseases and increase access to quality health care for people in developing countries. Using a smartphone-based data collection system, The Task Force maps the prevalence of neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) to determine where interventions should be implemented. It uses portable molecular technology and tablet-based systems to detect and diagnose NTDs within populations. It also uses diverse technologies to help developing countries manage their healthcare workforce in order to meet the health needs of their populations.\n\nIn 2015, The Task Force's Public Health Informatics Institute was named a partner on a new Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation-funded initiative called the Child Health and Mortality Prevention Surveillance Program (CHAMPS) that aims to understand and ultimately address the causes of death for children under 5 in developing countries.\n\nIn 2016, the Task Force helped launch a program called Digital Bridge which is developing an electronic case reporting system to improve information exchange between the public health and healthcare sectors.\n\nIn 2016, The Task Force reached an agreement to purchase a DeKalb County government building in downtown Decatur for a larger headquarters. The Task Force has begun examining how it might help address the growing epidemic of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in developing countries.\n"}
{"id": "50293718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50293718", "title": "Timeline of deworming", "text": "Timeline of deworming\n\nThis is a timeline of deworming, and specifically mass deworming.\n\n"}
{"id": "48640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48640", "title": "Universal jurisdiction", "text": "Universal jurisdiction\n\nUniversal jurisdiction allows states or international organizations to claim criminal jurisdiction over an accused person regardless of where the alleged crime was committed, and regardless of the accused's nationality, country of residence, or any other relation with the prosecuting entity. Crimes prosecuted under universal jurisdiction are considered crimes against all, too serious to tolerate jurisdictional arbitrage. \n\nThe concept of universal jurisdiction is therefore closely linked to the idea that some international norms are \"erga omnes\", or owed to the entire world community, as well as the concept of \"jus cogens\" – that certain international law obligations are binding on all states.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, a proponent of universal jurisdiction, certain crimes pose so serious a threat to the international community as a whole that states have a logical and moral duty to prosecute an individual responsible; therefore, no place should be a safe haven for those who have committed genocide, crimes against humanity, extrajudicial executions, war crimes, torture and forced disappearances.\n\nOpponents such as Henry Kissinger, who himself was called to give testimony about the US Government's Operation Condor in a Spanish court, argue that universal jurisdiction is a breach of each state's sovereignty: all states being equal in sovereignty, as affirmed by the United Nations Charter, \"[w]idespread agreement that human rights violations and crimes against humanity must be prosecuted has hindered active consideration of the proper role of international courts. Universal jurisdiction risks creating universal tyranny – that of judges.\" According to Kissinger, as a practical matter, since any number of states could set up such \"universal jurisdiction\" tribunals, the process could quickly degenerate into politically driven show trials to attempt to place a quasi-judicial stamp on a state's enemies or opponents.\n\nThe United Nations Security Council Resolution 1674, adopted by the United Nations Security Council on 28 April 2006, \"Reaffirm[ed] the provisions of paragraphs 138 and 139 of the 2005 World Summit Outcome Document regarding the responsibility to protect populations from genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity\" and commits the Security Council to action to protect civilians in armed conflict.\n\nThe \"Institutes of Justinian\", echoing the \"Commentaries\" of Gaius, says that \"All nations ... are governed partly by their own particular laws, and partly by those laws which are common to all, [those that] natural Reason appoints for all mankind.\" Expanding on the classical understanding of universal law accessible by reason, in the seventeenth century, the Dutch jurist Grotius laid the foundations for universal jurisdiction in modern international law, promulgating in his \"De Jure Pradae\" (\"Of the Law of Captures\") and later \"De jure belli ac pacis\" (\"Of the Law of War and Peace\") the Enlightenment view that there are universal principles of right and wrong.\n\nAt about the same time, international law came to recognize the analogous concept of \"hostes humani generis\" (\"enemies of the human race\"): pirates, hijackers, and similar outlaws whose crimes were typically committed outside the territory of any state. The notion that heads of state and senior public officials should be treated like pirates or outlaws before the global bar of justice is, according to Henry Kissinger, a new gloss on this old concept. From these premises, representing the Enlightenment belief in trans-territorial, trans-cultural standards of right and wrong, derives universal jurisdiction.\n\nPerhaps the most notable and influential precedent for universal jurisdiction were the mid-20th century Nuremberg Trials. U.S. Justice Robert H. Jackson then chief prosecutor, famously stated that an International Military Tribunal enforcing universal principles of right and wrong could prosecute acts without a particular geographic location, Nazi \"crimes against the peace of the world\"—even if the acts were perfectly legal at the time in Fascist Germany. Indeed, one charge was Nazi law itself became a crime, law distorted into a bludgeon of oppression. The Nuremberg trials supposed universal standards by which one nation's laws, and acts of its officials, can be judged; an international rule of law unbound by national borders.\n\nOn the other hand, even at the time the Nuremberg trials appeared to be victor's justice, revenge papered over with legal simulcra. US Supreme Court Chief Justice Harlan Fiske Stone remarked that his colleague Justice Jackson acting as Nuremberg Chief prosecutor was \"conducting his high-grade lynching party in Nuremberg. I don't mind what he does to the Nazis, but I hate to see the pretense that he is running a court and proceeding according to common law. This is a little too sanctimonious a fraud to meet my old-fashioned ideas.\"\n\nKenneth Roth, the executive director of Human Rights Watch, argues that universal jurisdiction allowed Israel to try Adolf Eichmann in Jerusalem in 1961. Roth also argues that clauses in treaties such as the Geneva Conventions of 1949 and the United Nations Convention Against Torture of 1984, which requires signatory states to pass municipal laws that are based on the concept of universal jurisdiction, indicate widespread international acceptance of the concept.\n\nUniversal jurisdiction differs from a state's prosecuting crimes under its own laws, whether on its own territory (territorial jurisdiction) or abroad (extraterritorial jurisdiction). As an example, the United States asserts jurisdiction over stateless vessels carrying illicit drugs on international waters—but here the US reaches across national borders to enforce its own law, rather than invoking universal jurisdiction and trans-national standards of right and wrong.\n\nStates attempting to police acts committed by foreign nationals on foreign territory tends to be more controversial than a state prosecuting its own citizens wherever they may be found. Bases on which a state might exercise jurisdiction in this way include the following:\n\n\nEstablished in The Hague in 2002, the International Criminal Court (ICC) is an international tribunal of general jurisdiction (defined by treaty) to prosecute state-members' citizens for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression, as specified by several international agreements, most prominently the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court signed in 1998. Universal jurisdiction over the crimes enumerated in the Rome Statute was rejected by the signing parties, however universal jurisdiction is what allows the United Nations Security Council to refer specific situations to the ICC. This has only happened with Darfur (2005) and Libya (2011).\n\nIn addition the United Nations has set up geographically specific courts to investigate and prosecute crimes against humanity under a theory of universal jurisdiction, such as the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (1994), and the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (1993).\n\nThe International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia investigates war crimes that took place in the Balkans in the 1990s. It convicted former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić on 10 charges relating to directing murders, purges and other abuses against civilians, including genocide in connection with the 1995 massacre of 8,000 Muslim men and boys in Srebrenica; he was sentenced to 40 years in prison.\n\nUniversal jurisdiction may be asserted by a particular nation as well as by an international tribunal. The result is the same: individuals become answerable for crimes defined and prosecuted regardless of where they live, or where the conduct occurred; crimes said to be so grievous as to be universally condemned.\n\nAmnesty International argues that since the end of the Second World War over fifteen states have conducted investigations, commenced prosecutions and completed trials based on universal jurisdiction for the crimes or arrested people with a view to extraditing the persons to a state seeking to prosecute them. These states include: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Israel, Mexico, Netherlands, Senegal, Spain, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States. Amnesty writes:\n\nExamples of particular states invoking universal jurisdiction are Israel's prosecution of Eichmann in 1961 (see below) and Spain's prosecution of South American dictators and torturers (see below). More recently, the Center for Constitutional Rights tried first in Switzerland and then in Canada to prosecute former US President George W. Bush on behalf of persons tortured in US detention camps, invoking the universal jurisdiction doctrine. Bush cancelled his trip to Switzerland after news of the planned prosecution came to light. Bush has traveled to Canada but the Canadian government shut down the prosecution in advance of his arrest. The Center has filed a grievance with the United Nations for Canada's failure to invoke universal jurisdiction to enforce the Convention Against Torture, a petition on which action is pending.\n\nOn 14 February 2002, the International Court of Justice in the \"ICJ Arrest Warrant Case\" concluded that state officials may have immunity under international law while serving in office. The court stated that immunity was not granted to state officials for their own benefit, but instead to ensure the effective performance of their functions on behalf of their respective states. The court also stated that when abroad, state officials may enjoy immunity from arrest in another state on criminal charges, including charges of war crimes or crimes against humanity. But the ICJ qualified its conclusions, saying that state officers \"may be subject to criminal proceedings before certain international criminal courts, where they have jurisdiction. Examples include the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda ..., and the future International Criminal Court.\"\n\nIn 2003, Charles Taylor, the former president of Liberia, was served with an arrest warrant by the Special Court for Sierra Leone (SCSL) that was set up under the auspices of a treaty that binds only the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone. Taylor contested the Special Court's jurisdiction, claiming immunity, but the Special Court for Sierra Leone concluded in 2004 that \"the sovereign equality of states does not prevent a head of state from being prosecuted before an international criminal tribunal or court\". The Special Court convicted Taylor in 2012 and sentenced him to fifty years' imprisonment, making him the first head of state since the Nuremberg Trials after World War II to be tried and convicted by an international court. In sum, the question whether a former head of state might have immunity depends on which international court or tribunal endeavors to try him, how the court is constituted, and how it interprets its own mandate.\n\nThe High Court of Australia confirmed the authority of the Australian Parliament, under the Australian Constitution, to exercise universal jurisdiction over war crimes in the \"Polyukhovich v Commonwealth\" case of 1991.\n\nIn 1993, Belgium's Parliament passed a \"law of universal jurisdiction\" (sometimes referred to as \"Belgium's genocide law\"), allowing it to judge people accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity or genocide. In 2001, four Rwandan citizens were convicted and given sentences from 12 to 20 years' imprisonment for their involvement in 1994 Rwandan genocide. There was a rapid succession of cases:\n\nConfronted with this sharp increase in cases, Belgium established the condition that the accused person must be Belgian or present in Belgium. An arrest warrant issued in 2000 under this law, against the then Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, was challenged before the International Court of Justice in the case entitled \"ICJ Arrest Warrant Case\". The ICJ's decision issued on 14 February 2002 found that it did not have jurisdiction to consider the question of universal jurisdiction, instead deciding the question on the basis of immunity of high-ranking state officials. However, the matter was addressed in separate and dissenting opinions, such as that of President Guillaume who concluded that universal jurisdiction exists only in relation to piracy; and the dissenting opinion of Judge Oda who recognised piracy, hijacking, terrorism and genocide as crimes subject to universal jurisdiction.\n\nOn 1 August 2003, Belgium repealed the law on universal jurisdiction, and introduced a new law on extraterritorial jurisdiction similar to or more restrictive than that of most other European countries. However, some cases that had already started continued. These included those concerning the Rwandan genocide, and complaints filed against the Chadian ex-President Hissène Habré (dubbed the \"African Pinochet\"). In September 2005, Habré was indicted for crimes against humanity, torture, war crimes and other human rights violations by a Belgian court. Arrested in Senegal following requests from Senegalese courts, he was tried and convicted for war crimes by the Special Tribunal in Senegal in 2016 and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nTo implement the Rome Statute, Canada passed the Crimes Against Humanity and War Crimes Act. Michael Byers, a University of British Columbia law professor, has argued that these laws go further than the Rome Statute, providing Canadian courts with jurisdiction over acts pre-dating the ICC and occurring in territories outside of ICC member-states; \"as a result, anyone who is present in Canada and alleged to have committed genocide, torture ... anywhere, at any time, can be prosecuted [in Canada]\".\n\nA Finnish high court sentenced a Rwandan preacher to life in jail in 2010 for his participation in Rwanda's genocide in 1994. Francois Bazaramba, 59, moved in 2003 to Finland seeking asylum. Finland allows prosecutions for crimes against humanity wherever they are committed. At the time of the genocide, he was a pastor in the Baptist church in Nyakizu in southern Rwanda. According to Finnish newspaper \"Helsingin Sanomat\", the court found him guilty of orchestrating deadly attacks, and organising the torching of Tutsi homes. In a statement the court said he had spread anti-Tutsi propaganda and incited \"killings through fomenting anger and contempt towards Tutsis\". It stated that \"The court has found Bazaramba guilty of an offence which without a genocidal intent would be judged as a murder or incitement to murder ... For those crimes, the only possible punishment is life imprisonment.\" \"Helsingin Sanomat\" reported that he was acquitted of 10 counts of murder and of providing training and acquiring weapons. During the trial, the court heard from 68 witnesses, travelling to Rwanda and Tanzania to hear some testimonies.\n\nThe article 689 of the \"code de procédure pénale\" states the infractions that can be judged in France when they were committed outside French territory either by French citizens or foreigners. The following infractions may be prosecuted:\n\nGermany has implemented the principle of universal jurisdiction for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes into its criminal law through the \"Völkerstrafgesetzbuch\" or VStGB (\"international criminal code\", literally \"book of the criminal law of peoples\"), which implemented the treaty creating the International Criminal Court into domestic law. The law was passed in 2002 and up to 2014 it has been used once, in the trial of Rwandan rebel leader Ignace Murwanashyaka. In 2015 he was found guilty and sentenced to 13 years in prison.\n\nThe moral philosopher Peter Singer, along with Kenneth Roth, has cited Israel's prosecution of Adolf Eichmann in 1961 as an assertion of universal jurisdiction. He claims that while Israel did invoke a statute specific to Nazi crimes against Jews, its Supreme Court claimed universal jurisdiction over crimes against humanity.\n\nEichmann's defense lawyer argued that Israel did not have jurisdiction on account of Israel not having come into existence until 1948. The Genocide Convention also did not come into effect until 1951, and the Genocide Convention does not automatically provide for universal jurisdiction. It is also argued that Israeli agents obtained Eichmann illegally, violating international law when they seized and kidnapped Eichmann, and brought him to Israel to stand trial. The Argentinian government settled the dispute diplomatically with Israel.\n\nIsrael argued universal jurisdiction based on the \"universal character of the crimes in question\" and that the crimes committed by Eichmann were not only in violation of Israel law, but were considered \"grave offenses against the law of nations itself\". It also asserted that the crime of genocide is covered under international customary law. As a supplemental form of jurisdiction, a further argument is made on the basis of protective jurisdiction. Protective jurisdiction is a principle that \"provides that states may exercise jurisdiction over aliens who have committed an act abroad which is deemed prejudicial to the security of the particular state concerned\".\n\nIn November 2011, the Kuala Lumpur War Crimes Commission purportedly exercised universal jurisdiction to try and convict \"in absentia\" former US President George W. Bush and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair for the invasion of Iraq. In May 2012, the tribunal again under a purported exercise of universal jurisdiction took testimony from victims of torture at Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo, and convicted \"in absentia\" former President Bush, former Vice President Dick Cheney, former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, former Deputy Assistant Attorneys General John Yoo and Jay Bybee, former Attorney General Alberto Gonzales, and former counselors David Addington and William Haynes II for conspiracy to commit war crimes. The tribunal referred their findings to the chief prosecutor at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.\n\nThe legitimacy of the tribunal and its findings have been questioned.\n\nIn July 2015, the first trial in Africa of a universal jurisdiction case relating to crimes committed abroad by a foreigner with foreign victims was held in a Senegalese courtroom. The former dictator of Chad, Hissène Habré, denied the legitimacy of the special court set up to try him in Senegal for the deaths of thousands during his rule, but the head of the tribunal, Gberdao Gustave Kam, said he would be compelled to participate. Mr. Habré's lawyers said he was forced to attend the first day of his trial for crimes against humanity, war crimes and torture. The case was lauded by Human Rights Watch. It was also the first time the courts of one country are prosecuting the former ruler of another for alleged human rights crimes.\n\nSpanish law recognizes the principle of universal jurisdiction. Article 23.4 of the Judicial Power Organization Act (LOPJ), enacted on 1 July 1985, establishes that Spanish courts have jurisdiction over crimes committed by Spaniards or foreign citizens outside Spain when such crimes can be described according to Spanish criminal law as genocide, terrorism, or some other, as well as any other crime that, according to international treaties or conventions, must be prosecuted in Spain. On 25 July 2009, the Spanish Congress passed a law that limits the competence of the Audiencia Nacional under Article 23.4 to cases in which Spaniards are victims, there is a relevant link to Spain, or the alleged perpetrators are in Spain. The law still has to pass the Senate, the high chamber, but passage is expected because it is supported by both major parties.\n\nIn 1999, Nobel peace prize winner Rigoberta Menchú brought a case against the Guatemalan military leadership in a Spanish Court. Six officials, among them Efraín Ríos Montt and Óscar Humberto Mejía, were formally charged on 7 July 2006 to appear in the Spanish National Court after Spain's Constitutional Court ruled in September 2005, the Spanish Constitutional Court declaration that the \"principle of universal jurisdiction prevails over the existence of national interests\", following the Menchu suit brought against the officials for atrocities committed in the Guatemalan Civil War\n\nIn June 2003, Spanish judge Baltasar Garzón jailed Ricardo Miguel Cavallo, a former Argentine naval officer, who was extradited from Mexico to Spain pending his trial on charges of genocide and terrorism relating to the years of Argentina's military dictatorship.\n\nOn 11 January 2006, the Spanish High Court agreed to investigate a case in which seven former Chinese officials, including the former President of China Jiang Zemin and former Prime Minister Li Peng were alleged to have participated in a genocide in Tibet. This investigation follows a Spanish Constitutional Court (26 September 2005) ruling that Spanish courts could try genocide cases even if they did not involve Spanish nationals. China denounced the investigation as an interference in its internal affairs and dismissed the allegations as \"sheer fabrication\". The case was shelved in 2010, because of a law passed in 2009 that restricted High Court investigations to those \"involving Spanish victims, suspects who are in Spain, or some other obvious link with Spain\".\n\nComplaints were lodged against former Israeli Defense Forces chief of General Staff Lt.-Gen. (res.) Dan Halutz and six other senior Israeli political and military officials by pro-Palestinian organizations, who sought to prosecute them in Spain under the principle of universal jurisdiction. On 29 January 2009, Fernando Andreu, a judge of the Audiencia Nacional, opened preliminary investigations into claims that a targeted killing attack in Gaza in 2002 warranted the prosecution of Halutz, the former Israeli defence minister Binyamin Ben-Eliezer, the former defence chief-of-staff Moshe Ya'alon, and four others, for crimes against humanity. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu strongly criticized the decision, and Israeli officials refused to provide information requested by the Spanish court. The attack killed the founder and leader of the military wing of the Islamic militant organisation Hamas, Salah Shehade, who Israel said was responsible for hundreds of civilian deaths. The attack also killed 14 others (including his wife and 9 children). It had targeted the building where Shahade hid in Gaza City. It also wounded some 150 Palestinians, according to the complaint (or 50, according to other reports). The Israeli chief of operations and prime minister apologized officially, saying they were unaware, due to faulty intelligence, that civilians were in the house. The investigation in the case was halted on 30 June 2009 by a decision of a panel of 18 judges of the Audiencia Nacional. The Spanish Court of Appeals rejected the lower court's decision, and on appeal in April 2010 the Supreme Court of Spain upheld the Court of Appeals decision against conducting an official inquiry into the IDF's targeted killing of Shehadeh.\n\nAn offence is generally only triable in the jurisdiction where the offence took place, unless a specific statute enables the UK to exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction. This is the case for:\n\nIn December 2009 a court in London issued an arrest warrant for Tzipi Livni in connection with accusations of war crimes in the Gaza Strip during Operation Cast Lead (2008–2009). The warrant was issued on 12 December and revoked on 14 December 2009 after it was revealed that Livni had not entered British territory. The warrant was later denounced as \"cynical\" by the Israeli foreign ministry, while Livni's office said she was \"proud of all her decisions in Operation Cast Lead\". Livni herself called the arrest warrant \"an abuse of the British legal system\". Similarly a January visit to Britain by a team of Israel Defense Forces (IDF) was cancelled over concerns that arrest warrants would be sought by pro-Palestinian advocates in connection with allegations of war crimes under laws of universal jurisdiction.\n\nWhile the United States has no formal statute authorizing it, in some cases the Federal government has exercised self-help in apprehending or killing persons suspected of conspiring to commit crimes within the United States from outside of the country, or committing crimes against U.S officials outside of the United States. This has occurred even when the suspect is not a U.S. person, has never been in the United States, and even when the person has never conspired or assisted in the commission of a crime within the United States, there is a functioning government which could try the person for the crime committed there, and notwithstanding the existence of a proper extradition treaty between that country and the United States, ignoring the provisions of the treaty and capturing or killing the person directly.\n\nIn 1985, Dr. Humberto Alvarez-Machain, a Mexican national, allegedly assisted in the torture and murder of a U.S. DEA agent in Mexico. Notwithstanding that the U.S had an extradition treaty with Mexico (and because the Mexican government declined to extradite a Mexican national to the U.S. for a crime allegedly committed in Mexico), the U.S. Government hired a private citizen and some Mexican nationals to essentially act as mercenaries, who then went into Mexico, kidnapped Dr. Alvarez-Machain, and brought him back to the U.S. for trial for the crime committed in Mexico. The trial court ruled that since Alvarez-Machain had been brought to the U.S. in violation of the treaty, his arrest was unlawful. The United States Supreme Court, in \"United States v. Alvarez-Machain\", ruled that notwithstanding the existence of an extradition treaty with Mexico, it was still legal for the U.S. government to exercise self-help and essentially grab him off the street in Mexico (\"forcible abduction\") to bring him back to the U.S. for trial. In Alvarez-Machain's subsequent criminal trial, he was acquitted, and he lost a civil suit he filed for false arrest against the government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "396275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=396275", "title": "Wilderness", "text": "Wilderness\n\nWilderness or wildland is a natural environment on Earth that has not been significantly modified by human activity. It may also be defined as: \"The most intact, undisturbed wild natural areas left on our planet—those last truly wild places that humans do not control and have not developed with roads, pipelines or other industrial infrastructure.\" The term has traditionally referred to terrestrial environments, though growing attention is being placed on marine wilderness. Recent maps of wilderness suggest it covers roughly one quarter of Earth's terrestrial surface, but is being rapidly degraded by human activity. Even less wilderness remains in the ocean, with only 13.2% free from intense human activity. \n\nSome governments establish them by law or administrative acts, usually in land tracts that have not been modified by human action in great measure. The main feature of them is that human motorized activity is significantly restricted. These actions seek not only to preserve what already exists, but also to promote and advance a natural expression and development. Wilderness areas can be found in preserves, conservation preserves, National Forests, National Parks and even in urban areas along rivers, gulches or otherwise undeveloped areas. These areas are considered important for the survival of certain species, biodiversity, ecological studies, conservation, solitude, and recreation. Wilderness is deeply valued for cultural, spiritual, moral, and aesthetic reasons. Some nature writers believe wilderness areas are vital for the human spirit and creativity. They may also preserve historic genetic traits and provide habitat for wild flora and fauna that may be difficult to recreate in zoos, arboretums or laboratories.\n\nThe word \"wilderness\" derives from the notion of \"wildness\"—in other words, that which is not controlled by humans. The mere presence or activity of people does not disqualify an area from being \"wilderness.\" Many ecosystems that are, or have been, inhabited or influenced by activities of people may still be considered \"wild.\" This way of looking at wilderness includes areas within which natural processes operate without human interference.\n\nThe WILD Foundation states that wilderness areas have two dimensions: they must be biologically intact and legally protected. The World Conservation Union (IUCN) classifies wilderness at two levels, Ia (Strict Nature Reserves) and Ib (Wilderness Areas). Activities on the margins of specific wilderness areas, such as fire suppression and the interruption of animal migration also affect the interior of wildernesses.\n\nEspecially in wealthier, industrialized nations, it has a specific legal meaning as well: as land where development is prohibited by law. Many nations have designated wilderness, including the United States, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and South Africa. Many new parks are currently being planned and legally passed by various Parliaments and Legislatures at the urging of dedicated individuals around the globe who believe that \"in the end, dedicated, inspired people empowered by effective legislation will ensure that the spirit and services of wilderness will thrive and permeate our society, preserving a world that we are proud to hand over to those who come after us.\"\nLooked at through the lens of the visual arts, nature and wildness have been important subjects in various epochs of world history. An early tradition of landscape art occurred in the Tang Dynasty (618-907). The tradition of representing nature \"as it is\" became one of the aims of Chinese painting and was a significant influence in Asian art. Artists in the tradition of Shan shui (lit. \"mountain-water-picture\"), learned to depict mountains and rivers \"from the perspective of nature as a whole and on the basis of their understanding of the laws of nature… as if seen through the eyes of a bird.\" In the 13th century, Shih Erh Chi recommended avoiding painting \"scenes lacking any places made inaccessible by nature.\"\n\nFor most of human history, the greater part of the Earth's terrain was wilderness, and human attention was concentrated in settled areas. The first known laws to protect parts of nature date back to the Babylonian Empire and Chinese Empire. Ashoka, the Great Mauryan King, defined the first laws in the world to protect flora and fauna in Edicts of Ashoka around 3rd Century B.C. In the Middle Ages, the Kings of England initiated one of the world’s first conscious efforts to protect natural areas. They were motivated by a desire to be able to hunt wild animals in private hunting preserves rather than a desire to protect wilderness. Nevertheless, in order to have animals to hunt they would have to protect wildlife from subsistence hunting and the land from villagers gathering firewood. Similar measures were introduced in other European countries.\n\nThe idea of wilderness having intrinsic value emerged in the Western world in the 19th century. British artists John Constable and J. M. W. Turner turned their attention to capturing the beauty of the natural world in their paintings. Prior to that, paintings had been primarily of religious scenes or of human beings. William Wordsworth’s poetry described the wonder of the natural world, which had formerly been viewed as a threatening place. Increasingly the valuing of nature became an aspect of Western culture.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, in Germany, \"Scientific Conservation,\" as it was called, advocated \"the efficient utilization of natural resources through the application of science and technology.\" Concepts of forest management based on the German approach were applied in other parts of the world, but with varying degrees of success. Over the course of the 19th century wilderness became viewed not as a place to fear but a place to enjoy and protect, hence came the conservation movement in the latter half of the 19th century. Rivers were rafted and mountains were climbed solely for the sake of recreation, not to determine their geographical context.\n\nIn 1861, following an intense lobbying by artists (painters), the French Waters and Forests Military Agency set an « artistic reserve » in Fontainebleau State Forest. With a total of 1 097 hectares, it is known to be the first World nature reserve.\n\nGlobal conservation became an issue at the time of the dissolution of the British Empire in Africa in the late 1940s. The British established great wildlife preserves there. As before, this interest in conservation had an economic motive: in this case, big game hunting. Nevertheless, this led to growing recognition in the 1950s and the early 1960s of the need to protect large spaces for wildlife conservation worldwide. The World Wildlife Fund (WWF), founded in 1961, grew to be one of the largest conservation organizations in the world.\n\nEarly conservationists advocated the creation of a legal mechanism by which boundaries could be set on human activities in order to preserve natural and unique lands for the enjoyment and use of future generations. This profound shift in wilderness thought reached a pinnacle in the US with the passage of the Wilderness Act of 1964, which allowed for parts of U.S. National Forests to be designated as \"wilderness preserves\". Similar acts, such as the 1975 Eastern Wilderness Act, followed.\n\nNevertheless, initiatives for wilderness conservation continue to increase. There are a growing number of projects to protect tropical rainforests through conservation initiatives. There are also large-scale projects to conserve wilderness regions, such as Canada's Boreal Forest Conservation Framework. The Framework calls for conservation of 50 percent of the 6,000,000 square kilometres of boreal forest in Canada's north. In addition to the World Wildlife Fund, organizations such as the Wildlife Conservation Society, the WILD Foundation, The Nature Conservancy, Conservation International, The Wilderness Society (United States) and many others are active in such conservation efforts.\n\nThe 21st century has seen another slight shift in wilderness thought and theory. It is now understood that simply drawing lines around a piece of land and declaring it a wilderness does not necessarily make it a wilderness. All landscapes are intricately connected and what happens outside a wilderness certainly affects what happens inside it. For example, air pollution from Los Angeles and the California Central Valley affects Kern Canyon and Sequoia National Park. The national park has miles of \"wilderness\" but the air is filled with pollution from the valley. This gives rise to the paradox of what a wilderness really is; a key issue in 21st century wilderness thought.\n\nThe creation of National Parks, beginning in the 19th century, preserved some especially attractive and notable areas, but the pursuits of commerce, lifestyle, and recreation combined with increases in human population have continued to result in human modification of relatively untouched areas. Such human activity often negatively impacts native flora and fauna. As such, to better protect critical habitats and preserve low-impact recreational opportunities, legal concepts of \"wilderness\" were established in many countries, beginning with the United States (see below).\n\nThe first National Park was Yellowstone, which was signed into law by U.S. President Ulysses S. Grant on 1 March 1872. The Act of Dedication declared Yellowstone a land \"hereby reserved and withdrawn from settlement, occupancy, or sale under the laws of the United States, and dedicated and set apart as a public park or pleasuring ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people.\"\n\nThe world's second national park, the Royal National Park, located just 32 km to the south of Sydney, Australia, was established in 1879.\n\nThe U.S. concept of national parks soon caught on in Canada, which created Banff National Park in 1885, at the same time as the transcontinental Canadian Pacific Railway was being built. The creation of this and other parks showed a growing appreciation of wild nature, but also an economic reality. The railways wanted to entice people to travel west. Parks such as Banff and Yellowstone gained favor as the railroads advertised travel to \"the great wild spaces\" of North America. When outdoorsman Teddy Roosevelt became president of the United States, he began to enlarge the U.S. National Parks system, and established the National Forest system.\n\nBy the 1920s, travel across North America by train to experience the \"wilderness\" (often viewing it only through windows) had become very popular. This led to the commercialization of some of Canada's National Parks with the building of great hotels such as the Banff Springs Hotel and Chateau Lake Louise.\n\nDespite their similar name, national parks in England and Wales are quite different from national parks in many other countries. Unlike most other countries, in England and Wales, designation as a national park may include substantial settlements and human land uses which are often integral parts of the landscape, and land within a national park remains largely in private ownership. Each park is operated by its own national park authority.\n\nBy the later 19th century it had become clear that in many countries wild areas had either disappeared or were in danger of disappearing. This realization gave rise to the conservation movement in the United States, partly through the efforts of writers and activists such as John Burroughs, Aldo Leopold, and John Muir, and politicians such as U.S. President Teddy Roosevelt.\nThe idea of protecting nature for nature's sake began to gain more recognition in the 1930s with American writers like Aldo Leopold, calling for a \"land ethic\" and urging wilderness protection. It had become increasingly clear that wild spaces were disappearing rapidly and that decisive action was needed to save them. Wilderness preservation is central to deep ecology; a philosophy that believes in an inherent worth of all living beings, regardless of their instrumental utility to human needs.\n\nTwo different groups had emerged within the US environmental movement by the early 20th century: the conservationists and the preservationists. The initial consensus among conservationists was split into \"utilitarian conservationists\" later to be referred to as conservationists, and \"aesthetic conservationists\" or preservationists. The main representative for the former was Gifford Pinchot, first Chief of the United States Forest Service, and they focused on the \"proper use of nature,\" whereas the preservationists sought the \"protection of nature from use.\" Put another way, conservation sought to regulate human use while preservation sought to eliminate human impact altogether. The management of US public lands during the years 1960s and 70s reflected these dual visions, with conservationists dominating the Forest Service, and preservationists the Park Service\n\nThe World Conservation Union (IUCN) classifies wilderness at two levels, Ia (Strict Nature Preserves) and Ib (Wilderness areas). For the global standard of wilderness (1b) protection, governance and management, read Wilderness Protected Areas: Management Guidelines for IUCN Category 1b Protected Areas.\n\nThere have been recent calls for the World Heritage Convention to better protect wilderness and to include the word wilderness in their selection criteria for Natural Heritage Sites\n\nForty-eight countries have wilderness areas established via legislative designation as IUCN protected area management Category 1b sites that do not overlap with any other IUCN designation. They are: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bermuda, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Canada, Cayman Islands, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Estonia, Finland, French Guyana, Greenland, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Japan, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, Marshall Islands, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, New Zealand, Norway, Northern Mariana Islands, Portugal, Seychelles, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tanzania, United States of America, and Zimbabwe. At publication, there are 2,992 marine and terrestrial wilderness areas registered with the IUCN as solely Category 1b sites.\n\nTwenty-two other countries have wilderness areas. These wilderness areas are established via administrative designation or wilderness zones within protected areas. Whereas the above listing contains countries with wilderness exclusively designated as Category 1b sites, some of the below-listed countries contain protected areas with multiple management categories including Category 1b. They are: Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Chile, Honduras, Germany, Italy, Kenya, Malaysia, Namibia, Nepal, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, the Russian Federation, South Africa, Switzerland, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela, and Zambia.\n\nSince 1861, the French Waters and Forests Military Agency (Administration des Eaux et Forêts) put a strong protection on what was called the « artistic reserve » in Fontainebleau State Forest. With a total of 1 097 hectares, it is known to be the first World nature reserve.\n\nThen in the 1950s, Integral Biological Reserves (Réserves Biologiques Intégrales, RBI) are dedicated to man free ecosystem evolution, on the contrary of Managed Biological reserves (Réserves Biologiques Dirigées, RBD) where a specific management is applied to conserve vulnerable species or threatened habitats.\n\nIntegral Biological Reserves occurs in French State Forests or City Forests and are therefore managed by the National Forests Office. In such reserves, all harvests coupe are forbidden excepted exotic species elimination or track safety works to avoid fallen tree risk to visitors (already existing tracks in or on the edge of the reserve).\n\nAt the end of 2014, there were 60 Integral Biological Reserves in French State Forests for a total area of 111 082 hectares and 10 in City Forests for a total of 2 835 hectares.\n\nIn Greece there are some parks called \"ethniki drimoi\" (εθνικοί δρυμοί, national forests) that are under protection of the Greek government. Such parks include: Olympus, Parnassos and Parnitha National Parks.\n\nDue to Russia's size and in comparison non-dense population settlement, as well as of lack of infrastucture and the decades-long iron curtain the country is considered as one of the least explored areas and most natural places in the world.\n\nThere are seven wilderness areas in New Zealand as defined by the National Parks Act 1980 and the Conservation Act 1987 that fall well within the IUCN definition. Wilderness areas cannot have any human intervention and can only have indigenous species re-introduced into the area if it is compatible with conservation management strategies.\n\nIn New Zealand wilderness areas are remote blocks of land that have high natural character. The Conservation Act 1987 prevents any access by vehicles and livestock, the construction of tracks and buildings, and all indigenous natural resources are protected. They are generally over 40,000 ha in size.\n\nIn the United States, a Wilderness Area is an area of federal land set aside by an act of Congress. Human activities in wilderness areas are restricted to scientific study and non-mechanized recreation; horses are permitted but mechanized vehicles and equipment, such as cars and bicycles, are not.\n\nThe United States was the first country to officially designate land as \"wilderness\" through the Wilderness Act of 1964. The Wilderness Act was—and is still—an important part of wilderness designation because it created the legal definition of wilderness and founded the National Wilderness Preservation System. The Wilderness Act defines wilderness as \"an area where the earth and its community of life are untrammelled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain.\"\n\nWilderness designation helps preserve the natural state of the land and protects flora and fauna by prohibiting development and providing for non-mechanized recreation only.\n\nThe first administratively protected wilderness area in the United States was the Gila National Forest. In 1922, Aldo Leopold, then a ranking member of the U.S. Forest Service, proposed a new management strategy for the Gila National Forest. His proposal was adopted in 1924, and 750 thousand acres of the Gila National Forest became the Gila Wilderness.\n\n'The Great Swamp in New Jersey was the first formally designated wilderness refuge in the United States. It was declared a wildlife refuge on 3 November 1960. In 1966 it was declared a National Natural Landmark and, in 1968, it was given wilderness status. Properties in the swamp had been acquired by a small group of residents of the area, who donated the assembled properties to the federal government as a park for perpetual protection. Today the refuge amounts to that are within thirty miles of Manhattan.\nWhile wilderness designations were originally granted by an Act of Congress for Federal land that retained a \"primeval character\", meaning that it had not suffered from human habitation or development, the Eastern Wilderness Act of 1975 extended the protection of the NWPS to areas in the eastern States that were not initially considered for inclusion in the Wilderness Act. This act allowed lands that did not meet the constraints of size, roadlessness, or human impact to be designated as wilderness areas under the belief that they could be returned to a \"primeval\" state through preservation.\n\nApproximately are designated as wilderness in the United States. This accounts for 4.82% of the country's total land area; however, 54% of that amount is found in Alaska (recreation and development in Alaskan wilderness is often less restrictive), while only 2.58% of the lower continental United States is designated as wilderness. Following the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 there are 756 separate wilderness designations in the United States ranging in size from Florida's Pelican Island at to Alaska's Wrangell-Saint Elias at .\n\nIn Western Australia, a Wilderness Area is an area that has a wilderness quality rating of 12 or greater and meets a minimum size threshold of 8,000 hectares in temperate areas or 20,000 hectares in arid and tropical areas. A wilderness area is gazetted under section 62(1)(a) of the Conservation and Land Management Act 1984 by the Minister on any land that is vested in the Conservation Commission of Western Australia.\n\nAt the forefront of the international wilderness movement has been The WILD Foundation, its founder Ian Player and its network of sister and partner organizations around the globe. The pioneer World Wilderness Congress in 1977 introduced the wilderness concept as an issue of international importance, and began the process of defining the term in biological and social contexts. Today, this work is continued by many international groups who still look to the World Wilderness Congress as the international venue for wilderness and to The WILD Foundation network for wilderness tools and action. The WILD Foundation also publishes the standard references for wilderness professionals and others involved in the issues: \"Wilderness Management: Stewardship and Protection of Resources and Values\", the \"International Journal of Wilderness\", \"A Handbook on International Wilderness Law and Policy\" and \"Protecting Wild Nature on Native Lands\" are the backbone of information and management tools for international wilderness issues.\n\nThe Wilderness Specialist Group within the World Commission on Protected Areas (WTF/WCPA) of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) plays a critical role in defining legal and management guidelines for wilderness at the international level and is also a clearing-house for information on wilderness issues. The IUCN Protected Areas Classification System defines wilderness as \"A large area of unmodified or slightly modified land, and/or sea retaining its natural character and influence, without permanent or significant habitation, which is protected and managed so as to preserve its natural condition (Category 1b).\" The WILD Foundation founded the WTF/WCPA in 2002 and remains co-chair.\n\nThe most recent efforts to map wilderness show that less than one quarter (~23%) of the world's wilderness area now remains, and that there have been catastrophic declines in wilderness extent over the last two decades. Over 3 million square kilometers (10 percent) of wilderness was converted to human land-uses. The Amazon and Congo rain forests suffered the most loss. Human pressure is starting to extend into almost every corner of the planet. The loss of wilderness could have serious implications for biodiversity conservation.\n\nA previous study, \"Wilderness: Earth's Last Wild Places,\" carried out by Conservation International, 46% of the world's land mass is wilderness. For purposes of this report, \"wilderness\" was defined as an area that \"has 70% or more of its original vegetation intact, covers at least and must have fewer than five people per square kilometer.\" However, an IUCN/UNEP report published in 2003, found that only 10.9% of the world's land mass is currently a Category 1 Protected Area, that is, either a \"strict nature reserve\" (5.5%) or \"protected wilderness\" (5.4%). Such areas remain relatively untouched by humans. Of course, there are large tracts of lands in National Parks and other protected areas that would also qualify as wilderness. However, many protected areas have some degree of human modification or activity, so a definitive estimate of true wilderness is difficult.\n\nThe Wildlife Conservation Society generated a \"human footprint\" using a number of indicators, the absence of which indicate wildness: human population density, human access via roads and rivers, human infrastructure for agriculture and settlements and the presence of industrial power (lights visible from space). The society estimates that 26% of the Earth's land mass falls into the category of \"Last of the wild.\" The wildest regions of the world include the Arctic Tundra, the Siberia Taiga, the Amazonia Rainforest, the Tibetan Plateau, the Australia Outback and deserts such as the Sahara, and the Gobi. However, from the 1970s, numerous geoglyphs have been discovered on deforested land in the Amazon rainforest, leading to claims about Pre-Columbian civilizations. The BBC's \"Unnatural Histories\" claimed that the Amazon rainforest, rather than being a pristine wilderness, has been shaped by man for at least 11,000 years through practices such as forest gardening and terra preta.\n\nIt should be noted that the percentage of land area designated \"wilderness\" does not necessarily reflect a measure of its biodiversity. Of the last natural wilderness areas, the taiga—which is mostly wilderness—represents 11% of the total land mass in the Northern Hemisphere. Tropical rainforest represent a further 7% of the world's land base. Estimates of the Earth's remaining wilderness underscore the rate at which these lands are being developed, with dramatic declines in biodiversity as a consequence.\nThe American concept of wilderness has been criticized by some nature writers. For example, William Cronon writes that what he calls a wilderness ethic or cult may \"teach us to be dismissive or even contemptuous of such humble places and experiences\", and that \"wilderness tends to privilege some parts of nature at the expense of others\", using as an example \"the mighty canyon more inspiring than the humble marsh.\" This is most clearly visible with the fact that nearly all U.S. National Parks preserve spectacular canyons and mountains, and it was not until the 1940s that a swamp became a national park—the Everglades. In the mid-20th century national parks started to protect biodiversity, not simply attractive scenery.\n\nCronon also believes the passion to save wilderness \"poses a serious threat to responsible environmentalism\" and writes that it allows people to \"give ourselves permission to evade responsibility for the lives we actually lead...to the extent that we live in an urban-industrial civilization but at the same time pretend to ourselves that our real home is in the wilderness\".\n\nMichael Pollan has argued that the wilderness ethic leads people to dismiss areas whose wildness is less than absolute. In his book \"Second Nature\", Pollan writes that \"once a landscape is no longer 'virgin' it is typically written off as fallen, lost to nature, irredeemable.\" Another challenge to the conventional notion of wilderness comes from Robert Winkler in his book, \"Going Wild: Adventures with Birds in the Suburban Wilderness\". \"On walks in the unpeopled parts of the suburbs,\" Winkler writes, \"I’ve witnessed the same wild creatures, struggles for survival, and natural beauty that we associate with true wilderness.\" Attempts have been made, as in the Pennsylvania Scenic Rivers Act, to distinguish \"wild\" from various levels of human influence: in the Act, \"wild rivers\" are \"not impounded\", \"usually not accessible except by trail\", and their watersheds and shorelines are \"essentially primitive\".\nAnother source of criticism is that the criteria for wilderness designation is vague and open to interpretation. For example, the Wilderness Act states that wilderness must be roadless. The definition given for roadless is \"the absences of roads which have been improved and maintained by mechanical means to insure relatively regular and continuous use.\" However, there have been added sub-definitions that have, in essence, made this standard unclear and open to interpretation.\n\nComing from a different direction, some criticism from the Deep Ecology movement argues against conflating \"wilderness\" with \"wilderness reservations\", viewing the latter term as an oxymoron that, by allowing the law as a human construct to define nature, unavoidably voids the very freedom and independence of human control that defines wilderness. True wilderness requires the ability of life to undergo speciation with as little interference from humanity as possible. Anthropologist and scholar on wilderness Layla Abdel-Rahim argues that it is necessary to understand the principles that govern the economies of mutual aid and diversification in wilderness from a non-anthropocentric perspective.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38714", "title": "World", "text": "World\n\nThe world is the planet Earth and all life upon it, including human civilization. In a philosophical context, the \"world\" is the whole of the physical Universe, or an ontological world (the \"world\" of an individual). In a theological context, the \"world\" is the material or the profane sphere, as opposed to the celestial, spiritual, transcendent or sacred spheres. \"End of the world\" scenarios refer to the end of human history, often in religious contexts.\n\nThe history of the world is commonly understood as spanning the major geopolitical developments of about five millennia, from the first civilizations to the present. In terms such as world religion, world language, world government, and world war, the term \"world\" suggests an international or intercontinental scope without necessarily implying participation of every part of the world.\n\nThe world population is the sum of all human populations at any time; similarly, the world economy is the sum of the economies of all societies or countries, especially in the context of globalization. Terms such as \"world championship\", \"gross world product\", and \"world flags\" imply the sum or combination of all sovereign states.\n\nThe English word \"world\" comes from the Old English \"weorold (-uld), weorld, worold (-uld, -eld)\", a compound of \"wer\" \"man\" and \"eld\" \"age,\" which thus means roughly \"Age of Man.\"\nThe Old English is a reflex of the Common Germanic \"*wira-alđiz\", also reflected in Old Saxon \"werold\", Old Dutch \"werilt\", Old High German \"weralt\", Old Frisian \"warld\" and Old Norse \"verǫld\" (whence the Icelandic \"veröld\").\n\nThe corresponding word in Latin is \"mundus\", literally \"clean, elegant\", itself a loan translation of Greek \"cosmos\" \"orderly arrangement.\" While the Germanic word thus reflects a mythological notion of a \"domain of Man\" (compare Midgard), presumably as opposed to the divine sphere on the one hand and the chthonic sphere of the underworld on the other, the Greco-Latin term expresses a notion of creation as an act of establishing order out of chaos.\n\n\"World\" distinguishes the entire planet or population from any particular country or region: \"world affairs\" pertain not just to one place but to the whole world, and \"world history\" is a field of history that examines events from a global (rather than a national or a regional) perspective. \"Earth\", on the other hand, refers to the planet as a physical entity, and distinguishes it from other planets and physical objects.\n\n\"World\" was also classically used to mean the material universe, or the cosmos: \"The worlde is an apte frame of heauen and earthe, and all other naturall thinges contained in them.\" The earth was often described as \"the center of the world\".\n\nThe term can also be used attributively, to mean \"global\", or \"relating to the whole world\", forming usages such as world community or world canonical texts.\n\nBy extension, a \"world\" may refer to any planet or heavenly body, especially when it is thought of as inhabited, especially in the context of science fiction or futurology.\n\n\"World\", in its original sense, when qualified, can also refer to a particular domain of human experience.\n\n\nIn philosophy, the term world has several possible meanings. In some contexts, it refers to everything that makes up reality or the physical universe. In others, it can mean have a specific ontological sense (see world disclosure). While clarifying the concept of world has arguably always been among the basic tasks of Western philosophy, this theme appears to have been raised explicitly only at the start of the twentieth century and has been the subject of continuous debate. The question of what the world is has by no means been settled.\n\nThe traditional interpretation of Parmenides' work is that he argued that the everyday perception of reality of the physical world (as described in \"doxa\") is mistaken, and that the reality of the world is 'One Being' (as described in aletheia): an unchanging, ungenerated, indestructible whole.\n\nIn his Allegory of the Cave, Plato distinguishes between forms and ideas and imagines two distinct worlds: the sensible world and the intelligible world.\n\nIn Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's philosophy of history, the expression \"Weltgeschichte ist Weltgericht\" (World History is a tribunal that judges the World) is used to assert the view that History is what judges men, their actions and their opinions. Science is born from the desire to transform the World in relation to Man; its final end is technical application.\n\n\"The World as Will and Representation\" is the central work of Arthur Schopenhauer.\nSchopenhauer saw the human will as our one window to the world behind the representation; the Kantian thing-in-itself. He believed, therefore, that we could gain knowledge about the thing-in-itself, something Kant said was impossible, since the rest of the relationship between representation and thing-in-itself could be understood by analogy to the relationship between human will and human body.\n\nTwo definitions that were both put forward in the 1920s, however, suggest the range of available opinion. \"The world is everything that is the case,\" wrote Ludwig Wittgenstein in his influential \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\", first published in 1921. This definition would serve as the basis of logical positivism, with its assumption that there is exactly one world, consisting of the totality of facts, regardless of the interpretations that individual people may make of them.\n\nMartin Heidegger, meanwhile, argued that \"the surrounding world is different for each of us, and notwithstanding that we move about in a common world\". The world, for Heidegger, was that into which we are always already \"thrown\" and with which we, as beings-in-the-world, must come to terms. His conception of \"world disclosure\" was most notably elaborated in his 1927 work \"Being and Time\".\n\nIn response, Sigmund Freud proposed that we do not move about in a common world, but a common thought process. He believed that all the actions of a person are motivated by one thing: lust. This led to numerous theories about reactionary consciousness.\n\nSome philosophers, often inspired by David Lewis, argue that metaphysical concepts such as possibility, probability, and necessity are best analyzed by comparing \"the\" world to a range of possible worlds; a view commonly known as modal realism.\n\nMythological cosmologies often depict the world as centered on an \"axis mundi\" and delimited by a boundary such as a world ocean, a world serpent or similar. In some religions, worldliness (also called carnality) is that which relates to this world as opposed to other worlds or realms.\n\nIn Buddhism, the world means society, as distinct from the monastery. It refers to the material world, and to worldly gain such as wealth, reputation, jobs, and war. The spiritual world would be the path to enlightenment, and changes would be sought in what we could call the psychological realm.\n\nIn Christianity, the term often connotes the concept of the fallen and corrupt world order of human society, in contrast to the World to Come. The world is frequently cited alongside \"the flesh\" and \"the Devil\" as a source of temptation that Christians should flee. Monks speak of striving to be \"\"in\" this world, but not \"of\" this world\"—as Jesus said—and the term \"worldhood\" has been distinguished from \"monkhood\", the former being the status of merchants, princes, and others who deal with \"worldly\" things.\n\nThis view is clearly expressed by king Alfred the Great of England (d. 899) in his famous Preface to the \"Cura Pastoralis\":\nAlthough Hebrew and Greek words meaning \"world\" are used in Scripture with the normal variety of senses, many examples of its use in this particular sense can be found in the teachings of Jesus according to the Gospel of John, e.g. 7:7, 8:23, 12:25, 14:17, 15:18-19, 17:6-25, 18:36. For contrast, a relatively newer concept is Catholic imagination.\n\n\"Contemptus mundi\" is the name given to the recognition that the world, in all its vanity, is nothing more than a futile attempt to hide from God by stifling our desire for the good and the holy. This view has been criticized as a \"pastoral of fear\" by modern historian Jean Delumeau.\n\nDuring the Second Vatican Council, there was a novel attempt to develop a positive theological view of the World, which is illustrated by the pastoral optimism of the constitutions \"Gaudium et spes\", \"Lumen gentium\", \"Unitatis redintegratio\" and \"Dignitatis humanae\".\n\nIn Eastern Christian monasticism or asceticism, the world of mankind is driven by passions. Therefore, the passions of the World are simply called \"the world\". Each of these passions are a link to the world of mankind or order of human society. Each of these passions must be overcome in order for a person to receive salvation (theosis). The process of theosis is a personal relationship with God. This understanding is taught within the works of ascetics like Evagrius Ponticus, and the most seminal ascetic works read most widely by Eastern Christians, the Philokalia and the Ladder of Divine Ascent (the works of Evagrius and John Climacus are also contained within the Philokalia). At the highest level of world transcendence is hesychasm which culminates into the Vision of God.\n\n\"Orbis Catholicus\" is a Latin phrase meaning \"Catholic world\", per the expression Urbi et Orbi, and refers to that area of Christendom under papal supremacy. It is somewhat similar to the phrases secular world, Jewish world and Islamic world.\n\n\"Dunya\" derives from the root word \"dana\" that means to bring near. In that sense, \"dunya\" is \"what is brought near\".\n\nHinduism is an Indian religion and \"dharma\", or a way of life, widely practised in the Indian subcontinent. It includes a number of Indian religious traditions with a loose sense of interconnection, as different from Jainism and Buddhism, and (since medieaval and modern times) Islam and Christianity. Hinduism has been called the oldest religion in the world,\n"}
{"id": "5934618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5934618", "title": "World Population Day", "text": "World Population Day\n\nWorld Population day is an annual event, observed on July 11 every year, which seeks to raise awareness of global population issues. The event was established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989. It was inspired by the public interest in Five Billion Day on July 11, 1987, the approximate date on which the world's population reached five billion people. World Population Day aims to increase people's awareness on various population issues such as the importance of family planning, gender equality, poverty, maternal health and human rights.\n\nThe day was suggested by Dr KC Zachariah in which population reaches Five Billion when he worked as Sr Demographer at World Bank.\n\nWhile press interest and general awareness in the global population surges only at the increments of whole billions of people, the world population increases annually by 100 million approximately every 14 months. The world population reached 7,400,000,000 on February 6, 2016; the world population had reached 7,500,000,000 at around 16:21 on April 24, 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5656862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5656862", "title": "World Rugby Rankings", "text": "World Rugby Rankings\n\nThe World Rugby Rankings (formerly the IRB Rankings) is a ranking system for men's national teams in rugby union, managed by World Rugby, the sport's governing body. The teams of World Rugby's member nations are ranked based on their game results, with the most successful teams being ranked highest. A point system is used, with points being awarded on the basis of the results of World Rugby-recognized international matches. Rankings are based on a team's performance, with more recent results and more significant matches being more heavily weighted to help reflect the current competitive state of a team. The ranking system was introduced the month before the 2003 Rugby World Cup, with the first new rankings issued on 8 September 2003.\n\nWhen the system was introduced England were the top team and maintained that position following victory in the 2003 Rugby World Cup. New Zealand took the lead from 7 June 2004. After winning the 2007 Rugby World Cup final, South Africa became the third team to achieve first place. The first two fixtures of the 2008 Tri Nations resulted in the top two teams switching places: the All Blacks regained the top spot after defeating South Africa in the Tri-Nations opener on 5 July 2008 in Wellington; a week later the Springboks returned the favour in Dunedin, scoring their first win over the All Blacks in New Zealand since 1998, reclaiming the top spot, only for the All Blacks to defeat both Australia and South Africa in August 2008 to regain the top spot by a considerable margin. South Africa regained the lead in July 2009 after beating New Zealand in Bloemfontein and kept the lead until losing to France in November of that year, allowing the All Blacks to regain the top spot.\n\nNew Zealand have been the most consistently ranked #1 team since the introduction of IRB World Rankings, having held the #1 ranking for more than 85 percent of the time during this period. South Africa and England make up the remainder.\n\nBelow is a list of the best and worst ranking positions for nations that have appeared in the Rugby World Cup:\nAll World Rugby member countries have been given a rating that is in the range of 0 to 100 with the top side achieving a rating of about 90 points. The point system is calculated using a 'Points Exchange' system, in which sides receive points from each other on the basis of the match result – whatever one side gains, the other loses. The exchanges are based on the match result, the ranking of each team, and the margin of victory, with an allowance for home advantage. As the system aims to depict current team strengths, past successes or losses will fade and be superseded by more recent results. Thus, it is thought that it will produce an accurate picture depicting the actual current strength and thus rank of the nations. The rankings are responsive to results and it is possible to climb to the top from the bottom (and vice versa) in fewer than 20 matches. As all matches are worth a net of 0 points for the two teams combined, there is no particular advantage to playing more matches. A rating stays the same until the team plays again. Although matches often result in points exchanges, 'predictable' results lead to very minor changes, and may result in no change to either side's rating.\n\nThe system ensures that it is representative of the teams' performance despite playing differing numbers of matches per annum, and the differing strength of opposition that teams have to face. The factors taken into account are as follows:\n\nFor each match played points exchanges are awarded for the following five outcomes and was developed using results of international matches from 1871 to the present day: \n\nDifferent matches have different importance to teams, and World Rugby has tried to respect this by using a weighting system, where the most significant matches are in the World Cup Finals. Points exchanges are doubled during the World Cup Finals to recognise the unique importance of this event. All other full international matches are treated the same, to be as fair as possible to countries playing a different mix of friendly and competitive matches. Matches that do not have full international status do not count.\n\nA win against a very highly ranked opponent is a considerably greater achievement than a win against a low-rated opponent, so the strength of the opposing team is a factor. Thus match results are more important than margins of victory in producing accurate rankings. This is because when a highly ranked team plays a lowly ranked team and manages to beat them by over 50 points, it does not necessarily indicate how either team will perform in the future.\n\nWhen calculating points exchanges, the home side is handicapped by treating them as though they are three rating points better than their current rating. This results in the home side gaining fewer points for winning and losing more points for losing. Because of this, ideally, any advantage that a side may have by playing in front of their home crowd is cancelled out.\n\nAll new member nations start with 30.00 points, which is provisional until they have completed ten test matches. When countries merge, the new country inherits the higher rating of the two countries but when they split e.g., the 2010 breakup of the Arabian Gulf rugby union team into separate teams representing its current member countries, the new countries will inherit a rating at a fixed level below the rating of the original country.\n\nBefore 1 December 2012 new member nations were given 40.00 points.\n\nCountries that have not played a test for two years are removed from the ranking system and the list. If they become active again, they resume their previous rating.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki>For a full explanation of how rankings are calculated, see the World Rugby rankings website.\n\n"}
{"id": "8163829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8163829", "title": "World to come", "text": "World to come\n\nThe world to come, age to come, and heaven on Earth are eschatological phrases reflecting the belief that the current world or current age is flawed or cursed and will be replaced in the future by a better world, age, or paradise. The concept is related to but differs from the concepts of heaven, the afterlife, and the Kingdom of God in that heaven is another place or state generally seen as above the world, the afterlife is generally an individual's life after death, and the Kingdom of God could be in the present (such as Realized eschatology) or the future.\n\nIn Hindu eschatology the current age is the Kali Yuga, a period of decline. Kalki ('Destroyer of Filth') will appear to purge all evil, beginning a golden age of Satya Yuga.\n\nThere have been a range of dates predicted, purportedly from different methods of calculation. Sri Potuluri Virabrahmendra Swami, for example, wrote 400 years ago in his \"Divya Maha Kala Gnana,\" or 'Divine Knowledge of the Time,' that Kalki would arrive when the moon, sun, Venus and Jupiter entered the same sign. This is not a rare occurrence and last happened in early 2012, passing without event. The time of arrival of Kalki has not been consistently asserted by astrologers.\n\n\"HaOlam HaBa\", or \"the world to come\", is an important part of Jewish eschatology, although Judaism concentrates on the importance of \"HaOlam HaZeh\" (\"this world\"). The afterlife is known as \"Olam haBa\", \"Gan Eden\" (the Heavenly Garden of Eden) and \"Gehinom\". According to the Talmud, any non-Jew who lives according to the Seven Laws of Noah is regarded as a \"Ger toshav\" (righteous gentile), and is assured of a place in the world to come, the final reward of the righteous.\n\nUnder Christian eschatology, the phrase is found in the Nicene Creed (current Ecumenical version): \"We look for the resurrection of the dead, and the life of the world to come.\" It is also found in the King James Version of the New Testament at , , , , . Other related expressions are \"age to come\" which is typically found in more recent translations, Kingdom of God, Messianic Age, Millennial Age, The New Earth and New Jerusalem, and dispensation of the fulness of times and possibly also eternal life.\n\nIn Zoroastrian eschatology, the world to come is the \"frashokereti\", where the \"saoshyant\" will bring about a resurrection of the dead in the bodies they had before they died. This is followed by a last judgment. The \"yazatas\" Airyaman and Atar will melt the metal in the hills and mountains, and the molten metal will then flow across the earth like a river. All humankind—both the living and the resurrected dead—will be required to wade through that river, but for the righteous (\"ashavan\") it will seem to be a river of warm milk, while the wicked will be burned. The river will then flow down to hell, where it will annihilate Angra Mainyu and the last vestiges of wickedness in the universe.\n\n"}
{"id": "19620245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620245", "title": "Zealandia", "text": "Zealandia\n\nZealandia (), also known as the New Zealand continent or Tasmantis is an almost entirely submerged mass of continental crust that sank after breaking away from Australia 60–85 million years ago, having separated from Antarctica between 85 and 130 million years ago. It has variously been described as a continental fragment, a microcontinent, a submerged continent, and a continent. The name and concept for Zealandia was proposed by Bruce Luyendyk in 1995. Zealandia's status as a continent is not universally accepted, but New Zealand geologist Nick Mortimer has commented that \"if it wasn't for the ocean\" it would have been recognized as such long ago.\n\nThe land mass may have been completely submerged about 23 million years ago, and most of it (93%) remains submerged beneath the Pacific Ocean. With a total area of approximately , it is the world's largest current microcontinent, more than twice the size of the next-largest microcontinent and more than half the size of the Australian continent. As such, and due to other geological considerations, such as crustal thickness and density, it is arguably a continent in its own right. This was the argument which made news in 2017, when geologists from New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia concluded that Zealandia fulfills all the requirements to be considered a continent, rather than a microcontinent or continental fragment.\n\nZealandia supports substantial inshore fisheries and contains gas fields, of which the largest known is New Zealand's Maui gas field, near Taranaki. Permits for oil exploration in the Great South Basin were issued in 2007. Offshore mineral resources include iron sands, volcanic massive sulfides and ferromanganese nodule deposits.\n\nZealandia is largely made up of two nearly parallel ridges, separated by a failed rift, where the rift breakup of the continent stops and becomes a filled graben. The ridges rise above the sea floor to heights of , with few rocky islands rising above sea level. The ridges are continental rock, but are lower in elevation than normal continents because their crust is thinner than usual, approximately thick, and consequently they do not float as high above the Earth's mantle.\n\nAbout 25 million years ago, the southern part of Zealandia (on the Pacific Plate) began to shift relative to the northern part (on the Indo-Australian Plate). The resulting displacement by approximately along the Alpine Fault is evident in geological maps. Movement along this plate boundary has also offset the New Caledonia Basin from its previous continuation through the Bounty Trough.\n\nCompression across the boundary has uplifted the Southern Alps, although due to rapid erosion their height reflects only a small fraction of the uplift. Farther north, subduction of the Pacific Plate has led to extensive volcanism, including the Coromandel and Taupo Volcanic Zones. Associated rifting and subsidence has produced the Hauraki Graben and more recently the Whakatane Graben and Wanganui Basin.\n\nVolcanism on Zealandia has also taken place repeatedly in various parts of the continental fragment before, during and after it rifted away from the supercontinent Gondwana. Although Zealandia has shifted approximately to the northwest with respect to the underlying mantle from the time when it rifted from Antarctica, recurring intracontinental volcanism exhibits magma composition similar to that of volcanoes in previously adjacent parts of Antarctica and Australia.\n\nThis volcanism is widespread across Zealandia but generally of low volume apart from the huge mid to late Miocene shield volcanoes that developed the Banks and Otago Peninsulas. In addition, it took place continually in numerous limited regions all through the Late Cretaceous and the Cenozoic. However, its causes are still in dispute. During the Miocene, the northern section of Zealandia (Lord Howe Rise) might have slid over a stationary hotspot, forming the Lord Howe Seamount Chain.\n\nZealandia is occasionally divided by scientists into two regions, North Zealandia (or Western Province) and South Zealandia (or Eastern Province), the latter of which contains most of the Median Batholith crust. These two features are separated by the Alpine Fault and Kermadec Trench and by the wedge-shaped Hikurangi Plateau, and are moving separately to each other.\n\nThe case for Zealandia being a continent in its own right was argued by Nick Mortimer and Hamish Campbell in their book \"Zealandia: Our continent revealed\" in 2014, citing geological and ecological evidence to support the proposal.\n\nIn 2017, a team of eleven geologists from New Zealand, New Caledonia, and Australia concluded that Zealandia fulfills all the requirements to be considered a drowned continent, rather than a microcontinent or continental fragment. This was widely covered by news media.\n\nNew Caledonia lies at the northern end of the ancient continent, while New Zealand rises at the plate boundary that bisects it. These land masses are two outposts of the Antarctic Flora, including Araucarias and Podocarps. At Curio Bay, logs of a fossilized forest closely related to modern Kauri and Norfolk Pine can be seen that grew on Zealandia about 180 million years ago during the Jurassic period, before it split from Gondwana. These were buried by volcanic mud flows and gradually replaced by silica to produce the fossils now exposed by the sea.\n\nDuring glacial periods, more of Zealandia becomes a terrestrial rather than a marine environment. Zealandia was originally thought to have no native land mammal fauna, but the discovery in 2006 of a fossil mammal jaw from the Miocene in the Otago region shows otherwise.\n\nThe total land area (including inland water bodies) of Zealandia is . Of this, New Zealand comprises the majority, at , or 93%) which includes the mainland, nearby islands, and most outlying islands including the Antipodes Islands, Auckland Islands, Bounty Islands, Campbell Islands, and Chatham Islands (but not the Kermadec Islands or Macquarie Island (Australia), which are part of the rift).\n\nNew Caledonia and the islands surrounding it comprise some or 7%) and the remainder is made up of various territories of Australia including Lord Howe Island Group (New South Wales) at or 0.02%), Norfolk Island at or 0.01%), as well as Elizabeth and Middleton Reefs (Coral Sea Islands Territory) with .\n\nThe total human population of Zealandia today is about 5 million people.\n"}
