{"id": "55980171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55980171", "title": "1743 in philosophy", "text": "1743 in philosophy\n\n1743 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6534421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6534421", "title": "Actus primus", "text": "Actus primus\n\nActus primus is a technical expression used in scholastic philosophy.\nThe Latin word \"actus\" means determination, complement. In every being there are many actualities, which are subordinated. Thus existence supposes essence; power supposes existence; action supposes faculty. The first actuality (\"actus primus\") begins a series; it supposes no other actuality preceding it in the same series, but calls for a further complement, namely, the second actuality (\"actus secundus\").\nBut as the same reality may be called \"actuality\" when viewed in the light of what precedes, and \"potentiality\" when viewed in the light of what follows (see \"actus et potentia\"), the meaning of the term \"first actuality\" may vary according to the view one takes, and the point where the series is made to begin. Primary matter (see matter and form) is a pure potentiality, and the substantial form is its first determination, its first actuality. The complete substance constituted by these two principles receives further determinations, which are, in that respect, second actualities. Yet these may also be conceived as first actualities. Thus the extensive quantity of a substance is a first actuality when compared to the shape. Power is a first actuality when compared to action.\nAnd this is the most frequent application of the terms \"actus primus\" and \"actus secundus\". The former is the faculty; the latter, the exercise or function. To see \"in actu primo\" simply means to have the sense of vision; to see \"in actu secundo\" is to actually perform acts of vision. The modern distinction of potential and kinetic energy might serve as another illustration: the loaded gun, or the engine with steam buildup, represent first actualities; the bullet speeding to the mark, the engine flying over the rails, represent second actualities. \n\n"}
{"id": "25328814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25328814", "title": "Affectionism", "text": "Affectionism\n\nAffectionism is a school of thought which considers affections as central importance. Although it is not found in mainstream Western philosophy, it does exist in Indian philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "4036813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4036813", "title": "Agathos kai sophos", "text": "Agathos kai sophos\n\nAgathos kai sophos () is a phrase coined by Plato, which literally means \"wise and good\" in Greek. The Athenians used this phrase to describe the qualities of an honest man.\n\nPlato apparently derived this phrase from an earlier \"kalos kagathos\"—literally, \"beautiful and good\". The Greeks believed that external beauty (kalos) was associated with inner beauty, morality and virtue, suggesting that a beautiful face was the outward expression of a beautiful soul. To avoid this association, which often led to confusion, Plato reinvented the expression as \"agathos kai sophos\", separating external beauty from the beauty of the soul.\n"}
{"id": "30758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30758", "title": "Age of Enlightenment", "text": "Age of Enlightenment\n\nThe Enlightenment (also known as the Age of Enlightenment or the Age of Reason) was an intellectual and philosophical movement that dominated the world of ideas in Europe during the 18th century, the \"Century of Philosophy\".\n\nFrench historians traditionally place the Enlightenment between 1715 (the year that Louis XIV died) and 1789 (the beginning of the French Revolution). International historians begin the period in the 1620s, with the start of the scientific revolution. \"\" () of the period widely circulated their ideas through meetings at scientific academies, Masonic lodges, literary salons, coffee houses and in printed books and pamphlets. The ideas of the Enlightenment undermined the authority of the monarchy and the Church and paved the way for the political revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of 19th-century movements, including liberalism and neo-classicism, trace their intellectual heritage to the Enlightenment.\n\nThe Enlightenment included a range of ideas centered on reason as the primary source of authority and legitimacy and came to advance ideals like liberty, progress, tolerance, fraternity, constitutional government and separation of church and state. In France, the central doctrines of the Enlightenment philosophers were individual liberty and religious tolerance, in opposition to an absolute monarchy and the fixed dogmas of the Roman Catholic Church. The Enlightenment was marked by an emphasis on the scientific method and reductionism, along with increased questioning of religious orthodoxy—an attitude captured by the phrase \"Sapere aude\", \"Dare to know\".\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was preceded by and closely associated with the scientific revolution. Earlier philosophers whose work influenced the Enlightenment included Bacon, Descartes, Locke, and Spinoza. The major figures of the Enlightenment included Beccaria, Diderot, Hume, Kant, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Adam Smith, and Voltaire. Some European rulers, including Catherine II of Russia, Joseph II of Austria and Frederick II of Prussia, tried to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance, which became known as enlightened absolutism. Benjamin Franklin visited Europe repeatedly and contributed actively to the scientific and political debates there and brought the newest ideas back to Philadelphia. Thomas Jefferson closely followed European ideas and later incorporated some of the ideals of the Enlightenment into the Declaration of Independence (1776). One of his peers, James Madison, incorporated these ideals into the United States Constitution during its framing in 1787.\n\nThe most influential publication of the Enlightenment was the \"\" (\"Encyclopaedia\"). Published between 1751 and 1772 in thirty-five volumes, it was compiled by Diderot, d'Alembert (until 1759) and a team of 150 scientists and philosophers. It helped spread the ideas of the Enlightenment across Europe and beyond. Other landmark publications were Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (\"Philosophical Dictionary\"; 1764) and \"Letters on the English\" (1733); Rousseau's \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754) and \"The Social Contract\" (1762); Adam Smith's \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" (1759) and \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776); and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748). The ideas of the Enlightenment played a major role in inspiring the French Revolution, which began in 1789. After the Revolution, the Enlightenment was followed by the intellectual movement known as Romanticism.\n\nRené Descartes' rationalist philosophy laid the foundation for enlightenment thinking. His attempt to construct the sciences on a secure metaphysical foundation was not as successful as his method of doubt applied in philosophic areas leading to a dualistic doctrine of mind and matter. His skepticism was refined by John Locke's Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690) and David Hume's writings in the 1740s. His dualism was challenged by Spinoza's uncompromising assertion of the unity of matter in his Tractatus (1670) and Ethics (1677).\n\nThese laid down two distinct lines of Enlightenment thought: first, the moderate variety, following Descartes, Locke and Christian Wolff, which sought accommodation between reform and the traditional systems of power and faith, and second, the radical enlightenment, inspired by the philosophy of Spinoza, advocating democracy, individual liberty, freedom of expression and eradication of religious authority. The moderate variety tended to be deistic, whereas the radical tendency separated the basis of morality entirely from theology. Both lines of thought were eventually opposed by a conservative Counter-Enlightenment, which sought a return to faith.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, Paris became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity challenging traditional doctrines and dogmas. The philosophic movement was led by Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who argued for a society based upon reason rather than faith and Catholic doctrine, for a new civil order based on natural law, and for science based on experiments and observation. The political philosopher Montesquieu introduced the idea of a separation of powers in a government, a concept which was enthusiastically adopted by the authors of the United States Constitution. While the \"Philosophes\" of the French Enlightenment were not revolutionaries and many were members of the nobility, their ideas played an important part in undermining the legitimacy of the Old Regime and shaping the French Revolution.\n\nFrancis Hutcheson, a moral philosopher, described the utilitarian and consequentialist principle that virtue is that which provides, in his words, \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\". Much of what is incorporated in the scientific method (the nature of knowledge, evidence, experience and causation) and some modern attitudes towards the relationship between science and religion were developed by his protégés David Hume and Adam Smith. Hume became a major figure in the skeptical philosophical and empiricist traditions of philosophy.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority, as well as map out a view of the public sphere through private and public reason. Kant's work continued to shape German thought and indeed all of European philosophy, well into the 20th century. Mary Wollstonecraft was one of England's earliest feminist philosophers. She argued for a society based on reason and that women as well as men should be treated as rational beings. She is best known for her work \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1791).\n\nScience played an important role in Enlightenment discourse and thought. Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with the overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favour of the development of free speech and thought. Scientific progress during the Enlightenment included the discovery of carbon dioxide (fixed air) by the chemist Joseph Black, the argument for deep time by the geologist James Hutton and the invention of the steam engine by James Watt. The experiments of Lavoisier were used to create the first modern chemical plants in Paris and the experiments of the Montgolfier Brothers enabled them to launch the first manned flight in a hot-air balloon on 21 November 1783 from the Château de la Muette, near the Bois de Boulogne.\n\nBroadly speaking, Enlightenment science greatly valued empiricism and rational thought and was embedded with the Enlightenment ideal of advancement and progress. The study of science, under the heading of natural philosophy, was divided into physics and a conglomerate grouping of chemistry and natural history, which included anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy and zoology. As with most Enlightenment views, the benefits of science were not seen universally: Rousseau criticized the sciences for distancing man from nature and not operating to make people happier. Science during the Enlightenment was dominated by scientific societies and academies, which had largely replaced universities as centres of scientific research and development. Societies and academies were also the backbone of the maturation of the scientific profession. Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population. Philosophes introduced the public to many scientific theories, most notably through the \"Encyclopédie\" and the popularization of Newtonianism by Voltaire and Émilie du Châtelet. Some historians have marked the 18th century as a drab period in the history of science. However, the century saw significant advancements in the practice of medicine, mathematics and physics; the development of biological taxonomy; a new understanding of magnetism and electricity; and the maturation of chemistry as a discipline, which established the foundations of modern chemistry.\n\nScientific academies and societies grew out of the Scientific Revolution as the creators of scientific knowledge in contrast to the scholasticism of the university. During the Enlightenment, some societies created or retained links to universities, but contemporary sources distinguished universities from scientific societies by claiming that the university's utility was in the transmission of knowledge while societies functioned to create knowledge. As the role of universities in institutionalized science began to diminish, learned societies became the cornerstone of organized science. Official scientific societies were chartered by the state in order to provide technical expertise. Most societies were granted permission to oversee their own publications, control the election of new members and the administration of the society. After 1700, a tremendous number of official academies and societies were founded in Europe and by 1789 there were over seventy official scientific societies. In reference to this growth, Bernard de Fontenelle coined the term \"the Age of Academies\" to describe the 18th century.\n\nThe influence of science also began appearing more commonly in poetry and literature during the Enlightenment. Some poetry became infused with scientific metaphor and imagery, while other poems were written directly about scientific topics. Sir Richard Blackmore committed the Newtonian system to verse in \"Creation, a Philosophical Poem in Seven Books\" (1712). After Newton's death in 1727, poems were composed in his honour for decades. James Thomson (1700–1748) penned his \"Poem to the Memory of Newton\", which mourned the loss of Newton, but also praised his science and legacy.\n\nHume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a \"science of man\", which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity. Modern sociology largely originated from this movement and Hume's philosophical concepts that directly influenced James Madison (and thus the U.S. Constitution) and as popularised by Dugald Stewart, would be the basis of classical liberalism.\n\nIn 1776, Adam Smith published \"The Wealth of Nations\", often considered the first work on modern economics as it had an immediate impact on British economic policy that continues into the 21st century. It was immediately preceded and influenced by Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune drafts of \"Reflections on the Formation and Distribution of Wealth\" (Paris, 1766). Smith acknowledged indebtedness and possibly was the original English translator.\n\nCesare Beccaria, a jurist, criminologist, philosopher and politician and one of the great Enlightenment writers, became famous for his masterpiece \"Of Crimes and Punishments\" (1764), later translated into 22 languages, which condemned torture and the death penalty and was a founding work in the field of penology and the Classical School of criminology by promoting criminal justice. Another prominent intellectual was Francesco Mario Pagano, who wrote important studies such as \"Saggi Politici\" (Political Essays, 1783), one of the major works of the Enlightenment in Naples; and \"Considerazioni sul processo criminale\" (Considerations on the criminal trial, 1787), which established him as an international authority on criminal law.\n\nThe Enlightenment has long been hailed as the foundation of modern Western political and intellectual culture. The Enlightenment brought political modernization to the West, in terms of introducing democratic values and institutions and the creation of modern, liberal democracies. This thesis has been widely accepted by Anglophone scholars and has been reinforced by the large-scale studies by Robert Darnton, Roy Porter and most recently by Jonathan Israel.\n\nJohn Locke, one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers, based his governance philosophy in social contract theory, a subject that permeated Enlightenment political thought. The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes ushered in this new debate with his work \"Leviathan\" in 1651. Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be \"representative\" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.\n\nBoth Locke and Rousseau developed social contract theories in \"Two Treatises of Government\" and \"Discourse on Inequality\", respectively. While quite different works, Locke, Hobbes and Rousseau agreed that a social contract, in which the government's authority lies in the consent of the governed, is necessary for man to live in civil society. Locke defines the state of nature as a condition in which humans are rational and follow natural law, in which all men are born equal and with the right to life, liberty and property. However, when one citizen breaks the Law of Nature both the transgressor and the victim enter into a state of war, from which it is virtually impossible to break free. Therefore, Locke said that individuals enter into civil society to protect their natural rights via an \"unbiased judge\" or common authority, such as courts, to appeal to. Contrastingly, Rousseau's conception relies on the supposition that \"civil man\" is corrupted, while \"natural man\" has no want he cannot fulfill himself. Natural man is only taken out of the state of nature when the inequality associated with private property is established. Rousseau said that people join into civil society via the social contract to achieve unity while preserving individual freedom. This is embodied in the sovereignty of the general will, the moral and collective legislative body constituted by citizens.\n\nLocke is known for his statement that individuals have a right to \"Life, Liberty and Property\" and his belief that the natural right to property is derived from labor. Tutored by Locke, Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury wrote in 1706: \"There is a mighty Light which spreads its self over the world especially in those two free Nations of England and Holland; on whom the Affairs of Europe now turn\". Locke's theory of natural rights has influenced many political documents, including the United States Declaration of Independence and the French National Constituent Assembly's Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" argued that the establishment of a contractual basis of rights would lead to the market mechanism and capitalism, the scientific method, religious tolerance and the organization of states into self-governing republics through democratic means. In this view, the tendency of the \"philosophes\" in particular to apply rationality to every problem is considered the essential change.\n\nAlthough much of Enlightenment political thought was dominated by social contract theorists, both David Hume and Adam Ferguson criticized this camp. Hume's essay \"Of the Original Contract\" argues that governments derived from consent are rarely seen and civil government is grounded in a ruler's habitual authority and force. It is precisely because of the ruler's authority over-and-against the subject, that the subject tacitly consents and Hume says that the subjects would \"never imagine that their consent made him sovereign\", rather the authority did so. Similarly, Ferguson did not believe citizens built the state, rather polities grew out of social development. In his 1767 \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\", Ferguson uses the four stages of progress, a theory that was very popular in Scotland at the time, to explain how humans advance from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without \"signing\" a social contract.\n\nBoth Rousseau and Locke's social contract theories rest on the presupposition of natural rights, which are not a result of law or custom, but are things that all men have in pre-political societies and are therefore universal and inalienable. The most famous natural right formulation comes from John Locke in his \"Second Treatise\", when he introduces the state of nature. For Locke, the law of nature is grounded on mutual security or the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights, as every man is equal and has the same inalienable rights. These natural rights include perfect equality and freedom, as well as the right to preserve life and property. Locke also argued against slavery on the basis that enslaving yourself goes against the law of nature because you cannot surrender your own rights, your freedom is absolute and no one can take it from you. Additionally, Locke argues that one person cannot enslave another because it is morally reprehensible, although he introduces a caveat by saying that enslavement of a lawful captive in time of war would not go against one's natural rights.\n\nAs a spillover of the Enlightenment, nonsecular beliefs expressed first by Quakers and then by Protestant evangelicals in Britain and the United States emerged. To these groups, slavery became \"repugnant to our religion\" and a \"crime in the sight of God.\" These ideas added to those expressed by Enlightenment thinkers, leading many in Britain to believe that slavery was \"not only morally wrong and economically inefficient, but also politically unwise.\" As these notions gained more adherents, Britain was forced to end its participation in the slave trade.\n\nThe leaders of the Enlightenment were not especially democratic, as they more often look to absolute monarchs as the key to imposing reforms designed by the intellectuals. Voltaire despised democracy and said the absolute monarch must be enlightened and must act as dictated by reason and justice – in other words, be a \"philosopher-king\".\n\nIn several nations, rulers welcomed leaders of the Enlightenment at court and asked them to help design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger states. These rulers are called \"enlightened despots\" by historians. They included Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catherine the Great of Russia, Leopold II of Tuscany and Joseph II of Austria. Joseph was over-enthusiastic, announcing many reforms that had little support so that revolts broke out and his regime became a comedy of errors and nearly all his programs were reversed. Senior ministers Pombal in Portugal and Johann Friedrich Struensee in Denmark also governed according to Enlightenment ideals. In Poland, the model constitution of 1791 expressed Enlightenment ideals, but was in effect for only one year before the nation was partitioned among its neighbors. More enduring were the cultural achievements, which created a nationalist spirit in Poland.\n\nFrederick the Great, the king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, saw himself as a leader of the Enlightenment and patronized philosophers and scientists at his court in Berlin. Voltaire, who had been imprisoned and maltreated by the French government, was eager to accept Frederick's invitation to live at his palace. Frederick explained: \"My principal occupation is to combat ignorance and prejudice ... to enlighten minds, cultivate morality, and to make people as happy as it suits human nature, and as the means at my disposal permit\".\n\nThe Enlightenment has been frequently linked to the French Revolution of 1789. One view of the political changes that occurred during the Enlightenment is that the \"consent of the governed\" philosophy as delineated by Locke in \"Two Treatises of Government\" (1689) represented a paradigm shift from the old governance paradigm under feudalism known as the \"divine right of kings\". In this view, the revolutions of the late 1700s and early 1800s were caused by the fact that this governance paradigm shift often could not be resolved peacefully and therefore violent revolution was the result. Clearly a governance philosophy where the king was never wrong was in direct conflict with one whereby citizens by natural law had to consent to the acts and rulings of their government.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville proposed the French Revolution as the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment. These men of letters constituted a sort of \"substitute aristocracy that was both all-powerful and without real power\". This illusory power came from the rise of \"public opinion\", born when absolutist centralization removed the nobility and the bourgeoisie from the political sphere. The \"literary politics\" that resulted promoted a discourse of equality and was hence in fundamental opposition to the monarchical regime. De Tocqueville \"clearly designates  ... the cultural effects of transformation in the forms of the exercise of power\".\n\nEnlightenment era religious commentary was a response to the preceding century of religious conflict in Europe, especially the Thirty Years' War. Theologians of the Enlightenment wanted to reform their faith to its generally non-confrontational roots and to limit the capacity for religious controversy to spill over into politics and warfare while still maintaining a true faith in God. For moderate Christians, this meant a return to simple Scripture. John Locke abandoned the corpus of theological commentary in favor of an \"unprejudiced examination\" of the Word of God alone. He determined the essence of Christianity to be a belief in Christ the redeemer and recommended avoiding more detailed debate. In the \"Jefferson Bible\", Thomas Jefferson went further and dropped any passages dealing with miracles, visitations of angels and the resurrection of Jesus after his death, as he tried to extract the practical Christian moral code of the New Testament.\n\nEnlightenment scholars sought to curtail the political power of organized religion and thereby prevent another age of intolerant religious war. Spinoza determined to remove politics from contemporary and historical theology (e.g., disregarding Judaic law). Moses Mendelssohn advised affording no political weight to any organized religion, but instead recommended that each person follow what they found most convincing. They believed a good religion based in instinctive morals and a belief in God should not theoretically need force to maintain order in its believers, and both Mendelssohn and Spinoza judged religion on its moral fruits, not the logic of its theology.\n\nA number of novel ideas about religion developed with the Enlightenment, including deism and talk of atheism. According to Thomas Paine, deism is the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source. Instead, the deist relies solely on personal reason to guide his creed, which was eminently agreeable to many thinkers of the time. Atheism was much discussed, but there were few proponents. Wilson and Reill note: \"In fact, very few enlightened intellectuals, even when they were vocal critics of Christianity, were true atheists. Rather, they were critics of orthodox belief, wedded rather to skepticism, deism, vitalism, or perhaps pantheism\". Some followed Pierre Bayle and argued that atheists could indeed be moral men. Many others like Voltaire held that without belief in a God who punishes evil, the moral order of society was undermined. That is, since atheists gave themselves to no Supreme Authority and no law and had no fear of eternal consequences, they were far more likely to disrupt society. Bayle (1647–1706) observed that, in his day, \"prudent persons will always maintain an appearance of [religion],\" and he believed that even atheists could hold concepts of honor and go beyond their own self-interest to create and interact in society. Locke said that if there were no God and no divine law, the result would be moral anarchy: every individual \"could have no law but his own will, no end but himself. He would be a god to himself, and the satisfaction of his own will the sole measure and end of all his actions.\"\n\nThe \"Radical Enlightenment\" promoted the concept of separating church and state, an idea that is often credited to English philosopher John Locke (1632–1704). According to his principle of the social contract, Locke said that the government lacked authority in the realm of individual conscience, as this was something rational people could not cede to the government for it or others to control. For Locke, this created a natural right in the liberty of conscience, which he said must therefore remain protected from any government authority.\n\nThese views on religious tolerance and the importance of individual conscience, along with the social contract, became particularly influential in the American colonies and the drafting of the United States Constitution. Thomas Jefferson called for a \"wall of separation between church and state\" at the federal level. He previously had supported successful efforts to disestablish the Church of England in Virginia and authored the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Jefferson's political ideals were greatly influenced by the writings of John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton, whom he considered the three greatest men that ever lived.\n\nThe Enlightenment took hold in most European countries, often with a specific local emphasis. For example, in France it became associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism, while in Germany it reached deep into the middle classes, where it expressed a spiritualistic and nationalistic tone without threatening governments or established churches. Government responses varied widely. In France, the government was hostile, and the \"philosophes\" fought against its censorship, sometimes being imprisoned or hounded into exile. The British government, for the most part, ignored the Enlightenment's leaders in England and Scotland, although it did give Isaac Newton a knighthood and a very lucrative government office.\n\nThe very existence of an English Enlightenment has been hotly debated by scholars. The majority of textbooks on British history make little or no mention of an English Enlightenment. Some surveys of the entire Enlightenment include England and others ignore it, although they do include coverage of such major intellectuals as Joseph Addison, Edward Gibbon, John Locke, Isaac Newton, Alexander Pope, Joshua Reynolds and Jonathan Swift. Roy Porter argues that the reasons for this neglect were the assumptions that the movement was primarily French-inspired, that it was largely a-religious or anti-clerical, and that it stood in outspoken defiance to the established order. Porter admits that, after the 1720s, England could claim thinkers to equal Diderot, Voltaire or Rousseau. However, its leading intellectuals such as Edward Gibbon, Edmund Burke and Samuel Johnson were all quite conservative and supportive of the standing order. Porter says the reason was that Enlightenment had come early to England and had succeeded so that the culture had accepted political liberalism, philosophical empiricism, and religious toleration of the sort that intellectuals on the continent had to fight for against powerful odds. Furthermore, England rejected the collectivism of the continent and emphasized the improvement of individuals as the main goal of enlightenment.\n\nIn the Scottish Enlightenment, Scotland's major cities created an intellectual infrastructure of mutually supporting institutions such as universities, reading societies, libraries, periodicals, museums and masonic lodges. The Scottish network was \"predominantly liberal Calvinist, Newtonian, and 'design' oriented in character which played a major role in the further development of the transatlantic Enlightenment\". In France, Voltaire said that \"we look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilization\". The focus of the Scottish Enlightenment ranged from intellectual and economic matters to the specifically scientific as in the work of William Cullen, physician and chemist; James Anderson, an agronomist; Joseph Black, physicist and chemist; and James Hutton, the first modern geologist.\n\nSeveral Americans, especially Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, played a major role in bringing Enlightenment ideas to the New World and in influencing British and French thinkers. Franklin was influential for his political activism and for his advances in physics. The cultural exchange during the Age of Enlightenment ran in both directions across the Atlantic. Thinkers such as Paine, Locke and Rousseau all take Native American cultural practices as examples of natural freedom. The Americans closely followed English and Scottish political ideas, as well as some French thinkers such as Montesquieu. As deists, they were influenced by ideas of John Toland (1670–1722) and Matthew Tindal (1656–1733). During the Enlightenment there was a great emphasis upon liberty, republicanism and religious tolerance. There was no respect for monarchy or inherited political power. Deists reconciled science and religion by rejecting prophecies, miracles and Biblical theology. Leading deists included Thomas Paine in \"The Age of Reason\" and by Thomas Jefferson in his short \"Jefferson Bible\" – from which all supernatural aspects were removed.\n\nPrussia took the lead among the German states in sponsoring the political reforms that Enlightenment thinkers urged absolute rulers to adopt. There were important movements as well in the smaller states of Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover and the Palatinate. In each case, Enlightenment values became accepted and led to significant political and administrative reforms that laid the groundwork for the creation of modern states. The princes of Saxony, for example, carried out an impressive series of fundamental fiscal, administrative, judicial, educational, cultural and general economic reforms. The reforms were aided by the country's strong urban structure and influential commercial groups and modernized pre-1789 Saxony along the lines of classic Enlightenment principles.\nBefore 1750, the German upper classes looked to France for intellectual, cultural and architectural leadership, as French was the language of high society. By the mid-18th century, the \"Aufklärung\" (The Enlightenment) had transformed German high culture in music, philosophy, science and literature. Christian Wolff (1679–1754) was the pioneer as a writer who expounded the Enlightenment to German readers and legitimized German as a philosophic language.\n\nJohann Gottfried von Herder (1744–1803) broke new ground in philosophy and poetry, as a leader of the Sturm und Drang movement of proto-Romanticism. Weimar Classicism (\"Weimarer Klassik\") was a cultural and literary movement based in Weimar that sought to establish a new humanism by synthesizing Romantic, classical and Enlightenment ideas. The movement (from 1772 until 1805) involved Herder as well as polymath Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) and Friedrich Schiller (1759–1805), a poet and historian. Herder argued that every folk had its own particular identity, which was expressed in its language and culture. This legitimized the promotion of German language and culture and helped shape the development of German nationalism. Schiller's plays expressed the restless spirit of his generation, depicting the hero's struggle against social pressures and the force of destiny.\n\nGerman music, sponsored by the upper classes, came of age under composers Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750), Joseph Haydn (1732–1809) and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–1791).\n\nIn remote Königsberg, philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority. Kant's work contained basic tensions that would continue to shape German thought – and indeed all of European philosophy – well into the 20th century.\n\nThe German Enlightenment won the support of princes, aristocrats and the middle classes and it permanently reshaped the culture. However, there was a conservatism among the elites that warned against going too far.\n\nIn the 1780s, Lutheran ministers Johann Heinrich Schulz and Karl Wilhelm Brumbey got in trouble with their preaching as they were attacked and ridiculed by Immanuel Kant, Wilhelm Abraham Teller and others. In 1788, Prussia issued an \"Edict on Religion\" that forbade preaching any sermon that undermined popular belief in the Holy Trinity and the Bible. The goal was to avoid skepticism, deism and theological disputes that might impinge on domestic tranquility. Men who doubted the value of Enlightenment favoured the measure, but so too did many supporters. German universities had created a closed elite that could debate controversial issues among themselves, but spreading them to the public was seen as too risky. This intellectual elite was favoured by the state, but that might be reversed if the process of the Enlightenment proved politically or socially destabilizing.\n\nThe Enlightenment played a distinctive, if small, role in the history of Italy. Although most of Italy was controlled by conservative Habsburgs or the pope, Tuscany had some opportunities for reform. Leopold II of Tuscany abolished the death penalty in Tuscany and reduced censorship. From Naples, Antonio Genovesi (1713–69) influenced a generation of southern Italian intellectuals and university students. His textbook \"Diceosina, o Sia della Filosofia del Giusto e dell'Onesto\" (1766) was a controversial attempt to mediate between the history of moral philosophy on the one hand and the specific problems encountered by 18th-century commercial society on the other. It contained the greater part of Genovesi's political, philosophical and economic thought – guidebook for Neapolitan economic and social development. Science flourished as Alessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani made break-through discoveries in electricity. Pietro Verri was a leading economist in Lombardy. Historian Joseph Schumpeter states he was \"the most important pre-Smithian authority on Cheapness-and-Plenty\". The most influential scholar on the Italian Enlightenment has been Franco Venturi.\n\nIn Russia, the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences in the mid-18th century. This era produced the first Russian university, library, theatre, public museum and independent press. Like other enlightened despots, Catherine the Great played a key role in fostering the arts, sciences and education. She used her own interpretation of Enlightenment ideals, assisted by notable international experts such as Voltaire (by correspondence) and in residence world class scientists such as Leonhard Euler and Peter Simon Pallas. The national Enlightenment differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with attacking the institution of serfdom in Russia. The Russian enlightenment centered on the individual instead of societal enlightenment and encouraged the living of an enlightened life. A powerful element was \"prosveshchenie\" which combined religious piety, erudition and commitment to the spread of learning. However, it lacked the skeptical and critical spirit of the European Enlightenment.\n\nEnlightenment ideas (\"oświecenie\") emerged late in Poland, as the Polish middle class was weaker and szlachta (nobility) culture (Sarmatism) together with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth political system (Golden Liberty) were in deep crisis. The political system was built on republicanism, but was unable to defend itself against powerful neighbors Russia, Prussia and Austria as they repeatedly sliced off regions until nothing was left of independent Poland. The period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–1740s and especially in theatre and the arts peaked in the reign of King Stanisław August Poniatowski (second half of the 18th century). Warsaw was a main centre after 1750, with an expansion of schools and educational institutions and the arts patronage held at the Royal Castle. Leaders promoted tolerance and more education. They included King Stanislaw II Poniatowski and reformers Piotr Switkowski, Antoni Poplawski, Josef Niemcewicz and Jósef Pawlinkowski, as well as Baudouin de Cortenay, a Polonized dramatist. Opponents included Florian Jaroszewicz, Gracjan Piotrowski, Karol Wyrwicz and Wojciech Skarszewski.\n\nThe movement went into decline with the Third Partition of Poland (1795) – a national tragedy inspiring a short period of sentimental writing – and ended in 1822, replaced by Romanticism.\n\nThe Enlightenment has always been contested territory. According to Keith Thomas, its supporters \"hail it as the source of everything that is progressive about the modern world. For them, it stands for freedom of thought, rational inquiry, critical thinking, religious tolerance, political liberty, scientific achievement, the pursuit of happiness, and hope for the future.\" Thomas adds that its detractors accuse it of shallow rationalism, naïve optimism, unrealistic universalism and moral darkness. From the start, conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attacked materialism and skepticism as evil forces that encouraged immorality. By 1794, they pointed to the Terror during the French Revolution as confirmation of their predictions. As the Enlightenment was ending, Romantic philosophers argued that excessive dependence on reason was a mistake perpetuated by the Enlightenment because it disregarded the bonds of history, myth, faith, and tradition that were necessary to hold society together.\n\nThe term \"Enlightenment\" emerged in English in the later part of the 19th century, with particular reference to French philosophy, as the equivalent of the French term \"Lumières\" (used first by Dubos in 1733 and already well established by 1751). From Immanuel Kant's 1784 essay \"Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?\" (\"\"), the German term became \"Aufklärun\"g (\"aufklären\" = to illuminate; \"sich aufklären\" = to clear up). However, scholars have never agreed on a definition of the Enlightenment, or on its chronological or geographical extent. Terms like \"les Lumières\" (French), \"illuminism\"o (Italian), \"ilustración\" (Spanish) and \"Aufklärung\" (German) referred to partly overlapping movements. Not until the late nineteenth century did English scholars agree they were talking about \"the Enlightenment\".\n\nEnlightenment historiography began in the period itself, from what Enlightenment figures said about their work. A dominant element was the intellectual angle they took. D'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse of l'Encyclopédie\" provides a history of the Enlightenment which comprises a chronological list of developments in the realm of knowledge – of which the \"Encyclopédie\" forms the pinnacle. In 1783, Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason. Immanuel Kant called Enlightenment \"man's release from his self-incurred tutelage\", tutelage being \"man's inability to make use of his understanding without direction from another\". \"For Kant, Enlightenment was mankind's final coming of age, the emancipation of the human consciousness from an immature state of ignorance\". The German scholar Ernst Cassirer called the Enlightenment \"a part and a special phase of that whole intellectual development through which modern philosophic thought gained its characteristic self-confidence and self-consciousness\". According to historian Roy Porter, the liberation of the human mind from a dogmatic state of ignorance is the epitome of what the Age of Enlightenment was trying to capture.\n\nBertrand Russell saw the Enlightenment as a phase in a progressive development which began in antiquity and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time. Russell said that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of the Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation and that philosophical views such as affinity for democracy against monarchy originated among 16th-century Protestants to justify their desire to break away from the Catholic Church. Although many of these philosophical ideals were picked up by Catholics, Russell argues that by the 18th century the Enlightenment was the principal manifestation of the schism that began with Martin Luther.\n\nJonathan Israel rejects the attempts of postmodern and Marxian historians to understand the revolutionary ideas of the period purely as by-products of social and economic transformations. He instead focuses on the history of ideas in the period from 1650 to the end of the 18th century and claims that it was the ideas themselves that caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th century and the early 19th century. Israel argues that until the 1650s Western civilization \"was based on a largely shared core of faith, tradition and authority\".\n\nThere is little consensus on the precise beginning of the Age of Enlightenment, though the beginning of the 18th century (1701) or the middle of the 17th century (1650) are often used as epochs. French historians usually place the period, called the \"Siècle des Lumières\" (\"Century of Enlightenments\"), between 1715 and 1789, from the beginning of the reign of Louis XV until the French Revolution. If taken back to the mid-17th century, the Enlightenment would trace its origins to Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\", published in 1637. In France, many cited the publication of Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\" in 1687. It is argued by several historians and philosophers that the beginning of the Enlightenment is when Descartes shifted the epistemological basis from external authority to internal certainty by his \"cogito ergo sum\" published in 1637. As to its end, most scholars use the last years of the century, often choosing the French Revolution of 1789 or the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars (1804–1815) as a convenient point in time with which to date the end of the Enlightenment.\n\nIn the 1944 book \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\", Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno argued: Enlightenment, understood in the widest sense as the advance of thought, has always aimed at liberating human beings from fear and installing them as masters. Yet the wholly enlightened earth radiates under the sign of disaster triumphant.\n\nExtending Horkheimer and Adorno's argument, intellectual historian Jason Josephson-Storm has argued that any idea of the Age of Enlightenment as a clearly defined period that is separate from the earlier Renaissance and later Romanticism or Counter-Enlightenment constitutes a myth. Josephson-Storm points out that there are vastly different and mutually contradictory periodizations of the Enlightenment depending on nation, field of study, and school of thought; that the term and category of \"Enlightenment\" referring to the scientific revolution was actually applied after the fact; that the Enlightenment did not see an increase in disenchantment or the dominance of the mechanistic worldview; and that a blur in the early modern ideas of the Humanities and natural sciences makes it hard to circumscribe a Scientific Revolution. Josephson-Storm defends his categorization of the Enlightenment as \"myth\" by noting the regulative role ideas of a period of Enlightenment and disenchantment play in modern Western culture, such that belief in magic, spiritualism, and even religion appears somewhat taboo in intellectual strata.\n\nIn the 1970s, study of the Enlightenment expanded to include the ways Enlightenment ideas spread to European colonies and how they interacted with indigenous cultures and how the Enlightenment took place in formerly unstudied areas such as Italy, Greece, the Balkans, Poland, Hungary and Russia.\n\nIntellectuals such as Robert Darnton and Jürgen Habermas have focused on the social conditions of the Enlightenment. Habermas described the creation of the \"bourgeois public sphere\" in 18th-century Europe, containing the new venues and modes of communication allowing for rational exchange. Habermas said that the public sphere was bourgeois, egalitarian, rational and independent from the state, making it the ideal venue for intellectuals to critically examine contemporary politics and society, away from the interference of established authority. While the public sphere is generally an integral component of the social study of the Enlightenment, other historians have questioned whether the public sphere had these characteristics.\n\nIn contrast to the intellectual historiographical approach of the Enlightenment, which examines the various currents or discourses of intellectual thought within the European context during the 17th and 18th centuries, the cultural (or social) approach examines the changes that occurred in European society and culture. This approach studies the process of changing sociabilities and cultural practices during the Enlightenment.\n\nOne of the primary elements of the culture of the Enlightenment was the rise of the public sphere, a \"realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture\", in the late 17th century and 18th century. Elements of the public sphere included that it was egalitarian, that it discussed the domain of \"common concern,\" and that argument was founded on reason. Habermas uses the term \"common concern\" to describe those areas of political/social knowledge and discussion that were previously the exclusive territory of the state and religious authorities, now open to critical examination by the public sphere. The values of this bourgeois public sphere included holding reason to be supreme, considering everything to be open to criticism (the public sphere is critical), and the opposition of secrecy of all sorts.\nThe creation of the public sphere has been associated with two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism. The modern nation state, in its consolidation of public power, created by counterpoint a private realm of society independent of the state, which allowed for the public sphere. Capitalism also increased society's autonomy and self-awareness, as well as an increasing need for the exchange of information. As the nascent public sphere expanded, it embraced a large variety of institutions and the most commonly cited were coffee houses and cafés, salons and the literary public sphere, figuratively localized in the Republic of Letters. In France, the creation of the public sphere was helped by the aristocracy's move from the King's palace at Versailles to Paris in about 1720, since their rich spending stimulated the trade in luxuries and artistic creations, especially fine paintings.\n\nThe context for the rise of the public sphere was the economic and social change commonly associated with the Industrial Revolution: \"Economic expansion, increasing urbanization, rising population and improving communications in comparison to the stagnation of the previous century\". Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods and increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers (including the literature essential to the public sphere). Meanwhile, the colonial experience (most European states had colonial empires in the 18th century) began to expose European society to extremely heterogeneous cultures, leading to the breaking down of \"barriers between cultural systems, religious divides, gender differences and geographical areas\".\n\nThe word \"public\" implies the highest level of inclusivity – the public sphere by definition should be open to all. However, this sphere was only public to relative degrees. Enlightenment thinkers frequently contrasted their conception of the \"public\" with that of the people: Condorcet contrasted \"opinion\" with populace, Marmontel \"the opinion of men of letters\" with \"the opinion of the multitude\" and d'Alembert the \"truly enlightened public\" with \"the blind and noisy multitude\". Additionally, most institutions of the public sphere excluded both women and the lower classes. Cross-class influences occurred through noble and lower class participation in areas such as the coffeehouses and the Masonic lodges.\n\nBecause of the focus on reason over superstition, the Enlightenment cultivated the arts. Emphasis on learning, art and music became more widespread, especially with the growing middle class. Areas of study such as literature, philosophy, science, and the fine arts increasingly explored subject matter to which the general public, in addition to the previously more segregated professionals and patrons, could relate.\nAs musicians depended more and more on public support, public concerts became increasingly popular and helped supplement performers' and composers' incomes. The concerts also helped them to reach a wider audience. Handel, for example, epitomized this with his highly public musical activities in London. He gained considerable fame there with performances of his operas and oratorios. The music of Haydn and Mozart, with their Viennese Classical styles, are usually regarded as being the most in line with the Enlightenment ideals.\n\nThe desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on music publications. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Dictionnaire de musique\" (published 1767 in Geneva and 1768 in Paris) was a leading text in the late 18th century. This widely available dictionary gave short definitions of words like genius and taste and was clearly influenced by the Enlightenment movement. Another text influenced by Enlightenment values was Charles Burney's \"A General History of Music: From the Earliest Ages to the Present Period\" (1776), which was a historical survey and an attempt to rationalize elements in music systematically over time. Recently, musicologists have shown renewed interest in the ideas and consequences of the Enlightenment. For example, Rose Rosengard Subotnik's \"Deconstructive Variations\" (subtitled \"Music and Reason in Western Society\") compares Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\" (1791) using the Enlightenment and Romantic perspectives and concludes that the work is \"an ideal musical representation of the Enlightenment\".\n\nAs the economy and the middle class expanded, there was an increasing number of amateur musicians. One manifestation of this involved women, who became more involved with music on a social level. Women were already engaged in professional roles as singers and increased their presence in the amateur performers' scene, especially with keyboard music. Music publishers begin to print music that amateurs could understand and play. The majority of the works that were published were for keyboard, voice and keyboard and chamber ensemble. After these initial genres were popularized, from the mid-century on, amateur groups sang choral music, which then became a new trend for publishers to capitalize on. The increasing study of the fine arts, as well as access to amateur-friendly published works, led to more people becoming interested in reading and discussing music. Music magazines, reviews and critical works which suited amateurs as well as connoisseurs began to surface.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" spent a great deal of energy disseminating their ideas among educated men and women in cosmopolitan cities. They used many venues, some of them quite new.\n\nThe term \"Republic of Letters\" was coined in 1664 by Pierre Bayle in his journal \"Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres\". Towards the end of the 18th century, the editor of \"Histoire de la République des Lettres en France\", a literary survey, described the Republic of Letters as being: In the midst of all the governments that decide the fate of men; in the bosom of so many states, the majority of them despotic ... there exists a certain realm which holds sway only over the mind ... that we honour with the name Republic, because it preserves a measure of independence, and because it is almost its essence to be free. It is the realm of talent and of thought.\n\nThe Republic of Letters was the sum of a number of Enlightenment ideals: an egalitarian realm governed by knowledge that could act across political boundaries and rival state power. It was a forum that supported \"free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation\". Immanuel Kant considered written communication essential to his conception of the public sphere; once everyone was a part of the \"reading public\", then society could be said to be enlightened. The people who participated in the Republic of Letters, such as Diderot and Voltaire, are frequently known today as important Enlightenment figures. Indeed, the men who wrote Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" arguably formed a microcosm of the larger \"republic\".\n\nMany women played an essential part in the French Enlightenment, due to the role they played as \"salonnières\" in Parisian salons, as the contrast to the male \"philosophes\". The salon was the principal social institution of the republic and \"became the civil working spaces of the project of Enlightenment\". Women, as salonnières, were \"the legitimate governors of [the] potentially unruly discourse\" that took place within. While women were marginalized in the public culture of the Old Regime, the French Revolution destroyed the old cultural and economic restraints of patronage and corporatism (guilds), opening French society to female participation, particularly in the literary sphere.\nIn France, the established men of letters (\"gens de lettres\") had fused with the elites (\"les grands\") of French society by the mid-18th century. This led to the creation of an oppositional literary sphere, Grub Street, the domain of a \"multitude of versifiers and would-be authors\". These men came to London to become authors, only to discover that the literary market simply could not support large numbers of writers, who in any case were very poorly remunerated by the publishing-bookselling guilds.\n\nThe writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling bitter about the relative success of the men of letters and found an outlet for their literature which was typified by the \"libelle\". Written mostly in the form of pamphlets, the \"libelles\" \"slandered the court, the Church, the aristocracy, the academies, the salons, everything elevated and respectable, including the monarchy itself\". \"Le Gazetier cuirassé\" by Charles Théveneau de Morande was a prototype of the genre. It was Grub Street literature that was most read by the public during the Enlightenment. According to Darnton, more importantly the Grub Street hacks inherited the \"revolutionary spirit\" once displayed by the \"philosophes\" and paved the way for the French Revolution by desacralizing figures of political, moral and religious authority in France.\n\nThe increased consumption of reading materials of all sorts was one of the key features of the \"social\" Enlightenment. Developments in the Industrial Revolution allowed consumer goods to be produced in greater quantities at lower prices, encouraging the spread of books, pamphlets, newspapers and journals – \"media of the transmission of ideas and attitudes\". Commercial development likewise increased the demand for information, along with rising populations and increased urbanisation. However, demand for reading material extended outside of the realm of the commercial and outside the realm of the upper and middle classes, as evidenced by the Bibliothèque Bleue. Literacy rates are difficult to gauge, but in France the rates doubled over the course of the 18th century. Reflecting the decreasing influence of religion, the number of books about science and art published in Paris doubled from 1720 to 1780, while the number of books about religion dropped to just one-tenth of the total.\n\nReading underwent serious changes in the 18th century. In particular, Rolf Engelsing has argued for the existence of a \"Reading Revolution\". Until 1750, reading was done intensively: people tended to own a small number of books and read them repeatedly, often to small audience. After 1750, people began to read \"extensively\", finding as many books as they could, increasingly reading them alone. This is supported by increasing literacy rates, particularly among women.\n\nThe vast majority of the reading public could not afford to own a private library and while most of the state-run \"universal libraries\" set up in the 17th and 18th centuries were open to the public, they were not the only sources of reading material. On one end of the spectrum was the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\", a collection of cheaply produced books published in Troyes, France. Intended for a largely rural and semi-literate audience these books included almanacs, retellings of medieval romances and condensed versions of popular novels, among other things. While some historians have argued against the Enlightenment's penetration into the lower classes, the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\" represents at least a desire to participate in Enlightenment sociability. Moving up the classes, a variety of institutions offered readers access to material without needing to buy anything. Libraries that lent out their material for a small price started to appear and occasionally bookstores would offer a small lending library to their patrons. Coffee houses commonly offered books, journals and sometimes even popular novels to their customers. \"The Tatler\" and \"The Spectator\", two influential periodicals sold from 1709 to 1714, were closely associated with coffee house culture in London, being both read and produced in various establishments in the city. This is an example of the triple or even quadruple function of the coffee house: reading material was often obtained, read, discussed and even produced on the premises.\nIt is extremely difficult to determine what people actually read during the Enlightenment. For example, examining the catalogs of private libraries gives an image skewed in favor of the classes wealthy enough to afford libraries and also ignores censored works unlikely to be publicly acknowledged. For this reason, a study of publishing would be much more fruitful for discerning reading habits.\n\nAcross continental Europe, but in France especially, booksellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" narrowly escaped seizure and had to be saved by Malesherbes, the man in charge of the French censor. Indeed, many publishing companies were conveniently located outside France so as to avoid overzealous French censors. They would smuggle their merchandise across the border, where it would then be transported to clandestine booksellers or small-time peddlers. The records of clandestine booksellers may give a better representation of what literate Frenchmen might have truly read, since their clandestine nature provided a less restrictive product choice. In one case, political books were the most popular category, primarily libels and pamphlets. Readers were more interested in sensationalist stories about criminals and political corruption than they were in political theory itself. The second most popular category, \"general works\" (those books \"that did not have a dominant motif and that contained something to offend almost everyone in authority\"), demonstrated a high demand for generally low-brow subversive literature. However, these works never became part of literary canon and are largely forgotten today as a result.\n\nA healthy, legal publishing industry existed throughout Europe, although established publishers and book sellers occasionally ran afoul of the law. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" condemned not only by the King, but also by Clement XII, nevertheless found its way into print with the help of the aforementioned Malesherbes and creative use of French censorship law. However, many works were sold without running into any legal trouble at all. Borrowing records from libraries in England, Germany, and North America indicate that more than 70 percent of books borrowed were novels. Less than 1 percent of the books were of a religious nature, indicating the general trend of declining religiosity.\n\nA genre that greatly rose in importance was that of scientific literature. Natural history in particular became increasingly popular among the upper classes. Works of natural history include René-Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur's \"Histoire naturelle des insectes\" and Jacques Gautier d'Agoty's \"La Myologie complète, ou description de tous les muscles du corps humain\" (1746). Outside ancien régime France, natural history was an important part of medicine and industry, encompassing the fields of botany, zoology, meteorology, hydrology and mineralogy. Students in Enlightenment universities and academies were taught these subjects to prepare them for careers as diverse as medicine and theology. As shown by Matthew Daniel Eddy, natural history in this context was a very middle class pursuit and operated as a fertile trading zone for the interdisciplinary exchange of diverse scientific ideas.\n\nThe target audience of natural history was French polite society, evidenced more by the specific discourse of the genre than by the generally high prices of its works. Naturalists catered to polite society's desire for erudition – many texts had an explicit instructive purpose. However, natural history was often a political affair. As Emma Spary writes, the classifications used by naturalists \"slipped between the natural world and the social ... to establish not only the expertise of the naturalists over the natural, but also the dominance of the natural over the social\". The idea of taste (\"le goût\") was a social indicator: to truly be able to categorize nature, one had to have the proper taste, an ability of discretion shared by all members of polite society. In this way natural history spread many of the scientific developments of the time, but also provided a new source of legitimacy for the dominant class. From this basis, naturalists could then develop their own social ideals based on their scientific works.\n\nThe first scientific and literary journals were established during the Enlightenment. The first journal, the Parisian \"Journal des Sçavans\", appeared in 1665. However, it was not until 1682 that periodicals began to be more widely produced. French and Latin were the dominant languages of publication, but there was also a steady demand for material in German and Dutch. There was generally low demand for English publications on the Continent, which was echoed by England's similar lack of desire for French works. Languages commanding less of an international market—such as Danish, Spanish and Portuguese—found journal success more difficult and more often than not a more international language was used instead. French slowly took over Latin's status as the \"lingua franca\" of learned circles. This in turn gave precedence to the publishing industry in Holland, where the vast majority of these French language periodicals were produced.\n\nJonathan Israel called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture. They shifted the attention of the \"cultivated public\" away from established authorities to novelty and innovation and instead promoted the \"enlightened\" ideals of toleration and intellectual objectivity. Being a source of knowledge derived from science and reason, they were an implicit critique of existing notions of universal truth monopolized by monarchies, parliaments and religious authorities. They also advanced Christian enlightenment that upheld \"the legitimacy of God-ordained authority\"—the Bible—in which there had to be agreement between the biblical and natural theories.\n\nAlthough the existence of dictionaries and encyclopedias spanned into ancient times, the texts changed from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words in 18th-century encyclopedic dictionaries. The works were part of an Enlightenment movement to systematize knowledge and provide education to a wider audience than the elite. As the 18th century progressed, the content of encyclopedias also changed according to readers' tastes. Volumes tended to focus more strongly on secular affairs, particularly science and technology, rather than matters of theology.\n\nAlong with secular matters, readers also favoured an alphabetical ordering scheme over cumbersome works arranged along thematic lines. Commenting on alphabetization, the historian Charles Porset has said that \"as the zero degree of taxonomy, alphabetical order authorizes all reading strategies; in this respect it could be considered an emblem of the Enlightenment\". For Porset, the avoidance of thematic and hierarchical systems thus allows free interpretation of the works and becomes an example of egalitarianism. Encyclopedias and dictionaries also became more popular during the Age of Enlightenment as the number of educated consumers who could afford such texts began to multiply. In the later half of the 18th century, the number of dictionaries and encyclopedias published by decade increased from 63 between 1760 and 1769 to approximately 148 in the decade proceeding the French Revolution (1780–1789). Along with growth in numbers, dictionaries and encyclopedias also grew in length, often having multiple print runs that sometimes included in supplemented editions.\n\nThe first technical dictionary was drafted by John Harris and entitled \"Lexicon Technicum: Or, An Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\". Harris' book avoided theological and biographical entries and instead it concentrated on science and technology. Published in 1704, the \"Lexicon technicum\" was the first book to be written in English that took a methodical approach to describing mathematics and commercial arithmetic along with the physical sciences and navigation. Other technical dictionaries followed Harris' model, including Ephraim Chambers' \"Cyclopaedia\" (1728), which included five editions and was a substantially larger work than Harris'. The folio edition of the work even included foldout engravings. The \"Cyclopaedia\" emphasized Newtonian theories, Lockean philosophy and contained thorough examinations of technologies, such as engraving, brewing and dyeing. In Germany, practical reference works intended for the uneducated majority became popular in the 18th century. The \"Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon\" (1712) explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education. \"Jablonksi Allgemeines Lexicon\" (1721) was better known than the \"Handlungs-Lexicon\" and underscored technical subjects rather than scientific theory. For example, over five columns of text were dedicated to wine while geometry and logic were allocated only twenty-two and seventeen lines, respectively. The first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1771) was modelled along the same lines as the German lexicons.\n\nHowever, the prime example of reference works that systematized scientific knowledge in the age of Enlightenment were universal encyclopedias rather than technical dictionaries. It was the goal of universal encyclopedias to record all human knowledge in a comprehensive reference work. The most well-known of these works is Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert's \"Encyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers\". The work, which began publication in 1751, was composed of thirty-five volumes and over 71 000 separate entries. A great number of the entries were dedicated to describing the sciences and crafts in detail and provided intellectuals across Europe with a high-quality survey of human knowledge. In d'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\", the work's goal to record the extent of human knowledge in the arts and sciences is outlined:\n\nThe massive work was arranged according to a \"tree of knowledge\". The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism. Both areas of knowledge were united by philosophy, or the trunk of the tree of knowledge. The Enlightenment's desacrilization of religion was pronounced in the tree's design, particularly where theology accounted for a peripheral branch, with black magic as a close neighbour. As the \"Encyclopédie\" gained popularity, it was published in quarto and octavo editions after 1777. The quarto and octavo editions were much less expensive than previous editions, making the \"Encyclopédie\" more accessible to the non-elite. Robert Darnton estimates that there were approximately 25 000 copies of the \"Encyclopédie\" in circulation throughout France and Europe before the French Revolution. The extensive, yet affordable encyclopedia came to represent the transmission of Enlightenment and scientific education to an expanding audience.\n\nOne of the most important developments that the Enlightenment era brought to the discipline of science was its popularization. An increasingly literate population seeking knowledge and education in both the arts and the sciences drove the expansion of print culture and the dissemination of scientific learning. The new literate population was due to a high rise in the availability of food. This enabled many people to rise out of poverty, and instead of paying more for food, they had money for education. Popularization was generally part of an overarching Enlightenment ideal that endeavoured \"to make information available to the greatest number of people\". As public interest in natural philosophy grew during the 18th century, public lecture courses and the publication of popular texts opened up new roads to money and fame for amateurs and scientists who remained on the periphery of universities and academies. More formal works included explanations of scientific theories for individuals lacking the educational background to comprehend the original scientific text. Sir Isaac Newton's celebrated \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" was published in Latin and remained inaccessible to readers without education in the classics until Enlightenment writers began to translate and analyze the text in the vernacular.\nThe first significant work that expressed scientific theory and knowledge expressly for the laity, in the vernacular and with the entertainment of readers in mind, was Bernard de Fontenelle's \"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\" (1686). The book was produced specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing and inspired a variety of similar works. These popular works were written in a discursive style, which was laid out much more clearly for the reader than the complicated articles, treatises and books published by the academies and scientists. Charles Leadbetter's \"Astronomy\" (1727) was advertised as \"a Work entirely New\" that would include \"short and easie Rules and Astronomical Tables\". The first French introduction to Newtonianism and the \"Principia\" was \"Eléments de la philosophie de Newton\", published by Voltaire in 1738. Émilie du Châtelet's translation of the \"Principia\", published after her death in 1756, also helped to spread Newton's theories beyond scientific academies and the university. Writing for a growing female audience, Francesco Algarotti published \"Il Newtonianism per le dame\", which was a tremendously popular work and was translated from Italian into English by Elizabeth Carter. A similar introduction to Newtonianism for women was produced by Henry Pemberton. His \"A View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy\" was published by subscription. Extant records of subscribers show that women from a wide range of social standings purchased the book, indicating the growing number of scientifically inclined female readers among the middling class. During the Enlightenment, women also began producing popular scientific works themselves. Sarah Trimmer wrote a successful natural history textbook for children titled \"The Easy Introduction to the Knowledge of Nature\" (1782), which was published for many years after in eleven editions.\n\nMost work on the Enlightenment emphasizes the ideals discussed by intellectuals, rather than the actual state of education at the time. Leading educational theorists like England's John Locke and Switzerland's Jean Jacques Rousseau both emphasized the importance of shaping young minds early. By the late Enlightenment, there was a rising demand for a more universal approach to education, particularly after the American and French Revolutions.\n\nThe predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism, the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines. In addition to being conducive to Enlightenment ideologies of liberty, self-determination and personal responsibility, it offered a practical theory of the mind that allowed teachers to transform longstanding forms of print and manuscript culture into effective graphic tools of learning for the lower and middle orders of society. Children were taught to memorize facts through oral and graphic methods that originated during the Renaissance.\n\nMany of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh. These universities, especially Edinburgh, produced professors whose ideas had a significant impact on Britain's North American colonies and later the American Republic. Within the natural sciences, Edinburgh's medical school also led the way in chemistry, anatomy and pharmacology. In other parts of Europe, the universities and schools of France and most of Europe were bastions of traditionalism and were not hospitable to the Enlightenment. In France, the major exception was the medical university at Montpellier.\n\nThe history of Academies in France during the Enlightenment begins with the Academy of Science, founded in 1635 in Paris. It was closely tied to the French state, acting as an extension of a government seriously lacking in scientists. It helped promote and organize new disciplines and it trained new scientists. It also contributed to the enhancement of scientists' social status, considering them to be the \"most useful of all citizens\". Academies demonstrate the rising interest in science along with its increasing secularization, as evidenced by the small number of clerics who were members (13 percent). The presence of the French academies in the public sphere cannot be attributed to their membership, as although the majority of their members were bourgeois, the exclusive institution was only open to elite Parisian scholars. They perceived themselves as \"interpreters of the sciences for the people\". For example, it was with this in mind that academicians took it upon themselves to disprove the popular pseudo-science of mesmerism.\n\nThe strongest contribution of the French Academies to the public sphere comes from the \"concours académiques\" (roughly translated as \"academic contests\") they sponsored throughout France. These academic contests were perhaps the most public of any institution during the Enlightenment. The practice of contests dated back to the Middle Ages and was revived in the mid-17th century. The subject matter had previously been generally religious and/or monarchical, featuring essays, poetry and painting. However, by roughly 1725 this subject matter had radically expanded and diversified, including \"royal propaganda, philosophical battles, and critical ruminations on the social and political institutions of the Old Regime\". Topics of public controversy were also discussed such as the theories of Newton and Descartes, the slave trade, women's education and justice in France.\nMore importantly, the contests were open to all and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging. Indeed, although the \"vast majority\" of participants belonged to the wealthier strata of society (\"the liberal arts, the clergy, the judiciary and the medical profession\"), there were some cases of the popular classes submitting essays and even winning. Similarly, a significant number of women participated—and won—the competitions. Of a total of 2,300 prize competitions offered in France, women won 49—perhaps a small number by modern standards, but very significant in an age in which most women did not have any academic training. Indeed, the majority of the winning entries were for poetry competitions, a genre commonly stressed in women's education.\n\nIn England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas. It was founded by a group of independent scientists and given a royal charter in 1662. The Society played a large role in spreading Robert Boyle's experimental philosophy around Europe and acted as a clearinghouse for intellectual correspondence and exchange. Boyle was \"a founder of the experimental world in which scientists now live and operate\" and his method based knowledge on experimentation, which had to be witnessed to provide proper empirical legitimacy. This is where the Royal Society came into play: witnessing had to be a \"collective act\" and the Royal Society's assembly rooms were ideal locations for relatively public demonstrations. However, not just any witness was considered to be credible: \"Oxford professors were accounted more reliable witnesses than Oxfordshire peasants\". Two factors were taken into account: a witness's knowledge in the area and a witness's \"moral constitution\". In other words, only civil society were considered for Boyle's public.\n\nIt was the place in which philosophes got reunited and talked about old, actual or new ideas. Salons were the place where intellectual and enlightened ideas were built.\n\nCoffeehouses were especially important to the spread of knowledge during the Enlightenment because they created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life gathered and shared ideas. They were frequently criticized by nobles who feared the possibility of an environment in which class and its accompanying titles and privileges were disregarded. Such an environment was especially intimidating to monarchs who derived much of their power from the disparity between classes of people. If classes were to join together under the influence of Enlightenment thinking, they might recognize the all-encompassing oppression and abuses of their monarchs and because of their size might be able to carry out successful revolts. Monarchs also resented the idea of their subjects convening as one to discuss political matters, especially those concerning foreign affairs—rulers thought political affairs to be their business only, a result of their supposed divine right to rule.\n\nCoffeehouses represent a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities. Coffeeshops became homes away from home for many who sought, for the first time, to engage in discourse with their neighbors and discuss intriguing and thought-provoking matters, especially those regarding philosophy to politics. Coffeehouses were essential to the Enlightenment, for they were centers of free-thinking and self-discovery. Although many coffeehouse patrons were scholars, a great deal were not. Coffeehouses attracted a diverse set of people, including not only the educated wealthy but also members of the bourgeoisie and the lower class. While it may seem positive that patrons, being doctors, lawyers, merchants, etc. represented almost all classes, the coffeeshop environment sparked fear in those who sought to preserve class distinction. One of the most popular critiques of the coffeehouse claimed that it \"allowed promiscuous association among people from different rungs of the social ladder, from the artisan to the aristocrat\" and was therefore compared to Noah's Ark, receiving all types of animals, clean or unclean. This unique culture served as a catalyst for journalism when Joseph Addison and Richard Steele recognized its potential as an audience. Together, Steele and Addison published \"The Spectator (1711)\", a daily publication which aimed, through fictional narrator Mr. Spectator, both to entertain and to provoke discussion regarding serious philosophical matters.\n\nThe first English coffeehouse opened in Oxford in 1650. Brian Cowan said that Oxford coffeehouses developed into \"penny universities\", offering a locus of learning that was less formal than structured institutions. These penny universities occupied a significant position in Oxford academic life, as they were frequented by those consequently referred to as the \"virtuosi\", who conducted their research on some of the resulting premises. According to Cowan, \"the coffeehouse was a place for like-minded scholars to congregate, to read, as well as learn from and to debate with each other, but was emphatically not a university institution, and the discourse there was of a far different order than any university tutorial\".\n\nThe Café Procope was established in Paris in 1686 and by the 1720s there were around 400 cafés in the city. The Café Procope in particular became a center of Enlightenment, welcoming such celebrities as Voltaire and Rousseau. The Café Procope was where Diderot and D'Alembert decided to create the \"Encyclopédie\". The cafés were one of the various \"nerve centers\" for \"bruits publics\", public noise or rumour. These \"bruits\" were allegedly a much better source of information than were the actual newspapers available at the time.\n\nThe debating societies are an example of the public sphere during the Enlightenment. Their origins include:\nIn the late 1770s, popular debating societies began to move into more \"genteel\" rooms, a change which helped establish a new standard of sociability. The backdrop to these developments was \"an explosion of interest in the theory and practice of public elocution\". The debating societies were commercial enterprises that responded to this demand, sometimes very successfully. Some societies welcomed from 800 to 1,200 spectators a night.\n\nThe debating societies discussed an extremely wide range of topics. Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revolved around \"confessional\" – that is, Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist) or Anglican issues and the main aim of these debates was to establish which bloc of faith ought to have the \"monopoly of truth and a God-given title to authority\". After this date, everything thus previously rooted in tradition was questioned and often replaced by new concepts in the light of philosophical reason. After the second half of the 17th century and during the 18th century, a \"general process of rationalization and secularization set in\" and confessional disputes were reduced to a secondary status in favor of the \"escalating contest between faith and incredulity\".\n\nIn addition to debates on religion, societies discussed issues such as politics and the role of women. However, it is important to note that the critical subject matter of these debates did not necessarily translate into opposition to the government. In other words, the results of the debate quite frequently upheld the \"status quo\". From a historical standpoint, one of the most important features of the debating society was their openness to the public, as women attended and even participated in almost every debating society, which were likewise open to all classes providing they could pay the entrance fee. Once inside, spectators were able to participate in a largely egalitarian form of sociability that helped spread Enlightenment ideas.\n\nHistorians have long debated the extent to which the secret network of Freemasonry was a main factor in the Enlightenment. The leaders of the Enlightenment included Freemasons such as Diderot, Montesquieu, Voltaire, Lessing, Pope, Horace Walpole, Sir Robert Walpole, Mozart, Goethe, Frederick the Great, Benjamin Franklin and George Washington. Norman Davies said that Freemasonry was a powerful force on behalf of liberalism in Europe from about 1700 to the twentieth century. It expanded rapidly during the Age of Enlightenment, reaching practically every country in Europe. It was especially attractive to powerful aristocrats and politicians as well as intellectuals, artists and political activists.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, Freemasons comprised an international network of like-minded men, often meeting in secret in ritualistic programs at their lodges. They promoted the ideals of the Enlightenment and helped diffuse these values across Britain and France and other places. Freemasonry as a systematic creed with its own myths, values and set of rituals originated in Scotland around 1600 and spread first to England and then across the Continent in the eighteenth century. They fostered new codes of conduct—including a communal understanding of liberty and equality inherited from guild sociability—\"liberty, fraternity and equality\". Scottish soldiers and Jacobite Scots brought to the Continent ideals of fraternity which reflected not the local system of Scottish customs but the institutions and ideals originating in the English Revolution against royal absolutism. Freemasonry was particularly prevalent in France—by 1789, there were perhaps as many as 100,000 French Masons, making Freemasonry the most popular of all Enlightenment associations. The Freemasons displayed a passion for secrecy and created new degrees and ceremonies. Similar societies, partially imitating Freemasonry, emerged in France, Germany, Sweden and Russia. One example was the Illuminati founded in Bavaria in 1776, which was copied after the Freemasons, but was never part of the movement. The Illuminati was an overtly political group, which most Masonic lodges decidedly were not.\n\nMasonic lodges created a private model for public affairs. They \"reconstituted the polity and established a constitutional form of self-government, complete with constitutions and laws, elections and representatives\". In other words, the micro-society set up within the lodges constituted a normative model for society as a whole. This was especially true on the continent: when the first lodges began to appear in the 1730s, their embodiment of British values was often seen as threatening by state authorities. For example, the Parisian lodge that met in the mid 1720s was composed of English Jacobite exiles. Furthermore, freemasons all across Europe explicitly linked themselves to the Enlightenment as a whole. For example, in French lodges the line \"As the means to be enlightened I search for the enlightened\" was a part of their initiation rites. British lodges assigned themselves the duty to \"initiate the unenlightened\". This did not necessarily link lodges to the irreligious, but neither did this exclude them from the occasional heresy. In fact, many lodges praised the Grand Architect, the masonic terminology for the deistic divine being who created a scientifically ordered universe.\n\nGerman historian Reinhart Koselleck claimed: \"On the Continent there were two social structures that left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment: the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges\". Scottish professor Thomas Munck argues that \"although the Masons did promote international and cross-social contacts which were essentially non-religious and broadly in agreement with enlightened values, they can hardly be described as a major radical or reformist network in their own right\". Many of the Masons values seemed to greatly appeal to Enlightenment values and thinkers. Diderot discusses the link between Freemason ideals and the enlightenment in D'Alembert's Dream, exploring masonry as a way of spreading enlightenment beliefs. Historian Margaret Jacob stresses the importance of the Masons in indirectly inspiring enlightened political thought. On the negative side, Daniel Roche contests claims that Masonry promoted egalitarianism and he argues that the lodges only attracted men of similar social backgrounds. The presence of noble women in the French \"lodges of adoption\" that formed in the 1780s was largely due to the close ties shared between these lodges and aristocratic society.\n\nThe major opponent of Freemasonry was the Roman Catholic Church so that in countries with a large Catholic element, such as France, Italy, Spain and Mexico, much of the ferocity of the political battles involve the confrontation between what Davies calls the reactionary Church and enlightened Freemasonry. Even in France, Masons did not act as a group. American historians, while noting that Benjamin Franklin and George Washington were indeed active Masons, have downplayed the importance of Freemasonry in causing the American Revolution because the Masonic order was non-political and included both Patriots and their enemy the Loyalists.\n\nThe art produced during the Enlightenment was about a search for morality that was absent from previous art. At the same time, the Classical art of Greece and Rome became interesting to people again, since archaeological teams discovered Pompeii and Herculaneum. People took inspiration from it and revived the classical art into neo-classical art. This can be especially seen in early American art, where, throughout their art and architecture, they used arches, goddesses, and other classical architectural designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35950757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35950757", "title": "Apophantic", "text": "Apophantic\n\nApophantic (, \"declaratory\", from ἀποφαίνειν \"apophainein\", \"to show, to make known\") is a term Aristotle coined to mean a specific type of declaratory statement that can determine the truth or falsity of a logical proposition or phenomenon. It was adopted by Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger as part of phenomenology. Marcuse defines it as \"the logic of judgment\".\n\nIn Aristotle's usage, the Greek term ἀποφαντικὸς λόγος (apophantic speech) describes a statement that, by examining a proposition in itself, can determine what is true about a statement by establishing whether or not the predicate of a sentence may logically be attributed to its subject. For example, logical propositions may be divided into ones that are semantically determinate, as in the sentence \"All penguins are birds,\" and those that are semantically indeterminate, as in the sentence \"All bachelors are unhappy.\" In the first proposition, the subject is \"penguins\" and the predicate is \"birds\", and the set of all birds is a category into which the subject of penguins should necessarily be put. In the second proposition, the subject is \"bachelors\" and the predicate is \"unhappy\". This is a subjective, contingent connection that does not necessarily follow. An apophantic conclusion would, by examining the two statements—and not any evidence supporting or denying them—make a judgment between them that identifies \"All penguins are birds\" as more truthful than \"All bachelors are unhappy.\" One would reach this conclusion simply because of the propositions' nature, and not because any penguins or bachelors had been consulted.\n\nIn phenomenology, Martin Heidegger argues that apophantic judgements are the most reliable means of obtaining truth, as they do not rely upon subjective comparisons. Before Heidegger, however, his former teacher Husserl had already centralized the role of apophantic judgment in his phenomenological 'transcendental logic', during the course lectures on passive synthesis in the mid 1920s.\n\nThe concept appears in the Arabic Aristotelian tradition as \"jâzim\", or 'truth-apt'.\n\n"}
{"id": "8659722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8659722", "title": "Argument from degree", "text": "Argument from degree\n\nThe argument from degrees or the degrees of perfection argument is an argument for the existence of God first proposed by mediaeval Roman Catholic theologian Thomas Aquinas as one of the five ways to philosophically argue in favour of God's existence in his \"Summa Theologica\". It is based on ontological and theological notions of perfection. Contemporary Thomist scholars are often in disagreement on the metaphysical justification for this proof.. According to Edward Feser, the metaphysics involved in the argument has more to do with Aristotle than Plato; hence, while the argument presupposes realism about universals and abstract objects, it would be more accurate to say Aquinas is thinking of Aristotelian realism and not Platonic realism per se.\n\nA syllogistic form collected by Robert J. Schihl follows:\n"}
{"id": "3308034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3308034", "title": "Argument from miracles", "text": "Argument from miracles\n\nThe argument from miracles is an argument for the existence of God that relies on the belief that events witnessed and described as miracles – i.e. as events not explicable by natural or scientific laws – indicate the intervention of the supernatural.\n\nOne example of this argument is the Christological argument: the claim that historical evidence proves that Jesus Christ rose from the dead and that this can only be explained if God exists. Another is the claim that many of the Qur'an's prophecies have been fulfilled and that this too can only be explained if God (Allah) exists.\n\nDefenders of the argument include C. S. Lewis, G. K. Chesterton and William of Ockham.\n\nOne counter-argument to the argument from miracles is the argument from inconsistent revelations, which states that multiple incompatible miracles are alleged to have occurred which provide evidence for different religions. Not all these can be correct.\n\nAnother counter-argument is Occam's razor, which can be used to argue that God is unnecessary to explain miracles for which natural explanations can be found. In his documentary \"The Root of All Evil?\", British evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins utilises this argument when examining the supposed miracles in Lourdes, France. According to Catholic theology, supernatural cures occur in the area, but Dawkins expresses doubts as to their divine nature, noting that all the recorded cures comprise diseases which may have healed by themselves without the need for divine intervention.\n\nModern theologians rely on the arguments by David Hume, an eighteenth-century Scottish philosopher, who is known today for his skepticism and naturalism. Before making any claims, Hume explains the principle of evidence: the only way that we can assess the credibility of two claims is by weighing evidence. According to him, because evidence for miracles is always limited, we do not have a reason to believe in them. \n\n\n Hume on Miracles\n"}
{"id": "16382677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16382677", "title": "Armchair theorizing", "text": "Armchair theorizing\n\nArmchair theorizing, armchair philosophizing, or armchair scholarship is an approach to providing new developments in a field that does not involve the collection of new information but, rather, a careful analysis or synthesis of existent scholarship, especially frivolously or superficially so. \n\nDifferent disciplines place different weight on purely theoretical research. Some anthropologists argue that purely theoretical anthropological research is outdated and that ethnographic fieldwork should be a necessary part of anthropological research. On the other hand, some commentators argue that economic theories are designed to explain and predict economic phenomena, which requires analysis and synthesis, and not necessarily collection, of data. Leland B. Yeager even argues that economists can legitimately extrapolate from their own personal observations to design new theories. In this sense, Yeager sees armchair theorizing as something better than the \"mere sterile juggling of arbitrary assumptions\" saying that \"it can have a sound empirical basis.\"\nWhile armchair scholarship contrasts with the scientific method, which inherently involves the active investigation of the nature through data collection, armchair philosophers and theorizers can assist in formulating theories that explain observations; these theories can then be tested with further scientific investigation. While the methods of the armchair philosopher are different from those of the scientist, they can complement each other to produce new insights and discover necessary truths, whether they are empirical or theoretical.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "925810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925810", "title": "Axial Age", "text": "Axial Age\n\nAxial Age (also Axis Age, from ) is a term coined by German philosopher Karl Jaspers in the sense of a \"pivotal age\" characterizing the period of ancient history from about the 8th to the 3rd century BCE.\n\nThen, according to Jaspers' concept, new ways of thinking appeared in Persia, India, China and the Greco-Roman world in religion and philosophy, in a striking parallel development, without any obvious direct cultural contact between all of the participating Eurasian cultures. Jaspers identified key thinkers from this age who had a profound influence on future philosophies and religions, and identified characteristics common to each area from which those thinkers emerged. \n\nJaspers' approach to the culture of the middle of the first millennium BC has been adopted by other scholars and academics, and has become a point of discussion in the history of religion.\n\nJaspers introduced the concept of an Axial Age in his book \"Vom Ursprung und Ziel der Geschichte\" (\"The Origin and Goal of History\"), published in 1949. The simultaneous appearance of thinkers and philosophers in different areas of the world had been remarked by numerous authors since the 18th century, notably by the French Indologist Abraham Hyacinthe Anquetil-Duperron. Jaspers explicitly cited some of these authors, including Victor von Strauß (1859) and Peter Ernst von Lasaulx (1870). \nJasper's contribution was to claim that the Axial Age should be viewed as an objective empirical fact of history, independently of religious considerations. He argued that during the Axial Age, \"the spiritual foundations of humanity were laid simultaneously and independently in China, India, Persia, Judea, and Greece. And these are the foundations upon which humanity still subsists today\".\n\nHe identified a number of key thinkers as having had a profound influence on future philosophies and religions, and identified characteristics common to each area from which those thinkers emerged. Jaspers held up this age as unique, and one to which the rest of the history of human thought might be compared.\n\nJaspers presented his first outline of the Axial age by a series of examples:\n\nJaspers described the Axial Age as \"an interregnum between two ages of great empire, a pause for liberty, a deep breath bringing the most lucid consciousness\". It has also been suggested that the Axial Age was a historically liminal period, when old certainties had lost their validity and new ones were still not ready. \n\nJaspers had a particular interest in the similarities in circumstance and thought of its figures. Similarities included an engagement in the quest for human meaning and the rise of a new elite class of religious leaders and thinkers in China, India and the Occident. \n\nThese spiritual foundations were laid by individual thinkers within a framework of a changing social environment. Jaspers argues that the characteristics appeared under similar political circumstances: China, India, the Middle East and the Occident each comprised multiple small states engaged in internal and external struggles.\nThe three regions all gave birth to, and then institutionalized, a tradition of travelling scholars, who roamed from city to city to exchange ideas. After the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period, Taoism and Confucianism emerged in China. In other regions, the scholars were largely from extant religious traditions; in India, from Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism; in Persia, from Zoroastrianism; in The Levant, from Judaism; and in Greece, from Sophism and other classical philosophies.\n\nMany of the cultures of the axial age were considered second-generation societies because they were built on the societies that preceded them.\n\nParshvanatha (23rd Tirthankara in the 9th century BCE) and Mahavira (24th Tirthankara in the 6th century BCE), known as the fordmakers of Jainism lived during this age. They propagated the religion of sramanas (previous Tirthankaras) and influenced Indian philosophy by propounding the principles of ahimsa (non-violence), karma, samsara and asceticism.\n\nBuddhism, also of the sramana tradition of India, was another of the world's most influential philosophies, founded by Siddhartha Gautama, or the Buddha, who lived during this period; its spread was aided by Ashoka, who lived late in the period.\n\nIn China, the Hundred Schools of Thought were in contention and Confucianism and Taoism arose during this era, and in this area it remains a profound influence on social and religious life.\n\nZoroastrianism, another of Jaspers' examples, is one of the first monotheistic religions and some believe it greatly influenced modern Abrahamic religions with such conceptions as the devil and Heaven/Hell. The exact date of Zoroaster's life is debated by scholars, with some, such as Mary Boyce, arguing that Zoroastrianism itself is significantly older. Others, such as William W Malandra and RC Zaehner, suggest that he may indeed have been an early contemporary of Cyrus living around 600 BC. However, Boyce and other leading scholars who once supported much earlier dates for Zarathustra/Zoroaster have recently changed their position on the time when he likely lived, so that there is an emerging consensus regarding him as a contemporary or near-contemporary of Cyrus the Great.\n\nJaspers' axial shifts included the rise of Platonism, which would later become a major influence on the Western world through both Christianity and secular thought throughout the Middle Ages and into the Renaissance.\n\nIn addition to Jaspers, the philosopher Eric Voegelin referred to this age as \"The Great Leap of Being\", constituting a new spiritual awakening and a shift of perception from societal to individual values. Thinkers and teachers like the Buddha, Pythagoras, Heraclitus, Parmenides, and Anaxagoras contributed to such awakenings which Plato would later call \"anamnesis\", or a remembering of things forgotten.\n\nDavid Christian notes that the first \"universal religions\" appeared in the age of the first universal empires and of the first all-encompassing trading networks.\n\nAnthropologist David Graeber has pointed out that \"the core period of Jasper's Axial age [...] corresponds almost exactly to the period in which coinage was invented. What's more, the three parts of the world where coins were first invented were also the very parts of the world where those sages lived; in fact, they became the epicenters of Axial Age religious and philosophical creativity.\" Drawing on the work of classicist Richard Seaford and literary theorist Marc Shell on the relation between coinage and early Greek thought, Graeber argues that an understanding of the rise of markets is necessary to grasp the context in which the religious and philosophical insights of the Axial age arose. The ultimate effect of the introduction of coinage was, he argues, an \"ideal division of spheres of human activity that endures to this day: on the one hand the market, on the other, religion.\"\n\nGerman sociologist Max Weber played an important role in Jaspers' thinking. Shmuel Eisenstadt argues in the introduction to \"The Origins and Diversity of Axial Age Civilizations\" that Weber's work in his \"\", \"\" and \"Ancient Judaism\" provided a background for the importance of the period, and notes parallels with Eric Voegelin's \"Order and History\". Wider acknowledgement of Jaspers' work came after it was presented at a conference and published in \"Dædalus\" in 1975, and Jaspers' suggestion that the period was uniquely transformative generated important discussion amongst other scholars, such as Johann Arnason. In literature, Gore Vidal in his novel \"Creation\" covers much of this Axial Age through the fictional perspective of a Persian adventurer.\n\nShmuel Eisenstadt analyses economic circumstances relating to the coming of the Axial Age in Greece.\n\nReligious historian Karen Armstrong explored the period in her \"The Great Transformation\", and the theory has been the focus of academic conferences. Usage of the term has expanded beyond Jaspers' original formulation. Armstrong argues that the Enlightenment was a \"Second Axial Age\", including thinkers such as Isaac Newton, Sigmund Freud, and Albert Einstein. It has also been suggested that the modern era is a new axial age, wherein relationships between religion, secularity, and traditional thought are changing.\n\nThe validity of the concept has been called into question. In 2006 Diarmaid MacCulloch called the Jaspers thesis \"a baggy monster, which tries to bundle up all sorts of diversities over four very different civilisations, only two of which had much contact with each other during the six centuries that (after adjustments) he eventually singled out, between 800 and 200 BCE\". A comprehensive critique appears in Iain Provan's 2013 book \"Convenient Myths: The Axial Age, Dark Green Religion, and the World That Never Was\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27389289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27389289", "title": "Bertrand Russell Society", "text": "Bertrand Russell Society\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society is a non-profit learned society whose purpose is to foster a better understanding of Bertrand Russell and his work. The Society was founded in 1974 by, among others, Lady Katharine Tait, Russell's only daughter.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", and all members receive \"Russell: the Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\". The Society holds an annual meeting, and offers numerous prizes for literature and other work. The Society also sponsors talks in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association (APA) and the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society has three aims (Bylaws, Article 2):\n\n\nThe BRS motto is: \"The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.\"\n-Bertrand Russell (1925) \"What I Believe\"; cited from p. 349 in \"The Basic Writings of Bertrand Russell\" (Routledge Classics, New York: 2009).\n\nFounded in 1974, the Bertrand Russell Society seeks to foster a better understanding of the life, work, and writings of Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) and how his contributions relate to today's world. The Society has a regular annual meeting featuring scholarly and popular presentations about Russell and related subjects, a business meeting, a banquet, and good fellowship. Usually in June, most often in a university setting, annual meetings have taken place at wide variety of locations.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", which is free to all members. Interested persons are invited to submit papers to the editor, William Bruneau. Members also receive the scholarly journal \"Russell\".\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society Library has a collection of Russell-related books and papers that members can borrow and a large selection of television and radio interviews of Russell online in the members area of the Library. Members of the Bertrand Russell Society may contact us for access.\n\nThe Society awards annual student-paper-prizes for the best new papers about Russell by undergraduate and graduate students. Prize-winners present their papers at our annual meeting, receive $200, free registration, lodging and banquet at the meeting, and a 1-year membership in the BRS.\n\nThe Society also awards an annual BRS Book Award for the best new book on Russell, an annual BRS Award to an individual or an organization whose work best furthers the interests and commitments of Bertrand Russell, and the Lee Eisler Service Award for service to the Russell Society.\n\nThe Society sponsors sessions of talks on Russell and early analytic philosophy more generally at meetings of the American Philosophical Association (APA), often in conjunction with the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Society helps support Russell scholarship, for example, the scholarly journal \"Russell: The Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\", which all BRS members receive as part of their membership, and maintains these web pages to provide information on Russell and related subjects and to further our shared interests and values.\n\n"}
{"id": "2645879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2645879", "title": "Biofacticity", "text": "Biofacticity\n\nBiofacticity is a philosophical concept that allows to identify a living object as a so-called biofact, i.e. a semi-natural living entity which has been biotechnically interfered during its life-span such as transgenic plants or cloned organisms. In philosophy, sociology and the arts, a biofact stands in close relation to the anthropological concept of the human being a composite of nature and technology. Biofact was introduced to philosophy as a neologism in 2001 by the German philosopher Nicole C. Karafyllis and fuses the words artifact and the prefix \"bio\". One of Karafyllis' thesis is that a technical change in living objects, i.e. an increase in biofacticity, will shift the anthropological concept of hybridity towards a technological self-definition of the human.\n\nHybridity takes into account the anthropological fact that humans are hybrid with both natural and technical essences, making them designers with an individual \"\"Leib\",\" which is a term in phenomenology that denotes subjectivity of one's own corporeality. Biofacticity, on the other hand, is an epistemological and ontological term that reflects upon the anthropological term of hybridity. The latter deals with the self-definition of subjects rather than objects. Hybridity, thus, is an anthropological concept particularly when used for philosophical purposes while biofacticity is an epistemological concept. Both of these concepts demonstrate the hybrid character of the human being as a growing and creative entity who acts in light of self-determined ends. Theorists cite that this view becomes a broad approach in understanding the idea of life not merely as a biological process or functions of the genetic code.\n\n"}
{"id": "5738671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738671", "title": "Chronocentrism", "text": "Chronocentrism\n\nChronocentrism is the assumption that certain time periods (typically the present) are better, more important, or a more significant frame of reference than other time periods, either past or future.\n\nChronocentrism (from the Greek \"chrono-\" meaning \"time\") was coined by sociologist Jib Fowles in an article in the journal \"Futures\" in February, 1974. Fowles described chronocentrism as \"the belief that one's own times are paramount, that other periods pale in comparison\". More recently, it has been defined as \"the egotism that one's own generation is poised on the very cusp of history\". The term had been used earlier in a study about attitudes to ageing in the workplace. Chronocentricity: \"...only seeing the value of one's own age cohort...described the tendency for younger managers to hold negative perceptions of the abilities or other work-related competencies of older employees.\" This type of discrimination is a form of ageism.\n\nChronocentrism as ethnocentrism is the perceiving and judging of a culture's historical values in terms of the standards of one's own time period.\n\nThe Long Now Foundation is an organization that encourages the use of 5-digit years, e.g. \"02016\" instead of \"2016,\" to help emphasize how early the present time is in their vision of the timeline of humanity. The use of two-digit years before Y2K was an example of chronocentrism (in the early years of computing, the years 2000 and 1899 were believed to be too far in the future or the past, and thus of less importance than being able to save two digits in computerizing and typing out years).\n\nThe \"Copernican time principle\" is a temporal analog of the Copernican principle for space, which states that no spatial location is any more or less special of a frame of reference than any other spatial location (i.e., that our physical universe has no center). Some authors have extended this to also include that no point in time is any more or less special than any other point in time (e.g., in outdated steady-state theories), though this cannot be universally applied (e.g., the Big-Bang singularity is a special point in time that can be logically used as a frame of reference to date later events.)\n\n"}
{"id": "14710377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14710377", "title": "Credo ut intelligam", "text": "Credo ut intelligam\n\nCredo ut intelligam (alternatively spelled Credo ut intellegam) is Latin for \"I believe so that I may understand\" and is a maxim of Anselm of Canterbury (\"Proslogion\", 1), which is based on a saying of Augustine of Hippo (\"crede, ut intelligas\", \"believe so that you may understand\"; \"Tract. Ev. Jo.\", 29.6) to relate faith and reason. In Anselm's writing, it is placed in juxtaposition to its converse, \"intellego ut credam\" (\"I think so that I may believe\"), when he says \"Neque enim quaero intelligere ut credam, sed credo ut intelligam\" (\"I do not seek to understand in order that I may believe, but rather, I believe in order that I may understand\"). It is often associated with Anselm's other famous phrase \"fides quaerens intellectum\" (\"faith seeking understanding\").\nAugustine understood the saying to mean that we must believe in something in order to know anything about God. \n\nThe term has been used pejoratively to describe uncritical acceptance of questionable concepts. \n\n"}
{"id": "276872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276872", "title": "Critical thinking", "text": "Critical thinking\n\nCritical thinking is the objective analysis of facts to form a judgment. The subject is complex, and several different definitions exist, which generally include the rational, skeptical, unbiased analysis, or evaluation of factual evidence. Critical thinking is self-directed, self-disciplined, self-monitored, and self-corrective thinking. It presupposed assent to rigorous standards of excellence and mindful command to their use. It entails effective communication and problem-solving abilities, as well as a commitment to overcome our native egocentrism and sociocentrism.\n\nThe earliest documentation of critical thinking are the teachings of Socrates recorded by Plato. Socrates established the fact that one cannot depend upon those in \"authority\" to have sound knowledge and insight. He demonstrated that persons may have power and high position and yet be deeply confused and irrational. He established the importance of asking deep questions that probe profoundly into thinking before we accept ideas as worthy of belief.\n\nHe established the importance of seeking evidence, closely examining reasoning and assumptions, analyzing basic concepts, and tracing out implications not only of what is said but of what is done as well. His method of questioning is now known as \"Socratic Questioning\" and is the best known critical thinking teaching strategy. In his mode of questioning, Socrates highlighted the need for thinking for clarity and logical consistency. Socrates asked people questions to reveal their irrational thinking or lack of reliable knowledge. Socrates demonstrated that having authority does not ensure accurate knowledge. He established the method of questioning beliefs, closely inspecting assumptions and relying on evidence and sound rationale. Plato recorded Socrates' teachings and carried on the tradition of critical thinking. Aristotle and subsequent Greek skeptics refined Socrates' teachings, using systematic thinking and asking questions to ascertain the true nature of reality beyond the way things appear from a glance.\n\nSocrates set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking, namely, to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those that—however appealing to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be—lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant belief.\n\nCritical thinking was described by Richard W. Paul as a movement in two waves (1994). The \"first wave\" of critical thinking is often referred to as \na 'critical analysis' that is clear, rational thinking involving critique. Its details vary amongst those who define it. According to Barry K. Beyer (1995), critical thinking means making clear, reasoned judgments. During the process of critical thinking, ideas should be reasoned, well thought out, and judged. The U.S. National Council for Excellence in Critical Thinking defines critical thinking as the \"<nowiki>intellectually disciplined process of actively and skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing, or evaluating information gathered from, or generated by, observation, experience, reflection, reasoning, or communication, as a guide to belief and action.</nowiki>\"\n\nIn the term critical thinking, the word \"critical\", (Grk. κριτικός = \"kritikos\" = \"critic\") derives from the word critic and implies a critique; it identifies the intellectual capacity and the means \"of judging\", \"of judgement\", \"for judging\", and of being \"able to discern\". The intellectual roots of critical thinking are as \"ancient\" as its etymology, traceable, ultimately, to the teaching practice and vision of Socrates 2,500 years ago who discovered by a method of probing questioning that people could not rationally justify their confident claims to knowledge.\n\nTraditionally, critical thinking has been variously defined as follows:\n\nContemporary critical thinking scholars have expanded these traditional definitions to include qualities, concepts, and processes such as creativity, imagination, discovery, reflection, empathy, connecting knowing, feminist theory, subjectivity, ambiguity, and inconclusiveness. Some definitions of critical thinking exclude these subjective practices.\n\nThe ability to reason logically is a fundamental skill of rational agents, hence the study of the form of correct argumentation is relevant to the study of critical thinking.\n\n\"First wave\" logical thinking consisted of understanding the connections between two concepts or points in thought. It followed a philosophy where the thinker was removed from the train of thought and the connections and the analysis of the connect was devoid of any bias of the thinker. Kerry Walters describes this ideology in his essay Beyond Logicism in Critical Thinking, \"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective. This model of thinking has become so entrenched in conventional academic wisdom that many educators accept it as canon\". The adoption of these principals parallels themselves with the increasing reliance on a quantitative understanding of the world.\n\nIn the ‘second wave’ of critical thinking, as defined by Kerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994, p. 1), many authors moved away from the logocentric mode of critical thinking that the ‘first wave’ privileged, especially in institutions of higher learning. Walters summarizes logicism as \"the unwarranted assumption that good thinking is reducible to logical thinking\".\n\n\"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective.\"\nAs the ‘second wave’ took hold, scholars began to take a more inclusive view of what constituted as critical thinking. Rationality and logic are still widely accepted in many circles as the primary examples of critical thinking.\n\nThere are three types of logical reasoning Informally, two kinds of logical reasoning can be distinguished in addition to formal deduction: induction and abduction.\n e.g., X is human and all humans have a face so X has a face.\n e.g., The sum of even integers is even.\n e.g., I observe sheep in a field, and they appear white from my viewing angle, so sheep are white.\nKerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994) argues that rationality demands more than just logical or traditional methods of problem solving and analysis or what he calls the \"calculus of justification\" but also considers \"cognitive acts such as imagination, conceptual creativity, intuition and insight\" (p. 63). These \"functions\" are focused on discovery, on more abstract processes instead of linear, rules-based approaches to problem-solving. The linear and non-sequential mind must both be engaged in the rational mind.\n\nThe ability to critically analyze an argument – to dissect structure and components, thesis and reasons – is essential. But so is the ability to be flexible and consider non-traditional alternatives and perspectives. These complementary functions are what allow for critical thinking to be a practice encompassing imagination and intuition in cooperation with traditional modes of deductive inquiry.\n\nThe list of core critical thinking skills includes observation, interpretation, analysis, inference, evaluation, explanation, and metacognition. According to Reynolds (2011), an individual or group engaged in a strong way of critical thinking gives due consideration to establish for instance:\n\nIn addition to possessing strong critical-thinking skills, one must be disposed to engage problems and decisions using those skills. Critical thinking employs not only logic but broad intellectual criteria such as clarity, credibility, accuracy, precision, relevance, depth, breadth, significance, and fairness.\n\nCritical thinking calls for the ability to:\n\nIn sum:\n\n\"A persistent effort to examine any belief or supposed form of knowledge in the light of the evidence that supports or refutes it and the further conclusions to which it tends.\"\n\nThe habits of mind that characterize a person strongly disposed toward critical thinking include a desire to follow reason and evidence wherever they may lead, a systematic approach to problem solving, inquisitiveness, even-handedness, and confidence in reasoning.\n\nAccording to a definition analysis by Kompf & Bond (2001), critical thinking involves problem solving, decision making, metacognition, rationality, rational thinking, reasoning, knowledge, intelligence and also a moral component such as reflective thinking. Critical thinkers therefore need to have reached a level of maturity in their development, possess a certain attitude as well as a set of taught skills.\n\nEdward M. Glaser proposed that the ability to think critically involves three elements:\n\nEducational programs aimed at developing critical thinking in children and adult learners, individually or in group problem solving and decision making contexts, continue to address these same three central elements.\n\nThe Critical Thinking project at Human Science Lab, London, is involved in scientific study of all major educational system in prevalence today to assess how the systems are working to promote or impede critical thinking.\n\nContemporary cognitive psychology regards human reasoning as a complex process that is both reactive and reflective.\n\nThe relationship between critical thinking skills and critical thinking dispositions is an empirical question. Some people have both in abundance, some have skills but not the disposition to use them, some are disposed but lack strong skills, and some have neither. A measure of critical thinking dispositions is the California Measure of Mental Motivation and the California Critical Thinking Dispositions Inventory. The CriTT is an alternative measure that examines student beliefs and attitudes about critical thinking\n\nJohn Dewey is one of many educational leaders who recognized that a curriculum aimed at building thinking skills would benefit the individual learner, the community, and the entire democracy.\n\nCritical thinking is significant in academics due to being significant in learning. Critical thinking is significant in the learning process of internalization, in the construction of basic ideas, principles, and theories inherent in content. And critical thinking is significant in the learning process of application, whereby those ideas, principles, and theories are implemented effectively as they become relevant in learners' lives.\n\nEach discipline adapts its use of critical thinking concepts and principles. The core concepts are always there, but they are embedded in subject-specific content. For students to learn content, intellectual engagement is crucial. All students must do their own thinking, their own construction of knowledge. Good teachers recognize this and therefore focus on the questions, readings, activities that stimulate the mind to take ownership of key concepts and principles underlying the subject.\n\nHistorically, teaching of critical thinking focused only on logical procedures such as formal and informal logic. This emphasized to students that good thinking is equivalent to logical thinking. However, a second wave of critical thinking, urges educators to value conventional techniques, meanwhile expanding what it means to be a critical thinker. In 1994, Kerry Walters compiled a conglomeration of sources surpassing this logical restriction to include many different authors’ research regarding connected knowing, empathy, gender-sensitive ideals, collaboration, world views, intellectual autonomy, morality and enlightenment. These concepts invite students to incorporate their own perspectives and experiences into their thinking.\n\nIn the English and Welsh school systems, \"Critical Thinking\" is offered as a subject that 16- to 18-year-olds can take as an A-Level. Under the OCR exam board, students can sit two exam papers for the AS: \"Credibility of Evidence\" and \"Assessing and Developing Argument\". The full Advanced GCE is now available: in addition to the two AS units, candidates sit the two papers \"Resolution of Dilemmas\" and \"Critical Reasoning\". The A-level tests candidates on their ability to think critically about, and analyze, arguments on their deductive or inductive validity, as well as producing their own arguments. It also tests their ability to analyze certain related topics such as credibility and ethical decision-making. However, due to its comparative lack of subject content, many universities do not accept it as a main A-level for admissions. Nevertheless, the AS is often useful in developing reasoning skills, and the full Advanced GCE is useful for degree courses in politics, philosophy, history or theology, providing the skills required for critical analysis that are useful, for example, in biblical study.\n\nThere used to also be an Advanced Extension Award offered in Critical Thinking in the UK, open to any A-level student regardless of whether they have the Critical Thinking A-level. Cambridge International Examinations have an A-level in Thinking Skills.\n\nFrom 2008, Assessment and Qualifications Alliance has also been offering an A-level Critical Thinking specification.\n\nOCR exam board have also modified theirs for 2008. Many examinations for university entrance set by universities, on top of A-level examinations, also include a critical thinking component, such as the LNAT, the UKCAT, the BioMedical Admissions Test and the Thinking Skills Assessment.\n\nIn Qatar, critical thinking was offered by AL-Bairaq—an outreach, non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields. The idea behind AL-Bairaq is to offer high school students the opportunity to connect with the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Faculty members train and mentor the students and help develop and enhance their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills.\n\nIn 1995, a meta-analysis of the literature on teaching effectiveness in higher education was undertaken.\nThe study noted concerns from higher education, politicians, and business that higher education was failing to meet society's requirements for well-educated citizens. It concluded that although faculty may aspire to develop students' thinking skills, in practice they have tended to aim at facts and concepts utilizing lowest levels of cognition, rather than developing intellect or values.\n\nIn a more recent meta-analysis, researchers reviewed 341 quasi- or true-experimental studies, all of which used some form of standardized critical thinking measure to assess the outcome variable. The authors describe the various methodological approaches and attempt to categorize the differing assessment tools, which include standardized tests (and second-source measures), tests developed by teachers, tests developed by researchers, and tests developed by teachers who also serve the role as the researcher. The results emphasized the need for exposing students to real-world problems and the importance in encouraging open dialogue within a supportive environment. Effective strategies for teaching critical thinking are thought to be possible in a wide variety of educational settings. One attempt to assess the humanities' role in teaching critical thinking and reducing belief in pseudoscientific claims was made at North Carolina State University. Some success was noted and the researchers emphasized the value of the humanities in providing the skills to evaluate current events and qualitative data in context.\n\nScott Lilienfeld notes that there is some evidence to suggest that basic critical thinking skills might be successfully taught to children at a younger age than previously thought.\n\nCritical thinking is an important element of all professional fields and academic disciplines (by referencing their respective sets of permissible questions, evidence sources, criteria, etc.). Within the framework of scientific skepticism, the process of critical thinking involves the careful acquisition and interpretation of information and use of it to reach a well-justified conclusion. The concepts and principles of critical thinking can be applied to any context or case but only by reflecting upon the nature of that application. Critical thinking forms, therefore, a system of related, and overlapping, modes of thought such as anthropological thinking, sociological thinking, historical thinking, political thinking, psychological thinking, philosophical thinking, mathematical thinking, chemical thinking, biological thinking, ecological thinking, legal thinking, ethical thinking, musical thinking, thinking like a painter, sculptor, engineer, business person, etc. In other words, though critical thinking principles are universal, their application to disciplines requires a process of reflective contextualization.\n\nCritical thinking is considered important in the academic fields because it enables one to analyze, evaluate, explain, and restructure their thinking, thereby decreasing the risk of adopting, acting on, or thinking with, a false belief. However, even with knowledge of the methods of logical inquiry and reasoning, mistakes can happen due to a thinker's inability to apply the methods or because of character traits such as egocentrism. Critical thinking includes identification of prejudice, bias, propaganda, self-deception, distortion, misinformation, etc. Given research in cognitive psychology, some educators believe that schools should focus on teaching their students critical thinking skills and cultivation of intellectual traits.\n\nCritical thinking skills can be used to help nurses during the assessment process. Through the use of critical thinking, nurses can question, evaluate, and reconstruct the nursing care process by challenging the established theory and practice. Critical thinking skills can help nurses problem solve, reflect, and make a conclusive decision about the current situation they face. Critical thinking creates \"new possibilities for the development of the nursing knowledge.\" Due to the sociocultural, environmental, and political issues that are affecting healthcare delivery, it would be helpful to embody new techniques in nursing. Nurses can also engage their critical thinking skills through the Socratic method of dialogue and reflection. This practice standard is even part of some regulatory organizations such as the College of Nurses of Ontario – Professional Standards for Continuing Competencies (2006).\nIt requires nurses to engage in Reflective Practice and keep records of this continued professional development for possible review by the College.\n\nCritical thinking is also considered important for human rights education for toleration. The Declaration of Principles on Tolerance adopted by UNESCO in 1995 affirms that \"education for tolerance could aim at countering factors that lead to fear and exclusion of others, and could help young people to develop capacities for independent judgement, \"critical thinking\" and ethical reasoning.\"\n\nCritical thinking is used as a way of deciding whether a claim is true, partially true, or false. It is a tool by which one can come about reasoned conclusions based on a reasoned process.\n\nThe advent and rising popularity of online courses has prompted some to ask if computer-mediated communication (CMC) promotes, hinders, or has no effect on the amount and quality of critical thinking in a course (relative to face-to-face communication). There is some evidence to suggest a fourth, more nuanced possibility: that CMC may promote some aspects of critical thinking but hinder others. For example, Guiller et al. (2008) found that, relative to face-to-face discourse, online discourse featured more justifications, while face-to-face discourse featured more instances of students expanding on what others had said. The increase in justifications may be due to the asynchronous nature of online discussions, while the increase in expanding comments may be due to the spontaneity of ‘real time’ discussion. Newman et al. (1995) showed similar differential effects. They found that while CMC boasted more important statements and linking of ideas, it lacked novelty. The authors suggest that this may be due to difficulties participating in a brainstorming-style activity in an asynchronous environment. Rather, the asynchrony may promote users to put forth “considered, thought out contributions.”\n\nResearchers assessing critical thinking in online discussion forums often employ a technique called Content Analysis, where the text of online discourse (or the transcription of face-to-face discourse) is systematically coded for different kinds of statements relating to critical thinking. For example, a statement might be coded as “Discuss ambiguities to clear them up” or “Welcoming outside knowledge” as positive indicators of critical thinking. Conversely, statements reflecting poor critical thinking may be labeled as “Sticking to prejudice or assumptions” or “Squashing attempts to bring in outside knowledge.” The frequency of these codes in CMC and face-to-face discourse can be compared to draw conclusions about the quality of critical thinking.\n\nSearching for evidence of critical thinking in discourse has roots in a definition of critical thinking put forth by Kuhn (1991), which emphasizes the social nature of discussion and knowledge construction. There is limited research on the role of social experience in critical thinking development, but there is some evidence to suggest it is an important factor. For example, research has shown that 3- to 4-year-old children can discern, to some extent, the differential creditability and expertise of individuals. Further evidence for the impact of social experience on the development of critical thinking skills comes from work that found that 6- to 7-year-olds from China have similar levels of skepticism to 10- and 11-year-olds in the United States. If the development of critical thinking skills was solely due to maturation, it is unlikely we would see such dramatic differences across cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "881233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881233", "title": "Demarcation problem", "text": "Demarcation problem\n\nThe demarcation problem in the philosophy of science is about how to distinguish between science and non-science, including between science, pseudoscience, and other products of human activity, like art and literature, and beliefs. The debate continues after over two millennia of dialogue among philosophers of science and scientists in various fields, and despite broad agreement on the basics of scientific method.\n\nAn early attempt at demarcation can be seen in the efforts of Greek natural philosophers and medical practitioners to distinguish their methods and their accounts of nature from the mythological or mystical accounts of their predecessors and contemporaries.\nIn Charmides Plato discusses a \"science of science\". Although the subject in the dialogue is epistemological, it is an early version of the demarcation problem.\n\nG. E. R. Lloyd notes that there was a sense in which the groups engaged in various forms of inquiry into nature set out to \"legitimate their own positions,\" laying \"claim to a new kind of wisdom ... that purported to yield superior enlightenment, even superior practical effectiveness.\" Medical writers in the Hippocratic tradition maintained that their discussions were based on necessary demonstrations, a theme developed by Aristotle in his Posterior Analytics. One element of this polemic for science was an insistence on a clear and unequivocal presentation of arguments, rejecting the imagery, analogy, and myth of the old wisdom. Some of their claimed naturalistic explanations of phenomena have been found to be quite fanciful, with little reliance on actual observations.\n\nLogical positivism, formulated in the 1920s, held that only statements about matters of fact or logical relations between concepts are meaningful. All other statements lack sense and are labelled \"metaphysics\" (see the verifiability theory of meaning also known as verificationism). This distinction between science, which in the view of the Vienna Circle possessed empirically verifiable statements, and what they pejoratively called \"metaphysics\", which lacked such statements, can be seen as representing another aspect of the demarcation problem. Logical positivism is often discussed in the context of the demarcation between science and non-science or pseudoscience. However, \"The verificationist proposals had the aim of solving a distinctly different demarcation problem, namely that between science and metaphysics.\"\n\nFalsifiability is the demarcation criterion proposed by Karl Popper as opposed to verificationism: \"statements or systems of statements, in order to be ranked as scientific, must be capable of conflicting with possible, or conceivable observations\". Popper saw demarcation as a central problem in the philosophy of science. Unlike the Vienna Circle, Popper stated that his proposal was not a criterion of \"meaningfulness\".\n\nIn Popper's later work, he stated that falsifiability is both a necessary and a sufficient criterion for demarcation. He described falsifiability as a property of \"the logical structure of sentences and classes of sentences,\" so that a statement's scientific or non-scientific status does not change over time. This has been summarized as a statement being falsifiable \"if and only if it logically contradicts some (empirical) sentence that describes a logically possible event that it would be logically possible to observe.\"\n\nNicholas Maxwell has argued that physics only accepts theories that are sufficiently unified, this persistent preference for unity committing physics to accepting an implicit metaphysical (i.e. non-falsifiable) thesis concerning the unity of nature. For good Popperian reasons, this implicit metaphysical thesis needs to be made explicit within physics so that it can be critically assessed and, we may hope, improved. Popper's demarcation criterion is refuted: an unfalsifiable, metaphysical thesis is a basic tenet of scientific knowledge within physics, whether this is recognized or not.\n\nThomas Kuhn, an American historian and philosopher of science, is often connected with what has been called postpositivism or postempiricism. In his 1962 book \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", Kuhn divided the process of doing science into two different endeavors, which he called normal science and extraordinary science (which he sometimes also called \"revolutionary science\"). \"In Kuhn's view, 'it is normal science, in which Sir Karl's sort of testing does not occur, rather than extraordinary science which most nearly distinguishes science from other enterprises'…\" That is, the utility of a scientific paradigm for puzzle-solving lies in its suggesting solutions to new problems while continuing to satisfy all of the problems solved by the paradigm that it replaces.\n\nPopper criticized Kuhn's demarcation criterion, saying that astrologers are engaged in puzzle solving, and that therefore Kuhn's criterion recognized astrology as a science. He stated that Kuhn's criterion leads to a \"major disaster…[the] replacement of a rational criterion of science by a sociological one\".\n\nKuhn's work largely called into question Popper's demarcation, and emphasized the human, subjective quality of scientific change. Paul Feyerabend was concerned that the very question of demarcation was insidious: science itself had no need of a demarcation criterion, but instead some philosophers were seeking to justify a special position of authority from which science could dominate public discourse. Feyerabend argued that science does not in fact occupy a special place in terms of either its logic or method, and no claim to special authority made by scientists can be upheld. He argued that, within the history of scientific practice, no rule or method can be found that has not been violated or circumvented at some point in order to advance scientific knowledge. Both Imre Lakatos and Feyerabend suggest that science is not an autonomous form of reasoning, but is inseparable from the larger body of human thought and inquiry.\n\nPaul R. Thagard has proposed another set of principles to try to overcome these difficulties, and believes it is important for society to find a way of doing so. According to Thagard's method, a theory is not scientific if it satisfies two conditions:\n\nThagard specifies that sometimes theories will spend some time as merely \"unpromising\" before they truly deserve the title of pseudoscience. He cites astrology as an example: it was stagnant compared to advances in physics during the 17th century, and only later became \"pseudoscience\" in the advent of alternative explanations provided by psychology during the 19th century.\n\nThagard also states that his criteria should not be interpreted so narrowly as to allow willful ignorance of alternative explanations, or so broadly as to discount our modern science compared to science of the future. His definition is a practical one, which generally seeks to distinguish pseudoscience as areas of inquiry which are stagnant and without active scientific investigation.\n\nMany historians of science are concerned with the development of science from its primitive origins; consequently they define science in sufficiently broad terms to include early forms of natural knowledge. In the article on science in the eleventh edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the scientist and historian William Cecil Dampier Whetham defined science as \"ordered knowledge of natural phenomena and of the relations between them.\" In his study of Greek science, Marshall Clagett defined science as \"first, the orderly and systematic comprehension, description and/or explanation of natural phenomena and, secondly, the [mathematical and logical] tools necessary for the undertaking.\" A similar definition appeared more recently in David Pingree's study of early science: \"Science is a systematic explanation of perceived or imaginary phenomena, or else is based on such an explanation. Mathematics finds a place in science only as one of the symbolical languages in which scientific explanations may be expressed.\" These definitions tend to focus more on the subject matter of science than on its method and from these perspectives, the philosophical concern to establish a line of demarcation between science and non-science becomes \"problematic, if not futile.\"\n\nLarry Laudan concluded, after examining various historical attempts to establish a demarcation criterion, that \"philosophy has failed to deliver the goods\" in its attempts to distinguish science from non-science—to distinguish science from pseudoscience. None of the past attempts would be accepted by a majority of philosophers nor, in his view, should they be accepted by them or by anyone else. He stated that many well-founded beliefs are not scientific and, conversely, many scientific conjectures are not well-founded. He also stated that demarcation criteria were historically used as in polemical disputes between \"scientists\" and \"pseudo-scientists.\" Advancing a number of examples from everyday practice of football and carpentry and non-scientific scholarship such as literary criticism and philosophy, he saw the question of whether a belief is well-founded or not to be more practically and philosophically significant than whether it is scientific or not. In his judgment, the demarcation between science and non-science was a pseudo-problem that would best be replaced by focusing on the distinction between reliable and unreliable knowledge, without bothering to ask whether that knowledge is scientific or not. He would consign phrases like \"pseudo-science\" or \"unscientific\" to the rhetoric of politicians or sociologists.\n\nOthers have disagreed with Laudan. Sebastian Lutz, for example, argues that demarcation does not have to be a single necessary and sufficient condition as Laudan implied. Rather, Laudan's reasoning at the most establishes that there has to be one necessary criterion and one possibly different sufficient criterion. Other critics have argued for multiple demarcation criteria suggesting that there should be one set of criteria for the natural sciences; another set of criteria for the social sciences, and claims involving the supernatural could have a set of pseudoscientific criteria. Massimo Pigliucci wrote that science generally conforms to Ludwig Wittgenstein's concept of family resemblances.\n\nConcerning science education, Michael D. Gordin wrote:\nDiscussions of the demarcation problem highlight the rhetoric of science and promote critical thinking. Citizens thinking critically, and expressing themselves with reasoned argument in policy discussion, contribute to enlightened democracy. For example, Gordin stated\nThe demarcation problem has been compared to the problem of differentiating fake news from real news, which rose to prominence in the 2016 United States presidential election.\n\n"}
{"id": "350966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350966", "title": "Emergent materialism", "text": "Emergent materialism\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, emergent (or emergentist) materialism is a theory which asserts that the mind is an irreducible existent in some sense, albeit not in the sense of being an ontological simple, and that the study of mental phenomena is independent of other sciences.\n\nThe view can be divided into emergence which denies mental causation and emergence which allows for causal effect. A version of the latter type has been advocated by John R. Searle, called biological naturalism. \nThe other main group of materialist views in the philosophy of mind can be labeled non-emergent (or non-emergentist) materialism, and includes identity theory (reductive materialism), philosophical behaviorism, functionalism, and eliminativism (eliminative materialism).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17902829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17902829", "title": "Empirical limits in science", "text": "Empirical limits in science\n\nIn philosophy of science, the empirical limits of science define problems with observation, and thus are limits of human ability to inquire and answer questions about phenomena. These include topics such as infinity, the future and god. In the 20th century several of these were well-documented or proposed in physics:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246545", "title": "Hedone", "text": "Hedone\n\nHedone was the personification and goddess of pleasure, enjoyment, and delight. Hedone, also known as Voluptas in Roman mythology, is the daughter of the Greek gods Eros (Cupid) and Psyche. She was associated more specifically with sensual pleasure. Her opposites were the Algos, personifications of pain.\n\n\"Hēdonē\" () is a Greek word meaning pleasure, and is the root of the English word \"hedonism\". In the philosophy of Epicurus, hēdonē is described as a pleasure that may or may not derive from actions that are virtuous, whereas another form of pleasure, \"terpsis\", is always virtuous. According to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Epicurus uses hēdonē in reference to only physical pleasures\n\n"}
{"id": "43491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43491", "title": "Heuristic argument", "text": "Heuristic argument\n\nA heuristic argument is an argument that reasons from the value of a method or principle that has been shown by experimental (especially trial-and-error) investigation to be a useful aid in learning, discovery and problem-solving. A widely used and important example of a heuristic argument is Occam's Razor.\n\nIt is a speculative, non-rigorous argument, that relies on an analogy or on intuition, that allows one to achieve a result or approximation to be checked later with more rigor; otherwise the results are of doubt. It is used as a hypothesis or conjecture in an investigation. It can also be used as a mnemonic.\n\n"}
{"id": "56730925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56730925", "title": "Ideal theory (politics)", "text": "Ideal theory (politics)\n\nIn political philosophy, ideal theory refers to argument concerning political or social arrangements under favorable assumptions. The phrase is associated with the work of John Rawls.\n"}
{"id": "25152980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25152980", "title": "Illusionism (philosophy)", "text": "Illusionism (philosophy)\n\nIllusionism is a metaphysical theory first propounded by professor Saul Smilansky of the University of Haifa. It holds that people have illusory beliefs about free will. Furthermore, it holds that it is both of key importance and morally right that people not be disabused of these beliefs, because the illusion has benefits both to individuals and to society. Belief in hard incompatibilism, argues Smilansky, removes an individual's basis for a sense of self-worth in his or her own achievements. It is \"extremely damaging to our view of ourselves, to our sense of achievement, worth, and self-respect\".\n\nNeither compatibilism nor hard determinism are the whole story, according to Smilansky, and there exists an \"ultimate perspective\" in which \"some\" parts of compatibilism are valid and \"some\" parts of hard determinism are valid. However, Smilansky asserts, the nature of what he terms the \"fundamental dualism\" between hard determinism and compatibilism is a morally undesirable one, in that both beliefs, in their absolute forms, have adverse consequences. The distinctions between choice and luck made by compatibilism are important, but wholly undermined by hard determinism. But, conversely, hard determinism undermines the morally important notions of justice and respect, leaving them nothing more than \"shallow\" notions.\n\nSmilansky's thesis is considered a radical one, and other philosophers disagree with it. Professor Derk Pereboom of Cornell University, for example, disagrees that hard incompatibilism necessarily does away with self-worth, because to a large extent that sense of self-worth isn't related to will at all, let alone to free will. Aspects of worthiness such as natural beauty, native physical ability, and intelligence are not voluntary. Professor James Lenman of the University of Glasgow (at the time) takes a similar line, arguing that Smilansky's expression of the problems is overstated. The problems that he presents are less fundamentally metaphysical than simply practical in nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "1094491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1094491", "title": "Immaculate perception", "text": "Immaculate perception\n\nThe expression immaculate perception has been used in various senses by various philosophers.\n\n\nRapper 8Ball released a song in March 2012 titled \"immaculate perception\" featuring Waka Flocka Flame and Yelawolf.\n"}
{"id": "3732137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732137", "title": "Immanent evaluation", "text": "Immanent evaluation\n\nImmanent evaluation is a philosophical concept used by Gilles Deleuze in his essay \"Qu'est-ce qu'un dispositif ?\" (1989), where it is seen as the opposite of transcendent judgment.\n\nDeleuze writes about Michel Foucault: \"Foucault ... makes allusion to 'aesthetic' criteria, which are understood as criteria for life and replace on each occasion the claims of transcendental judgement [\"jugement transcendant\"] with an immanent evaluation [\"évaluation immanente\"]\".\n"}
{"id": "2101364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2101364", "title": "Jesuitism", "text": "Jesuitism\n\nJesuitism is a casuistic approach to moral questions and problems, so called because it was promoted by some Jesuits of the 17th century. The earliest known citation is 1622.\n\nSome Jesuit theologians, in view of promoting personal responsibility and the respect of freedom of conscience, stressed the importance of the 'case by case' approach to personal moral decisions and ultimately developed and accepted a casuistry (the study of \"cases of consciences\") where at the time of decision, individual inclinations were more important than the moral law itself. A British encyclopedia of 1900 claimed that it was \"popularly regarded as an attempt to achieve holy ends by unholy means.\"\n\nBlaise Pascal, the French mathematician, religious philosopher and Jansenist sympathiser, vigorously attacked the moral laxism of such Jesuits in his famous \"Lettres provinciales\" of 1656-57. It is considered suspect by many moral theologians.\n"}
{"id": "1935142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1935142", "title": "Junto (club)", "text": "Junto (club)\n\nThe Junto, also known as the Leather Apron Club, was a club for mutual improvement established in 1727 by Benjamin Franklin in Philadelphia. The Leather Apron Club's purpose was to debate questions of morals, politics, and natural philosophy, and to exchange knowledge of business affairs.\n\nFranklin organized a group of friends to provide a structured form of mutual improvement. The group, initially composed of twelve members, called itself the Junto (the word is a mistaken use of the masculine singular Spanish adjective \"joined\", mistaken for the feminine singular noun \"junta\", \"a meeting\". Both derive from Latin \"iunct-\", past participle of \"iungere\", \"to join\"). The members of the Junto were drawn from diverse occupations and backgrounds, but they all shared a spirit of inquiry and a desire to improve themselves, their community, and to help others. Among the original members were printers, surveyors, a cabinetmaker, a clerk, and a bartender. Although most of the members were older than Benjamin Franklin, he was clearly their leader.\n\nAt just 21, he oversaw five men, including Hugh Meredith, Stephen Potts, and George Webb, who were soon to form the core of the Junto. Franklin was an outgoing, social individual and had become acquainted with these businessmen. This gathering included prominent merchants who met informally to drink and discuss the business of the day. Franklin's congenial ways attracted many unique and learned individuals, and from these, he selected the members for the Junto.\n\nAll members lived in Philadelphia and came from diverse areas of interest and business. Along with Meredith, Potts, and Webb, they included Joseph Breintnall, merchant and scrivener, who also loved poetry and natural history. Thomas Godfrey was a glazier, mathematician, and inventor; and Nicholas Scull and William Parsons were both surveyors. Scull was also a bibliophile and Parsons a cobbler and astrologer. William Maugridge was a cabinetmaker, William Coleman a merchant's clerk, and Robert Grace a gentleman. Grace's wealth meant he did not have to work, but apparently he brought an intellectual element to the group and a fine library. The twelfth member of the Junto remained a mystery until 2007, when Professor George Boudreau of Penn State discovered a long-forgotten account of the club's refreshments, and verified that shoemaker John Jones Jr. was an original member. Jones was a Philadelphia Quaker, a neighbor of Franklin's, and later a founding member of the Library Company of Philadelphia. The club met Friday nights, first in a tavern and later in a house, to discuss moral, political, and scientific topics of the day.\n\nFranklin describes the formation and purpose of the Junto in his autobiography:\n\nFranklin was influenced by two predecessor organizations in particular.\n\nOne was an English group called the \"Dry Club,\" which had philosopher John Locke, William Popple, and Benjamin Furly among its members during the 1690s (and was itself partially inspired by Furly's \"heretics of the Lantern\" society). It met one evening a week for two hours at a time and required that its members reply affirmatively to the following questions:\nEach member of the club would take turns proposing topics for discussion and moderating these discussions. The discussions were to be held in a spirit of open-minded tolerance:\n\nThat no Person or Opinion be unhandsomely reflected on; but every Member behave himself with all the temper, judgement, modesty, and discretion he is master of.\n\nThe other important predecessors were the \"neighborhood benefit societies\" and \"reforming societies\" proposed in Massachusetts by Cotton Mather. Cotton Mather described the neighborhood societies as being composed of a dozen married couples who would meet at one anothers' homes in succession for prayer and other religious exercises, and also to consider questions like the following:\nThe similar reforming societies would entertain questions like these:\nThe Junto's Friday evening meetings were organized around a series of questions that Franklin devised, covering a range of intellectual, personal, business, and community topics. These questions were used as a springboard for discussion and community action. In fact, through the Junto, Franklin promoted such concepts as volunteer fire-fighting clubs, improved security (night watchmen), and a public hospital.\n\nThis is the list of questions Franklin devised to guide the discussions at Junto meetings (from Franklin's papers, dated 1728, and included in some editions of his autobiography):\n\nAny person to be qualified as a member was to stand up, lay his hand upon his chest, over his heart, and be asked the following questions, viz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57006909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57006909", "title": "Lived experience", "text": "Lived experience\n\nIn qualitative phenomenological research, lived experience refers to a representation of the experiences and choices of a given person, and the knowledge that they gain from these experiences and choices. In the philosophy of Wilhelm Dilthey, the human sciences are based on lived experience, which makes them fundamentally different from the natural sciences, which are considered to be based on scientific experiences. In phenomenological research, lived experiences are the main object of study, but the goal of such research is not to understand individuals' lived experiences as facts, but to determine the understandable meaning of such experiences. \n"}
{"id": "2451216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451216", "title": "Living Garment of God", "text": "Living Garment of God\n\nLiving Garment of God, Living Nature, so called by Goethe, nature being viewed by him as the garment, or vesture, with which God invests himself so as to reveal and impart Himself to man.\n"}
{"id": "52603511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52603511", "title": "Modern Stoicism", "text": "Modern Stoicism\n\nModern Stoicism is an intellectual and popular movement in the late 20th and early 21st century which attempts to revive the Stoic philosophy in the modern setting. It is not to be confused with Neostoicism, an analogous phenomenon in the 17th century. The term \"Modern Stoicism\" covers both the revival of interest in the Stoic philosophy and the philosophical efforts to adjust\nAncient Stoicism to the language and conceptual framework of the present. 'The rise of Modern Stoicism' has received attention in the international media since around November 2012 when the first Annual Stoic Week event was organized.\n\nModern Stoicism has developed in the context of the 20th-century surge of interest in virtue ethics in general. \"The [...] work by philosophers like Philippa Foot, Alasdair MacIntyre, and Martha Nussbaum, among others, have brought back virtue ethics as a viable alternative to the dominant Kantian-deontological and utilitarian-consequentialist approaches.\" Modern Stoicism draws a lot from the late 20th and early 21st century spike in publications of scholarly works on ancient Stoics. Beyond that, “the Modern Stoicism movement traces its roots to the work of Dr Albert Ellis, who developed Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy, as well as Aaron T. Beck, who is regarded by many as the father to early versions of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. Viktor Frankl also found stoicism useful while he was imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II; he later developed his theory known as logotherapy. \n\nOne major premise of Modern Stoicism can be expressed as, in Lawrence Becker's words, \"it is interesting to try to imagine what might have happened if Stoicism had had a continuous twenty-three-hundred-year history; if Stoics had had to confront Bacon and Descartes, Newton and Locke, Hobbes and Bentham, Hume and Kant, Darwin and Marx.\" Or, as Massimo Pigliucci puts it more concisely, \"it is worth considering what it means to 'be a Stoic' in the 21st century.\"\n\nThe first major modern work that spelled out the key premises of Modern Stoicism is, arguably, \"A New Stoicism\" by Lawrence Becker, first published in 1997. For other important books, see the notable books section below.\n\nStoic philosophy was the original philosophical inspiration for modern cognitive psychotherapy, particularly as mediated by Dr Albert Ellis' Rational-Emotive Behaviour Therapy (REBT), the major precursor of CBT. The original cognitive therapy treatment manual for depression by Aaron T. Beck et al. states, \"The philosophical origins of cognitive therapy can be traced back to the Stoic philosophers\". A well-known quotation from \"The Handbook\" of Epictetus was taught to most clients during the initial session of traditional REBT by Ellis and his followers: \"It's not the events that upset us, but our judgments about the events.\" This subsequently became a common element in the \"socialization\" phase of many other approaches to CBT. The question of Stoicism's influence on modern psychotherapy, particularly REBT and CBT, was described in detail in \"The Philosophy of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy\" (2010) by Donald Robertson. Moreover, several early 20th century psychotherapists were influenced by stoicism, most notably the \"rational persuasion\" school founded by the Swiss neurologist and psychotherapist Paul DuBois, who drew heavily on Stoicism in his clinical work and encouraged his clients to study passages from Seneca as homework assignments.\n\nIt is characteristic of the Modern Stoicism movement that it is global and that it relies heavily on the social media and online communities. As E.O. Scott puts it \"Modern Stoicism is really a “Web 2.0” phenomenon.\" One of the key sites is the Modern Stoicism website, which harbors the Stoicism Today blog and hosts the Annual Stoic Week (online) and Stoicon (offline) events. Another important place is the New Stoa, which was founded in May 1996 and is arguably the first lasting stoic community on the internet. Three key podcasts talking about Stoicism applied to modern thought are the \"Stoic Solutions Podcast\" hosted by Justin Vacula, \"The Practical Stoic Podcast\" hosted by Simon Drew and Steve Karafit's \"The Sunday Stoic\" \n\nThere are also a number of personal blogs exploring stoicism, some of them run by notable stoic scholars (e.g. Massimo Pigliucci, William Irvine or John Sellars) and some by therapists who explore stoic applications (e.g. Donald Robertson). In addition, articles on Stoicism have appeared on popular websites. In E.O.Scott's words, \"[the] potent combination of social media and a few highly publicized books and articles [...] has recently launched stoicism on an exponential growth curve.\" There is a variety of stoic meetups and groups based in places like Australia, Denver, Dublin, Edinburgh, Fremont, Helsinki, London, Manchester, Milwaukee, New York, Orlando, San Francisco, Toronto and Warsaw - amongst others. According to E.O.Scott, \"arguably the most important and influential gathering place for Modern Stoics [online]\" is the \"stoicism group\" on Facebook of ~27 000 people (as of July 19, 2017). The analogous Reddit group has amassed ~96 400 users (as of June 11, 2018). Beyond the Anglophone there is the “Sztuka życia według stoików” site run by Piotr Stankiewicz, \"Stoicyzm Uliczny\" run by Marcin Fabjański and Centrum Praktyki Stoickiej run by Tomasz Mazur and others.\n\nApplications of Modern Stoicism are reported across industries. According to \"Forbes,\" Modern Stoic thought \"hold[s] fascinating promise for business and government leaders tackling global problems in a turbulent, post-recession slump.\" However, two Stoic academics, Kai Whiting and Leonidas Konstantakos, have warned against using \"life-hack Stoicism\" or \"Silicon Valley Stoicism\", as the primary means of understanding Stoic philosophy. Subsequently, they discussed on a popular Stoic blog, Stoicism's role in advocating for change in society, including when it comes to standing against gender-based discrimination in the workplace .\n\nSimilarities of Modern Stoicism and Third Wave CBT have been suggested as well, and its potency in treating depression has been studied. There has also been interest in applying the tenets of Ancient Stoicism to the human origin story and the modern challenges of sustainable development, material consumption and consumerism. \n\nPresumably, the single most difficult challenge that Modern Stoicism faces is its relationship to the core principle of Ancient Stoicism, that is to the principle of “following nature.” In a word, the Ancient Stoics put forward it was unquestionable that in order to live a good life, one needed to live consistently with nature. According to the Ancient Stoics, nature was by definition good and everything which was conformable to nature was deemed good. Moreover, the Ancient Stoics had a teleological outlook on the world, that is, they held that everything in the universe was purposefully and rationally organized to a good end.\n\nHowever, this view is much more difficult to uphold in the present day. As Becker puts it, “science presented significant challenges to our [Stoic] metaphysical views.” The notion of the rational organization of the world seems much more doubtful in the 21st century than it, presumably, was two millennia ago. “When we face the universe,” Becker writes, “we confront its indifference to us and our own insignificance to it. It takes no apparent notice of us, has no role other than Extra for us to play, no aim for us to follow.” Even more pressing questions are raised when we face our own human realm, with the long and still expanding record of genocide and atrocity and the manslaughter that followed. These are major challenges for the ancient Stoic view of the world as a rational and essentially good being.\n\nWe happen upon an analogous problem if we narrow down our interest to human nature (as contrasted to the nature of the universe as a whole). In other words, the idea of “following our human nature” also raises serious questions. As Becker describes it, “it is ‘natural’ to find these [defining] traits in human character and conduct, but it is equally natural to find a significant number of exceptions. As a result, none of these characteristics fits into the most familiar forms of ethical argument from human nature, e.g. (a) that humans are by nature X, and that Y is contrary to X, hence, that Y is contrary to human nature; or (b) that X is what defines the unique function (the essence) of a human being, thus to flourish as a human being is to excel at X.\" In this vein, “following human nature” yields no specific guidelines for conduct either. All told, this is one of the central problems for Modern Stoicism: that in the 21st century it is far more difficult to ground our ethical framework in “nature,” be it universal, cosmic nature, or to special human nature.\n\nBecker acknowledges this problem and even goes to the point of asserting that “stoic ethics would be much better off without its ‘follow nature’ slogan.\" Yet, he reflects that the stoics are, “however, too deeply branded with it to renounce it now. The best we can do is reinterpret it.”\n\nThe reinterpretation he proposes is this. “Following nature means following the facts. It means getting the facts about the physical and social world we inhabit, and the facts about our situation in it [...] before we deliberate about normative matters. It means facing those facts - accepting them for exactly what they are, no more and no less - before we draw normative conclusions from them. It means doing ethics from the facts constructing normative propositions a posteriori. It means adjusting those normative propositions to fit changes in the facts, and accepting those adjustments for exactly what they are, no more and no less. And it means living within the facts - within the realm of actual rather than hypothetical norm.”\n\nThis process of “getting the facts about the [...] world” happens in some measure (but not exclusively) through science. In Becker’s words, “The biological, behavioral, and social sciences contribute to ethics in three important ways: they offer a wealth of material that can be used in the naturalistic arguments [...], they offer explanatory theories (e.g. from evolutionary biology) that help separate relatively fixed traits from transient or malleable ones and they offer powerful, elaborate analyses of learning, rationality, and rational choice.\" Ethical reasoning of a stoic “cannot begin until all relevant description, representation, and prediction are in hand, [...] – until, let us say, the empirical work is done.” This empirical work may be obtained by the scientific method and thus the principle of “following facts” can be (in some contexts) read as “not contradicting science” (not to be confused with simple “following science,” which would be reductive and misleading).\n\nBecker organizes his reading of stoic ethics around the concept of agency. “The Development of Virtue [happens through] the Perfection of Agency,” or through the “ideal agency” as he calls it. In other words, this can be described as the belief in the “inherent primacy of virtue in terms of maximization of one’s agency.” This agency is understood in terms of “a balance of control and stability” and is executed all-things-considered, i.e. upon having obtained the most detailed information about the facts as available.\n\nHappiness, in this view, is also explained and achieved through agency. “We hold,” this is Becker again, “that happiness as understood by mature and fit agents is a property of whole lives, not of transient mental states. We hold that it is achievable only through a proper balance of stability and control in the exercise of agency.” And, “this sort of happiness with one’s life also appears to be a psychological consequence of healthy agency [...] The life of a stoic sage is filled with such happiness, as a consequence of virtue.\"\n\nIn Becker’s version of Stoicism, several dogmas of Ancients Stoics are questioned or challenged. For example, the traditional stoic all-or-nothing understanding of virtue is questioned (to some extent). In the original, Orthodox Stoicism one was either a perfect sage or no sage at all, there was no “middle ground,” or “in between.” The Ancient Stoic virtue admits of no degrees. And yet, Becker lays ground for a softer, more nuanced approach. “You can drown,” he writes, “face down on the calm surface of the sea as surely as at the bottom. [...] We [i.e. the Modern Stoics] follow later colleagues in thinking that these doctrines are untenable.”\n\nAnother dogma of the Ancient Stoics that is sometimes questioned in Modern Stoicism is the idea that the gateways of stoic philosophy are open to everyone and that living a stoic life is definitely the best option for every human being. E.g. in Becker’s \"New Stoicism\" suggests that “acting appropriately, as understood here, is a special kind of optimization project – one that it is logically possible to reject. (Which people with compulsive, obsessive, or addictive personalities may in fact reject.) [Modern Stoic] claim is, only healthy agents, at least those well along the road to fitness in their deliberative powers, cannot plausibly reject it.”\n\nAnother example of possible discrepancies between the Modern Stoic approach and Ancient Stoicism is the question of whether a certain amount of external goods is required for a good life. In the Orthodox Stoic view there are absolutely no entry conditions to living a stoic life. One can become a sage no matter the circumstances: be it poverty, illness, physical adversity and so on. This issue has been traditionally the bone of contention between the stoics (who held the mentioned position) and the followers of Aristotle (who held that a certain amount of external goods is necessary for development of virtue). In this context, Becker’s words are quite non-orthodox coming from the stoic position. He writes that “it is [...] plausible to conclude, however, that there is an identifiable kernel of bodily and psychological health that is a necessary condition of all further development. If this kernel is damaged, so is the capacity to develop agency.”\n\nA very important concept of Traditional Stoicism is the distinction between things within one’s power and not within our power. While this concept is embraced fully by many Modern Stoics, some reinterpret it. Becker, for instance, points out that the whole idea of the dichotomy is in fact a major oversimplification. As he puts it, “[the] distinction between things that are within our control, or ‘up to us,’ and those who are not [...] [is] misleading.” Instead, he proposes to read it along the lines of “it is wise to calibrate the strength, depth, and dissemination of our attachments to the fragility and transience of the objects involved.”\n\nOn the other hand, William Irvine goes even further and undermines the central premise of the dichotomy, i.e. that the distinction between things “in our power” and “not in our power” is sharp and that there is no third option. In other words, Irvine suggests the possibility of turning the “dichotomy of control” into a “trichotomy of control.” Irvine argues “We can restate Epictetus’s dichotomy as follows: There are things over which we have complete control and things over which we have no control at all. As well as suggesting \"the dichotomy is a false dichotomy, since it ignores the existence of things over which we have some but not complete control.” Pigliucci describes it as follows: “some things are up to us (chiefly, our judgments and actions), some things are not up to us (major historical events, natural phenomena), but on a number of other things we have partial control. Irvine recasts the third category in terms of internalized goals, which makes more sense of the original dichotomy.”\n\nThere is also no unity in evaluating the ascetic elements in stoicism and in defining the sage’s attitude towards the ordinary pleasures of life. Becker mentions “the confusion, both among stoics and their critics” and the “false notion that the stoic ideal is a life devoid of the ordinary pleasures of sex, food, drink, music, wealth, fame, friends, and so on” (according to Becker this confusion happens because “stoics have occasionally claimed that, for the sage, \"eudaiomonia\" somehow replaces ordinary happiness”. In this vein, Stankiewicz argued against the “ascetic misinterpretation,” saying that “stoicism is not asceticism and a stoic is not a monk. In fact, it is the school of The Pale Epicureans that is closer to the ideal of abstemiousness. The stoic proposal is far broader and it extends far beyond the narrow passage of the ascetic way.” Thus, “we [the Modern Stoics] must face the lushness, diversity and – yes! – sensuality of life and we have to live and thrive inside this world, accepting it as it is. Unlike a monk, a stoic doesn’t dodge the myriad of different aspects of the earthly and sensual life.”\n\nOn the other hand, Kevin Patrick refutes this argument, ridiculing it as “hedonic stoicism” and saying that the mentioned position “falls into the more common trap and misinterpretation, that since externals are indifferent to us, we should go ahead and indulge in all of those things for which we have a proclivity.” “Modern Stoics,” he concludes, “ought to be stoics.”\n\nIrvine takes a more modest stance and he proposes a program of “voluntary discomfort.” As he describes it: “By undertaking acts of voluntary discomfort – by, for example, choosing to be cold and hungry when we could be warm and well fed – we harden ourselves against misfortunes that might befell us in the future. If all we know is comfort, we might be traumatized when we are forced to experience pain or discomfort, as we someday almost surely will. In other words, voluntary discomfort can be thought of as a kind of vaccine: By exposing ourselves to a small amount of a weakened virus now, we create in ourselves an immunity that will protect us from a debilitating illness in the future.”\n\nThe following list, arranged by the time of first publication, includes positions representing modern Stoicism only, while it excludes purely scholarship books on ancient Stoics, biographies, etc.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44083145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44083145", "title": "Necessary evil", "text": "Necessary evil\n\nA necessary evil is an unsavoury thing (an evil) that someone believes must be done or accepted because it is necessary to achieve a better outcome—especially because possible alternative courses of action or inaction are expected to be worse. It is the \"lesser evil\" in the lesser of two evils principle, which provides that when given two bad choices, the one that is not as bad as the other is better than the one that is the greater threat.\n\nThe \"Oxford Dictionary of Word Origins\" asserts that \"[t]he idea of a necessary evil goes back to Greek\", describing the first necessary evil as marriage, and further stating that, \"The first example in English, from 1547, refers to a woman.\" Thomas Fuller, in his 1642 work, \"The Holy State and the Profane State\", made another of the earliest recorded uses of the phrase when he described the court jester as something that \"...some count a necessary evil in a Court\". In \"Common Sense\", Thomas Paine described government as at best a \"necessary evil\".\n\nEvil as a concept is defined by the fact of acts done, considered to be contrary to morality, in other words, sinful, and the execution of any act by an individual, the defining value of the act, is harm is done (in an archaic sense, this indicates acts causing repulsion or discomfort), additionally, the act is classified as, \"profoundly immoral\". \n\nThis being true, the use of the term \"evil\" in the phrase does not necessarily indicate that the thing being characterized as a \"necessary evil\" is something that is generally considered an \"evil\" in the sense of being immoral or the enemy of the good. In Fuller's use of the phrase, for example, there is no implication that court jesters are evil people, or having one serves an evil end. The term is most typically used to identify something that is merely an inconvenience or annoyance. Where an author suggests that, \"[P]aperwork is a necessary evil, despised but handled with the understanding that a mistake – even a trivial one – could be costly.\" it is understood that the author is not deeming \"paperwork\" to be wicked, immoral, or evil in senses comparable to those.Some thinkers specifically reject the idea of anything that is actually \"evil\" being necessary. This may manifest as an admonition for moral people to avoid participating in the activities that are perceived as evil:\n\nAlternately, this may manifest as a call to eliminate systems that contain aspects perceived as evil, and replace them with systems that avoid these aspects. For example, speaking of political parties in the Parliament of the United Kingdom, one author wrote:\n\nItalian physician Philip Mazzei, in his correspondence with Thomas Jefferson in the 1770s, qualified a necessary evil as a restriction without which even greater evils would arise:\n\n\ndictionary definition Cambridge Dictionary Accessed February 11, 2018 \n"}
{"id": "52794051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52794051", "title": "Novasophy", "text": "Novasophy\n\nNovasophy (from 19th century Latin, feminine of \"novus\" ‘new’ and Greek φιλοσοφία, \"philosophia\", \"love of wisdom\") Knowledge of the nature of new wisdom\n"}
{"id": "4555383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4555383", "title": "Oxford Calculators", "text": "Oxford Calculators\n\nThe Oxford Calculators were a group of 14th-century thinkers, almost all associated with Merton College, Oxford; for this reason they were dubbed \"The Merton School\". These men took a strikingly logico-mathematical approach to philosophical problems.\nThe key \"calculators\", writing in the second quarter of the 14th century, were Thomas Bradwardine, William Heytesbury, Richard Swineshead and John Dumbleton.\nThese men built on the slightly earlier work of Walter Burley and Gerard of Brussels.\n\nThe advances these men made were initially purely mathematical but later became relevant to mechanics. They used Aristotelian logic and physics. They also studied and attempted to quantify every physical and observable characteristic, like heat, force, color, density, and light. Aristotle believed that only length and motion were able to be quantified. But they used his philosophy and proved it untrue by being able to calculate things such as temperature and power.\nThey developed Al-Battani's work on trigonometry and their most famous work was the development of the mean speed theorem, (though it was later credited to Galileo) which is known as \"The Law of Falling Bodies\". Although they attempted to quantify these observable characteristics, their interests lay more in the philosophical and logical aspects than in natural world. They used numbers to philosophically disagree and prove the reasoning of \"why\" something worked the way it did and not only \"how\" something functioned the way that it did.\n\nThe Oxford Calculators distinguished kinematics from dynamics, emphasizing kinematics, and investigating instantaneous velocity. They first formulated the mean speed theorem: \"a body moving with constant velocity travels the same distance as an accelerated body in the same time if its velocity is half the final speed of the accelerated body\".\n\nThe mathematical physicist and historian of science Clifford Truesdell, wrote:\n\nIn \"Tractatus de proportionibus\" (1328), Bradwardine extended the theory of proportions of Eudoxus to anticipate the concept of exponential growth, later developed by the Bernoulli and Euler, with compound interest as a special case. Arguments for the mean speed theorem (above) require the modern concept of limit, so Bradwardine had to use arguments of his day. Mathematician and mathematical historian Carl Benjamin Boyer writes, \"Bradwardine developed the Boethian theory of double or triple or, more generally, what we would call 'n-tuple' proportion\".\n\nBoyer also writes that \"the works of Bradwardine had contained some fundamentals of trigonometry\". Yet \"Bradwardine and his Oxford colleagues did not quite make the breakthrough to modern science.\" The most essential missing tool was algebra.\n\nThomas Bradwardine was born in 1290 in Sussex, England. An attending student educated at Balliol College, Oxford, he earned various degrees. He was a secular cleric, a scholar, a theologist, a mathematician, and a physicist. He became chancellor of the diocese of London and Dean of St Paul's, as well as chaplain and confessor to Edward III. During his time at Oxford, he authored many books including: \"De Geometria Speculativa\" (printed in Paris, 1530), \"De Arithmetica Practica\" (printed in Paris, 1502), and \"De Proportionibus Velocitatum in Motibus\" (printed in Paris in 1495).\n\nAristotle suggested that velocity was proportional to force and inversely proportional to resistance, doubling the force would double the velocity but doubling the resistance would halve the velocity (VαF/R). Bradwardine objected saying that this is not observed because the velocity does not equal zero when the resistance exceeds the force. Instead, he proposed a new theory that, in modern terms, would be written as (Vαlog F/R), which was widely accepted until the late sixteenth century.\n\nWilliam Heytesbury was a bursar at Merton until the late 1330s and he administered the college properties in Northumberland. Later in his life he was a chancellor of Oxford. He was the first to discover the mean-speed theorem, later \"The Law of Falling Bodies\". Unlike Bradwardine's theory, the theorem, also known as \"The Merton Rule\" is a probable truth.\nHis most noted work was \"Regulae Solvendi Sophismata\" (Rules for Solving Sophisms). \"Sophisma\" is a statement which one can argue to be both true and false. The resolution of these arguments and determination of the real state of affairs forces one to deal with logical matters such as the analysis of the meaning of the statement in question, and the application of logical rules to specific cases. An example would be the statement, \"The compound H2O is both a solid and a liquid\". When the temperature is low enough this statement is true. But it may be argued and proven false at a higher temperature. In his time, this work was logically advanced.\nHe was a second generation calculator. He built on Richard Klivingston's \"Sophistimata and Bradwardine's \"Insolubilia\". Later, his work went on to influence Peter of Mantura and Paul of Venice.\n\nRichard Swineshead was also an English mathematician, logician, and natural philosopher. The sixteenth-century polymath Girolamo Cardano placed him in the top-ten intellects of all time, alongside Archimedes, Aristotle, and Euclid.\nHe became a member of the Oxford calculators in 1344. His main work was a series of treatises written in 1350. This work earned him the title of \"The Calculator\". His treatises were named \"Liber Calculationum\", which means \"Book of Calculations\". His book dealt in exhaustive detail with quantitative physics and he had over fifty variations of Bradwardine's law.\n\nJohn Dumbleton became a member of the calculators in 1338-39. After becoming a member, he left the calculators for a brief period of time to study theology in Paris in 1345-47. After his study there he returned to his work with the calculators in 1347-48. One of his main pieces of work, \"Summa logicae et philosophiae naturalis\", focused on explaining the natural world in a coherent and realistic manner, unlike some of his colleagues, claiming that they were making light of serious endeavors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4522868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4522868", "title": "Philosophy of information", "text": "Philosophy of information\n\nThe philosophy of information (PI) is a branch of philosophy that studies topics relevant to computer science, information science and information technology.\n\nIt includes:\n\nThe philosophy of information (PI) has evolved from the philosophy of artificial intelligence, logic of information, cybernetics, social theory, ethics and the study of language and information.\n\nThe logic of information, also known as the \"logical theory of information\", considers the information content of logical signs and expressions along the lines initially developed by Charles Sanders Peirce.\n\nOne source for the philosophy of information can be found in the technical work of Norbert Wiener, Alan Turing (though his work has a wholly different origin and theoretical framework), William Ross Ashby, Claude Shannon, Warren Weaver, and many other scientists working on computing and information theory back in the early 1950s. See the main article on Cybernetics.\n\nSome important work on information and communication was done by Gregory Bateson and his colleagues.\n\nLater contributions to the field were made by Fred Dretske, Jon Barwise, Brian Cantwell Smith, and others.\n\nThe Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI) was founded at Stanford University in 1983 by philosophers, computer scientists, linguists, and psychologists, under the direction of John Perry and Jon Barwise.\n\nMore recently this field has become known as the philosophy of information. The expression was coined in the 1990s by Luciano Floridi, who has published prolifically in this area with the intention of elaborating a unified and coherent, conceptual frame for the whole subject.\n\nThe concept \"information\" has been defined by several theorists.\n\nCharles S. Peirce's theory of information was embedded in his wider theory of symbolic communication he called the \"semeiotic\", now a major part of semiotics. For Peirce, information integrates the aspects of signs and expressions separately covered by the concepts of denotation and extension, on the one hand, and by connotation and comprehension on the other.\n\nClaude E. Shannon, for his part, was very cautious: \"The word 'information' has been given different meanings by various writers in the general field of information theory. It is likely that at least a number of these will prove sufficiently useful in certain applications to deserve further study and permanent recognition. It is hardly to be expected that a single concept of information would satisfactorily account for the numerous possible applications of this general field.\" (Shannon 1993, p. 180). Thus, following Shannon, Weaver supported a tripartite analysis of information in terms of (1) technical problems concerning the quantification of information and dealt with by Shannon's theory; (2) semantic problems relating to meaning and truth; and (3) what he called \"influential\" problems concerning the impact and effectiveness of information on human behaviour, which he thought had to play an equally important role. And these are only two early examples of the problems raised by any analysis of information.\n\nA map of the main senses in which one may speak of information is provided by the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article. The previous paragraphs are based on it.\n\nGregory Bateson defined information as \"a difference that makes a difference\". which is based on Donald M. MacKay: information is a distinction that makes a difference.\n\nAccording to Luciano Floridi, four kinds of mutually compatible phenomena are commonly referred to as \"information\": \n\nThe word \"information\" is commonly used so metaphorically or so abstractly that the meaning is unclear.\n\nRecent creative advances and efforts in computing, such as semantic web, ontology engineering, knowledge engineering, and modern artificial intelligence provide philosophy with fertile ideas, new and evolving subject matters, methodologies, and models for philosophical inquiry. While computer science brings new opportunities and challenges to traditional philosophical studies, and changes the ways philosophers understand foundational concepts in philosophy, further major progress in computer science would only be feasible when philosophy provides sound foundations for areas such as bioinformatics, software engineering, knowledge engineering, and ontologies.\n\nClassical topics in philosophy, namely, mind, consciousness, experience, reasoning, knowledge, truth, morality and creativity are rapidly becoming common concerns and foci of investigation in computer science, e.g., in areas such as agent computing, software agents, and intelligent mobile agent technologies.\n\nAccording to Luciano Floridi \" one can think of several ways for applying computational methods towards philosophical matters:\n\nNumerous philosophers and other thinkers have carried out philosophical studies of the social and cultural aspects of electronically mediated information.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7723865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7723865", "title": "Philosophy of mathematics education", "text": "Philosophy of mathematics education\n\nThe Philosophy of mathematics education is an interdisciplinary area of study and research based on the intersection of the fields of mathematics education and the philosophy of mathematics, the latter being understood in an inclusive sense to include multidisciplinary theorizing about mathematics incorporating philosophical, sociological, anthropological, semiotic, historical, ethnomathematical, etc., perspectives. \n\nSome of the central questions addressed by this sub-field are:\n\nFor further details see 'What is the philosophy of mathematics education?' by Paul Ernest.\n\nThere is a dedicated \"Philosophy of Mathematics Education Journal\" freely available on the web.\n\n"}
{"id": "53438629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53438629", "title": "Philosophy of psychedelics", "text": "Philosophy of psychedelics\n\nPhilosophy of psychedelics is the philosophical investigation of the psychedelic experience. While psychedelic, entheogenic or hallucinogenic substances have been used by many traditional cultures throughout history mostly for religious purposes, recorded philosophical speculation and analysis of these substances, their phenomenological effects and the relevance of these altered states of consciousness to philosophical questions is a relatively late phenomenon in the history of philosophy. Traditional cultures who use psychedelic substances such as the Amazonian and Indigenous Mexican peoples hold that ingesting medicinal plants such as Ayahuasca and Peyote allows one to commune with the beings of the spirit world.\n\nThe Indian Yogi and scholar Patanjali in his Yoga sutras mentions that mystic powers (\"siddhaya\") can arise from certain \"herbs\" or \"healing plants\" (\"osadhi\"):\n\nLater commentators on the Yoga sutras like Vyasa mention elixirs of the asuras, and also state these herbal concoctions can be found in this world. Adi Shankara meanwhile refers to the Vedic drink Soma.\n\nVajrayana Buddhist Tantras mention the nectar \"amrita\" (literally \"immortal\", \"deathless\") which was drunk during rituals and which is associated in the tradition with 'spiritual intoxication'. A biography of the scholar Gampopa mentions how one of his teachers stated that \"You can obtain Buddhahood: by taking a medicine pill which will make you immortal like the sun and moon.\" This is a reference to the Vajrayana practice of rasayana (Skt: \"alchemy\") to create certain potions or pills. According to M.L. Walter's study of Indo-Tibetan rasayana, ingestion of these substances were said to \"strengthen the yogin and procure the siddhi for him, as well as bringing him to the final goal.\" According to Mike Crowley there are two traditions of Indo Tibetan-rasayana preserved in Tibet, one founded by Padmasambhava and the other by his contemporary, Vimalamitra.\n\nAccording to Chogyam Trungpa (1939 – 1987), a modern teacher is the Kagyu tradition:\n\namrita... is used in conferring the second abhisheka, the secret abhisheka. This transmission dissolves the student's mind into the mind of the teacher of the lineage. In general, amrita is the principle of intoxicating extreme beliefs, belief in ego, and dissolving the boundary between confusion and sanity so that coemergence can be realized.\n\nEuropean literature such as Confessions of an English Opium-Eater by Thomas De Quincey (one of the first English commentators on Kant) and Samuel Taylor Coleridge's Kubla Khan described the use and phenomenal character of mind-altering substances such as Opium. De Quincey held that Opium allowed one to access the earliest of memories and that therefore no memories were ever truly forgotten:\n\nThe minutest incidents of childhood, or forgotten scenes of later years, were often revived: I could not be said to recollect them; for if I had been told of them when waking, I should not have been able to acknowledge them as parts of my past experience. But placed as they were before me, in dreams like intuitions, and clothed in all their evanescent circumstances and accompanying feelings, I recognized them instantaneously […] I feel assured that there is no such thing as forgetting possible to the mind.\n\nJacques-Joseph Moreau, who reported his experiments with mental patients and drugs, believed that “the hashish experience was a way to gain insight into mental disease.”\n\nThe French Poet Baudelaire wrote about the effects of Hashish and Opium in Les Paradis artificiels (1860) and theorized about how they could be used to allow the individual to reach \"ideal\" states of mind. Charles Baudelaire was member of the 'Club des Hashischins', a Parisian literary group dedicated to the exploration of altered states of consciousness which included literary figures such as Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, Gerard de Nerval, Honore de Balzac, and Theophile Gautier. Baudelaire's opinion of the drug was generally negative, believing that it weakened and dampened artistic capacities, the personal Will and even the very identity of the hashish eater. He compared it to suicide and a false happiness, and saw wine as the true intoxicant of the artists.\n\nIn the United States, The Hasheesh Eater (1857) an autobiographical book by Fitz Hugh Ludlow became popular. Ludlow wrote that a Marijuana user sought \"the soul’s capacity for a broader being, deeper insight, grander views of Beauty, Truth and Good than she now gains through the chinks of her cell.\" The American William James was one of the first academic philosophers to write about the effects of hallucinogenic substances in his \"The Subjective Effects of Nitrous Oxide\" (1882) in which he writes that the gas can produce a \"tremendously exiting sense of an intense metaphysical illumination. Truth lies open to the view in depth beneath depth of almost blinding evidence. The mind sees all logical relations of being with an apparent subtlety and instantaniety to which its normal consciousness offers no parallel\". He goes on to say that the experience gave him the sense that the philosophy of Hegel was true. In his \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" he likewise writes:\nNitrous oxide and ether, especially nitrous oxide … stimulate the mystical consciousness in an extraordinary degree. … [In] the nitrous oxide trance we have a genuine metaphysical revelation. … [Our] normal waking consciousness, rational consciousness as we call it, is but one special type of consciousness, whilst all about it, parted from it by the filmiest of screens, there lie potential forms of consciousness entirely different.\n\nAfter using mescaline in 1953, Aldous Huxley wrote the Doors of Perception where he advanced the theory that psychedelic compounds could produce mystical experiences and knowledge, \"what the visionary, the medium, even the mystic were talking about\" and what eastern philosophy described with terms like Satcitananda, the Godhead, Suchness, Void, Not-self and Dharmakaya. Huxley also quotes the philosopher C. D. Broad, which held that the brain and nervous might act as a reducing valve of all the stimuli in the universe:\n\nAccording to such a theory, each one of us is potentially Mind at Large. But in so far as we are animals, our business is at all costs to survive. To make biological survival possible, Mind at Large has to be funneled through the reducing valve of the brain and nervous system. What comes out at the other end is a measly trickle of the kind of consciousness which will help us to stay alive on the surface of this Particular planet.\n\nHuxley wrote that it was possible that certain human beings could, through drugs, meditation, etc. circumvent the 'reducing valve' and experience something far beyond everyday consciousness. This experience Huxley saw as the source of all mysticism, a theory termed the Perennial philosophy. He also discusses art and the legality of various drugs in the West as well as arguing for the importance for self-transcendence. Huxley's philosophical novel Island also described a Utopian society that used a psychedelic substance for spiritual purposes.\n\nIn the early 1960s a group that eventually came to be called \"Harvard Psychedelic Club\" which included Timothy Leary, Huston Smith and Ram Dass administered psychedelics to Harvard students. The group experimented with psychedelics in experiments such as the Harvard Psilocybin Project. Huston Smith's last work, Cleansing the Doors of Perception, describes the Harvard Project in which he participated.\n\nRam Dass' Be here now and Tim Leary's The Psychedelic Experience: A Manual Based on The Tibetan Book of the Dead compared the psychedelic experiences to eastern philosophy and mystical states of consciousness. These books further popularized the idea that eastern - particularly Indian philosophical and spiritual insights could be obtained from using psychedelics. One of these experiences described in \"The Psychedelic Experience\" is that of ego death or depersonalization.\n\nThe idea that the psychedelic experience could grant access to eastern spiritual insights was also promoted by the popular philosopher Alan Watts in his writings such as \"The Joyous Cosmology\", who also argued that one should not remain dependent on them for spiritual growth: \"If you get the message, hang up the phone. For psychedelic drugs are simply instruments, like microscopes, telescopes, and telephones. The biologist does not sit with eye permanently glued to the microscope, he goes away and works on what he has seen.\"\n\nVarious psychologists during the 1960s also studied psychedelic substances and worked with Psychedelic therapy and later developed various theories about their effects and significance. Stanislav Grof is known for his extensive work in LSD psychotherapy and for developing a theory which stated that the psychedelic experience allowed one to relive birth trauma and to explore the depths of the unconscious mind. Grof observed four levels of the LSD experience, which for him correspond to areas of the human unconscious: (1) Abstract and aesthetic experiences (2) Psychodynamic experiences (3) Perinatal experiences, and (4) Transpersonal experiences. Grof defined the last level as \"experiences involving an expansion or extension of consciousness beyond the usual ego boundaries and beyond the limitations of time and/or space.\" The field of Transpersonal psychology focuses on this type of experience. Grof included topics such as consciousness, mysticism and metaphysics in his later writings.\n\nThe scientist and philosopher John C. Lilly discussed his experiments with psychedelics and altered states of consciousness in and Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer. Other psychologists who studied and wrote on psychedelic use include Walter Pahnke, Ralph Metzner and Claudio Naranjo.\n\nAccording to writer James Oroc, the 1990s brought about a second phase in modern psychedelic culture. The 'philosophical foundation' of this new wave of psychedelic thought was based on the works of Alexander Shulgin, Alex Grey and Terence McKenna.\n\nNeuroscientist Rick Strassman has written about his research into the psychedelic N,N-Dimethyltryptamine in his book \"DMT: The Spirit Molecule\" (2001). In his book Strassman investigates the possible connection between natural DMT in mystical and Near Death Experiences and psychedelic states caused by outwardly administered DMT. He also describes the psychedelic experiences of the volunteers in his experiments and their encounter with certain strange \"beings\" after being administered DMT.\n\nIn his study of recent scientific research on psychedelics and its neurophilosophy (\"Neuropsychedelia\", 2012), Nicolas Langlitz has argued that Huxley's view expressed in the Doors of perception of the brain as a \"reducing valve\" which when released produced a perennial mystical experience has been a very influential theory among contemporary psychopharmacologists who study psychedelics, who have given it a materialist 'neurobiological reinterpretation' which he calls “mystic materialism”. Langlitz defines this as: \"a this-worldly mysticism that reveres not transcendence but biological life\" and holds to a certain \"metaphysical unity of the world\".\n\nThomas Metzinger has discussed the effects of substances such as LSD, dimethyltryptamine, and mescaline in his \"Being No One\" (2003). Metzinger describes the hallucinatory component of the psychedelic experience as \"epistemically vacuous\" i.e. it provides no epistemic knowledge. In spite of this, Metzinger still believes that philosophers and consciousness researchers would have much to gain if they were \"well traveled in phenomenal state space, if they were cultivated in terms of the richness of their own inner experience\" through the psychedelic experience. According to Metzinger, psychedelic experiences could change researchers' theoretical intuitions as well as serving as a form of 'mental culture', an analogue to Physical culture.\n\nThe American philosopher Sam Harris has discussed his use of psychedelics in his book which also attempts to argue for a naturalized spirituality.\n\nAnother contemporary philosopher write about psychedelics is Peter Sjöstedt-H. His recent \"Noumenautics\" (2015) discusses psychedelic phenomenology and its metaphysical implications. \n\nIn his encyclopedic overview of psychedelic culture and thought \"Psychedelia\" (2012), Patrick Lundborg developed a psychedelic philosophy he called \"Unified Psychedelic Theory\" (UPT) which draws from Platonism, the phenomenology of Husserl and Merleau-Ponty, Paul D. MacLean's Triune brain theory, the work of Eugen Fink and other thinkers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1564475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564475", "title": "Philosophy of testimony", "text": "Philosophy of testimony\n\nIn philosophy, testimony includes any words or utterances that are presented as evidence for the claims they express. This definition may be distinguished from the legal notion of testimony in that the speaker does not have to make a declaration of the truth of the facts.\n\nThe role of testimony in acquiring belief and knowledge has been a relatively neglected philosophical issue. CAJ (Tony) Coady believes that this is because traditional epistemology has had a distinctly individualist flavour.\n\nHowever, it seems that many of the beliefs that we hold have been gained through accepting testimony. For example, one may only know that Kent is a county of England or that David Beckham earns $30 million per year because one has learned these things from other people. A more striking example is the belief about one's own birthdate. If you know your birthdate, the evidence for your belief was almost certainly received through testimony.\n\nOne of the problems with acquiring knowledge through testimony is that it does not seem to live up to the standards of knowledge (see knowledge in philosophy ). As Owens notes, it does not seem to live up to the Enlightenment ideal of rationality captured in the motto of the Royal Society – ‘Nullius in verba (no man's word)’. Crudely put, the question is: 'How can testimony give us knowledge when we have no reasons of our own?'\n\nCoady suggests that there are two approaches to this problem:\nand\n\nHume is one of the few early philosophers to offer anything like a sustained account of testimony, this can be found in his \"‘An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding’\" in the section on miracles. The basic idea is that our justification for believing what people tell us comes from our experience of the ‘...constant and regular conjunction’ between the state of affairs as people describe it and the actual state of affairs (i.e. our observation that they match). On Coady's schema he is a reductivist.\n\nCoady offers an anti-reductivist account of testimony. He claims that testimony is like perception, we don't have to have reasons for believing it, only an absence of reasons not to believe it. On Coady's account we are justified in being credulous. Proponents of anti-reductivism in the history of philosophy include Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Reid.\n\nPerhaps also significant is that Bertrand Russell argued that knowledge by acquaintance played an important part in epistemology.\n\n1. Coady, 1992<br>\n2. Owens, 2000, p. 163<br>\n3. Hume, 1993, p. 74\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31458937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31458937", "title": "Platonism in Islamic Philosophy", "text": "Platonism in Islamic Philosophy\n\nMedieval Islamic philosophy was steeped in both Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism from its 9th-century beginnings with Al-Kindi, but the influence of Neoplatonism becomes more clearly visible in the 10th and 11th centuries with Al-Farabi and Avicenna. Al-Farabi expanded on Plato’s concept of an ideal city ruled by philosopher-kings to develop a political philosophy that could accommodate the religious and cultural diversity central to Islamic nations.\nOn the other hand, both al-Ghazali and Ibn Rushd vigorously opposed Neoplatonic views.\n\nThe characteristic of Neoplatonic thought in Islamic theology is that of emanation, linking God's transcendence with the corporeal reality of his creation. \nIslamic Neoplatonism was introduced by Al-Farabi, although Avicenna proved to have the greater influence. Both authors present a complex scheme of emanation.\n\nIslamic Neoplatonism was allowed to flourish in the 10th to early 11th century, but there \nwas a strong reaction against it in the later 11th century, especially from \nAl-Ghazali, who represents Islamic theology's \"most biting attack on philosophy\" at the time, and the severest reaction to Neoplatonism in particular (Netton 1998).\nAl-Ghazali's criticism evoked a counter-reaction by Ibn Rushd, \nwho wrote a \"systematic rebuttal of al-Ghazali's critique of Greco-Arab philosophy\". \nWhile Ibn Rushd is trying to defend the possibility of philosophical thought as non-heretical, he does at the same time himself reject the theses of the Neoplatonist philosophers.\n\nAfter the death of Ibn Rushd in 1198, the debate on Neoplatonism in Islam mostly comes to an end, and survival of Neoplatonic thought within Islam was mostly limited to Ismailism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58397336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58397336", "title": "Polanyi’s paradox", "text": "Polanyi’s paradox\n\nPolanyi’s paradox, named in honour of the British-Hungarian philosopher Michael Polanyi, is the theory that human knowledge of how the world functions and capability are, to a large extent, beyond our explicit understanding. The theory was articulated by Michael Polanyi in his book \"The Tacit Dimension\" in 1966, but it was economist David Autor that named it as Polanyi’s paradox in his 2014 research paper on “Polanyi’s Paradox and the Shape of Employment Growth”.\n\nSummarised in the slogan ‘We can know more than we can tell’, Polanyi’s paradox is mainly to explain the cognitive phenomenon that there exist many tasks which we, human beings, understand intuitively how to perform but cannot verbalize the rules or procedures behind it. This \"self-ignorance\" is common to many human activities, from driving a car in traffic to face recognition. As Polanyi argues, humans are relying on their tacit knowledge, which is difficult to adequately express by verbal means, when engaging these tasks. Polanyi's paradox has been widely considered a major obstacle in the fields of AI and automation, since the absence of consciously accessible knowledge creates tremendous difficulty in programming.\n\nBritish-Hungarian philosopher Michael Polanyi regularly studied the causes behind human ability to acquire knowledge that they cannot explain through logical deduction. In his work \"The Tacit Dimension\" (1966)\",\" Polanyi explored the 'tacit' dimension to human knowledge and developed the concept of \"tacit knowledge\", as opposed to the term \"explicit knowledge\".\n\nTacit knowledge can be defined as knowledge people learn from experiences and internalize unconsciously, which is therefore difficult to articulate and codify it in a tangible form. Explicit knowledge, the opposite of tacit knowledge, is knowledge that can be readily verbalized and formalized. Tacit knowledge is largely acquired through implicit learning, the process by which information is learned independently of the subjects' awareness. For example, native speakers tacitly acquire their language in early childhood without consciously studying specific grammar rules (explicit knowledge), but with extensive exposure to television and day-to-day communication. Besides, people can only limitedly transfer their tacit knowledge through close interactions (sharing experiences with one another or observing others' behaviors). A certain level of trust needs to be established between individuals to capture tacit knowledge.\n\nTacit knowledge comprises a range of conceptual and sensory information that is featured with strong personal subjectivity. It is implicitly reflected in human actions; as argued by Polanyi, \"tacit knowledge dwells in our awareness\". People's skills, experiences, insight, creativity and judgement all fall into this dimension. Tacit knowledge can also be described as \"know-how,\" distinguishing from \"know-that\" or \"facts.\" Before Polanyi, Gilbert Ryle published a paper in 1945 drawing the distinction between \"knowing-that (knowledge of proposition)\" and \"knowing-how.\" According to Ryle, this \"know-how\" knowledge is the instinctive and intrinsic knowledge ingrained in the individual's human capability.\n\nSince tacit knowledge cannot be stated in propositional or formal form, Polanyi concludes such inability in articulation in the slogan ‘We can know more than we can tell’. Daily activities based on tacit knowledge include recognizing a face, driving a car, riding a bike, writing a persuasive paragraph, developing a hypothesis to explain a poorly understood phenomenon. Take facial recognition as an illustration: we can recognize our acquaintance's face out of a million others while we are not conscious about the knowledge of his face. It would be difficult for us to describe the precise arrangement of his eyes, nose and mouth, since we memorize the face unconsciously.\n\nAs a prelude to \"The Tacit Dimension\", in his book \"Personal Knowledge\" (1958), Polanyi claims that all knowing is personal, emphasizing the profound effects of personal feelings and commitments on the practice of science and knowledge. Arguing against the then dominant Empiricists view that minds and experiences are reducible to sense data and collections of rules, he advocates a post-positivist approach that recognizes human knowledge is often beyond their explicit expression. Any attempt to specify tacit knowing only leads to self-evident axioms that cannot tell us why we should accept them.\n\nPolanyi's observation has deep implications in the AI field since the paradox he identified that \"our tacit knowledge of how the world works often exceeds our explicit understanding\" accounts for many of the challenges for computerization and automation over the past five decades. Automation requires high levels of exactness to inform the computer what is supposed to be done while tacit knowledge cannot be conveyed in a propositional form. Therefore, machines cannot provide successful outcomes in many cases: they have explicit knowledge (raw data) but nevertheless, do not know how to use such knowledge to understand the task as whole. This discrepancy between human reasoning and AI learning algorithms makes it difficult to automate tasks that demand common sense, flexibility, adaptability and judgment — human intuitive knowledge.\n\nMIT economist David Autor is one of the leading sceptics who doubt the prospects for machine intelligence. Despite the exponential growth in computational resources and the relentless pace of automation since the 1990s, Autor argues, Polanyi's paradox impedes modern algorithms to replace human labor in a range of skilled jobs. The extent of machine substitution of human labor, therefore, has been overestimated by journalists and expert commentators. Although contemporary computer science strives for prevailing over Polanyi's paradox, the ever-changing, unstructured nature of some activities currently presents intimidating challenges for automation. Despite years of time and billions of investment spent on the development of self-driving cars and cleaning robots, these machine learning systems continue to struggle with their low adaptability and interpretability, from self-driving cars' inability to make an unexpected detour to cleaning robots' vulnerability to unmonitored pets or kids. Instead, to let self-driving cars function optimally, we have to change current road infrastructure significantly, minimizing the need for human capabilities in the whole driving process.\n\nThe increasing occupational polarisation in the past few decades —the growth of both high-paid, high-skill abstract jobs and lower-paid, low-skill manual jobs — has been a manifestation of Polanyi's paradox. According to Autor, there are two types of tasks proven stubbornly challenging for artificial intelligence (AI): abstract tasks that require problem-solving capabilities, intuition, creativity and persuasion on the one hand, and manual tasks demanding situational adaptability, visual recognition, language understanding, and in-person interactions on the other. Abstract tasks are characteristic of professional, managerial, and technical occupations, while service and laborer occupations involve many manual tasks (e.g. cleaning, lifting and throwing). These jobs tend to be complemented by machines rather than substituted.\n\nBy contrast, as the price of computing power declines, computers extensively substitute for routine tasks that can be codified into clear sets of instructions, resulting in a dramatical decline in employment of routine task-­intensive jobs. This polarization has resulted in a shrinking middle class across industrialized economies since many middle-income occupations in sales, office and administrative work and repetitive production work are task-­intensive. Moreover, the subsequent growth in income inequality and wealth disparity has recently emerged as a major socio-economic issue in developed countries.\n\nSome technological optimists argue that recent advances in machine learning have overcome Polanyi's paradox. Instead of relaying on programmer’s algorithms to instruct them in human knowledge, computer systems are now able to learn tacit rules from context, abundant data, and applied statistics on their own. Since machines can infer the tacit knowledge that human beings draw upon from examples without human assistance, they are no longer limited by those rules tacitly applied but not explicitly understood by humans.\n\nAlphaGo program built by the Google subsidiary DeepMind is a great example of how advances in AI have allowed mindless machines to perform tasks based on tacit knowledge outstandingly. In the 2016 tournament of the strategy game Go, DeepMind’s AlphaGo program successfully defeated one of the world’s top GO players, Lee Se-dol, four games to one. DeepMind team employed an approach known as deep learning to build human-type judgment into AI systems; therefore, they can figure out complex winning strategies by seeing vast examples of Go matches.\n\nOn the other hand, as Carr argues, the assumption that computers need to be able to reproduce tacit knowledge applied by humans to perform complicated tasks is essentially doubtable. When performing demanding tasks, it is not necessary for systems and machines to reflect the rules that human beings follow at all. The requirement is to replicate our outcomes for practical purposes, rather than our means.\n\nJerry Kaplan, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and AI expert, also illustrates this point in his book \"Humans Need Not Apply\" by discussing four resources and capabilities required to accomplish any given task: awareness, energy, reasoning and means. Humans' biological system (the brain-body complex) naturally integrates all these four properties, while in the electronic domain machines nowadays are given these abilities by accelerating developments in robotics, machine learning, and perception powering systems. For example, sensory data provided by a wide network of sensors enable AI to perceive various aspects of the environment and respond instantly in chaotic and complex real-world situations (awareness); orders and signals for actuating devices can be centralised and managed in server clusters or on the 'cloud' (reasoning). Kaplan's argument directly supports the proposition that Polanyi's paradox can no longer impede further levels of automation, whether in performing routine jobs or manual jobs. As Kaplan puts it, \"Automation is blind to the colour of your collar.\"\n\nOne example confirms Kaplan's argument is the introduction of Cloud AutoML, an automated system that could help every business design AI software, by Google Brain AI research group in 2017. The learning algorithms of AutoML automates the process of building machine-learning models that can take on a particular task, aiming to democratize AI to the largest possible community of developers and businesses. According to Google’s CEO, Cloud AutoML has taken over some of the work of programmers (which is, in the words of Autor, \"abstract task\") and thereby offered one solution to the shortage in machine-learning experts.\n\nMoravec’s paradox is very closed related to Polanyi's paradox, which claims that compared with sophisticated tasks demanding high-level reasoning, it is harder for computers to master low-level physical and cognitive skills that are natural and easy for humans to perform. Examples include natural language processing and dextrous physical movements (e.g. running over rough terrain).\n\nRobotics experts have, therefore, discovered that machines are difficult to master the skills of even the least-trained manual worker, since these jobs require perception and mobility (tacit knowledge). In the words of the cognitive scientist Steven Pinker from his book \"The Language Instinct,\" \"The main lesson of thirty-five years of AI research is that the hard problems are easy and the easy problems are hard.\"\n\nCorresponding to David Autor's discussion on jobs polarization, Pinker maintains that the appearance of the new generation's intelligent machines would place stock analysts, petrochemical engineers and parole board members in danger of being replaced. Gardeners, receptionists, and cooks are, by contrast, currently secure.\n\nMoore's Law is the observation articulated by Gordon Moore in 1965 that the number of transistors that could be fitted onto an integrated circuit doubles every two years. Moore's law has significantly contributed to the advancement of machine learning and AI. The larger and larger capacity of a chip allows for the advent of extremely small data-collecting devices, which could be placed on any intelligent machine. Innovations resulted from the exponentially growing power of computer chips include mobile apps, video games, spreadsheets, and accurate weather forecasts.\n\nMoore’s Law changes the way people are valued. As machines can do more and more tasks for free, people become correspondingly expensive. On the other hand, Moore's Law to some extents erases the line between an ordinary person and a skilled person.\n\nAlthough Moore’s prediction had been realized until around 2012, Intel announced in 2015 that the pace was slowing to a halt. Thomas Wenisch, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan, thinks the stagnant development of chips with denser transistors would create a problem for areas like mobile devices, data centers, and self-driving cars on different timescales. Without Moore's Law as the feedstock of innovation in computing, technology companies have to work harder to achieve new development levels (e.g. to get a new breakthrough on Polanyi's paradox).\n"}
{"id": "3223370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3223370", "title": "Postanalytic philosophy", "text": "Postanalytic philosophy\n\nPostanalytic philosophy describes a detachment from the mainstream philosophical movement of analytic philosophy, which is the predominant school of thought in English-speaking countries. Postanalytic philosophy derives mainly from contemporary American thought, especially from the works of philosophers Richard Rorty, Donald Davidson, Hilary Putnam, W. V. O. Quine, and Stanley Cavell. The term is closely associated with the much broader movement of contemporary American pragmatism, which, loosely defined, advocates a detachment from the definition of 'objective truth' given by modern philosophers such as Descartes. Postanalytic philosophers emphasize the contingency of human thought, convention, utility, and social progress.\n\nThe term \"postanalytic philosophy\" itself has been used in a vaguely descriptive sense and not in the sense of a concrete philosophical movement. Many postanalytic philosophers write along an analytic vein and on traditionally analytic topics. Richard Rorty said: \"I think that analytic philosophy can keep its highly professional methods, the insistence on detail and mechanics, and just drop its transcendental project. I'm not out to criticize analytic philosophy as a style. It's a good style. I think the years of superprofessionalism were beneficial.\"\n\nRorty says the goal of postanalytic philosophy is not to oppose analytic philosophy or its methods, but to dispute its hope to make philosophy the penultimate form of knowledge from which every other knowledge claim must be derived. \n\nPostanalytic philosophy may also be known as post-philosophy, a term used by Rorty, to emphasize the notion that the project of philosophy as conceived by Enlightenment philosophers no longer serves the role it used to in society and that this role has been replaced by other media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338130", "title": "Postpositivism", "text": "Postpositivism\n\nIn philosophy and models of scientific inquiry, postpositivism (also called postempiricism) is a metatheoretical stance that critiques and amends positivism. While positivists emphasize independence between the researcher and the researched person (or object), postpositivists accept that theories, background, knowledge and values of the researcher can influence what is observed. Postpositivists pursue objectivity by recognizing the possible effects of biases. While positivists emphasize quantitative methods, postpositivists consider both quantitative and qualitative methods to be valid approaches. \n\nPostpositivists believe that human knowledge is based not on a priori assessments from an objective individual, but rather upon human \"conjectures\". As human knowledge is thus unavoidably conjectural, the assertion of these conjectures are \"warranted\", or more specifically, justified by a set of \"warrants\", which can be modified or withdrawn in the light of further investigation. However, postpositivism is not a form of relativism, and generally retains the idea of objective truth.\n\nPostpositivists believe that a reality exists, but, unlike positivists, they believe reality can be known only imperfectly and probabilistically. Postpositivists also draw from social constructionism in forming their understanding and definition of reality.\n\nWhile positivists believe that research is or can be value-free or value-neutral, postpositivists take the position that bias is undesired but inevitable, and therefore the investigator must work to detect and try to correct it. Postpositivists work to understand how their axiology (i.e. values and beliefs) may have influenced their research, including through their choice of measures, populations, questions, and definitions, as well as through their interpretation and analysis of their work.\n\nHistorians identify two types of positivism: classical positivism, an empirical tradition first described by Henri de Saint-Simon and Auguste Comte, and logical positivism, which is most strongly associated with the Vienna Circle, which met near Vienna, Austria, in the 1920s and 1930s. Postpositivism is the name D.C. Phillips gave to a group of critiques and amendments which apply to both forms of positivism.\n\nOne of the first thinkers to criticize logical positivism was Sir Karl Popper. He advanced falsification in lieu of the logical positivist idea of verificationism.. Falsificationism argues that it is impossible to verify that beliefs about universals or unobservables are true, though it is possible to reject false beliefs if they are phrased in a way amenable to falsification. Thomas Kuhn's idea of paradigm shifts offers a broader critique of logical positivism, arguing that it is not simply individual theories but whole worldviews that must occasionally shift in response to evidence. \n\nPostpositivism is not a rejection of the scientific method, but rather a reformation of positivism to meet these critiques. It reintroduces the basic assumptions of positivism: the possibility and desirability of objective truth, and the use of experimental methodology. The work of philosophers Nancy Cartwright and Ian Hacking are representative of these ideas. Postpositivism of this type is described in social science guides to research methods.\n\nRobert Dubin describes the basic components of a postpositivist theory as being composed of basic \"units\" or ideas and topics of interest, \"laws of interactions\" among the units, and a description of the \"boundaries\" for the theory. A postpositivist theory also includes \"empirical indicators\" to connect the theory to observable phenomena, and hypotheses that are testable using the scientific method.\n\nAccording to Thomas Kuhn, a postpositivist theory can be assessed on the basis of whether it is \"accurate\", \"consistent\", \"has broad scope\", \"parsimonious\", and \"fruitful\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277983", "title": "Pragmaticism", "text": "Pragmaticism\n\n\"Pragmaticism\" is a term used by Charles Sanders Peirce for his pragmatic philosophy starting in 1905, in order to distance himself and it from pragmatism, the original name, which had been used in a manner he did not approve of in the \"literary journals\". Peirce in 1905 announced his coinage \"pragmaticism\", saying that it was \"ugly enough to be safe from kidnappers\" (\"Collected Papers\" (CP) 5.414). Today, outside of philosophy, \"pragmatism\" is often taken to refer to a compromise of aims or principles, even a ruthless search for mercenary advantage. Peirce gave other or more specific reasons for the distinction in a surviving draft letter that year and in later writings. Peirce's pragmatism, that is, pragmaticism, differed in Peirce's view from other pragmatisms by its commitments to the spirit of strict logic, the immutability of truth, the reality of infinity, and the difference between (1) actively willing to control thought, to doubt, to weigh reasons, and (2) willing not to exert the will, willing to believe. In his view his pragmatism is, strictly speaking, not itself a whole philosophy, but instead a general method for the clarification of ideas. He first publicly formulated his pragmatism as an aspect of scientific logic along with principles of statistics and modes of inference in his \"Illustrations of the Logic of Science\" series of articles in 1877-8.\n\nWhether one chooses to call it \"pragmatism\" or \"pragmaticism\"—and Peirce himself was not always consistent about it even after the notorious renaming—his conception of pragmatic philosophy is based on one or another version of the so-called \"pragmatic maxim\". Here is one of his more emphatic statements of it:\n\nPragmaticism was originally enounced in the form of a maxim, as follows: Consider what effects, that might \"conceivably\" have practical bearings, you \"conceive\" the objects of your \"conception\" to have. Then, your \"conception\" of those effects is the whole of your \"conception\" of the object (CP 5.438).\n\nIn the 1909 \"Century Dictionary Supplement\", the entry for pragmaticism, written, it now appears, by John Dewey, was\n\npragmaticism (prag-mat′ i-sizm), \"n.\" [\"pragmatic\" + \"ism\".] A special and limited form of pragmatism, in which the pragmatism is restricted to the determining of the meaning of concepts (particularly of philosophic concepts) by consideration of the experimental differences in the conduct of life which would conceivably result from the affirmation or denial of the meaning in question. He [the writer] framed the theory that a conception, that is, the rational purport of a word or other expression, lies exclusively in its conceivable bearing upon the conduct of life. . . . To serve the precise purpose of expressing the original definition, he begs to announce the birth of the word \"\"pragmaticism\".\"      \"C. S. Peirce\", in The Monist, April, 1905, p. 166. \n\nPragmatism as a philosophical movement originated in 1872 in discussions in The Metaphysical Club among Peirce, William James, Chauncey Wright, John Fiske, Francis Ellingwood Abbot, Nicholas St. John Green, and Joseph Bangs Warner. The first use in print of the name \"pragmatism\" appears to have been in 1898 by James, who credited Peirce with having coined the name during the early 1870s.\n\nJames, among others, regarded Peirce's 1877-8 \"Illustrations of the Logic of Science\" series, especially \"\" (1878) as pragmatism's foundation. Peirce (CP 5.11-12), like James saw pragmatism as embodying familiar attitudes, in philosophy and elsewhere, elaborated into a new deliberate method of thinking and resolving dilemmas. Peirce differed from James and the early John Dewey, in some of their tangential enthusiasms, in being decidedly more rationalistic and realistic, in several senses of those terms, throughout the preponderance of his own philosophical moods.\n\nIn a 1906 manuscript, Peirce wrote that, in the Metaphysical Club decades earlier, Nicholas St. John Greenoften urged the importance of applying Bain's definition of belief, as \"that upon which a man is prepared to act.\" From this definition, pragmatism is scarce more than a corollary; so that I am disposed to think of him as the grandfather of pragmatism. James and Peirce, inspired by crucial links among belief, conduct, and disposition, agreed with Green. John Shook has said, \"Chauncey Wright also deserves considerable credit, for as both Peirce and James recall, it was Wright who demanded a phenomenalist and fallibilist empiricism as a vital alternative to rationalistic speculation.\"\n\nPragmatism is regarded as a distinctively American philosophy. As advocated by James, John Dewey, F. C. S. Schiller, George Herbert Mead, and others, it has proved durable and popular. But Peirce did not seize on this fact to enhance his reputation, and even coined the word \"pragmaticism\" to distinguish his philosophical position.\n\nPragmatism starts with the idea that belief is that upon which one is prepared to act. Peirce's pragmatism is about conceptions of objects. His pragmatism is a method for fruitfully sorting out conceptual confusions caused, for example, by distinctions that make (sometimes needful) formal yet not practical differences. It equates any conception of an object with a conception of that object's effects to a general extent of those conceived effects' conceivable implications for informed practice. Those conceivable practical implications are the conception's meaning. The meaning is the consequent form of conduct or practice that would be implied by accepting the conception as true. Peirce's pragmaticism, in the strict sense, is about the conceptual elucidation of conceptions into such meanings — about how to make our ideas clear. Making them true, in the sense of proving and bearing them out in fruitful practice, goes beyond that. A conception's truth is its correspondence to the real, to that which would be found by investigation taken far enough. A conception's actual confirmation (if it occurs) is neither its meaning nor its truth \"per se\", but an actual upshot.\n\nIn \"\", Peirce discusses three grades of clearness of conception: <br>\n\nBy way of example of how to clarify conceptions, he addressed conceptions about truth and the real as questions of the presuppositions of reasoning in general. To reason is to presuppose (and at least to hope), as a principle of the reasoner's self-regulation, that the truth is independent of our vagaries of opinion and is discoverable. In clearness's second grade (the \"nominal\" grade), he defines truth as the correspondence of a sign (in particular, a proposition) to its object, and the real as the object (be it a possibility or quality, or an actuality or brute fact, or a necessity or norm or law) to which a true sign corresponds, such that truth and the real are independent of that which you or I or any actual, definite community of inquirers think. After that needful but confined step, next in clearness's third grade (the pragmatic, practice-oriented grade) he defines truth — not as actual consensus, such that to inquire would be to poll the experts — but as that which \"would\" be reached, sooner or later but still inevitably, by research taken far enough, such that the real does depend on that ideal final opinion—a dependence to which he appeals in theoretical arguments elsewhere, for instance for the long-run validity of the rule of induction. (Peirce held that one cannot have absolute theoretical assurance of having actually reached the truth, and later said that the confession of inaccuracy and one-sidedness is an essential ingredient of a true abstract statement.) Peirce argues that even to argue against the independence and discoverability of truth and the real is to presuppose that there is, about that very question under argument, a truth with just such independence and discoverability. For more on Peirce's theory of truth, see the Peirce section in Pragmatic theory of truth. Peirce's discussions and definitions of truth have influenced several epistemic truth theorists and been used as foil for deflationary and correspondence theories of truth.\n\nPeirce said that a conception's meaning consists in \"all general modes of rational conduct\" implied by \"acceptance\" of the conception—that is, if one were to accept, first of all, the conception as true, then what could one conceive to be consequent general modes of rational conduct by all who accept the conception as true?—the whole of such consequent general modes is the whole meaning. His pragmatism, since a conception is general, does not equate a conception's meaning, its intellectual purport, with any definite set of actual consequences or upshots corroborating or undermining the conception or its worth, nor does it equate its meaning, much less its truth (if it is true), with the conceived or actual benefit or cost of the conception itself, like a meme (or, say, propaganda), outside the perspective of its being true in what it purports. If it is true, its truth is not transitory but instead immutable and independent of actual trends of opinion. His pragmatism also bears no resemblance to \"vulgar\" pragmatism, which misleadingly connotes a ruthless and Machiavellian search for mercenary or political advantage. Rather, Peirce's pragmatic maxim is the heart of his pragmatism as a method of experimentational mental reflection arriving at conceptions in terms of conceivable confirmatory and disconfirmatory circumstances—a method hospitable to the generation of explanatory hypotheses, and conducive to the employment and improvement of verification to test the truth of putative knowledge.\n\nPeirce's pragmatism, as method and theory of \"definitions and the clearness of ideas\", is a department within his theory of inquiry, which he variously called \"Methodeutic\" and \"Philosophical or Speculative Rhetoric\". He applied his pragmatism as a method throughout his work.\n\nPeirce called his pragmatism \"the logic of abduction\", that is, the logic of inference to explanatory hypotheses. As a method conducive to hypotheses as well as predictions and testing, pragmatism leads beyond the usual duo of foundational alternatives, namely:\n\nHis approach is distinct from foundationalism, empiricist or otherwise, as well as from coherentism, by the following three dimensions:\n\nA theory that proves itself more successful than its rivals in predicting and controlling our world is said to be nearer the truth. This is an operational notion of truth employed by scientists.\n\nIn \"The Fixation of Belief\", Peirce characterized inquiry in general not as the pursuit of truth \"per se\" but as the struggle to settle disturbances or conflicts of belief, irritating, inhibitory doubts, belief being that on which one is willing to act. That let Peirce frame scientific inquiry not only as a special kind of inquiry in a broader spectrum, but also, like inquiry generally, as based on actual doubts, not mere verbal doubts (such as hyperbolic doubt), which he held to be fruitless, and it let him also frame it, by the same stroke, as requiring that proof rest on propositions free from actual doubt, rather than on ultimate and absolutely indubitable propositions. He outlined four methods, ordered from least to most successful in achieving a secure fixation of belief:\n\nPeirce held that, in practical affairs, slow and stumbling ratiocination is often dangerously inferior to instinct and traditional sentiment, and that the scientific method is best suited to theoretical research, which in turn should not be bound to the other methods and to practical ends; reason's \"first rule\" is that, in order to learn, one must desire to learn and, as a corollary, must not block the way of inquiry. What recommends the scientific method of inquiry above all others is that it is deliberately designed to arrive, eventually, at the ultimately most secure beliefs, upon which the most successful practices can eventually be based. Starting from the idea that people seek not truth \"per se\" but instead to subdue irritating, inhibitory doubt, Peirce shows how, through the struggle, some can come to submit to truth, seek as truth the guidance of potential practice correctly to its given goal, and wed themselves to the scientific method.\n\n It is sometimes stated that James' and other philosophers' use of the word \"pragmatism\" so dismayed Peirce that he renamed his own variant \"pragmaticism\". Susan Haack has disagreed, pointing out the context in which Peirce publicly introduced the latter term in 1905. Haack's excerpt of Peirce begins below at the words \"But at present...,\" and continues with some ellipses. The fuller excerpt below supports her case further:\nThen, in a surviving draft letter to Calderoni, dated by the CP editors as \"circa\" that same year 1905, Peirce said regarding his above-quoted discussion:\n\nIndeed in the \"Monist\" article Peirce had said that the coinage \"pragmaticism\" was intended \"to serve the precise purpose of expressing the original definition\". Of course this does not mean that Peirce regarded his fellow pragmatist philosophers as word-kidnappers. To the contrary he had said, regarding James's and Schiller's uses of the word \"pragmatism\": \"So far, all went happily.\" So it would seem that Peirce intended the coinage \"pragmaticism\" for two distinguishable purposes: (1) protection from literary journals and word-kidnappers, and (2) reference strictly to his own form of pragmatism, as opposed even to other pragmatisms that had not moved him to the new name. In the letter to Calderoni, Peirce did not reject all significant affiliation with fellow pragmatists, and instead said \"the rest of us\". Nor did he reject all such affiliation in later discussions.\n\nHowever, in the following year 1906, in a manuscript \"A Sketch of Logical Critics\", Peirce wrote:\n\nThen, in 1908, in his article \"\", mentioning both James and the journalist, pragmatist, and literary author Giovanni Papini, Peirce wrote:\nIn 1871, in a Metaphysical Club in Cambridge, Mass., I used to preach this principle as a sort of logical gospel, representing the unformulated method followed by Berkeley, and in conversation about it I called it \"Pragmatism.\" In December 1877 and January 1878 I set forth the doctrine in the \"Popular Science Monthly\", and the two parts of my essay were printed in French in the \"Revue Philosophique\", volumes vi. and vii. Of course, the doctrine attracted no particular attention, for, as I had remarked in my opening sentence, very few people care for logic. But in 1897 Professor James remodelled the matter, and transmogrified it into a doctrine of philosophy, some parts of which I highly approved, while other and more prominent parts I regarded, and still regard, as opposed to sound logic. About the time Professor Papini discovered, to the delight of the Pragmatist school, that this doctrine was incapable of definition, which would certainly seem to distinguish it from every other doctrine in whatever branch of science, I was coming to the conclusion that my poor little maxim should be called by another name; and accordingly, in April 1905, I renamed it \"Pragmaticism\".\n\nPeirce proceeded in \"A Neglected Argument\" to express both deep satisfaction and deep dismay with his fellow pragmatists. He singled F. C. S. Schiller out by name and was vague about which among the others he most particularly referred to. Peirce wrote \"It seems to me a pity they should allow a philosophy so instinct with life to become infected with seeds of death...\"\n\nThere has been some controversy over Peirce's relation to other pragmatists over the years and over the question of what is owed to Peirce, with visible crests in titles such as literary essayist Edward Dahlberg's \"Cutpurse Philosopher\" about James, in which Dahlberg claimed that Peirce had \"tombstone reticences\" about making accusations, and Kenneth Laine Ketner's and Walker Percy's \"A Thief of Peirce\", in which Percy described himself as \"a thief of Peirce\" (page 130). Meanwhile, Schiller, James's wife Alice, and James's son Henry James III believed that James had a habit of overstating his intellectual debts to others such as Peirce.\n\nIn another manuscript \"A Sketch of Logical Critic\" dated by the CP editors as 1911, Peirce discussed one of Zeno's paradoxes, that of Achilles and the Tortoise, in terms of James's and others' difficulties with it. Peirce therein expressed regret at having used a \"contemptuous\" manner about such difficulties in his 1903 Harvard lectures on pragmatism (which James had arranged), and said of James, who had died in August 1910: \"Nobody has a better right to testify to the morality of his attitude toward his own thoughts than I, who knew and loved him for forty-nine or fifty years. But owing to his almost unexampled incapacity for mathematical thought, combined with intense hatred for logic — probably for its pedantry, its insistence on minute exactitude — the \"gêne\" of its barbarous formulations, etc. rendered him an easy victim to Zeno and the Achilles...\", called James \"about as perfect a lover of truth as it is possible for a man to be...\" and said: \"In speaking, then, of William James as I do, I am saying the most that I could of any man's intellectual morality; and with him this was but one of a whole diadem of virtues.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1043618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043618", "title": "Predeterminism", "text": "Predeterminism\n\nPredeterminism is the idea that all events are determined in advance. Predeterminism is the philosophy that all events of history, past, present and future, have been already decided or are already known (by God, fate, or some other force), including human actions.\n\nPredeterminism is closely related to determinism. The concept of predeterminism is often argued by invoking causal determinism, implying that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. In the case of predeterminism, this chain of events has been pre-established, and human actions cannot interfere with the outcomes of this pre-established chain. Predeterminism can be used to mean such pre-established causal determinism, in which case it is categorised as a specific type of determinism. It can also be used interchangeably with causal determinism—in the context of its capacity to determine future events. Despite this, predeterminism is often considered as independent of causal determinism. The term predeterminism is also frequently used in the context of biology and hereditary, in which case it represents a form of biological determinism.\n\nPredeterminism is difficult to discuss because its simple definition can logically lead to a variety of similar, complex (and, perhaps, better defined) concepts in metaphysics, theology, and the philosophy of free will. The term \"predeterminism\" suggests not just a determining of all events, but the prior and deliberately conscious determining of all events (therefore done, presumably, by a conscious being). Due to this, predeterminism and the similar term predetermination are easily and often confused or associated with ideas ranging, for instance, from the physicalist (and often scientific) notion of \"causal determinism\" to even the theological (and often religious) notion of \"predestination\".\n\nA secular example to try to illustrate predeterminism is that a fetus's future physical, emotional, and other personal characteristics as a matured human being may be considered \"predetermined\" by heredity, i.e. derived from a chain of events going back long before her eventual birth. However, one of the difficulties with defining predeterminism using this example is that the word \"predetermine\" necessarily implies a conscious being \"doing\" the determining ahead of time. With regards to predetermined heredity, a conscious being (perhaps a genetic scientist) is presumed to be the one speculating on what the fetus's personal characteristics will turn out to be, for example, based on looking at the genomes of the fetus and its ancestors. If there were not this conscious entity, the scientist, then one could say merely that the fetus's characteristics are \"determined\" by heredity, rather than \"pre\"determined. Predeterminism necessarily implies, at the very least, a passive but all-knowing observer, if not an active planner, designer, or manipulator (of the fetus's personal characteristics). This basic scientific idea of hereditary determination, though, already fulfills the definition of causal determinism, a metaphysical concept.\n\nWhile determinism usually refers to a naturalistically explainable causality of events, predeterminism seems by definition to suggest a person or a \"someone\" who is controlling or planning the causality of events \"before\" they occur and who then perhaps resides beyond the natural, causal universe. This creates a definitional conflict because predeterminism, by this understanding, logically leads to a belief in the existence of a conscious being who must determine \"all\" actions and events in advance and who, possessing such seeming omnipotence, almost certainly operates outside of the laws of nature. This conscious entity is probably, then, a being who is omnipotent as well as presumably supernatural and omniscient. The definitional confusion here is that there is already a name for this very concept: predestination. Predestination asserts that a supremely powerful being has, in advance, fixed all events and outcomes in the universe; it is a famous doctrine of the Calvinists in Christian theology.\n\nLikewise, the doctrine of fatalism already explicitly attributes all events and outcomes to the will of a (vaguer) higher power such as fate or destiny. Furthermore, in philosophic debates about the compatibility of free will and determinism, some argue that \"predeterminism\" back to the origin of the universe is simply what philosophers mean by the more common term \"determinism.\" Others have suggested that the term \"self-determination\" be used to describe actions as merely \"determined\" by an agent's reasons, motives, and desires.\n\nWhen various interpretation of the word \"predeterminism\" can be defined even better by other terms, such as the aforementioned determinism, predestination, or fatalism, then the definition of predeterminism itself appears awkward, unclear, and perhaps even worthless in terms of practical or philosophic discussion.\n\nR. E. Hobart is the pseudonym of Dickinson S. Miller, a student of William James who was later one of James' closest personal friends and for some years a colleague in the Harvard philosophy department. Hobart (Miller) criticized the core idea of James' \"The Will to Believe\", namely that it was acceptable to hold religious faith in the absence of evidence for or against that faith. James referred to Miller as \"my most penetrating critic and intimate enemy.\"\n\nNearly 25 years after James' death, R. E. Hobart published a short article in \"Mind\" in 1934 that is considered one of the definitive statements of determinism and compatibilism. It was entitled \"Free Will as Involving Determination and Inconceivable Without It\".\n\nHobart's compatibilism was similar to earlier landmark positions by Thomas Hobbes and David Hume, as refined in the 19th-century compatibilist views of John Stuart Mill, Henry Sidgwick, and F. H. Bradley. But unlike them Hobart explicitly did not endorse \"strict\" logical or physical determinism, and he explicitly did endorse the existence of alternative possibilities, which can depend on absolute chance.\n\nHe was writing just a few years after the discovery of quantum mechanics and indeterminacy, and also makes passing mention of the ancient \"swerve\" of the atoms espoused by Epicurus:\n\n'I am not maintaining that determinism is true...it is not here affirmed that there are no small exceptions, no slight undetermined swervings, no ingredient of absolute chance.'\n\n'\"We say,\" I can will this or I can will that, whichever I choose\". Two courses of action present themselves to my mind. I think of their consequences, I look on this picture and on that, one of them commends itself more than the other, and I will an act that brings it about. I knew that I could choose either. That means that I had the power to choose either.'\n\nHobart supports the existence of alternative possibilities for action and the capability to do otherwise.\n\nAnd he clearly prefers \"determination\" to \"determinism.\" Hobart's article is frequently misquoted as \"Free Will as Involving Determinism.\"\n\nPhilippa Foot is one who misquoted Hobart's title, but who had the same misgivings about determinism.\n\nIn 1957 she wrote an article in The Philosophical Review entitled \"Free Will As Involving Determinism.\"\n\nNevertheless, she criticized arguments that free will requires indeterminism, and in particular the idea that one could not be held responsible for \"chance\" actions chosen for no particular reason.\n\nHer article begins with the observation that determinism has become widely accepted as compatible with free will.\n\n\"The idea that free will can be reconciled with the strictest determinism is now very widely accepted. To say that a man acted freely is, it is often suggested, to say that he was not constrained, or that he could have done otherwise if he had chosen, or something else of that kind; and since these things could be true even if his action was determined it seems that there could be room for free will even within a universe completely subject to causal laws.\"\n\nFoot doubted that the ordinary language meaning of saying our actions are \"determined\" by motives has the same meaning as strict physical determinism, which assumes a causal law that determines every event in the future of the universe.\n\nShe notes that our normal use of \"determined\" does not imply universal determinism.\n\n\"For instance, an action said to be determined by the desires of the man who does it is not necessarily an action for which there is supposed to be a sufficient condition. In saying that it is determined by his desires we may mean merely that he is doing something that he wants to do, or that he is doing it for the sake of something else that he wants. There is nothing in this to suggest determinism in Russell's sense.\"\n\nFoot cited Bertrand Russell's view of causal determinism:\n\n\"The law of universal causation . . . may be enunciated as follows:...given the state of the whole universe...every previous and subsequent event can theoretically be determined.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31170896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31170896", "title": "Self-sampling assumption", "text": "Self-sampling assumption\n\nThe self-sampling assumption (SSA), one of the two major schools of anthropic probability — the other being the self-indication assumption (SIA) — states that:\n\nFor instance, if there is a coin flip that on heads will create one observer, while on tails it will create two, then we have two possible worlds, the first with one observer, the second with two. These worlds are equally probable, hence the SSA probability of being the first (and only) observer in the heads world is 1/2, that of being the first observer in the tails world is 1/2 × 1/2 = 1/4, and the probability of being the second observer in the tails world is also 1/4.\n\nThis is why SSA gives an answer of 1/2 probability of heads in the Sleeping Beauty problem.\n\nUnlike SIA, SSA \"is\" dependent on the choice of reference class. If the agents in the above example were in the same reference class as a trillion other observers, then the probability of being in the heads world, upon the agent being told they are in the sleeping beauty problem, is formula_1 1/3, similar to SIA.\n\nSSA may imply the doomsday argument depending on the choice of reference class. It is often used in anthropic reasoning.\n\nBostrom, in his book \"\", has suggested refining SSA to what he calls the Strong Self-Sampling Assumption (SSSA), which replaces \"observers\" in the SSA definition by \"observer-moments\". This coincides with the intuition that an observer who lives longer has more opportunities to experience herself existing, and it provides flexibility to refine reference classes in certain thought experiments in order to avoid paradoxical conclusions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5646829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5646829", "title": "Spiritual philosophy", "text": "Spiritual philosophy\n\nSpiritual philosophy is a generic term for any philosophy or teaching that pertains to spirituality. It may incorporate religious or esoteric themes, especially those from Theosophy or Neo-Theosophy, Anthroposophy, New Age thought, mysticism, and Eastern philosophy. Concepts may include the nature of The Absolute, karma and reincarnation, the evolution of the soul, higher states of consciousness, universal mind, and so on.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17582998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17582998", "title": "The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters", "text": "The Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters\n\n__notoc__\nThe Sleep of Reason Produces Monsters () is an etching by the Spanish painter and printmaker Francisco Goya. Created between 1797 and 1799, it is the 43rd of 80 etchings making up the suite of satires \"Los Caprichos\". \n\nGoya imagines himself asleep amidst his drawing tools, his reason dulled by slumber and bedeviled by creatures that prowl in the dark. The work includes owls that may be symbols of folly and bats symbolizing ignorance. The artist's nightmare reflected his view of Spanish society, which he portrayed in the \"Caprichos\" as demented, corrupt, and ripe for ridicule. The work is held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and was the gift of M. Knoedler & Co. in 1918.\n\nThe full epigraph for capricho No. 43 reads; \"Fantasy abandoned by reason produces impossible monsters: united with her (reason), she (fantasy) is the mother of the arts and the origin of their marvels.\"\n\nThe title of C. P. Snow's \"The Sleep of Reason\", tenth book in his \"Strangers and Brothers\" series, and the \"Doctor Who\" novel \"The Sleep of Reason\" are drawn from this print. It also inspired the cover of the Andrew Miller novel \"Pure\", as well as the 2017 album by Swedish metal band Meshuggah, entitled \"The Violent Sleep of Reason.\" Also the names of Finnish occult metal band Sleep of Monsters and their first album, \"Produces Reason\" derive from the name of the title.\n\nOccasionally the title phrase is rendered as \"The dream of reason produces monsters\", since the Spanish word \"sueño\" can mean either \"sleep\" or \"dream\". However, Goya's epigraph makes it clear that his intended interpretation is \"the sleep of reason\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901", "title": "Virtue", "text": "Virtue\n\nVirtue (, \"arete\") is moral excellence. A virtue is a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being. Personal virtues are characteristics valued as promoting collective and individual greatness. In other words, it is a behavior that shows high moral standards. Doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong. The opposite of virtue is vice. \n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are temperance, prudence, courage, and justice. Christianity derives the three theological virtues of faith, hope and love (charity) from 1 Corinthians. Together these make up the seven virtues. Buddhism's four brahmavihara (\"Divine States\") can be regarded as virtues in the European sense. The Japanese Bushidō code is characterized by up to ten virtues, including rectitude, courage, and benevolence.\n\nThe ancient Romans used the Latin word \"virtus\" (derived from \"vir\", their word for \"man\") to refer to all of the \"excellent qualities of men, including physical strength, valorous conduct, and moral rectitude.\" The French words \"vertu\" and \"virtu\" came from this Latin root. In the 13th century, the word \"virtue\" was \"borrowed into English\".\n\nDuring Egyptian civilization, Maat or Ma'at (thought to have been pronounced *[muʔ.ʕat]), also spelled māt or mayet, was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. Maat was also personified as a goddess regulating the stars, seasons, and the actions of both mortals and the deities. The deities set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation. Her (ideological) counterpart was Isfet, who symbolized chaos, lies, and injustice.\n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are:\n\nThis enumeration is traced to Greek philosophy and was listed by Plato in addition to piety: (hosiotēs), with the exception that wisdom replaced prudence as virtue. Some scholars consider either of the above four virtue combinations as mutually reducible and therefore not cardinal.\n\nIt is unclear whether multiple virtues were of later construct, and whether Plato subscribed to a unified view of virtues. In \"Protagoras\" and \"Meno\", for example, he states that the separate virtues cannot exist independently and offers as evidence the contradictions of acting with wisdom, yet in an unjust way; or acting with bravery (fortitude), yet without wisdom.\n\nIn his work \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle defined a virtue as a point between a deficiency and an excess of a trait. The point of greatest virtue lies not in the exact middle, but at a golden mean sometimes closer to one extreme than the other. However, the virtuous action is not simply the \"mean\" (mathematically speaking) between two opposite extremes. As Aristotle says in the Nicomachean Ethics: \"at the right times, about the right things, towards the right people, for the right end, and in the right way, is the intermediate and best condition, and this is proper to virtue.\" This is not simply splitting the difference between two extremes. For example, generosity is a virtue between the two extremes of miserliness and being profligate. Further examples include: courage between cowardice and foolhardiness, and confidence between self-deprecation and vanity. In Aristotle's sense, virtue is excellence at being human.\n\nSeneca, the Roman Stoic, said that perfect prudence is indistinguishable from perfect virtue. Thus, in considering all consequences, a prudent person would act in the same way as a virtuous person. The same rationale was expressed by Plato in Meno, when he wrote that people only act in ways that they perceive will bring them maximum good. It is the lack of wisdom that results in the making of a bad choice instead of a prudent one. In this way, wisdom is the central part of virtue. Plato realized that because virtue was synonymous with wisdom it could be taught, a possibility he had earlier discounted. He then added \"correct belief\" as an alternative to knowledge, proposing that knowledge is merely correct belief that has been thought through and \"tethered\".\n\nThe term \"virtue\" itself is derived from the Latin \"virtus\" (the personification of which was the deity Virtus), and had connotations of \"manliness\", \"honour\", worthiness of deferential respect, and civic duty as both citizen and soldier. This virtue was but one of many virtues which Romans of good character were expected to exemplify and pass on through the generations, as part of the Mos Maiorum; ancestral traditions which defined \"Roman-ness\". Romans distinguished between the spheres of private and public life, and thus, virtues were also divided between those considered to be in the realm of private family life (as lived and taught by the paterfamilias), and those expected of an upstanding Roman citizen.\n\nMost Roman concepts of virtue were also personified as a numinous deity. The primary Roman virtues, both public and private, were:\n\nIn 410 CE, Aurelius Prudentius Clemens listed seven \"heavenly virtues\" in his book Psychomachia (Battle of Souls) which is an allegorical story of conflict between vices and virtues. The virtues depicted were:\n\nIn the 8th Century, upon the occasion of his coronation as Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne published a list of knightly virtues:\n\nLove God\nLove your neighbour\nGive alms to the poor\nEntertain strangers\nVisit the sick\nBe merciful to prisoners\nDo ill to no man, nor consent unto such\nForgive as ye hope to be forgiven\nRedeem the captive\nHelp the oppressed\nDefend the cause of the widow and orphan\nRender righteous judgement\nDo not consent to any wrong\nPersevere not in wrath\nShun excess in eating and drinking\nBe humble and kind\nServe your liege lord faithfully\nDo not steal\nDo not perjure yourself, nor let others do so\nEnvy, hatred and violence separate men from the Kingdom of God\nDefend the Church and promote her cause.\n\nLoving God and obeying his laws, in particular the Ten Commandments, are central to Jewish conceptions of virtue. Wisdom is personified in the first eight chapters of the Book of Proverbs and is not only the source of virtue but is depicted as the first and best creation of God (Proverbs 8:12-31). Wisdom is also celebrated in the Book of Wisdom.\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the most concise terms, Hillel replied (reputedly while standing on one leg): \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is commentary; go and learn.\"\n\nIn Christianity, the three theological virtues are faith, hope and love, a list which comes from 1 Corinthians 13:13 ( \"pistis\" (faith), \"elpis\" (hope), \"agape\" (love), ). The same chapter describes love as the greatest of the three, and further defines love as \"patient, kind, not envious, boastful, arrogant, or rude.\" (The Christian virtue of love is sometimes called charity and at other times a Greek word agape is used to contrast the love of God and the love of humankind from other types of love such as friendship or physical affection.)\n\nChristian scholars frequently add the four Greek cardinal virtues (prudence, justice, temperance, and courage) to the theological virtues to give the seven virtues; for example, these seven are the ones described in the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", sections 1803–1829.\n\nThe Bible mentions additional virtues, such as in the \"Fruit of the Holy Spirit,\" found in Galatians 5:22-23: \"By contrast, the fruit of the Spirit it is benevolent-love: joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, benevolence, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is absolutely no law against such a thing.\"\n\nThe medieval and renaissance periods saw a number of models of sin listing the seven deadly sins and the virtues opposed to each.\n\nIn Islam, the Qur'an is believed to be the literal word of God, and the definitive description of virtue. Muhammad is considered an ideal example of virtue in human form. The hadiths, his reported sayings, are central to the Islamic understanding of virtue.\n\nVirtue is defined in hadith. It is reported by An-Nawwas bin Sam'an:\nWabisah bin Ma’bad reported:\nFor Muslims fulfilling the human rights are valued as an important building block of Islam, According to Muslim beliefs Allah will forgive individual sins but the bad treatment of humans and injustice with others will only be pardoned by the humans and not by Allah.\nIn Jainism, attainment of enlightenment is possible only if the seeker possesses certain virtues. All Jains are supposed to take up the five vows of ahimsa (non violence), satya (truthfulness), asteya (non stealing), aparigraha (non attachment and brahmacharya (celibacy) before becoming a monk. These vows are laid down by the Tirthankaras. Other virtues which are supposed to be followed by both monks as well as laypersons include forgiveness, humility, self-restraint and straightforwardness. These vows assists the seeker to escape from the karmic bondages thereby escaping the cycle of birth and death to attain liberation.\n\nVirtue is a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. The essence, need and value of virtue is explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nVirtues lead to \"punya\" (Sanskrit: पुण्य, holy living) in Hindu literature; while vices lead to \"pap\" (Sanskrit: पाप, sin). Sometimes, the word \"punya\" is used interchangeably with virtue.\n\nThe virtues that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita - considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong - argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nBuddhist practice as outlined in the Noble Eightfold Path can be regarded as a progressive list of virtues.\n\nBuddhism's four \"brahmavihara\" (\"Divine States\") can be more properly regarded as virtues in the European sense. They are:\n\nThere are also the Paramitas (\"perfections\"), which are the culmination of having acquired certain virtues. In Theravada Buddhism's canonical Buddhavamsa there are Ten Perfections (\"dasa pāramiyo\"). In Mahayana Buddhism, the Lotus Sutra (\"Saddharmapundarika\"), there are Six Perfections; while in the Ten Stages (\"Dasabhumika\") Sutra, four more \"Paramitas\" are listed.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, virtues are direct spiritual qualities that the human soul possesses, inherited from the world of God. The development and manifestation of these virtues is the theme of the \"Hidden Words\" of Bahá'u'lláh and are discussed in great detail as the underpinnings of a divinely-inspired society by `Abdu'l-Bahá in such texts as \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\".\n\n\"Virtue\", translated from Chinese \"de\" (), is also an important concept in Chinese philosophy, particularly Daoism. \"De\" () originally meant normative \"virtue\" in the sense of \"personal character; inner strength; integrity\", but semantically changed to moral \"virtue; kindness; morality\". Note the semantic parallel for English \"\", with an archaic meaning of \"inner potency; divine power\" (as in \"by virtue of\") and a modern one of \"moral excellence; goodness\".\n\nIn early periods of Confucianism, moral manifestations of \"virtue\" include \"ren\" (\"humanity\"), \"xiao\" (\"filial piety\"), and \"li\" (\"proper behavior, performance of rituals\"). The notion of ren - according to Simon Leys - means \"humanity\" and \"goodness\". Ren originally had the archaic meaning in the Confucian Book of Poems of \"virility\", but progressively took on shades of ethical meaning. Some scholars consider the virtues identified in early Confucianism as non-theistic philosophy.\n\nThe Daoist concept of \"De\", compared to Confucianism, is more subtle, pertaining to the \"virtue\" or ability that an individual realizes by following the Dao (\"the Way\"). One important normative value in much of Chinese thinking is that one's social status should result from the amount of virtue that one demonstrates, rather than from one's birth. In the \"Analects\", Confucius explains \"de\" as follows: \"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.\" In later periods, particularly from the Tang dynasty period, Confucianism as practiced, absorbed and melded its own concepts of virtues with those from Daoism and Buddhism.\n\nIn Hagakure, Yamamoto Tsunetomo encapsulates his views on 'virtue' in the four vows he makes daily:\n\nYamamoto goes on to say:\nIf one dedicates these four vows to the gods and Buddhas every morning, he will have the strength of two men and never slip backward. One must edge forward like the inchworm, bit by bit. The gods and Buddhas, too, first started with a vow.\n\nThe Bushidō code is typified by seven virtues:\n\nOthers that are sometimes added to these:\n\nWhile religious scriptures generally consider \"dharma\" or \"aṟam\" (the Tamil term for virtue) as a divine virtue, Valluvar describes it as a way of life rather than any spiritual observance, a way of harmonious living that leads to universal happiness. For this reason, Valluvar keeps \"aṟam\" as the cornerstone throughout the writing of the Kural literature. Valluvar considered justice as a facet or product of \"aram.\" While ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and their descendants opined that justice cannot be defined and that it was a divine mystery, Valluvar positively suggested that a divine origin is not required to define the concept of justice. In the words of V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, justice according to Valluvar \"dwells in the minds of those who have knowledge of the standard of right and wrong; so too deceit dwells in the minds which breed fraud.\"\n\nFor the Rationalist philosopher René Descartes, virtue consists in the correct reasoning that should guide our actions. Men should seek the sovereign good that Descartes, following Zeno, identifies with virtue, as this produces a solid blessedness or pleasure. For Epicurus the sovereign good was pleasure, and Descartes says that in fact this is not in contradiction with Zeno's teaching, because virtue produces a spiritual pleasure, that is better than bodily pleasure. Regarding Aristotle's opinion that happiness depends on the goods of fortune, Descartes does not deny that these goods contribute to happiness, but remarks that they are in great proportion outside one's own control, whereas one's mind is under one's complete control.\n\nImmanuel Kant, in his \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\", expresses true virtue as different from what commonly is known about this moral trait. In Kant's view, to be goodhearted, benevolent and sympathetic is not regarded as true virtue. The only aspect that makes a human truly virtuous is to behave in accordance with moral principles. Kant presents an example for more clarification; suppose that you come across a needy person in the street; if your sympathy leads you to help that person, your response does not illustrate your virtue. In this example, since you do not afford helping all needy ones, you have behaved unjustly, and it is out of the domain of principles and true virtue. Kant applies the approach of four temperaments to distinguish truly virtuous people. According to Kant, among all people with diverse temperaments, a person with melancholy frame of mind is the most virtuous whose thoughts, words and deeds are one of principles.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche's view of virtue is based on the idea of an order of rank among people. For Nietzsche, the virtues of the strong are seen as vices by the weak and slavish, thus Nietzsche's virtue ethics is based on his distinction between master morality and slave morality. Nietzsche promotes the virtues of those he calls \"higher men\", people like Goethe and Beethoven. The virtues he praises in them are their creative powers (“the men of great creativity” - “the really great men according to my understanding” (WP 957)).\nAccording to Nietzsche these higher types are solitary, pursue a \"unifying project\", revere themselves and are healthy and life-affirming. Because mixing with the herd makes one base, the higher type “strives instinctively for a citadel and a secrecy where he is saved from the crowd, the many, the great majority…” (BGE 26). The 'Higher type' also \"instinctively seeks heavy responsibilities\" (WP 944) in the form of an \"organizing idea\" for their life, which drives them to artistic and creative work and gives them psychological health and strength. The fact that the higher types are \"healthy\" for Nietzsche does not refer to physical health as much as a psychological resilience and fortitude. Finally, a Higher type affirms life because he is willing to accept the eternal return of his life and affirm this forever and unconditionally.\n\nIn the last section of \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche outlines his thoughts on the noble virtues and places solitude as one of the highest virtues:\n\nAnd to keep control over your four virtues: courage, insight, sympathy, solitude. Because solitude is a virtue for us, since it is a sublime inclination and impulse to cleanliness which shows that contact between people (“society”) inevitably makes things unclean. Somewhere, sometime, every\ncommunity makes people – “base.” (BGE §284)\n\nNietzsche also sees truthfulness as a virtue:\n\nGenuine honesty, assuming that this is our virtue and we cannot get rid of it, we free spirits – well then, we will want to work on it with all the love and malice at our disposal and not get tired of ‘perfecting’ ourselves in our virtue, the only one we have left: may its glory come to rest like a gilded, blue evening glow of mockery over this aging culture and its dull and dismal seriousness! (Beyond Good and Evil, §227)\n\nThese are the virtues that Benjamin Franklin used to develop what he called 'moral perfection'. He had a checklist in a notebook to measure each day how he lived up to his virtues.\n\nThey became known through Benjamin Franklin's autobiography.\n\n\nMarc Jackson in his book \"Emotion and Psyche\" puts forward a new development of the virtues. He identifies the virtues as what he calls the good emotions \"The first group consisting of love, kindness, joy, faith, awe and pity is good\" These virtues differ from older accounts of the virtues because they are not character traits expressed by action, but emotions that are to be felt and developed by feeling not acting.\nAyn Rand held that her morality, the , contained a single axiom: existence exists, and a single choice: to live. All values and virtues proceed from these. To live, man must hold three fundamental values that one develops and achieves in life: Reason, Purpose, and Self-Esteem. A value is \"that which one acts to gain and/or keep ... and the virtue[s] [are] the act[ions] by which one gains and/or keeps it.\" The primary virtue in Objectivist ethics is rationality, which as Rand meant it is \"the recognition and acceptance of reason as one's only source of knowledge, one's only judge of values and one's only guide to action.\" These values are achieved by passionate and consistent action and the virtues are the policies for achieving those fundamental values. Ayn Rand describes seven virtues: rationality, productiveness, pride, independence, integrity, honesty and justice. The first three represent the three primary virtues that correspond to the three fundamental values, whereas the final four are derived from the virtue of rationality. She claims that virtue is not an end in itself, that virtue is not its own reward nor sacrificial fodder for the reward of evil, that life is the reward of virtue and happiness is the goal and the reward of life. Man has a single basic choice: to think or not, and that is the gauge of his virtue. Moral perfection is an unbreached rationality, not the degree of your intelligence but the full and relentless use of your mind, not the extent of your knowledge but the acceptance of reason as an absolute.\n\nChristopher Peterson and Martin Seligman, two leading researchers in positive psychology, recognizing the deficiency inherent in psychology's tendency to focus on dysfunction rather than on what makes a healthy and stable personality, set out to develop a list of \"Character Strengths and Virtues\". After three years of study, 24 traits (classified into six broad areas of virtue) were identified, having \"a surprising amount of similarity across cultures and strongly indicat[ing] a historical and cross-cultural convergence.\" These six categories of virtue are courage, justice, humanity, temperance, transcendence, and wisdom. Some psychologists suggest that these virtues are adequately grouped into fewer categories; for example, the same 24 traits have been grouped into simply: Cognitive Strengths, Temperance Strengths, and Social Strengths.\n\nThe opposite of a virtue is a vice. Vice is a habitual, repeated practice of wrongdoing. One way of organizing the vices is as the corruption of the virtues.\n\nAs Aristotle noted, however, the virtues can have several opposites. Virtues can be considered the mean between two extremes, as the Latin maxim dictates \"in medio stat virtus\" - in the centre lies virtue. For instance, both cowardice and rashness are opposites of courage; contrary to prudence are both over-caution and insufficient caution; the opposites of pride (a virtue) are undue humility and excessive vanity. A more \"modern\" virtue, tolerance, can be considered the mean between the two extremes of narrow-mindedness on the one hand and over-acceptance on the other. Vices can therefore be identified as the opposites of virtues - but with the caveat that each virtue could have many different opposites, all distinct from each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25313916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25313916", "title": "Wonderism", "text": "Wonderism\n\nWonderism is a term coined by French sinologist Terrien de Lacouperie (1845-1894) to differentiate the proto-Daoism of Jixia Academy from the philosophical Daoism of Laozi, although his ideas were received with skepticism at the time of assertion and have since been discredited by modern sinology.\n\nLacouperie believed that Chinese civilization was influenced by early sea traders from the Erythraean Sea and Indian Ocean who established a settlement in East China circa 675 BCE. It was located in the Zhou Dynasty state of Qi 齊 (present day Shandong Province) at Langye 琅琊 (near Linyi) and Jimo 即墨 (northeast and southwest of Jiaozhou Bay). In the history of Ancient Chinese coinage, Jimo was an important mint where large bronze knife money called \"Qi knives\" were manufactured.\nThese foreigners, Sabaeans, Syrians and Hindus introduced new notions, such as astrology and superstitions, and by their sailors' yarns awakened a curiosity for the wonderful. The social and political condition of the country was favourable to a movement of this sort. The Chinese princes were anxious of novelty to show their independence from the once respected and now disregarded suzerainty of the Kings of Chou. It was really an age of wonderism.\n\nAccording to Lacouperie, this school of thought combined with early philosophical Daoism to create religious Daoism. \nThe school of Wonderism, which had grown out of the influence of the trader-colonists of the Indian Ocean settled at Lang-ya and Tsih-Moh who had taught Astrology and an overrated conception of the transforming powers of nature, amalgamated with the pure Taoism of Lao-tze, and formed henceforth what may be called the Neo-Taoism or Tao-szeism, while Confucianism remained in opposition to it, such as his founder had conceived it against the encroachments of Wonderism, Taoism, and Shamanism. It was indeed the rising of Confucianism which led to the fusion of these various elements. \nThis terminology is outmoded. \"Taoszeism\" (from the French romanization \"tao-sze\" for \"daoshi\" 道士 \"Daoist master, Daoist priest/priestess\") was used by Léon de Rosny in reference to religious Daoism. \"Neotaoism\" or \"Neodaoism\" usually refers to Xuanxue 玄學 (lit. \"arcane studies\").\n"}
