{"id": "55353989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55353989", "title": "12th century in philosophy", "text": "12th century in philosophy\n\nThis is a list of philosophy-related events in the 12th century. Philosophy at the time was influenced by the ongoing crusades.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209565", "title": "19th-century philosophy", "text": "19th-century philosophy\n\nIn the 19th century, the philosophies of the Enlightenment began to have a dramatic effect, the landmark works of philosophers such as Immanuel Kant and Jean-Jacques Rousseau influencing new generations of thinkers. In the late 18th century a movement known as Romanticism began; it validated strong emotion as an authentic not of aesthetic experience, placing new emphasis on such emotions as trepidation, horror and terror and awe. Key ideas that sparked changes in philosophy were the fast progress of science; evolution, as postulated by Vanini, Diderot, Lord Monboddo, Erasmus Darwin, Lamarck, Goethe, and Charles Darwin; and what might now be called emergent order, such as the free market of Adam Smith within nation states. Pressures for egalitarianism, and more rapid change culminated in a period of revolution and turbulence that would see philosophy change as well.\n\nWith the tumultuous years of 1789–1815, European culture was transformed by revolution, war and disruption. By ending many of the social and cultural props of the previous century, the stage was set for dramatic economic and political change. European philosophy reflected on, participated in, and drove, many of these changes.\n\nThe last third of the 18th century produced a host of ideas and works which would both systematize previous philosophy, and present a deep challenge to the basis of how philosophy had been systematized. Immanuel Kant is a name that most would mention as being among the most important of influences, as is Jean-Jacques Rousseau. While both of these philosophers were products of the 18th century and its assumptions, they pressed at the boundaries. In trying to explain the nature of the state and government, Rousseau would challenge the basis of government with his declaration that \"Man is born free, but is everywhere in chains\". Kant, while attempting to preserve axiomic skepticism, was forced to argue that we do not see true reality, nor do we speak of it. All we know of reality is appearances. Since all we can see of reality is appearances, which are subject to certain necessary and subjective forms of perceptions, Kant postulates the idea of an unknowable (while at the same time limiting our use of science and the principle of causality to the appearances). Hegel's distinction between the unknowable and the circumstantially unknown can be seen as the beginnings of Hegel's rational system of the universe.\n\nYet another philosopher of the late Enlightenment that was influential in the 19th century was Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749–1827), whose formulation of nomological determinism is famous up to this day.\n\nThis is a partial list of schools of 19th-century philosophy (also known as late modern philosophy).\n\nOne of the first philosophers to attempt to grapple with Kant's philosophy was Johann Gottlieb Fichte, whose development of Kantian metaphysics became a source of inspiration for the Romantics. In \"Wissenschaftslehre\", Fichte argues that the self posits itself and is a self-producing and changing process.\n\nFriedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, a student of Fichte, continued to develop many of the same ideas and was also assimilated by the Romantics as something of an official philosopher for their movement. But it was another of Fichte's students, and former roommate of Schelling, who would rise to become the most prominent of the post-Kantian idealists: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. His work revealed the increasing importance of historical thinking in German thought.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer, rejecting Hegel and also materialism, called for a return to Kantian transcendentalism, at the same time adopting atheism and determinism, amongst others. His secular thought became more popular in Europe in the second half of the 19th century, which coincided with the advents of Darwinism, positivism, Marxism and philological analysis of the Bible. \n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, an even more orthodox return to Kantian thought was espoused by a number of Neo-Kantian philosophers based in two main locations: the Marburg School and the Baden School. This trend of thought survived into the beginning of the next century, influencing 20th century philosophical movements such as Neopositivism and Phenomenology.\n\nOne of the most famous opponents of idealism in the first half of the German 19th century was Ludwig Feuerbach, who advocated materialism and atheism.\n\nIn early 19th century Britain, Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill promoted the idea that actions are right as they maximize happiness, and happiness alone.\n\nDeveloped by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels in the mid-to-late-19th Century, Marxism is a sociopolitical and economic view based on the philosophy of dialectical materialism, which opposes idealism in favour of the materialist viewpoint. Marx analysed history itself as the progression of dialectics in the form of class struggle. From this it is argued that \"the history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles.\" According to Marx, this began with the phase of primitive communism (hunter-gatherer society), after which the Neolithic Revolution gave way to slave societies, progressing into the feudal society, and then into his present era of the Industrial Revolution, after which he held that the next step was for the proletariat to overthrow the owners of industry and establish a socialist society, which would further develop into a communist society, in which class distinctions, money, and the state would have withered from existence entirely.\n\nMarxism had a profound influence on the history of the 20th Century.\n\nExistentialism as a philosophical movement is properly a 20th-century movement, but its major antecedents, Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche wrote long before the rise of existentialism. In the 1840s, academic philosophy in Europe, following Hegel, was almost completely divorced from the concerns of individual human life, in favour of pursuing abstract metaphysical systems. Kierkegaard sought to reintroduce to philosophy, in the spirit of Socrates: subjectivity, commitment, faith, and passion, all of which are a part of the human condition.\n\nLike Kierkegaard, Nietzsche saw the moral values of 19th-century Europe disintegrating into nihilism (Kierkegaard called it the \"levelling\" process). Nietzsche attempted to undermine traditional moral values by exposing its foundations. To that end, he distinguished between master and slave moralities, and claimed that man must turn from the meekness and humility of Europe's slave-morality.\n\nBoth philosophers are precursors to existentialism, among other ideas, for their importance on the \"great man\" against the age. Kierkegaard wrote of 19th-century Europe, \"Each age has its own characteristic depravity. Ours is perhaps not pleasure or indulgence or sensuality, but rather a dissolute pantheistic contempt for the individual man.\"\n\nAuguste Comte, the self-professed founder of modern sociology, put forward the view that the rigorous ordering of confirmable observations alone ought to constitute the realm of human knowledge. He had hoped to order the sciences in increasing degrees of complexity from mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology, and a new discipline called \"sociology\", which is the study of the \"dynamics and statics of society\".\n\nThe American philosophers Charles Sanders Peirce and William James developed the pragmatist philosophy in the late 19th century.\n\nThe twilight years of the 19th century in Britain saw the rise of British idealism, a revival of interest in the works of Kant and Hegel.\n\nTranscendentalism was rooted in Immanuel Kant's transcendence and German idealism, led by Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau. The main belief was in an ideal spiritual state that 'transcends' the physical and empirical and is only realized through the individual's intuition, rather than through the doctrines of established religions.\n\n\"Social Darwinism\" refers to theories that apply the evolutionary concept of natural selection to human society.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7259825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7259825", "title": "Accidental necessity", "text": "Accidental necessity\n\nIn philosophy and logic, accidental necessity, often stated in its Latin form, \"necessitas per accidens\", refers to the necessity attributed to the past by certain views of time. It is a controversial concept: its supporters argue that it has intuitive validity while others contest it creates a contradiction in terms by positing such a thing as a \"contingent necessity.\" It is especially important in contemporary discussions of logical and theological fatalism.\n\n"}
{"id": "30758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30758", "title": "Age of Enlightenment", "text": "Age of Enlightenment\n\nThe Enlightenment (also known as the Age of Enlightenment or the Age of Reason) was an intellectual and philosophical movement that dominated the world of ideas in Europe during the 18th century, the \"Century of Philosophy\".\n\nFrench historians traditionally place the Enlightenment between 1715 (the year that Louis XIV died) and 1789 (the beginning of the French Revolution). International historians begin the period in the 1620s, with the start of the scientific revolution. \"\" () of the period widely circulated their ideas through meetings at scientific academies, Masonic lodges, literary salons, coffee houses and in printed books and pamphlets. The ideas of the Enlightenment undermined the authority of the monarchy and the Church and paved the way for the political revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of 19th-century movements, including liberalism and neo-classicism, trace their intellectual heritage to the Enlightenment.\n\nThe Enlightenment included a range of ideas centered on reason as the primary source of authority and legitimacy and came to advance ideals like liberty, progress, tolerance, fraternity, constitutional government and separation of church and state. In France, the central doctrines of the Enlightenment philosophers were individual liberty and religious tolerance, in opposition to an absolute monarchy and the fixed dogmas of the Roman Catholic Church. The Enlightenment was marked by an emphasis on the scientific method and reductionism, along with increased questioning of religious orthodoxy—an attitude captured by the phrase \"Sapere aude\", \"Dare to know\".\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was preceded by and closely associated with the scientific revolution. Earlier philosophers whose work influenced the Enlightenment included Bacon, Descartes, Locke, and Spinoza. The major figures of the Enlightenment included Beccaria, Diderot, Hume, Kant, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Adam Smith, and Voltaire. Some European rulers, including Catherine II of Russia, Joseph II of Austria and Frederick II of Prussia, tried to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance, which became known as enlightened absolutism. Benjamin Franklin visited Europe repeatedly and contributed actively to the scientific and political debates there and brought the newest ideas back to Philadelphia. Thomas Jefferson closely followed European ideas and later incorporated some of the ideals of the Enlightenment into the Declaration of Independence (1776). One of his peers, James Madison, incorporated these ideals into the United States Constitution during its framing in 1787.\n\nThe most influential publication of the Enlightenment was the \"\" (\"Encyclopaedia\"). Published between 1751 and 1772 in thirty-five volumes, it was compiled by Diderot, d'Alembert (until 1759) and a team of 150 scientists and philosophers. It helped spread the ideas of the Enlightenment across Europe and beyond. Other landmark publications were Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (\"Philosophical Dictionary\"; 1764) and \"Letters on the English\" (1733); Rousseau's \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754) and \"The Social Contract\" (1762); Adam Smith's \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" (1759) and \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776); and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748). The ideas of the Enlightenment played a major role in inspiring the French Revolution, which began in 1789. After the Revolution, the Enlightenment was followed by the intellectual movement known as Romanticism.\n\nRené Descartes' rationalist philosophy laid the foundation for enlightenment thinking. His attempt to construct the sciences on a secure metaphysical foundation was not as successful as his method of doubt applied in philosophic areas leading to a dualistic doctrine of mind and matter. His skepticism was refined by John Locke's Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690) and David Hume's writings in the 1740s. His dualism was challenged by Spinoza's uncompromising assertion of the unity of matter in his Tractatus (1670) and Ethics (1677).\n\nThese laid down two distinct lines of Enlightenment thought: first, the moderate variety, following Descartes, Locke and Christian Wolff, which sought accommodation between reform and the traditional systems of power and faith, and second, the radical enlightenment, inspired by the philosophy of Spinoza, advocating democracy, individual liberty, freedom of expression and eradication of religious authority. The moderate variety tended to be deistic, whereas the radical tendency separated the basis of morality entirely from theology. Both lines of thought were eventually opposed by a conservative Counter-Enlightenment, which sought a return to faith.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, Paris became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity challenging traditional doctrines and dogmas. The philosophic movement was led by Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who argued for a society based upon reason rather than faith and Catholic doctrine, for a new civil order based on natural law, and for science based on experiments and observation. The political philosopher Montesquieu introduced the idea of a separation of powers in a government, a concept which was enthusiastically adopted by the authors of the United States Constitution. While the \"Philosophes\" of the French Enlightenment were not revolutionaries and many were members of the nobility, their ideas played an important part in undermining the legitimacy of the Old Regime and shaping the French Revolution.\n\nFrancis Hutcheson, a moral philosopher, described the utilitarian and consequentialist principle that virtue is that which provides, in his words, \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\". Much of what is incorporated in the scientific method (the nature of knowledge, evidence, experience and causation) and some modern attitudes towards the relationship between science and religion were developed by his protégés David Hume and Adam Smith. Hume became a major figure in the skeptical philosophical and empiricist traditions of philosophy.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority, as well as map out a view of the public sphere through private and public reason. Kant's work continued to shape German thought and indeed all of European philosophy, well into the 20th century. Mary Wollstonecraft was one of England's earliest feminist philosophers. She argued for a society based on reason and that women as well as men should be treated as rational beings. She is best known for her work \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1791).\n\nScience played an important role in Enlightenment discourse and thought. Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with the overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favour of the development of free speech and thought. Scientific progress during the Enlightenment included the discovery of carbon dioxide (fixed air) by the chemist Joseph Black, the argument for deep time by the geologist James Hutton and the invention of the steam engine by James Watt. The experiments of Lavoisier were used to create the first modern chemical plants in Paris and the experiments of the Montgolfier Brothers enabled them to launch the first manned flight in a hot-air balloon on 21 November 1783 from the Château de la Muette, near the Bois de Boulogne.\n\nBroadly speaking, Enlightenment science greatly valued empiricism and rational thought and was embedded with the Enlightenment ideal of advancement and progress. The study of science, under the heading of natural philosophy, was divided into physics and a conglomerate grouping of chemistry and natural history, which included anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy and zoology. As with most Enlightenment views, the benefits of science were not seen universally: Rousseau criticized the sciences for distancing man from nature and not operating to make people happier. Science during the Enlightenment was dominated by scientific societies and academies, which had largely replaced universities as centres of scientific research and development. Societies and academies were also the backbone of the maturation of the scientific profession. Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population. Philosophes introduced the public to many scientific theories, most notably through the \"Encyclopédie\" and the popularization of Newtonianism by Voltaire and Émilie du Châtelet. Some historians have marked the 18th century as a drab period in the history of science. However, the century saw significant advancements in the practice of medicine, mathematics and physics; the development of biological taxonomy; a new understanding of magnetism and electricity; and the maturation of chemistry as a discipline, which established the foundations of modern chemistry.\n\nScientific academies and societies grew out of the Scientific Revolution as the creators of scientific knowledge in contrast to the scholasticism of the university. During the Enlightenment, some societies created or retained links to universities, but contemporary sources distinguished universities from scientific societies by claiming that the university's utility was in the transmission of knowledge while societies functioned to create knowledge. As the role of universities in institutionalized science began to diminish, learned societies became the cornerstone of organized science. Official scientific societies were chartered by the state in order to provide technical expertise. Most societies were granted permission to oversee their own publications, control the election of new members and the administration of the society. After 1700, a tremendous number of official academies and societies were founded in Europe and by 1789 there were over seventy official scientific societies. In reference to this growth, Bernard de Fontenelle coined the term \"the Age of Academies\" to describe the 18th century.\n\nThe influence of science also began appearing more commonly in poetry and literature during the Enlightenment. Some poetry became infused with scientific metaphor and imagery, while other poems were written directly about scientific topics. Sir Richard Blackmore committed the Newtonian system to verse in \"Creation, a Philosophical Poem in Seven Books\" (1712). After Newton's death in 1727, poems were composed in his honour for decades. James Thomson (1700–1748) penned his \"Poem to the Memory of Newton\", which mourned the loss of Newton, but also praised his science and legacy.\n\nHume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a \"science of man\", which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity. Modern sociology largely originated from this movement and Hume's philosophical concepts that directly influenced James Madison (and thus the U.S. Constitution) and as popularised by Dugald Stewart, would be the basis of classical liberalism.\n\nIn 1776, Adam Smith published \"The Wealth of Nations\", often considered the first work on modern economics as it had an immediate impact on British economic policy that continues into the 21st century. It was immediately preceded and influenced by Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune drafts of \"Reflections on the Formation and Distribution of Wealth\" (Paris, 1766). Smith acknowledged indebtedness and possibly was the original English translator.\n\nCesare Beccaria, a jurist, criminologist, philosopher and politician and one of the great Enlightenment writers, became famous for his masterpiece \"Of Crimes and Punishments\" (1764), later translated into 22 languages, which condemned torture and the death penalty and was a founding work in the field of penology and the Classical School of criminology by promoting criminal justice. Another prominent intellectual was Francesco Mario Pagano, who wrote important studies such as \"Saggi Politici\" (Political Essays, 1783), one of the major works of the Enlightenment in Naples; and \"Considerazioni sul processo criminale\" (Considerations on the criminal trial, 1787), which established him as an international authority on criminal law.\n\nThe Enlightenment has long been hailed as the foundation of modern Western political and intellectual culture. The Enlightenment brought political modernization to the West, in terms of introducing democratic values and institutions and the creation of modern, liberal democracies. This thesis has been widely accepted by Anglophone scholars and has been reinforced by the large-scale studies by Robert Darnton, Roy Porter and most recently by Jonathan Israel.\n\nJohn Locke, one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers, based his governance philosophy in social contract theory, a subject that permeated Enlightenment political thought. The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes ushered in this new debate with his work \"Leviathan\" in 1651. Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be \"representative\" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.\n\nBoth Locke and Rousseau developed social contract theories in \"Two Treatises of Government\" and \"Discourse on Inequality\", respectively. While quite different works, Locke, Hobbes and Rousseau agreed that a social contract, in which the government's authority lies in the consent of the governed, is necessary for man to live in civil society. Locke defines the state of nature as a condition in which humans are rational and follow natural law, in which all men are born equal and with the right to life, liberty and property. However, when one citizen breaks the Law of Nature both the transgressor and the victim enter into a state of war, from which it is virtually impossible to break free. Therefore, Locke said that individuals enter into civil society to protect their natural rights via an \"unbiased judge\" or common authority, such as courts, to appeal to. Contrastingly, Rousseau's conception relies on the supposition that \"civil man\" is corrupted, while \"natural man\" has no want he cannot fulfill himself. Natural man is only taken out of the state of nature when the inequality associated with private property is established. Rousseau said that people join into civil society via the social contract to achieve unity while preserving individual freedom. This is embodied in the sovereignty of the general will, the moral and collective legislative body constituted by citizens.\n\nLocke is known for his statement that individuals have a right to \"Life, Liberty and Property\" and his belief that the natural right to property is derived from labor. Tutored by Locke, Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury wrote in 1706: \"There is a mighty Light which spreads its self over the world especially in those two free Nations of England and Holland; on whom the Affairs of Europe now turn\". Locke's theory of natural rights has influenced many political documents, including the United States Declaration of Independence and the French National Constituent Assembly's Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" argued that the establishment of a contractual basis of rights would lead to the market mechanism and capitalism, the scientific method, religious tolerance and the organization of states into self-governing republics through democratic means. In this view, the tendency of the \"philosophes\" in particular to apply rationality to every problem is considered the essential change.\n\nAlthough much of Enlightenment political thought was dominated by social contract theorists, both David Hume and Adam Ferguson criticized this camp. Hume's essay \"Of the Original Contract\" argues that governments derived from consent are rarely seen and civil government is grounded in a ruler's habitual authority and force. It is precisely because of the ruler's authority over-and-against the subject, that the subject tacitly consents and Hume says that the subjects would \"never imagine that their consent made him sovereign\", rather the authority did so. Similarly, Ferguson did not believe citizens built the state, rather polities grew out of social development. In his 1767 \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\", Ferguson uses the four stages of progress, a theory that was very popular in Scotland at the time, to explain how humans advance from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without \"signing\" a social contract.\n\nBoth Rousseau and Locke's social contract theories rest on the presupposition of natural rights, which are not a result of law or custom, but are things that all men have in pre-political societies and are therefore universal and inalienable. The most famous natural right formulation comes from John Locke in his \"Second Treatise\", when he introduces the state of nature. For Locke, the law of nature is grounded on mutual security or the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights, as every man is equal and has the same inalienable rights. These natural rights include perfect equality and freedom, as well as the right to preserve life and property. Locke also argued against slavery on the basis that enslaving yourself goes against the law of nature because you cannot surrender your own rights, your freedom is absolute and no one can take it from you. Additionally, Locke argues that one person cannot enslave another because it is morally reprehensible, although he introduces a caveat by saying that enslavement of a lawful captive in time of war would not go against one's natural rights.\n\nAs a spillover of the Enlightenment, nonsecular beliefs expressed first by Quakers and then by Protestant evangelicals in Britain and the United States emerged. To these groups, slavery became \"repugnant to our religion\" and a \"crime in the sight of God.\" These ideas added to those expressed by Enlightenment thinkers, leading many in Britain to believe that slavery was \"not only morally wrong and economically inefficient, but also politically unwise.\" As these notions gained more adherents, Britain was forced to end its participation in the slave trade.\n\nThe leaders of the Enlightenment were not especially democratic, as they more often look to absolute monarchs as the key to imposing reforms designed by the intellectuals. Voltaire despised democracy and said the absolute monarch must be enlightened and must act as dictated by reason and justice – in other words, be a \"philosopher-king\".\n\nIn several nations, rulers welcomed leaders of the Enlightenment at court and asked them to help design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger states. These rulers are called \"enlightened despots\" by historians. They included Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catherine the Great of Russia, Leopold II of Tuscany and Joseph II of Austria. Joseph was over-enthusiastic, announcing many reforms that had little support so that revolts broke out and his regime became a comedy of errors and nearly all his programs were reversed. Senior ministers Pombal in Portugal and Johann Friedrich Struensee in Denmark also governed according to Enlightenment ideals. In Poland, the model constitution of 1791 expressed Enlightenment ideals, but was in effect for only one year before the nation was partitioned among its neighbors. More enduring were the cultural achievements, which created a nationalist spirit in Poland.\n\nFrederick the Great, the king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, saw himself as a leader of the Enlightenment and patronized philosophers and scientists at his court in Berlin. Voltaire, who had been imprisoned and maltreated by the French government, was eager to accept Frederick's invitation to live at his palace. Frederick explained: \"My principal occupation is to combat ignorance and prejudice ... to enlighten minds, cultivate morality, and to make people as happy as it suits human nature, and as the means at my disposal permit\".\n\nThe Enlightenment has been frequently linked to the French Revolution of 1789. One view of the political changes that occurred during the Enlightenment is that the \"consent of the governed\" philosophy as delineated by Locke in \"Two Treatises of Government\" (1689) represented a paradigm shift from the old governance paradigm under feudalism known as the \"divine right of kings\". In this view, the revolutions of the late 1700s and early 1800s were caused by the fact that this governance paradigm shift often could not be resolved peacefully and therefore violent revolution was the result. Clearly a governance philosophy where the king was never wrong was in direct conflict with one whereby citizens by natural law had to consent to the acts and rulings of their government.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville proposed the French Revolution as the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment. These men of letters constituted a sort of \"substitute aristocracy that was both all-powerful and without real power\". This illusory power came from the rise of \"public opinion\", born when absolutist centralization removed the nobility and the bourgeoisie from the political sphere. The \"literary politics\" that resulted promoted a discourse of equality and was hence in fundamental opposition to the monarchical regime. De Tocqueville \"clearly designates  ... the cultural effects of transformation in the forms of the exercise of power\".\n\nEnlightenment era religious commentary was a response to the preceding century of religious conflict in Europe, especially the Thirty Years' War. Theologians of the Enlightenment wanted to reform their faith to its generally non-confrontational roots and to limit the capacity for religious controversy to spill over into politics and warfare while still maintaining a true faith in God. For moderate Christians, this meant a return to simple Scripture. John Locke abandoned the corpus of theological commentary in favor of an \"unprejudiced examination\" of the Word of God alone. He determined the essence of Christianity to be a belief in Christ the redeemer and recommended avoiding more detailed debate. In the \"Jefferson Bible\", Thomas Jefferson went further and dropped any passages dealing with miracles, visitations of angels and the resurrection of Jesus after his death, as he tried to extract the practical Christian moral code of the New Testament.\n\nEnlightenment scholars sought to curtail the political power of organized religion and thereby prevent another age of intolerant religious war. Spinoza determined to remove politics from contemporary and historical theology (e.g., disregarding Judaic law). Moses Mendelssohn advised affording no political weight to any organized religion, but instead recommended that each person follow what they found most convincing. They believed a good religion based in instinctive morals and a belief in God should not theoretically need force to maintain order in its believers, and both Mendelssohn and Spinoza judged religion on its moral fruits, not the logic of its theology.\n\nA number of novel ideas about religion developed with the Enlightenment, including deism and talk of atheism. According to Thomas Paine, deism is the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source. Instead, the deist relies solely on personal reason to guide his creed, which was eminently agreeable to many thinkers of the time. Atheism was much discussed, but there were few proponents. Wilson and Reill note: \"In fact, very few enlightened intellectuals, even when they were vocal critics of Christianity, were true atheists. Rather, they were critics of orthodox belief, wedded rather to skepticism, deism, vitalism, or perhaps pantheism\". Some followed Pierre Bayle and argued that atheists could indeed be moral men. Many others like Voltaire held that without belief in a God who punishes evil, the moral order of society was undermined. That is, since atheists gave themselves to no Supreme Authority and no law and had no fear of eternal consequences, they were far more likely to disrupt society. Bayle (1647–1706) observed that, in his day, \"prudent persons will always maintain an appearance of [religion],\" and he believed that even atheists could hold concepts of honor and go beyond their own self-interest to create and interact in society. Locke said that if there were no God and no divine law, the result would be moral anarchy: every individual \"could have no law but his own will, no end but himself. He would be a god to himself, and the satisfaction of his own will the sole measure and end of all his actions.\"\n\nThe \"Radical Enlightenment\" promoted the concept of separating church and state, an idea that is often credited to English philosopher John Locke (1632–1704). According to his principle of the social contract, Locke said that the government lacked authority in the realm of individual conscience, as this was something rational people could not cede to the government for it or others to control. For Locke, this created a natural right in the liberty of conscience, which he said must therefore remain protected from any government authority.\n\nThese views on religious tolerance and the importance of individual conscience, along with the social contract, became particularly influential in the American colonies and the drafting of the United States Constitution. Thomas Jefferson called for a \"wall of separation between church and state\" at the federal level. He previously had supported successful efforts to disestablish the Church of England in Virginia and authored the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Jefferson's political ideals were greatly influenced by the writings of John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton, whom he considered the three greatest men that ever lived.\n\nThe Enlightenment took hold in most European countries, often with a specific local emphasis. For example, in France it became associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism, while in Germany it reached deep into the middle classes, where it expressed a spiritualistic and nationalistic tone without threatening governments or established churches. Government responses varied widely. In France, the government was hostile, and the \"philosophes\" fought against its censorship, sometimes being imprisoned or hounded into exile. The British government, for the most part, ignored the Enlightenment's leaders in England and Scotland, although it did give Isaac Newton a knighthood and a very lucrative government office.\n\nThe very existence of an English Enlightenment has been hotly debated by scholars. The majority of textbooks on British history make little or no mention of an English Enlightenment. Some surveys of the entire Enlightenment include England and others ignore it, although they do include coverage of such major intellectuals as Joseph Addison, Edward Gibbon, John Locke, Isaac Newton, Alexander Pope, Joshua Reynolds and Jonathan Swift. Roy Porter argues that the reasons for this neglect were the assumptions that the movement was primarily French-inspired, that it was largely a-religious or anti-clerical, and that it stood in outspoken defiance to the established order. Porter admits that, after the 1720s, England could claim thinkers to equal Diderot, Voltaire or Rousseau. However, its leading intellectuals such as Edward Gibbon, Edmund Burke and Samuel Johnson were all quite conservative and supportive of the standing order. Porter says the reason was that Enlightenment had come early to England and had succeeded so that the culture had accepted political liberalism, philosophical empiricism, and religious toleration of the sort that intellectuals on the continent had to fight for against powerful odds. Furthermore, England rejected the collectivism of the continent and emphasized the improvement of individuals as the main goal of enlightenment.\n\nIn the Scottish Enlightenment, Scotland's major cities created an intellectual infrastructure of mutually supporting institutions such as universities, reading societies, libraries, periodicals, museums and masonic lodges. The Scottish network was \"predominantly liberal Calvinist, Newtonian, and 'design' oriented in character which played a major role in the further development of the transatlantic Enlightenment\". In France, Voltaire said that \"we look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilization\". The focus of the Scottish Enlightenment ranged from intellectual and economic matters to the specifically scientific as in the work of William Cullen, physician and chemist; James Anderson, an agronomist; Joseph Black, physicist and chemist; and James Hutton, the first modern geologist.\n\nSeveral Americans, especially Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, played a major role in bringing Enlightenment ideas to the New World and in influencing British and French thinkers. Franklin was influential for his political activism and for his advances in physics. The cultural exchange during the Age of Enlightenment ran in both directions across the Atlantic. Thinkers such as Paine, Locke and Rousseau all take Native American cultural practices as examples of natural freedom. The Americans closely followed English and Scottish political ideas, as well as some French thinkers such as Montesquieu. As deists, they were influenced by ideas of John Toland (1670–1722) and Matthew Tindal (1656–1733). During the Enlightenment there was a great emphasis upon liberty, republicanism and religious tolerance. There was no respect for monarchy or inherited political power. Deists reconciled science and religion by rejecting prophecies, miracles and Biblical theology. Leading deists included Thomas Paine in \"The Age of Reason\" and by Thomas Jefferson in his short \"Jefferson Bible\" – from which all supernatural aspects were removed.\n\nPrussia took the lead among the German states in sponsoring the political reforms that Enlightenment thinkers urged absolute rulers to adopt. There were important movements as well in the smaller states of Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover and the Palatinate. In each case, Enlightenment values became accepted and led to significant political and administrative reforms that laid the groundwork for the creation of modern states. The princes of Saxony, for example, carried out an impressive series of fundamental fiscal, administrative, judicial, educational, cultural and general economic reforms. The reforms were aided by the country's strong urban structure and influential commercial groups and modernized pre-1789 Saxony along the lines of classic Enlightenment principles.\nBefore 1750, the German upper classes looked to France for intellectual, cultural and architectural leadership, as French was the language of high society. By the mid-18th century, the \"Aufklärung\" (The Enlightenment) had transformed German high culture in music, philosophy, science and literature. Christian Wolff (1679–1754) was the pioneer as a writer who expounded the Enlightenment to German readers and legitimized German as a philosophic language.\n\nJohann Gottfried von Herder (1744–1803) broke new ground in philosophy and poetry, as a leader of the Sturm und Drang movement of proto-Romanticism. Weimar Classicism (\"Weimarer Klassik\") was a cultural and literary movement based in Weimar that sought to establish a new humanism by synthesizing Romantic, classical and Enlightenment ideas. The movement (from 1772 until 1805) involved Herder as well as polymath Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) and Friedrich Schiller (1759–1805), a poet and historian. Herder argued that every folk had its own particular identity, which was expressed in its language and culture. This legitimized the promotion of German language and culture and helped shape the development of German nationalism. Schiller's plays expressed the restless spirit of his generation, depicting the hero's struggle against social pressures and the force of destiny.\n\nGerman music, sponsored by the upper classes, came of age under composers Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750), Joseph Haydn (1732–1809) and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–1791).\n\nIn remote Königsberg, philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority. Kant's work contained basic tensions that would continue to shape German thought – and indeed all of European philosophy – well into the 20th century.\n\nThe German Enlightenment won the support of princes, aristocrats and the middle classes and it permanently reshaped the culture. However, there was a conservatism among the elites that warned against going too far.\n\nIn the 1780s, Lutheran ministers Johann Heinrich Schulz and Karl Wilhelm Brumbey got in trouble with their preaching as they were attacked and ridiculed by Immanuel Kant, Wilhelm Abraham Teller and others. In 1788, Prussia issued an \"Edict on Religion\" that forbade preaching any sermon that undermined popular belief in the Holy Trinity and the Bible. The goal was to avoid skepticism, deism and theological disputes that might impinge on domestic tranquility. Men who doubted the value of Enlightenment favoured the measure, but so too did many supporters. German universities had created a closed elite that could debate controversial issues among themselves, but spreading them to the public was seen as too risky. This intellectual elite was favoured by the state, but that might be reversed if the process of the Enlightenment proved politically or socially destabilizing.\n\nThe Enlightenment played a distinctive, if small, role in the history of Italy. Although most of Italy was controlled by conservative Habsburgs or the pope, Tuscany had some opportunities for reform. Leopold II of Tuscany abolished the death penalty in Tuscany and reduced censorship. From Naples, Antonio Genovesi (1713–69) influenced a generation of southern Italian intellectuals and university students. His textbook \"Diceosina, o Sia della Filosofia del Giusto e dell'Onesto\" (1766) was a controversial attempt to mediate between the history of moral philosophy on the one hand and the specific problems encountered by 18th-century commercial society on the other. It contained the greater part of Genovesi's political, philosophical and economic thought – guidebook for Neapolitan economic and social development. Science flourished as Alessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani made break-through discoveries in electricity. Pietro Verri was a leading economist in Lombardy. Historian Joseph Schumpeter states he was \"the most important pre-Smithian authority on Cheapness-and-Plenty\". The most influential scholar on the Italian Enlightenment has been Franco Venturi.\n\nIn Russia, the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences in the mid-18th century. This era produced the first Russian university, library, theatre, public museum and independent press. Like other enlightened despots, Catherine the Great played a key role in fostering the arts, sciences and education. She used her own interpretation of Enlightenment ideals, assisted by notable international experts such as Voltaire (by correspondence) and in residence world class scientists such as Leonhard Euler and Peter Simon Pallas. The national Enlightenment differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with attacking the institution of serfdom in Russia. The Russian enlightenment centered on the individual instead of societal enlightenment and encouraged the living of an enlightened life. A powerful element was \"prosveshchenie\" which combined religious piety, erudition and commitment to the spread of learning. However, it lacked the skeptical and critical spirit of the European Enlightenment.\n\nEnlightenment ideas (\"oświecenie\") emerged late in Poland, as the Polish middle class was weaker and szlachta (nobility) culture (Sarmatism) together with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth political system (Golden Liberty) were in deep crisis. The political system was built on republicanism, but was unable to defend itself against powerful neighbors Russia, Prussia and Austria as they repeatedly sliced off regions until nothing was left of independent Poland. The period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–1740s and especially in theatre and the arts peaked in the reign of King Stanisław August Poniatowski (second half of the 18th century). Warsaw was a main centre after 1750, with an expansion of schools and educational institutions and the arts patronage held at the Royal Castle. Leaders promoted tolerance and more education. They included King Stanislaw II Poniatowski and reformers Piotr Switkowski, Antoni Poplawski, Josef Niemcewicz and Jósef Pawlinkowski, as well as Baudouin de Cortenay, a Polonized dramatist. Opponents included Florian Jaroszewicz, Gracjan Piotrowski, Karol Wyrwicz and Wojciech Skarszewski.\n\nThe movement went into decline with the Third Partition of Poland (1795) – a national tragedy inspiring a short period of sentimental writing – and ended in 1822, replaced by Romanticism.\n\nThe Enlightenment has always been contested territory. According to Keith Thomas, its supporters \"hail it as the source of everything that is progressive about the modern world. For them, it stands for freedom of thought, rational inquiry, critical thinking, religious tolerance, political liberty, scientific achievement, the pursuit of happiness, and hope for the future.\" Thomas adds that its detractors accuse it of shallow rationalism, naïve optimism, unrealistic universalism and moral darkness. From the start, conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attacked materialism and skepticism as evil forces that encouraged immorality. By 1794, they pointed to the Terror during the French Revolution as confirmation of their predictions. As the Enlightenment was ending, Romantic philosophers argued that excessive dependence on reason was a mistake perpetuated by the Enlightenment because it disregarded the bonds of history, myth, faith, and tradition that were necessary to hold society together.\n\nThe term \"Enlightenment\" emerged in English in the later part of the 19th century, with particular reference to French philosophy, as the equivalent of the French term \"Lumières\" (used first by Dubos in 1733 and already well established by 1751). From Immanuel Kant's 1784 essay \"Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?\" (\"\"), the German term became \"Aufklärun\"g (\"aufklären\" = to illuminate; \"sich aufklären\" = to clear up). However, scholars have never agreed on a definition of the Enlightenment, or on its chronological or geographical extent. Terms like \"les Lumières\" (French), \"illuminism\"o (Italian), \"ilustración\" (Spanish) and \"Aufklärung\" (German) referred to partly overlapping movements. Not until the late nineteenth century did English scholars agree they were talking about \"the Enlightenment\".\n\nEnlightenment historiography began in the period itself, from what Enlightenment figures said about their work. A dominant element was the intellectual angle they took. D'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse of l'Encyclopédie\" provides a history of the Enlightenment which comprises a chronological list of developments in the realm of knowledge – of which the \"Encyclopédie\" forms the pinnacle. In 1783, Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason. Immanuel Kant called Enlightenment \"man's release from his self-incurred tutelage\", tutelage being \"man's inability to make use of his understanding without direction from another\". \"For Kant, Enlightenment was mankind's final coming of age, the emancipation of the human consciousness from an immature state of ignorance\". The German scholar Ernst Cassirer called the Enlightenment \"a part and a special phase of that whole intellectual development through which modern philosophic thought gained its characteristic self-confidence and self-consciousness\". According to historian Roy Porter, the liberation of the human mind from a dogmatic state of ignorance is the epitome of what the Age of Enlightenment was trying to capture.\n\nBertrand Russell saw the Enlightenment as a phase in a progressive development which began in antiquity and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time. Russell said that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of the Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation and that philosophical views such as affinity for democracy against monarchy originated among 16th-century Protestants to justify their desire to break away from the Catholic Church. Although many of these philosophical ideals were picked up by Catholics, Russell argues that by the 18th century the Enlightenment was the principal manifestation of the schism that began with Martin Luther.\n\nJonathan Israel rejects the attempts of postmodern and Marxian historians to understand the revolutionary ideas of the period purely as by-products of social and economic transformations. He instead focuses on the history of ideas in the period from 1650 to the end of the 18th century and claims that it was the ideas themselves that caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th century and the early 19th century. Israel argues that until the 1650s Western civilization \"was based on a largely shared core of faith, tradition and authority\".\n\nThere is little consensus on the precise beginning of the Age of Enlightenment, though the beginning of the 18th century (1701) or the middle of the 17th century (1650) are often used as epochs. French historians usually place the period, called the \"Siècle des Lumières\" (\"Century of Enlightenments\"), between 1715 and 1789, from the beginning of the reign of Louis XV until the French Revolution. If taken back to the mid-17th century, the Enlightenment would trace its origins to Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\", published in 1637. In France, many cited the publication of Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\" in 1687. It is argued by several historians and philosophers that the beginning of the Enlightenment is when Descartes shifted the epistemological basis from external authority to internal certainty by his \"cogito ergo sum\" published in 1637. As to its end, most scholars use the last years of the century, often choosing the French Revolution of 1789 or the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars (1804–1815) as a convenient point in time with which to date the end of the Enlightenment.\n\nIn the 1944 book \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\", Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno argued: Enlightenment, understood in the widest sense as the advance of thought, has always aimed at liberating human beings from fear and installing them as masters. Yet the wholly enlightened earth radiates under the sign of disaster triumphant.\n\nExtending Horkheimer and Adorno's argument, intellectual historian Jason Josephson-Storm has argued that any idea of the Age of Enlightenment as a clearly defined period that is separate from the earlier Renaissance and later Romanticism or Counter-Enlightenment constitutes a myth. Josephson-Storm points out that there are vastly different and mutually contradictory periodizations of the Enlightenment depending on nation, field of study, and school of thought; that the term and category of \"Enlightenment\" referring to the scientific revolution was actually applied after the fact; that the Enlightenment did not see an increase in disenchantment or the dominance of the mechanistic worldview; and that a blur in the early modern ideas of the Humanities and natural sciences makes it hard to circumscribe a Scientific Revolution. Josephson-Storm defends his categorization of the Enlightenment as \"myth\" by noting the regulative role ideas of a period of Enlightenment and disenchantment play in modern Western culture, such that belief in magic, spiritualism, and even religion appears somewhat taboo in intellectual strata.\n\nIn the 1970s, study of the Enlightenment expanded to include the ways Enlightenment ideas spread to European colonies and how they interacted with indigenous cultures and how the Enlightenment took place in formerly unstudied areas such as Italy, Greece, the Balkans, Poland, Hungary and Russia.\n\nIntellectuals such as Robert Darnton and Jürgen Habermas have focused on the social conditions of the Enlightenment. Habermas described the creation of the \"bourgeois public sphere\" in 18th-century Europe, containing the new venues and modes of communication allowing for rational exchange. Habermas said that the public sphere was bourgeois, egalitarian, rational and independent from the state, making it the ideal venue for intellectuals to critically examine contemporary politics and society, away from the interference of established authority. While the public sphere is generally an integral component of the social study of the Enlightenment, other historians have questioned whether the public sphere had these characteristics.\n\nIn contrast to the intellectual historiographical approach of the Enlightenment, which examines the various currents or discourses of intellectual thought within the European context during the 17th and 18th centuries, the cultural (or social) approach examines the changes that occurred in European society and culture. This approach studies the process of changing sociabilities and cultural practices during the Enlightenment.\n\nOne of the primary elements of the culture of the Enlightenment was the rise of the public sphere, a \"realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture\", in the late 17th century and 18th century. Elements of the public sphere included that it was egalitarian, that it discussed the domain of \"common concern,\" and that argument was founded on reason. Habermas uses the term \"common concern\" to describe those areas of political/social knowledge and discussion that were previously the exclusive territory of the state and religious authorities, now open to critical examination by the public sphere. The values of this bourgeois public sphere included holding reason to be supreme, considering everything to be open to criticism (the public sphere is critical), and the opposition of secrecy of all sorts.\nThe creation of the public sphere has been associated with two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism. The modern nation state, in its consolidation of public power, created by counterpoint a private realm of society independent of the state, which allowed for the public sphere. Capitalism also increased society's autonomy and self-awareness, as well as an increasing need for the exchange of information. As the nascent public sphere expanded, it embraced a large variety of institutions and the most commonly cited were coffee houses and cafés, salons and the literary public sphere, figuratively localized in the Republic of Letters. In France, the creation of the public sphere was helped by the aristocracy's move from the King's palace at Versailles to Paris in about 1720, since their rich spending stimulated the trade in luxuries and artistic creations, especially fine paintings.\n\nThe context for the rise of the public sphere was the economic and social change commonly associated with the Industrial Revolution: \"Economic expansion, increasing urbanization, rising population and improving communications in comparison to the stagnation of the previous century\". Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods and increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers (including the literature essential to the public sphere). Meanwhile, the colonial experience (most European states had colonial empires in the 18th century) began to expose European society to extremely heterogeneous cultures, leading to the breaking down of \"barriers between cultural systems, religious divides, gender differences and geographical areas\".\n\nThe word \"public\" implies the highest level of inclusivity – the public sphere by definition should be open to all. However, this sphere was only public to relative degrees. Enlightenment thinkers frequently contrasted their conception of the \"public\" with that of the people: Condorcet contrasted \"opinion\" with populace, Marmontel \"the opinion of men of letters\" with \"the opinion of the multitude\" and d'Alembert the \"truly enlightened public\" with \"the blind and noisy multitude\". Additionally, most institutions of the public sphere excluded both women and the lower classes. Cross-class influences occurred through noble and lower class participation in areas such as the coffeehouses and the Masonic lodges.\n\nBecause of the focus on reason over superstition, the Enlightenment cultivated the arts. Emphasis on learning, art and music became more widespread, especially with the growing middle class. Areas of study such as literature, philosophy, science, and the fine arts increasingly explored subject matter to which the general public, in addition to the previously more segregated professionals and patrons, could relate.\nAs musicians depended more and more on public support, public concerts became increasingly popular and helped supplement performers' and composers' incomes. The concerts also helped them to reach a wider audience. Handel, for example, epitomized this with his highly public musical activities in London. He gained considerable fame there with performances of his operas and oratorios. The music of Haydn and Mozart, with their Viennese Classical styles, are usually regarded as being the most in line with the Enlightenment ideals.\n\nThe desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on music publications. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Dictionnaire de musique\" (published 1767 in Geneva and 1768 in Paris) was a leading text in the late 18th century. This widely available dictionary gave short definitions of words like genius and taste and was clearly influenced by the Enlightenment movement. Another text influenced by Enlightenment values was Charles Burney's \"A General History of Music: From the Earliest Ages to the Present Period\" (1776), which was a historical survey and an attempt to rationalize elements in music systematically over time. Recently, musicologists have shown renewed interest in the ideas and consequences of the Enlightenment. For example, Rose Rosengard Subotnik's \"Deconstructive Variations\" (subtitled \"Music and Reason in Western Society\") compares Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\" (1791) using the Enlightenment and Romantic perspectives and concludes that the work is \"an ideal musical representation of the Enlightenment\".\n\nAs the economy and the middle class expanded, there was an increasing number of amateur musicians. One manifestation of this involved women, who became more involved with music on a social level. Women were already engaged in professional roles as singers and increased their presence in the amateur performers' scene, especially with keyboard music. Music publishers begin to print music that amateurs could understand and play. The majority of the works that were published were for keyboard, voice and keyboard and chamber ensemble. After these initial genres were popularized, from the mid-century on, amateur groups sang choral music, which then became a new trend for publishers to capitalize on. The increasing study of the fine arts, as well as access to amateur-friendly published works, led to more people becoming interested in reading and discussing music. Music magazines, reviews and critical works which suited amateurs as well as connoisseurs began to surface.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" spent a great deal of energy disseminating their ideas among educated men and women in cosmopolitan cities. They used many venues, some of them quite new.\n\nThe term \"Republic of Letters\" was coined in 1664 by Pierre Bayle in his journal \"Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres\". Towards the end of the 18th century, the editor of \"Histoire de la République des Lettres en France\", a literary survey, described the Republic of Letters as being: In the midst of all the governments that decide the fate of men; in the bosom of so many states, the majority of them despotic ... there exists a certain realm which holds sway only over the mind ... that we honour with the name Republic, because it preserves a measure of independence, and because it is almost its essence to be free. It is the realm of talent and of thought.\n\nThe Republic of Letters was the sum of a number of Enlightenment ideals: an egalitarian realm governed by knowledge that could act across political boundaries and rival state power. It was a forum that supported \"free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation\". Immanuel Kant considered written communication essential to his conception of the public sphere; once everyone was a part of the \"reading public\", then society could be said to be enlightened. The people who participated in the Republic of Letters, such as Diderot and Voltaire, are frequently known today as important Enlightenment figures. Indeed, the men who wrote Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" arguably formed a microcosm of the larger \"republic\".\n\nMany women played an essential part in the French Enlightenment, due to the role they played as \"salonnières\" in Parisian salons, as the contrast to the male \"philosophes\". The salon was the principal social institution of the republic and \"became the civil working spaces of the project of Enlightenment\". Women, as salonnières, were \"the legitimate governors of [the] potentially unruly discourse\" that took place within. While women were marginalized in the public culture of the Old Regime, the French Revolution destroyed the old cultural and economic restraints of patronage and corporatism (guilds), opening French society to female participation, particularly in the literary sphere.\nIn France, the established men of letters (\"gens de lettres\") had fused with the elites (\"les grands\") of French society by the mid-18th century. This led to the creation of an oppositional literary sphere, Grub Street, the domain of a \"multitude of versifiers and would-be authors\". These men came to London to become authors, only to discover that the literary market simply could not support large numbers of writers, who in any case were very poorly remunerated by the publishing-bookselling guilds.\n\nThe writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling bitter about the relative success of the men of letters and found an outlet for their literature which was typified by the \"libelle\". Written mostly in the form of pamphlets, the \"libelles\" \"slandered the court, the Church, the aristocracy, the academies, the salons, everything elevated and respectable, including the monarchy itself\". \"Le Gazetier cuirassé\" by Charles Théveneau de Morande was a prototype of the genre. It was Grub Street literature that was most read by the public during the Enlightenment. According to Darnton, more importantly the Grub Street hacks inherited the \"revolutionary spirit\" once displayed by the \"philosophes\" and paved the way for the French Revolution by desacralizing figures of political, moral and religious authority in France.\n\nThe increased consumption of reading materials of all sorts was one of the key features of the \"social\" Enlightenment. Developments in the Industrial Revolution allowed consumer goods to be produced in greater quantities at lower prices, encouraging the spread of books, pamphlets, newspapers and journals – \"media of the transmission of ideas and attitudes\". Commercial development likewise increased the demand for information, along with rising populations and increased urbanisation. However, demand for reading material extended outside of the realm of the commercial and outside the realm of the upper and middle classes, as evidenced by the Bibliothèque Bleue. Literacy rates are difficult to gauge, but in France the rates doubled over the course of the 18th century. Reflecting the decreasing influence of religion, the number of books about science and art published in Paris doubled from 1720 to 1780, while the number of books about religion dropped to just one-tenth of the total.\n\nReading underwent serious changes in the 18th century. In particular, Rolf Engelsing has argued for the existence of a \"Reading Revolution\". Until 1750, reading was done intensively: people tended to own a small number of books and read them repeatedly, often to small audience. After 1750, people began to read \"extensively\", finding as many books as they could, increasingly reading them alone. This is supported by increasing literacy rates, particularly among women.\n\nThe vast majority of the reading public could not afford to own a private library and while most of the state-run \"universal libraries\" set up in the 17th and 18th centuries were open to the public, they were not the only sources of reading material. On one end of the spectrum was the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\", a collection of cheaply produced books published in Troyes, France. Intended for a largely rural and semi-literate audience these books included almanacs, retellings of medieval romances and condensed versions of popular novels, among other things. While some historians have argued against the Enlightenment's penetration into the lower classes, the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\" represents at least a desire to participate in Enlightenment sociability. Moving up the classes, a variety of institutions offered readers access to material without needing to buy anything. Libraries that lent out their material for a small price started to appear and occasionally bookstores would offer a small lending library to their patrons. Coffee houses commonly offered books, journals and sometimes even popular novels to their customers. \"The Tatler\" and \"The Spectator\", two influential periodicals sold from 1709 to 1714, were closely associated with coffee house culture in London, being both read and produced in various establishments in the city. This is an example of the triple or even quadruple function of the coffee house: reading material was often obtained, read, discussed and even produced on the premises.\nIt is extremely difficult to determine what people actually read during the Enlightenment. For example, examining the catalogs of private libraries gives an image skewed in favor of the classes wealthy enough to afford libraries and also ignores censored works unlikely to be publicly acknowledged. For this reason, a study of publishing would be much more fruitful for discerning reading habits.\n\nAcross continental Europe, but in France especially, booksellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" narrowly escaped seizure and had to be saved by Malesherbes, the man in charge of the French censor. Indeed, many publishing companies were conveniently located outside France so as to avoid overzealous French censors. They would smuggle their merchandise across the border, where it would then be transported to clandestine booksellers or small-time peddlers. The records of clandestine booksellers may give a better representation of what literate Frenchmen might have truly read, since their clandestine nature provided a less restrictive product choice. In one case, political books were the most popular category, primarily libels and pamphlets. Readers were more interested in sensationalist stories about criminals and political corruption than they were in political theory itself. The second most popular category, \"general works\" (those books \"that did not have a dominant motif and that contained something to offend almost everyone in authority\"), demonstrated a high demand for generally low-brow subversive literature. However, these works never became part of literary canon and are largely forgotten today as a result.\n\nA healthy, legal publishing industry existed throughout Europe, although established publishers and book sellers occasionally ran afoul of the law. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" condemned not only by the King, but also by Clement XII, nevertheless found its way into print with the help of the aforementioned Malesherbes and creative use of French censorship law. However, many works were sold without running into any legal trouble at all. Borrowing records from libraries in England, Germany, and North America indicate that more than 70 percent of books borrowed were novels. Less than 1 percent of the books were of a religious nature, indicating the general trend of declining religiosity.\n\nA genre that greatly rose in importance was that of scientific literature. Natural history in particular became increasingly popular among the upper classes. Works of natural history include René-Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur's \"Histoire naturelle des insectes\" and Jacques Gautier d'Agoty's \"La Myologie complète, ou description de tous les muscles du corps humain\" (1746). Outside ancien régime France, natural history was an important part of medicine and industry, encompassing the fields of botany, zoology, meteorology, hydrology and mineralogy. Students in Enlightenment universities and academies were taught these subjects to prepare them for careers as diverse as medicine and theology. As shown by Matthew Daniel Eddy, natural history in this context was a very middle class pursuit and operated as a fertile trading zone for the interdisciplinary exchange of diverse scientific ideas.\n\nThe target audience of natural history was French polite society, evidenced more by the specific discourse of the genre than by the generally high prices of its works. Naturalists catered to polite society's desire for erudition – many texts had an explicit instructive purpose. However, natural history was often a political affair. As Emma Spary writes, the classifications used by naturalists \"slipped between the natural world and the social ... to establish not only the expertise of the naturalists over the natural, but also the dominance of the natural over the social\". The idea of taste (\"le goût\") was a social indicator: to truly be able to categorize nature, one had to have the proper taste, an ability of discretion shared by all members of polite society. In this way natural history spread many of the scientific developments of the time, but also provided a new source of legitimacy for the dominant class. From this basis, naturalists could then develop their own social ideals based on their scientific works.\n\nThe first scientific and literary journals were established during the Enlightenment. The first journal, the Parisian \"Journal des Sçavans\", appeared in 1665. However, it was not until 1682 that periodicals began to be more widely produced. French and Latin were the dominant languages of publication, but there was also a steady demand for material in German and Dutch. There was generally low demand for English publications on the Continent, which was echoed by England's similar lack of desire for French works. Languages commanding less of an international market—such as Danish, Spanish and Portuguese—found journal success more difficult and more often than not a more international language was used instead. French slowly took over Latin's status as the \"lingua franca\" of learned circles. This in turn gave precedence to the publishing industry in Holland, where the vast majority of these French language periodicals were produced.\n\nJonathan Israel called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture. They shifted the attention of the \"cultivated public\" away from established authorities to novelty and innovation and instead promoted the \"enlightened\" ideals of toleration and intellectual objectivity. Being a source of knowledge derived from science and reason, they were an implicit critique of existing notions of universal truth monopolized by monarchies, parliaments and religious authorities. They also advanced Christian enlightenment that upheld \"the legitimacy of God-ordained authority\"—the Bible—in which there had to be agreement between the biblical and natural theories.\n\nAlthough the existence of dictionaries and encyclopedias spanned into ancient times, the texts changed from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words in 18th-century encyclopedic dictionaries. The works were part of an Enlightenment movement to systematize knowledge and provide education to a wider audience than the elite. As the 18th century progressed, the content of encyclopedias also changed according to readers' tastes. Volumes tended to focus more strongly on secular affairs, particularly science and technology, rather than matters of theology.\n\nAlong with secular matters, readers also favoured an alphabetical ordering scheme over cumbersome works arranged along thematic lines. Commenting on alphabetization, the historian Charles Porset has said that \"as the zero degree of taxonomy, alphabetical order authorizes all reading strategies; in this respect it could be considered an emblem of the Enlightenment\". For Porset, the avoidance of thematic and hierarchical systems thus allows free interpretation of the works and becomes an example of egalitarianism. Encyclopedias and dictionaries also became more popular during the Age of Enlightenment as the number of educated consumers who could afford such texts began to multiply. In the later half of the 18th century, the number of dictionaries and encyclopedias published by decade increased from 63 between 1760 and 1769 to approximately 148 in the decade proceeding the French Revolution (1780–1789). Along with growth in numbers, dictionaries and encyclopedias also grew in length, often having multiple print runs that sometimes included in supplemented editions.\n\nThe first technical dictionary was drafted by John Harris and entitled \"Lexicon Technicum: Or, An Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\". Harris' book avoided theological and biographical entries and instead it concentrated on science and technology. Published in 1704, the \"Lexicon technicum\" was the first book to be written in English that took a methodical approach to describing mathematics and commercial arithmetic along with the physical sciences and navigation. Other technical dictionaries followed Harris' model, including Ephraim Chambers' \"Cyclopaedia\" (1728), which included five editions and was a substantially larger work than Harris'. The folio edition of the work even included foldout engravings. The \"Cyclopaedia\" emphasized Newtonian theories, Lockean philosophy and contained thorough examinations of technologies, such as engraving, brewing and dyeing. In Germany, practical reference works intended for the uneducated majority became popular in the 18th century. The \"Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon\" (1712) explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education. \"Jablonksi Allgemeines Lexicon\" (1721) was better known than the \"Handlungs-Lexicon\" and underscored technical subjects rather than scientific theory. For example, over five columns of text were dedicated to wine while geometry and logic were allocated only twenty-two and seventeen lines, respectively. The first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1771) was modelled along the same lines as the German lexicons.\n\nHowever, the prime example of reference works that systematized scientific knowledge in the age of Enlightenment were universal encyclopedias rather than technical dictionaries. It was the goal of universal encyclopedias to record all human knowledge in a comprehensive reference work. The most well-known of these works is Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert's \"Encyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers\". The work, which began publication in 1751, was composed of thirty-five volumes and over 71 000 separate entries. A great number of the entries were dedicated to describing the sciences and crafts in detail and provided intellectuals across Europe with a high-quality survey of human knowledge. In d'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\", the work's goal to record the extent of human knowledge in the arts and sciences is outlined:\n\nThe massive work was arranged according to a \"tree of knowledge\". The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism. Both areas of knowledge were united by philosophy, or the trunk of the tree of knowledge. The Enlightenment's desacrilization of religion was pronounced in the tree's design, particularly where theology accounted for a peripheral branch, with black magic as a close neighbour. As the \"Encyclopédie\" gained popularity, it was published in quarto and octavo editions after 1777. The quarto and octavo editions were much less expensive than previous editions, making the \"Encyclopédie\" more accessible to the non-elite. Robert Darnton estimates that there were approximately 25 000 copies of the \"Encyclopédie\" in circulation throughout France and Europe before the French Revolution. The extensive, yet affordable encyclopedia came to represent the transmission of Enlightenment and scientific education to an expanding audience.\n\nOne of the most important developments that the Enlightenment era brought to the discipline of science was its popularization. An increasingly literate population seeking knowledge and education in both the arts and the sciences drove the expansion of print culture and the dissemination of scientific learning. The new literate population was due to a high rise in the availability of food. This enabled many people to rise out of poverty, and instead of paying more for food, they had money for education. Popularization was generally part of an overarching Enlightenment ideal that endeavoured \"to make information available to the greatest number of people\". As public interest in natural philosophy grew during the 18th century, public lecture courses and the publication of popular texts opened up new roads to money and fame for amateurs and scientists who remained on the periphery of universities and academies. More formal works included explanations of scientific theories for individuals lacking the educational background to comprehend the original scientific text. Sir Isaac Newton's celebrated \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" was published in Latin and remained inaccessible to readers without education in the classics until Enlightenment writers began to translate and analyze the text in the vernacular.\nThe first significant work that expressed scientific theory and knowledge expressly for the laity, in the vernacular and with the entertainment of readers in mind, was Bernard de Fontenelle's \"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\" (1686). The book was produced specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing and inspired a variety of similar works. These popular works were written in a discursive style, which was laid out much more clearly for the reader than the complicated articles, treatises and books published by the academies and scientists. Charles Leadbetter's \"Astronomy\" (1727) was advertised as \"a Work entirely New\" that would include \"short and easie Rules and Astronomical Tables\". The first French introduction to Newtonianism and the \"Principia\" was \"Eléments de la philosophie de Newton\", published by Voltaire in 1738. Émilie du Châtelet's translation of the \"Principia\", published after her death in 1756, also helped to spread Newton's theories beyond scientific academies and the university. Writing for a growing female audience, Francesco Algarotti published \"Il Newtonianism per le dame\", which was a tremendously popular work and was translated from Italian into English by Elizabeth Carter. A similar introduction to Newtonianism for women was produced by Henry Pemberton. His \"A View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy\" was published by subscription. Extant records of subscribers show that women from a wide range of social standings purchased the book, indicating the growing number of scientifically inclined female readers among the middling class. During the Enlightenment, women also began producing popular scientific works themselves. Sarah Trimmer wrote a successful natural history textbook for children titled \"The Easy Introduction to the Knowledge of Nature\" (1782), which was published for many years after in eleven editions.\n\nMost work on the Enlightenment emphasizes the ideals discussed by intellectuals, rather than the actual state of education at the time. Leading educational theorists like England's John Locke and Switzerland's Jean Jacques Rousseau both emphasized the importance of shaping young minds early. By the late Enlightenment, there was a rising demand for a more universal approach to education, particularly after the American and French Revolutions.\n\nThe predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism, the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines. In addition to being conducive to Enlightenment ideologies of liberty, self-determination and personal responsibility, it offered a practical theory of the mind that allowed teachers to transform longstanding forms of print and manuscript culture into effective graphic tools of learning for the lower and middle orders of society. Children were taught to memorize facts through oral and graphic methods that originated during the Renaissance.\n\nMany of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh. These universities, especially Edinburgh, produced professors whose ideas had a significant impact on Britain's North American colonies and later the American Republic. Within the natural sciences, Edinburgh's medical school also led the way in chemistry, anatomy and pharmacology. In other parts of Europe, the universities and schools of France and most of Europe were bastions of traditionalism and were not hospitable to the Enlightenment. In France, the major exception was the medical university at Montpellier.\n\nThe history of Academies in France during the Enlightenment begins with the Academy of Science, founded in 1635 in Paris. It was closely tied to the French state, acting as an extension of a government seriously lacking in scientists. It helped promote and organize new disciplines and it trained new scientists. It also contributed to the enhancement of scientists' social status, considering them to be the \"most useful of all citizens\". Academies demonstrate the rising interest in science along with its increasing secularization, as evidenced by the small number of clerics who were members (13 percent). The presence of the French academies in the public sphere cannot be attributed to their membership, as although the majority of their members were bourgeois, the exclusive institution was only open to elite Parisian scholars. They perceived themselves as \"interpreters of the sciences for the people\". For example, it was with this in mind that academicians took it upon themselves to disprove the popular pseudo-science of mesmerism.\n\nThe strongest contribution of the French Academies to the public sphere comes from the \"concours académiques\" (roughly translated as \"academic contests\") they sponsored throughout France. These academic contests were perhaps the most public of any institution during the Enlightenment. The practice of contests dated back to the Middle Ages and was revived in the mid-17th century. The subject matter had previously been generally religious and/or monarchical, featuring essays, poetry and painting. However, by roughly 1725 this subject matter had radically expanded and diversified, including \"royal propaganda, philosophical battles, and critical ruminations on the social and political institutions of the Old Regime\". Topics of public controversy were also discussed such as the theories of Newton and Descartes, the slave trade, women's education and justice in France.\nMore importantly, the contests were open to all and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging. Indeed, although the \"vast majority\" of participants belonged to the wealthier strata of society (\"the liberal arts, the clergy, the judiciary and the medical profession\"), there were some cases of the popular classes submitting essays and even winning. Similarly, a significant number of women participated—and won—the competitions. Of a total of 2,300 prize competitions offered in France, women won 49—perhaps a small number by modern standards, but very significant in an age in which most women did not have any academic training. Indeed, the majority of the winning entries were for poetry competitions, a genre commonly stressed in women's education.\n\nIn England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas. It was founded by a group of independent scientists and given a royal charter in 1662. The Society played a large role in spreading Robert Boyle's experimental philosophy around Europe and acted as a clearinghouse for intellectual correspondence and exchange. Boyle was \"a founder of the experimental world in which scientists now live and operate\" and his method based knowledge on experimentation, which had to be witnessed to provide proper empirical legitimacy. This is where the Royal Society came into play: witnessing had to be a \"collective act\" and the Royal Society's assembly rooms were ideal locations for relatively public demonstrations. However, not just any witness was considered to be credible: \"Oxford professors were accounted more reliable witnesses than Oxfordshire peasants\". Two factors were taken into account: a witness's knowledge in the area and a witness's \"moral constitution\". In other words, only civil society were considered for Boyle's public.\n\nIt was the place in which philosophes got reunited and talked about old, actual or new ideas. Salons were the place where intellectual and enlightened ideas were built.\n\nCoffeehouses were especially important to the spread of knowledge during the Enlightenment because they created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life gathered and shared ideas. They were frequently criticized by nobles who feared the possibility of an environment in which class and its accompanying titles and privileges were disregarded. Such an environment was especially intimidating to monarchs who derived much of their power from the disparity between classes of people. If classes were to join together under the influence of Enlightenment thinking, they might recognize the all-encompassing oppression and abuses of their monarchs and because of their size might be able to carry out successful revolts. Monarchs also resented the idea of their subjects convening as one to discuss political matters, especially those concerning foreign affairs—rulers thought political affairs to be their business only, a result of their supposed divine right to rule.\n\nCoffeehouses represent a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities. Coffeeshops became homes away from home for many who sought, for the first time, to engage in discourse with their neighbors and discuss intriguing and thought-provoking matters, especially those regarding philosophy to politics. Coffeehouses were essential to the Enlightenment, for they were centers of free-thinking and self-discovery. Although many coffeehouse patrons were scholars, a great deal were not. Coffeehouses attracted a diverse set of people, including not only the educated wealthy but also members of the bourgeoisie and the lower class. While it may seem positive that patrons, being doctors, lawyers, merchants, etc. represented almost all classes, the coffeeshop environment sparked fear in those who sought to preserve class distinction. One of the most popular critiques of the coffeehouse claimed that it \"allowed promiscuous association among people from different rungs of the social ladder, from the artisan to the aristocrat\" and was therefore compared to Noah's Ark, receiving all types of animals, clean or unclean. This unique culture served as a catalyst for journalism when Joseph Addison and Richard Steele recognized its potential as an audience. Together, Steele and Addison published \"The Spectator (1711)\", a daily publication which aimed, through fictional narrator Mr. Spectator, both to entertain and to provoke discussion regarding serious philosophical matters.\n\nThe first English coffeehouse opened in Oxford in 1650. Brian Cowan said that Oxford coffeehouses developed into \"penny universities\", offering a locus of learning that was less formal than structured institutions. These penny universities occupied a significant position in Oxford academic life, as they were frequented by those consequently referred to as the \"virtuosi\", who conducted their research on some of the resulting premises. According to Cowan, \"the coffeehouse was a place for like-minded scholars to congregate, to read, as well as learn from and to debate with each other, but was emphatically not a university institution, and the discourse there was of a far different order than any university tutorial\".\n\nThe Café Procope was established in Paris in 1686 and by the 1720s there were around 400 cafés in the city. The Café Procope in particular became a center of Enlightenment, welcoming such celebrities as Voltaire and Rousseau. The Café Procope was where Diderot and D'Alembert decided to create the \"Encyclopédie\". The cafés were one of the various \"nerve centers\" for \"bruits publics\", public noise or rumour. These \"bruits\" were allegedly a much better source of information than were the actual newspapers available at the time.\n\nThe debating societies are an example of the public sphere during the Enlightenment. Their origins include:\nIn the late 1770s, popular debating societies began to move into more \"genteel\" rooms, a change which helped establish a new standard of sociability. The backdrop to these developments was \"an explosion of interest in the theory and practice of public elocution\". The debating societies were commercial enterprises that responded to this demand, sometimes very successfully. Some societies welcomed from 800 to 1,200 spectators a night.\n\nThe debating societies discussed an extremely wide range of topics. Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revolved around \"confessional\" – that is, Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist) or Anglican issues and the main aim of these debates was to establish which bloc of faith ought to have the \"monopoly of truth and a God-given title to authority\". After this date, everything thus previously rooted in tradition was questioned and often replaced by new concepts in the light of philosophical reason. After the second half of the 17th century and during the 18th century, a \"general process of rationalization and secularization set in\" and confessional disputes were reduced to a secondary status in favor of the \"escalating contest between faith and incredulity\".\n\nIn addition to debates on religion, societies discussed issues such as politics and the role of women. However, it is important to note that the critical subject matter of these debates did not necessarily translate into opposition to the government. In other words, the results of the debate quite frequently upheld the \"status quo\". From a historical standpoint, one of the most important features of the debating society was their openness to the public, as women attended and even participated in almost every debating society, which were likewise open to all classes providing they could pay the entrance fee. Once inside, spectators were able to participate in a largely egalitarian form of sociability that helped spread Enlightenment ideas.\n\nHistorians have long debated the extent to which the secret network of Freemasonry was a main factor in the Enlightenment. The leaders of the Enlightenment included Freemasons such as Diderot, Montesquieu, Voltaire, Lessing, Pope, Horace Walpole, Sir Robert Walpole, Mozart, Goethe, Frederick the Great, Benjamin Franklin and George Washington. Norman Davies said that Freemasonry was a powerful force on behalf of liberalism in Europe from about 1700 to the twentieth century. It expanded rapidly during the Age of Enlightenment, reaching practically every country in Europe. It was especially attractive to powerful aristocrats and politicians as well as intellectuals, artists and political activists.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, Freemasons comprised an international network of like-minded men, often meeting in secret in ritualistic programs at their lodges. They promoted the ideals of the Enlightenment and helped diffuse these values across Britain and France and other places. Freemasonry as a systematic creed with its own myths, values and set of rituals originated in Scotland around 1600 and spread first to England and then across the Continent in the eighteenth century. They fostered new codes of conduct—including a communal understanding of liberty and equality inherited from guild sociability—\"liberty, fraternity and equality\". Scottish soldiers and Jacobite Scots brought to the Continent ideals of fraternity which reflected not the local system of Scottish customs but the institutions and ideals originating in the English Revolution against royal absolutism. Freemasonry was particularly prevalent in France—by 1789, there were perhaps as many as 100,000 French Masons, making Freemasonry the most popular of all Enlightenment associations. The Freemasons displayed a passion for secrecy and created new degrees and ceremonies. Similar societies, partially imitating Freemasonry, emerged in France, Germany, Sweden and Russia. One example was the Illuminati founded in Bavaria in 1776, which was copied after the Freemasons, but was never part of the movement. The Illuminati was an overtly political group, which most Masonic lodges decidedly were not.\n\nMasonic lodges created a private model for public affairs. They \"reconstituted the polity and established a constitutional form of self-government, complete with constitutions and laws, elections and representatives\". In other words, the micro-society set up within the lodges constituted a normative model for society as a whole. This was especially true on the continent: when the first lodges began to appear in the 1730s, their embodiment of British values was often seen as threatening by state authorities. For example, the Parisian lodge that met in the mid 1720s was composed of English Jacobite exiles. Furthermore, freemasons all across Europe explicitly linked themselves to the Enlightenment as a whole. For example, in French lodges the line \"As the means to be enlightened I search for the enlightened\" was a part of their initiation rites. British lodges assigned themselves the duty to \"initiate the unenlightened\". This did not necessarily link lodges to the irreligious, but neither did this exclude them from the occasional heresy. In fact, many lodges praised the Grand Architect, the masonic terminology for the deistic divine being who created a scientifically ordered universe.\n\nGerman historian Reinhart Koselleck claimed: \"On the Continent there were two social structures that left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment: the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges\". Scottish professor Thomas Munck argues that \"although the Masons did promote international and cross-social contacts which were essentially non-religious and broadly in agreement with enlightened values, they can hardly be described as a major radical or reformist network in their own right\". Many of the Masons values seemed to greatly appeal to Enlightenment values and thinkers. Diderot discusses the link between Freemason ideals and the enlightenment in D'Alembert's Dream, exploring masonry as a way of spreading enlightenment beliefs. Historian Margaret Jacob stresses the importance of the Masons in indirectly inspiring enlightened political thought. On the negative side, Daniel Roche contests claims that Masonry promoted egalitarianism and he argues that the lodges only attracted men of similar social backgrounds. The presence of noble women in the French \"lodges of adoption\" that formed in the 1780s was largely due to the close ties shared between these lodges and aristocratic society.\n\nThe major opponent of Freemasonry was the Roman Catholic Church so that in countries with a large Catholic element, such as France, Italy, Spain and Mexico, much of the ferocity of the political battles involve the confrontation between what Davies calls the reactionary Church and enlightened Freemasonry. Even in France, Masons did not act as a group. American historians, while noting that Benjamin Franklin and George Washington were indeed active Masons, have downplayed the importance of Freemasonry in causing the American Revolution because the Masonic order was non-political and included both Patriots and their enemy the Loyalists.\n\nThe art produced during the Enlightenment was about a search for morality that was absent from previous art. At the same time, the Classical art of Greece and Rome became interesting to people again, since archaeological teams discovered Pompeii and Herculaneum. People took inspiration from it and revived the classical art into neo-classical art. This can be especially seen in early American art, where, throughout their art and architecture, they used arches, goddesses, and other classical architectural designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4203018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4203018", "title": "Anangeon", "text": "Anangeon\n\nAnangeon (, \"necessary\"), also known as dicaeologia (, \"a plea in defense\"), is a specious method of argument, where the basis lies in inevitability or necessity. For example, \"Yes, I missed school today, but I was sick and wouldn't have learned anything anyway\"—\"this argument ignores the need to go to school, mitigating the controversy of not going\". Thus, it is often used to limit or contradict fault in a matter.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nAnangeon can be seen as a part of logos and is a type of non sequitur.\n\n"}
{"id": "2524491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2524491", "title": "Argument from a proper basis", "text": "Argument from a proper basis\n\nThe argument from a proper basis is an ontological argument for the existence of God related to fideism. Alvin Plantinga argued that belief in God is a properly basic belief, and so no basis for belief in God is necessary.\n\nThe best-known defender of this argument is Alvin Plantinga. According to the argument from a proper basis, belief in God can be rational and justified even without arguments or evidence for the existence of God. More specifically, Plantinga argues that belief in God is properly basic, and, owing to a religious externalist epistemology, he claims belief in God could be justified independently of evidence. His externalist epistemology, called \"Proper functionalism\", is a form of epistemological reliabilism.\n\nPlantinga discusses his view of Reformed epistemology and proper functionalism in a three-volume series. In the first book of the trilogy, \"Warrant: The Current Debate\", Plantinga introduces, analyzes, and criticizes 20th-century developments in analytic epistemology, particularly the works of Roderick Chisholm, Laurence BonJour, William Alston, and Alvin Goldman. Plantinga argues that the theories of what he calls \"warrant\"—what many others have called justification (Plantinga draws out a difference: justification is a matter of fulfilling one's epistemic duties, whereas warrant is what transforms true belief into knowledge)—put forth by these epistemologists have failed to capture in full what is required for knowledge.\n\nIn the second book of his three book philosophical series, \"Warrant and Proper Function\", he introduces the notion of warrant as an alternative to justification and discusses topics like self-knowledge, memories, perception, and probability. Plantinga's \"proper function\" account argues that as a necessary condition of having warrant, one's \"belief-forming and belief-maintaining apparatus of powers\" are functioning properly—\"working the way it ought to work\". Plantinga explains his argument for proper function with reference to a \"design plan\", as well as an environment in which one's cognitive equipment is optimal for use. Plantinga asserts that the design plan does not require a designer: \"it is perhaps possible that evolution (undirected by God or anyone else) has somehow furnished us with our design plans\", but the paradigm case of a design plan is like a technological product designed by a human being (like a radio or a wheel). Ultimately, Plantinga argues that epistemological naturalism- i.e. epistemology that holds that warrant is dependent on natural faculties – is best supported by supernaturalist metaphysics – in this case the belief in a creator God or in some designer who has laid out a design plan that includes cognitive faculties conducive to attaining knowledge.\n\nAccording to Plantinga, a belief, B, is warranted if:\n\n(1) the cognitive faculties involved in the production of B are functioning properly…; (2) your cognitive environment is sufficiently similar to the one for which your cognitive faculties are designed; (3) … the design plan governing the production of the belief in question involves, as purpose or function, the production of true beliefs…; and (4) the design plan is a good one: that is, there is a high statistical or objective probability that a belief produced in accordance with the relevant segment of the design plan in that sort of environment is true.\n\nPlantinga seeks to defend this view of proper function against alternative views of proper function proposed by other philosophers which he groups together as \"naturalistic\", including the \"functional generalization\" view of John Pollock, the evolutionary/etiological account provided by Ruth Millikan, and a dispositional view held by John Bigelow and Robert Pargetter. Plantinga also discusses his evolutionary argument against naturalism in the later chapters of \"Warrant and Proper Function\".\n\nIn 2000 Plantinga's third volume, \"Warranted Christian Belief\", was published. In this volume, Plantinga's warrant theory is the basis for his theological end: providing a philosophical basis for Christian belief, an argument for why Christian theistic belief can enjoy warrant. In the book, he develops two models for such beliefs, the \"A/C\" (Aquinas/Calvin) model, and the \"Extended A/C\" model. The former attempts to show that a belief in God can be justified, warranted and rational, while the Extended model tries to show that core Christian theological beliefs, including the Trinity, the Incarnation, the resurrection of Christ, the atonement, salvation, etc. can be warranted. Under this model, Christians are warranted in their beliefs because of the work of the Holy Spirit in bringing those beliefs about in the believer.\n\nThe best known objection to the argument from a proper basis is known as 'The Great Pumpkin Objection'. Alvin Plantinga brought it up in his 1983 book \"Warrant: The Current Debate\", and described it as follows:\nIt is tempting to raise the following sort of question. If belief in God can be properly basic, why cannot just any belief be properly basic? Could we not say the same for any bizarre aberration we can think of? What about voodoo or astrology? What about the belief that the Great Pumpkin returns every Halloween? Could I properly take that as basic? Suppose I believe that if I flap my arms with sufficient vigor, I can take off and fly about the room; could I defend myself against the charge of irrationality by claiming this belief is basic? If we say that belief in God is properly basic, will we not be committed to holding that just anything, or nearly anything, can properly be taken as basic, thus throwing wide the gates to irrationalism and superstition? (p. 74)\n\nPlantinga's answer to this line of thinking is that the objection simply assumes that the criteria for \"proper basicality\" propounded by classical foundationalism (self-evidence, incorrigibility, and sense-perception) are the only possible criteria for properly basic beliefs. It is as if the Great Pumpkin objector feels that if properly basic beliefs cannot be arrived at by way of one of these criteria, then it follows that just 'any' belief could then be properly basic, precisely because there are no other criteria. But Plantinga says it simply doesn't follow from the rejection of classical foundationalist criteria that all possibility for criteria has been exhausted and this is exactly what the Great Pumpkin objection assumes.\n\nPlantinga takes his counter-argument further, asking how the great pumpkin objector \"knows\" that such criteria are the only criteria. The objector certainly seems to hold it as 'basic' that the classical foundationalist criteria are all that is available. Yet, such a claim is neither self-evident, incorrigible, nor evident to the senses. This rebuts the Great Pumpkin objection by demonstrating the classical foundationalist position to be internally incoherent, propounding an epistemic position which it itself does not follow.\n\n"}
{"id": "42148664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42148664", "title": "Benacerraf's identification problem", "text": "Benacerraf's identification problem\n\nIn the philosophy of mathematics, Benacerraf's identification problem is a philosophical argument, developed by Paul Benacerraf, against set-theoretic Platonism. In 1965, Benacerraf published a paradigm changing article entitled \"What Numbers Could Not Be\". Historically, the work became a significant catalyst in motivating the development of mathematical structuralism.\n\nThe identification problem argues that there exists a fundamental problem in reducing natural numbers to pure sets. Since there exists an infinite number of ways of identifying the natural numbers with pure sets, no particular set-theoretic method can be determined as the \"true\" reduction. Benacerraf infers that any attempt to make such a choice of reduction immediately results in generating a meta-level, set-theoretic falsehood, namely in relation to other elementarily-equivalent set-theories not identical to the one chosen. The identification problem argues that this creates a fundamental problem for Platonism, which maintains that mathematical objects have a real, abstract existence. Benacerraf's dilemma to Platonic set-theory is arguing that the Platonic attempt to identify the \"true\" reduction of natural numbers to pure sets, as revealing the intrinsic properties of these abstract mathematical objects, is impossible. As a result, the identification problem ultimately argues that the relation of set theory to natural numbers cannot have an ontologically Platonic nature.\n\nThe historical motivation for the development of Benacerraf's identification problem derives from a fundamental problem of ontology. Since Medieval times, philosophers have argued as to whether the ontology of mathematics contains abstract objects. In the philosophy of mathematics, an abstract object is traditionally defined as an entity that: (1) exists independent of the mind; (2) exists independent of the empirical world; and (3) has eternal, unchangeable properties. Traditional mathematical Platonism maintains that some set of mathematical elements–natural numbers, real numbers, functions, relations, systems–are such abstract objects. Contrarily, mathematical nominalism denies the existence of any such abstract objects in the ontology of mathematics. \nIn the late 19th and early 20th century, a number of anti-Platonist programs gained in popularity. These included intuitionism, formalism, and predicativism. By the mid-20th century, however, these anti-Platonist theories had a number of their own issues. This subsequently resulted in a resurgence of interest in Platonism. It was in this historic context that the motivations for the identification problem developed.\n\nThe identification problem begins by evidencing some set of elementarily-equivalent, set-theoretic models of the natural numbers. Benacerraf considers two such set-theoretic methods:\n\nAs Benacerraf demonstrates, both method I and II reduce natural numbers to sets. Benacerraf formulates the dilemma as a question: which of these set-theoretic methods uniquely provides the true identity statements, which elucidates the true ontological nature of the natural numbers? Either method I or II could be used to define the natural numbers and subsequently generate true arithmetical statements to form a mathematical system. In their relation, the elements of such mathematical systems are isomorphic in their structure. However, the problem arises when these isomorphic structures are related together on the meta-level. The definitions and arithmetical statements from system I are not identical to the definitions and arithmetical statements from system II. For example, the two systems differ in their answer to whether 0 ∈ 2, insofar as ∅ is not an element of . Thus, in terms of failing the transitivity of identity, the search for true identity statements similarly fails. By attempting to reduce the natural numbers to sets, this renders a set-theoretic falsehood between the isomorphic structures of different mathematical systems. This is the essence of the identification problem.\n\nAccording to Benacerraf, the philosophical ramifications of this identification problem result in Platonic approaches failing the ontological test. The argument is used to demonstrate the impossibility for Platonism to reduce numbers to sets that reveals the existence of abstract objects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9920148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9920148", "title": "Brainstorm machine", "text": "Brainstorm machine\n\nIn the philosophy of mind, the Brainstorm machine is a thought experiment described by Daniel Dennett, to show that it is not possible to intersubjectively compare any two individuals' personal experiences, or qualia, even with perfect technology. It is based on a device described in the film \"Brainstorm\", in which the visual experience of one individual is fed into the brain of another. According to Dennett in \"Quining Qualia\":\n"}
{"id": "18301050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18301050", "title": "Byzantine rhetoric", "text": "Byzantine rhetoric\n\nByzantine rhetoric — of the Byzantine Empire — followed largely the precepts of ancient Greek rhetoricians, especially those belonging to the Second Sophistic that extended from the time of Augustus through the fifth century CE.\n\nRhetoric was the most important and difficult topic studied in the Byzantine education system, beginning at the \"Pandidakterion\" in early fifth century Constantinople, where the school emphasized the study of rhetoric with eight teaching chairs, five in Greek and three in Latin.\n\nThe hard training of Byzantine rhetoric provided skills and credentials for citizens to attain public office in the imperial service, or posts of authority within the Church.\n"}
{"id": "2488327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2488327", "title": "Byzantinism", "text": "Byzantinism\n\nByzantinism, or Byzantism, is the political system and culture of the Byzantine Empire, and its spiritual successors, in particular, the Christian Balkan states (Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia) and Orthodox countries in Eastern Europe (Georgia, Ukraine, Belarus and most importantly, Russia). The term \"byzantinism\" itself was coined in the 19th century. The term has primarily negative associations, implying complexity and autocracy.\n\nThis negative reputation stressed the confusing complexities of the Empire's ministries and the elaborateness of its court ceremonies. Likewise, the \"Byzantine system\" also suggests a penchant for intrigue, plots and assassinations and an overall unstable political state of affairs. The term has been criticized by modern scholars for being a generalization that is not very representative of the reality of the Byzantine aristocracy and bureaucracy.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire is a modern term applied by Westerners to the Eastern Roman Empire (that survived a thousand years after the western one collapsed in 476) and thus had a complex system of aristocracy and bureaucracy which was derived from earlier Roman systems. At the apex of the pyramid stood the Emperor, sole ruler and divinely ordained, and beneath him a multitude of officials and court functionaries operated the administrative machinery of the state. A key component of state power was the prestige of the Imperial institution and its long antiquity. Ceremony and the granting of both honorific titles and valuable offices was therefore extensive and elaborate.\n\nOver the nearly fifteen hundred years of the empire's existence, different titles were adopted and discarded, and many lost or gained prestige. By the time of Heraclius in the 7th century many of the early Roman titles, grounded in the Latin language and the traditions of the old Roman republic had become obsolete in the now mostly Greek-speaking empire, although Latin survived longer in law and in the military. Heraclius formally changed the official language to Greek from Latin in 620. Titles inspired by their Greek tradition, often only rough approximation of Latin concepts, became common (i.e. \"basileus\" [βασιλεύς] instead of \"caesar\" or \"augustus\" for the title of the emperor himself). Other titles changed meaning (for example, \"Patriarch\") or were devalued with time (such as \"consul\").\n\nAmong important qualities of the Empire was also the caesaropapism, the subjugation of church to the state.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire acquired a negative reputation in the Western world as early as the Middle Ages. The creation of the Holy Roman Empire by Charlemagne in the 9th century and the East–West Schism in the 11th century made the Empire an outcast to the Western European countries following the Roman Church, and the siege and sack of Constantinopole during the Fourth Crusade in 1204 only cemented those differences. Hence the European medieval stereotypes of the people of the Byzantine Empire portrayed them as perfidious, treacherous, servile, effeminate and unwarlike.\n\nMedievalist Steven Runciman described the medieval European view of the Byzantine Empire by saying:\nCriticism of the Empire continued among historians of the 18th century and 19th century, particularly in the works of historians and philosophers influenced by The Enlightenment. Edward Gibbon, Hegel, Johann Gottfried Herder, William Lecky, Montesquieu, and Voltaire were among the many Western writers of that period who were critical of the Byzantine system.\n\nEdward Gibbon, the first English historian to write a full history of the Byzantine Empire in his \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1776–1789), was a sharp critic of the Empire. Jacob Burckhardt, an influential 19th-century historian shared Gibbon's view:\n\nCritics pointed out that the Byzantine Empire and its successors were uninfluenced by such major shifts in Western philosophy as the Investiture Controversy, the Reformation and the Renaissance; and reduced the Byzantine political culture to caesaropapism and authoritarian political culture, described as authoritarian, despotic, and imperialistic.\n\nAfter the fall of the Byzantine Empire, critics of the Byzantine system pointed out that it has survived and \"corrupted\" other states, in particular, it has been used in the discourse of the political system, culture and society of the Russia (from the times of the Grand Duchy of Moscow through the tsardom of Russia to the Russian Empire – see also tsarist autocracy), the Soviet Union, the Ottoman Empire and the Balkan states (the former European provinces of the Ottoman Empire).\n\nModern historians point out that this negative reputation is not necessarily true, and at the very least, a very simplistic generalization. As a constructed term, Byzantinism also shares those fallacies with a closely related term, Balkanism. Angelov sums it up as follows:\n\nWhile the Byzantine Empire was commonly seen in a negative fashion, there were exceptions. Byzantium was rehabilitated in France during the Age of Absolutism, from the 17th century to the French Revolution, in the works of such individuals as the Jesuit Pierre Poussines.\n\nAs the Enlightenment swept Western Europe, French traditions found refuge in the Russian Empire. The term Byzantinism was used in a positive context by 19th-century Russian scholar Konstantin Leontiev in \"Byzantism and Slavdom\" (1875) to describe the type of society which Russian Empire needs to counter the degenerating influence of the West. Leontiev praised the Byzantine Empire and the tsarist autocracy, and a society and political system that comprises authoritative power of the monarch, devout following of the Russian Orthodox Church, the maintenance of obshchina for peasants, and sharp class division; he also criticized universal education and democracy.\n\nIn Russian political discourse, Russia is sometimes affectionately called \"Third Rome\", the second Rome being the Eastern Roman Empire, which outlived its western counterpart at Rome itself, the first Rome, by a thousand years.\n\nIn his article, \"Was There Ever Byzantinism?\" Alexander Mirkovic argued that many Western authors have created an imagined picture of Byzantium as a projection of their own anxieties.\n\nIn a modern context it can be used to denote undemocratic practices and the use of violence in political life; it has been often used in the context of South-Eastern European (Balkan) politics. The \"baggage\" of Byzantine tradition is used to explain the delays in developing democratic institutions, the preference for the strong, even autocratic governments, people's distrust of businessmen and elected politicians, and overall, to explain the difference between the West and South-East and Eastern Europe. The word \"Byzantinism\" and related, like \"Byzantine\", have acquired negative connotations in several West European languages, including the English language.\n"}
{"id": "24713479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24713479", "title": "Cambridge change", "text": "Cambridge change\n\nA Cambridge change is a philosophical concept of change according to which an entity \"x\" has changed \"if and only if\" there is some predicate F that is true (not true) of \"x\" at a time \"t1\" but not true (true) of \"x\" at some later time \"t2\".\n\nThe term \"Cambridge change\" was coined by Peter Geach in the late 1960s, in reference to Russell and McTaggart, philosophers active at Cambridge University.\n\nSuppose that at \"t1\", person A is 180 cm tall and person B is 175 cm tall, while at time \"t2\" A is still 180 cm tall but B has grown to be 185 cm tall. Since the predicate 'is taller than B' is true of A at \"t1\" but not true of A at \"t2\", A has changed according to the Cambridge change definition of \"change\"—he has gone from being taller than B to not being taller than B.\n\nIntuitively, however, it is only person B, and not person A, who has changed: B has grown by 10 cm, but A has stayed the same. This problem with Cambridge changes is usually thought to call for a distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic, or natural and non-natural, properties. Given such a distinction, it is possible to define \"real\" change by requiring that the respective predicates express an intrinsic change in a property, such as a change in height from 175 cm to 185 cm, rather than an extrinsic change in a property, such as being now taller than B.\n\nBut this assumes that there \"really\" are strictly unary (non-relational) properties that, as such, are thus intrinsic. Namely, a property is intrinsic if and only if it is actually (really, analytically, fundamentally, necessarily, ontologically) unary.\n\nBut imagine that all \"meter sticks\" as of time \"t2\" have contracted at a rate such that B's height at time \"t2\" would be measured as having increased by 10 cm. Imagine further that A's height has actually (really) shrunk so that it would be measured with a respectively shrinking meter stick as remaining constant from time \"t1\" to time \"t2\".\n\nIntuitively, B's height will have remained the same whereas A's height and all ways of measuring height will have changed. In this case, it is A's height and all ways of measuring height that will have changed. The problem with the notion of \"Cambridge change\" is its failure to acknowledge that B's or anything else's height is relational (relative to ways of measuring height). \"Height\" is thus not unary and thus is extrinsic, not intrinsic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1194595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1194595", "title": "Clarity test", "text": "Clarity test\n\nIn decision analysis, the clarity test (or clairvoyant test) is a test of how well a model element is defined. Although nothing (outside a formal system) can be completely defined, the clarity test allows the decision participants to determine whether such elements as variables, events, outcomes, and alternatives are sufficiently well defined to make the decision at hand. In general, a model element is well defined if a knowledgeable individual can answer questions about the model element without asking further clarifying questions.\n\nMore precisely, Howard defines the clarity test by saying that a quantity or event is clearly defined—it passes the clarity test—if a \"clairvoyant would be able to say whether or not the event in question occurred or, in the case of a variable, the value of the variable.\" Howard defines the clairvoyant as \"a person who knew the future, who had access to all future newspapers, readings of physical devices, or any other determinable quantity.\" In later teaching Howard more broadly defined the clairvoyant as a person with perfect knowledge of all events and measurable quantities, past present and future, but no judgment.\n\nThe concept of the clairvoyant is useful in decision analysis for ensuring clarity of thought, particularly when assessing uncertainty.\n\nThe wizard is another mythical character who can change the future, usually for a fee, provided he or she is given a well-defined request. The concept of the wizard is useful for assessing deterministic preferences by eliminating the complexity added by uncertainty.\n"}
{"id": "3261537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3261537", "title": "Context principle", "text": "Context principle\n\nIn the philosophy of language, the context principle is a form of semantic holism holding that a philosopher should \"never ... ask for the meaning of a word in isolation, but only in the context of a proposition\" (Frege [1884/1980] x). \n\nThe context principle is one of Gottlob Frege's \"three fundamental principles\" for philosophical analysis, first discussed in his Introduction to \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\" (\"Grundlagen der Arithmetik\", 1884). Frege argued that many philosophical errors, especially those related to psychologism in the philosophy of logic and philosophy of mathematics, could be avoided by adhering carefully to the context principle. The view of meaning expressed by the context principle is sometimes called semantic contextualism. This view need not be contrasted with the view that the meanings of words or expressions can (or must) be determined prior to, and independently of, the meanings of the propositions in which they occur, which is often referred to as compositionalism.\n\nThe context principle also figures prominently in the work of other Analytic philosophers, such as Bertrand Russell and Ludwig Wittgenstein, who were greatly influenced by Frege's work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37907020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37907020", "title": "David Doig", "text": "David Doig\n\nDavid Doig FRSE LLD (1719–1800) was a Scottish educator, philologist and writer known for historical and philosophical works. He was Rector of Stirling High School from 1760 to 1800. Doig is also believed to have been the inventor of the tartan pattern now associated with Burberry.\n\nDavid was born 14 Feb 1719 at Mill of Melgund, Aberlemno, Angus, son of David Doig and Ann Sturrock. His father, who was a small farmer, died while he was an infant, and his mother married again. He was successful in a Latin competition for a bursary at the University of St. Andrews. Having finished the classical and philosophical course and proceeded B.A., he began the study of divinity, but scruples regarding the Westminster Confession of Faith prevented him from entering the ministry of the Church of Scotland.\n\nDoig taught from 1749 in the parochial schools of Monifieth, Kennoway and Falkland, Fifeshire. His reputation then gained for him the rectorship of the grammar school of Stirling, a post he filled for over 40 years. In addition to Greek and Latin Doig had mastered Hebrew and Arabic. The University of Glasgow conferred on him the honorary degree of LL.D., and on the same day he received from St. Andrews his diploma as M.A. He was also elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland.\n\nRobert Burns visited Stirling on 27 Aug 1787 when he had dinner at the Golden Lion Hotel with Lieutenant Forrester of the Castle garrison, Dr David Doig of the Grammar School and Christopher Bell, a singing teacher. He later described Dr. David Doig as \"a queerish figure, and something of a pedant.\" [Note: Robert Burns' school teacher in Maybole, Ayr was also a David Doig (1679/80-1784).]\n\nDoig was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1798. His proposers were Dr James Gregory, Andrew Dalzell, and John Playfair.\n\nDoig died in Stirling on 16 March 1800, aged 81. He is buried in the Holy Rude Cemetery next to Stirling Castle.\n\nA mural tablet, with an inscription in commemoration of his virtues and learning, was raised by his friend John Ramsay of Ochtertyre. The town of Stirling also erected a marble monument to his memory, with a Latin epitaph written by himself.\n\nDoig was married to Isabella Janet Bower (1727-1762) in Monifieth on 17 November 1749.\n\nThey had children: Isabella, Ann, Jean, David, George, and Patrick. Their daughter Isabella (1751-1819) married Dr. John Aird (c.1740-1790) with sons William, David, and John. The next four children died young. Patrick Doig (1762-1833) married Jane Austin (1781-1849)with a son David (1812-1819); Patrick later became a medical doctor in Antigua.\n\nDoig's first known appearance in print was some twenty pages of annotation on the \"Gaberlunzie-man\", in an edition of that and another old Scottish poem, \"Christ's Kirk on the Green\", published in 1782 by his friend and neighbour John Callander of Craigforth. \"Two Letters on the Savage State, addressed to the late Lord Kaims\" (London, 1792) attacked the views of Lord Kames in \"Sketches of the History of Man\" (1774). The first of the letters, from 1775, had been sent to Kames, who was passing the Christmas vacation a few miles from Stirling, and who invited Doig to dinner next day.\n\nDoig's next publication was \"Extracts from a Poem on the Prospect from Stirling Castle\" (Stirling, 1796). He contributed to vol. iii. of the \"Transactions\" of the Royal Society of Edinburgh a dissertation \"On the Ancient Hellenes\". He also wrote in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" third edition the articles on \"Mythology\", \"Mysteries\", and \"Philology\". They brought Doig correspondence with William Vincent and Jacob Bryant.\n\nBesides Latin and English poems Doig left some treatises in manuscript. A partial list was in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", 8th edit. viii. 92.\n"}
{"id": "8519186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8519186", "title": "Defensivism", "text": "Defensivism\n\nDefensivism is a philosophical standpoint related in spirit to the Non-aggression principle. It is also a midway point between other combat-based philosophies, that of Just War and Pacifism. \n\nThe standpoint of Defensivism is that only Defensive actions are moral. You may move to someone's aid as long as they are in immediate danger, or protect yourself from immediate harm. \n\nTo a country, it holds that a military force may never leave its home country's own borders except to move to the aid of someone else (and in such a situation, that they may only protect sites from harm that they are specifically invited to, with no aggressive action taken whatsoever). \n\nAny form of preemptive strike, any type of capture, revenge, or any situation where one would fire the first actual shot or throw the first actual blow is against the Defensivist standpoint. Also, any form of combative action must cease the moment the opposition stops fighting, withdraws, gives up, or ceases aggressive action. \n\nGenerally, Defensivism only allows the taking of life when the life that would be taken is actively threatening another life.\n"}
{"id": "1197881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197881", "title": "Derech Hashem", "text": "Derech Hashem\n\nDerech HaShem (The \"Way of God\") is a philosophical text written in the 1730s by Rabbi Moshe Chaim Luzzatto. It systematizes the basic principles of Jewish belief regarding the existence of God, God's purpose in creation, and the logical consequence of other concepts in Judaism. The reader is led from thought to idea, from idea to a logical whole of the structure of Jewish belief. \n\nPresented from a Kabbalistic perspective, yet presupposing no prior knowledge and without the use of Kabbalistic terminology, this work provides a foundation for understanding the worldview and ideas found in the \"Zohar\", the writings of Rabbi Isaac Luria the \"Ari'zal\" and other Kabbalistic works. \n\nThe book is organized into four main sections: the general basis of all existence, God's Divine Providence, prophecy, and religious observance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7082881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082881", "title": "Enactivism", "text": "Enactivism\n\nEnactivism argues that cognition arises through a dynamic interaction between an acting organism and its environment. It claims that our environment is one which we selectively create through our capacities to interact with the world. \"Organisms do not passively receive information from their environments, which they then translate into internal representations. Natural cognitive systems...participate in the generation of meaning ...engaging in transformational and not merely informational interactions: \"they enact a world\".\" These authors suggest that the increasing emphasis upon enactive terminology presages a new era in thinking about cognitive science. How the actions involved in enactivism relate to age-old questions about free will remains a topic of active debate.\n\nThe term 'enactivism' is close in meaning to 'enaction', defined as \"the manner in which a subject of perception creatively matches its actions to the requirements of its situation\". The introduction of the term \"enaction\" in this context is attributed to Francisco Varela, Evan Thompson, and Eleanor Rosch, who proposed the name to \"emphasize the growing conviction that cognition is not the representation of a pre-given world by a pre-given mind but is rather the enactment of a world and a mind on the basis of a history of the variety of actions that a being in the world performs\". This was further developed by Thompson and others, to place emphasis upon the idea that experience of the world is a result of mutual interaction between the sensorimotor capacities of the organism and its environment.\n\nThe initial emphasis of enactivism upon sensorimotor skills has been criticized as \"cognitively marginal\", but it has been extended to apply to higher level cognitive activities, such as social interactions. \"In the enactive view... knowledge is constructed: it is constructed by an agent through its sensorimotor interactions with its environment, co-constructed between and within living species through their meaningful interaction with each other. In its most abstract form, knowledge is co-constructed between human individuals in socio-linguistic interactions...Science is a particular form of social knowledge construction...[that] allows us to perceive and predict events beyond our immediate cognitive grasp...and also to construct further, even more powerful scientific knowledge.\"\n\nEnactivism is closely related to situated cognition and embodied cognition, and is presented as an alternative to cognitivism, computationalism, and Cartesian dualism.\n\nEnactivism is one of a cluster of related theories sometimes known as the \"4Es\". As described by Mark Rowlands, mental processes are:\n\nEnactivism proposes an alternative to dualism as a philosophy of mind, in that it emphasises the interactions between mind, body and the environment, seeing them all as inseparably intertwined in mental processes. The self arises as part of the process of an embodied entity interacting with the environment in precise ways determined by its physiology. In this sense, individuals can be seen to \"grow into\" or arise from their interactive role with the world.\n\nIn \"The Tree of Knowledge\" Maturana & Varela proposed the term \"enactive\" \"to evoke the view of knowledge that what is known is brought forth, in contraposition to the more classical views of either cognitivism or connectionism. They see enactivism as providing a middle ground between the two extremes of representationalism and solipsism. They seek to \"confront the problem of understanding how our existence-the praxis of our living- is coupled to a surrounding world which appears filled with regularities that are at every instant the result of our biological and social histories... to find a \"via media\": to understand the regularity of the world we are experiencing at every moment, but without any point of reference independent of ourselves that would give certainty to our descriptions and cognitive assertions. Indeed the whole mechanism of generating ourselves, as describers and observers tells us that our world, as the world which we bring forth in our coexistence with others, will always have precisely that mixture of regularity and mutability, that combination of solidity and shifting sand, so typical of human experience when we look at it up close.\"[\"Tree of Knowledge\", p. 241]\n\nEnactivism also addresses the hard problem of consciousness, referred to by Thompson as part of the \"explanatory gap\" in explaining how consciousness and subjective experience are related to brain and body. \"The problem with the dualistic concepts of consciousness and life in standard formulations of the hard problem is that they exclude each other by construction\". Instead, according to Thompson's view of enactivism, the study of consciousness or phenomenology as exemplified by Husserl and Merleau-Ponty is to complement science and its objectification of the world. \"The whole universe of science is built upon the world as directly experienced, and if we want to subject science itself to rigorous scrutiny and arrive at a precise assessment of its meaning and scope, we must begin by reawakening the basic experience of the world of which science is the second-order expression\" (Merleau-Ponty, \"The phenomenology of perception\" as quoted by Thompson, p. 165). In this interpretation, enactivism asserts that science is formed or enacted as part of humankind's interactivity with its world, and by embracing phenomenology \"science itself is properly situated in relation to the rest of human life and is thereby secured on a sounder footing.\"\n\nEnaction has been seen as a move to conjoin representationalism with phenomenalism, that is, as adopting a constructivist epistemology, an epistemology centered upon the active participation of the subject in constructing reality. However, 'constructivism' focuses upon more than a simple 'interactivity' that could be described as a minor adjustment to 'assimilate' reality or 'accommodate' to it. Constructivism looks upon interactivity as a radical, creative, revisionist process in which the knower \"constructs\" a personal 'knowledge system' based upon their experience and tested by its viability in practical encounters with their environment. Learning is a result of perceived anomalies that produce dissatisfaction with existing conceptions.\n\nHow does constructivism relate to enactivism? From the above remarks it can be seen that Glasersfeld expresses an interactivity between the knower and the known quite acceptable to an enactivist, but does not emphasize the structured probing of the environment by the knower that leads to the \"perturbation relative to some expected result\" that then leads to a new understanding. It is this probing activity, especially where it is not accidental but deliberate, that characterizes enaction, and invokes \"affect\", that is, the motivation and planning that lead to doing and to fashioning the probing, both observing and modifying the environment, so that \"perceptions and nature condition one another through generating one another.\" The questioning nature of this probing activity is not an emphasis of Piaget and Glasersfeld.\n\nSharing enactivism's stress upon both action and embodiment in the incorporation of knowledge, but giving Glasersfeld's mechanism of viability an evolutionary emphasis, is evolutionary epistemology. Inasmuch as an organism must reflect its environment well enough for the organism to be able to survive in it, and to be competitive enough to be able to reproduce at sustainable rate, the structure and reflexes of the organism itself embody knowledge of its environment. This biology-inspired theory of the growth of knowledge is closely tied to universal Darwinism, and is associated with evolutionary epistemologists such as Karl Popper, Donald T. Campbell, Peter Munz, and Gary Cziko. According to Munz, \"an organism is an \"embodied theory\" about its environment... Embodied theories are also no longer expressed in language, but in anatomical structures or reflex responses, etc.\"\n\nMcGann & others argue that enactivism attempts to mediate between the explanatory role of the coupling between cognitive agent and environment and the traditional emphasis on brain mechanisms found in neuroscience and psychology. In the interactive approach to social cognition developed by De Jaegher & others, the dynamics of interactive processes are seen to play significant roles in coordinating interpersonal understanding, processes that in part include what they call \"participatory sense-making\". Recent developments of enactivism in the area of social neuroscience involve the proposal of \"The Interactive Brain Hypothesis\" where social cognition brain mechanisms, even those used in non-interactive situations, are proposed to have interactive origins.\n\nIn the enactive view, perception \"is not conceived as the transmission of information but more as an exploration of the world by various means. Cognition is not tied into the workings of an 'inner mind', some cognitive core, but occurs in directed interaction between the body and the world it inhabits.\"\n\nAlva Noë in advocating an enactive view of perception sought to resolve how we perceive three-dimensional objects, on the basis of two-dimensional input. He argues that we perceive this solidity (or 'volumetricity') by appealing to patterns of sensorimotor expectations. These arise from our agent-active 'movements and interaction' with objects, or 'object-active' changes in the object itself. The solidity is perceived through our expectations and skills in knowing how the object's appearance would change with changes in how we relate to it. He saw all perception as an active exploration of the world, rather than being a passive process, something which happens to us.\n\nNoë's idea of the role of 'expectations' in three-dimensional perception has been opposed by several philosophers, notably by Andy Clark. Clark points to difficulties of the enactive approach. He points to internal processing of visual signals, for example, in the ventral and dorsal pathways, the two-streams hypothesis. This results in an integrated perception of objects (their recognition and location, respectively) yet this processing cannot be described as an action or actions. In a more general criticism, Clark suggests that perception is not a matter of expectations about sensorimotor mechanisms guiding perception. Rather, although the limitations of sensorimotor mechanisms constrain perception, this sensorimotor activity is drastically filtered to fit current needs and purposes of the organism, and it is these imposed 'expectations' that govern perception, filtering for the 'relevant' details of sensorimotor input (called \"sensorimotor summarizing\").\n\nThese sensorimotor-centered and purpose-centered views appear to agree on the general scheme but disagree on the dominance issue – is the dominant component peripheral or central. Another view, the closed-loop perception one, assigns equal a-priori dominance to the peripheral and central components. In closed-loop perception, perception emerges through the process of inclusion of an item in a motor-sensory-motor loop, i.e., a loop (or loops) connecting the peripheral and central components that are relevant to that item. The item can be a body part (in which case the loops are in steady-state) or an external object (in which case the loops are perturbed and gradually converge to a steady state). These enactive loops are always active, switching dominance by the need.\n\nAnother application of enaction to perception is analysis of the human hand. The many remarkably demanding uses of the hand are not learned by instruction, but through a history of engagements that lead to the acquisition of skills. According to one interpretation, it is suggested that \"the hand [is]...an organ of cognition\", not a faithful subordinate working under top-down instruction, but a partner in a \"bi-directional interplay between manual and brain activity.\" According to Daniel Hutto: \"Enactivists are concerned to defend the view that our most elementary ways of engaging with the world and others - including our basic forms of perception and perceptual experience - are mindful in the sense of being phenomenally charged and intentionally directed, despite being non-representational and content-free.\" Hutto calls this position 'REC' (Radical Enactive Cognition): \"According to REC, there is no way to distinguish neural activity that is imagined to be genuinely content involving (and thus truly mental, truly cognitive) from other non-neural activity that merely plays a supporting or enabling role in making mind and cognition possible.\"\n\nHanne De Jaegher and Ezequiel Di Paolo (2007) have extended the enactive concept of sense-making into the social domain. The idea takes as its departure point the process of interaction between individuals in a social encounter. De Jaegher and Di Paolo argue that the interaction process itself can take on a form of autonomy (operationally defined). This allows them to define social cognition as the generation of meaning and its transformation through interacting individuals.\n\nThe notion of participatory sense-making has led to the proposal that interaction processes can sometimes play constitutive roles in social cognition (De Jaegher, Di Paolo, Gallagher, 2010). It has been applied to research in social neuroscience\"\" and autism.\"\"\n\nIn a similar vein, \"an inter-enactive approach to agency holds that the behavior of agents in a social situation unfolds not only according to their individual abilities and goals, but also according to the conditions and constraints imposed by the autonomous dynamics of the interaction process itself\". According to Torrance, enactivism involves five interlocking themes related to the question \"What is it to be a (cognizing, conscious) agent?\" It is:\n\nTorrance adds that \"many kinds of agency, in particular the agency of human beings, cannot be understood separately from understanding the nature of the interaction that occurs between agents.\" That view introduces the social applications of enactivism. \"Social cognition is regarded as the result of a special form of action, namely \"social interaction\"...the enactive approach looks at the circular dynamic within a dyad of embodied agents.\"\nIn cultural psychology, enactivism is seen as a way to uncover cultural influences upon feeling, thinking and acting. Baerveldt and Verheggen argue that \"It appears that seemingly natural experience is thoroughly intertwined with sociocultural realities.\" They suggest that the social patterning of experience is to be understood through enactivism, \"the idea that the reality we have in common, and in which we find ourselves, is neither a world that exists independently from us, nor a socially shared way of representing such a pregiven world, but a world itself brought forth by our ways of communicating and our joint action...The world we inhabit is manufactured of 'meaning' rather than 'information'.\n\nLuhmann attempted to apply Maturana and Varela's notion of autopoiesis to social systems. \"A core concept of social systems theory is derived from biological systems theory: the concept of \"autopoiesis\". Chilean biologist Humberto Maturana come up with the concept to explain how biological systems such as cells are a product of their own production.\" \"Systems exist by way of operational closure and this means that they each construct themselves and their own realities.\"\n\nThe first definition of enaction was introduced by psychologist Jerome Bruner, who introduced enaction as 'learning by doing' in his discussion of how children learn, and how they can best be helped to learn. He associated enaction with two other ways of knowledge organization: Iconic and Symbolic.\n\nThe term 'enactive framework' was elaborated upon by Francisco Varela and Humberto Maturana.\n\nSriramen argues that enactivism provides \"a rich and powerful explanatory theory for learning and being.\" and that it is closely related to both the ideas of cognitive development of Piaget, and also the social constructivism of Vygotsky. Piaget focused on the child's immediate environment, and suggested cognitive structures like spatial perception emerge as a result of the child's interaction with the world. According to Piaget, children \"construct\" knowledge, using what they know in new ways and testing it, and the environment provides feedback concerning the adequacy of their construction. In a cultural context, Vygotsky suggested that the kind of cognition that can take place is not dictated by the engagement of the isolated child, but is also a function of social interaction and dialogue that is contingent upon a sociohistorical context. Enactivism in educational theory \"looks at each learning situation as a complex system consisting of teacher, learner, and context, all of which frame and co-create the learning situation.\" Enactivism in education is very closely related to situated cognition, which holds that \"knowledge is situated, being in part a product of the activity, context, and culture in which it is developed and used.\" This approach challenges the \"separating of what is learned from how it is learned and used.\"\n\nThe ideas of enactivism regarding how organisms engage with their environment have interested those involved in robotics and man-machine interfaces. The analogy is drawn that a robot can be designed to interact and learn from its environment in a manner similar to the way an organism does that, and a human can interact with a computer-aided design tool or data base using an interface that creates an enactive environment for the user, that is, all the user's tactile, auditory, and visual capabilities are enlisted in a mutually explorative engagement, capitalizing upon all the user's abilities, and not at all limited to cerebral engagement. In these areas it is common to refer to affordances as a design concept, the idea that an environment or an interface affords opportunities for enaction, and good design involves optimizing the role of such affordances.\n\nThe activity in the AI community also has influenced enactivism as whole. Referring extensively to modeling techniques for evolutionary robotics by Beer, the modeling of learning behavior by Kelso, and to modeling of sensorimotor activity by Saltzman, McGann, De Jaegher, and Di Paolo discuss how this work makes the dynamics of coupling between an agent and its environment, the foundation of enactivism, \"an operational, empirically observable phenomenon.\" That is, the AI environment invents examples of enactivism using concrete examples that, although not as complex as living organisms, isolate and illuminate basic principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24856902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24856902", "title": "Evidential existentiality", "text": "Evidential existentiality\n\nThe principle of evidential existentiality in philosophy is a principle that explains and gives value to the existence of entities. The principle states that the reality of an entity's existence gives greater value to prove its existence than would be given through any outward studies. The principle has become a backbone of the God argument, stating that because God is a self-evident entity, His existence can only be shared by humans, thus proof of God is unnecessary and moot.\nIt appears that the existence is primarily evident to the self only. The God or Supreme self is perceivable to the self. So evidentially self perception is followed by God perception and so on.\n\n"}
{"id": "1535731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1535731", "title": "Fictionalism", "text": "Fictionalism\n\nFictionalism is the view in philosophy according to which statements that appear to be descriptions of the world should not be construed as such, but should instead be understood as cases of \"make believe\", of pretending to treat something as literally true (a \"useful fiction\"). Two important strands of fictionalism are modal fictionalism developed by Gideon Rosen, which states that possible worlds, regardless of whether they exist or not, may be a part of a useful discourse, and mathematical fictionalism advocated by Hartry Field, which states that talk of numbers and other mathematical objects is nothing more than a convenience for doing science. Also in meta-ethics, there is an equivalent position called moral fictionalism (championed by Richard Joyce). Many modern versions of fictionalism are influenced by the work of Kendall Walton in aesthetics.\n\nFictionalism consists in at least the following three theses:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "246545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246545", "title": "Hedone", "text": "Hedone\n\nHedone was the personification and goddess of pleasure, enjoyment, and delight. Hedone, also known as Voluptas in Roman mythology, is the daughter of the Greek gods Eros (Cupid) and Psyche. She was associated more specifically with sensual pleasure. Her opposites were the Algos, personifications of pain.\n\n\"Hēdonē\" () is a Greek word meaning pleasure, and is the root of the English word \"hedonism\". In the philosophy of Epicurus, hēdonē is described as a pleasure that may or may not derive from actions that are virtuous, whereas another form of pleasure, \"terpsis\", is always virtuous. According to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, Epicurus uses hēdonē in reference to only physical pleasures\n\n"}
{"id": "22820992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22820992", "title": "Henology", "text": "Henology\n\nHenology (from Greek ἕν \"hen\", \"one\") refers to the philosophical account or discourse on \"The One\" that appears most notably in the philosophy of Plotinus. Reiner Schürmann describes it as a \"metaphysics of radical transcendence\" that extends beyond being and intellection. It can be contrasted with ontology, as ontology is \"an account of being\" whereas henology is an \"account of unity.\"\n\nHenology stands in contradistinction to several other philosophical disciplines. The term \"henology\" refers to the discipline that centers around The One, as in the philosophies of Plato and Plotinus. It is sometimes used in contradistinction to disciplines that treat Being as its starting point (as in Aristotle and Avicenna) and also to those that seek to understand Knowledge and Truth (as in Kant and Descartes).\n\n"}
{"id": "206358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206358", "title": "Holism", "text": "Holism\n\nHolism (from Greek \"holos\" \"all, whole, entire\") is the idea that systems (physical, biological, chemical, social, economic, mental, linguistic) and their properties should be viewed as wholes, not just as a collection of parts.\n\nThe term holism was coined by Jan Smuts. Alfred Adler considered holism as a concept that represents all of the wholes in the universe, and these wholes are the real factors in the universe. Further, that Holism also denoted a theory of the universe in the same vein as Materialism and Spiritualism.\n\nAfter identifying the need for reform in the fundamental concepts of matter, life and mind (chapter 1) Smuts examines the reformed concepts (as of 1926) of space and time (chapter 2), matter (chapter 3) and biology (chapter 4) and concludes that the close approach to each other of the concepts of matter, life and mind, and the partial overflow of each other's domain, imply that there is a fundamental principle (Holism) of which they are the progressive outcome. Chapters 5 and 6 provide the general concept, functions and categories of Holism; chapters 7 and 8 address Holism with respect to Mechanism and Darwinism, chapters 9-11 make a start towards demonstrating the concepts and functions of Holism for the metaphysical categories (mind, personality, ideals) and the book concludes with a chapter that argues for the universal ubiquity of Holism and its place as a monistic ontology.\n\nThe following is an overview of Smuts' opinions regarding the general concept, functions, and categories of Holism; like the definition of Holism, other than the idea that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts, the editor is unaware of any authoritative secondary sources corroborating Smuts' opinions.\n\nWholes are composites which have an internal structure, function or character which clearly differentiate them from mechanical additions, aggregates, and constructions, such as science assumes on the mechanical hypothesis. The concept of structure is not confined to the physical domain (e.g. chemical, biological and artifacts); it also applies to the metaphysical domain (e.g. mental structures, properties, attributes, values, ideals, etc.)\n\nThe field of a whole is not something different and additional to it, it is the continuation of the whole beyond its sensible contours of experience. The field characterizes a whole as a unified and synthesised event in the system of Relativity, that includes not only its present but also its past—and also its future potentialities. As such, the concept of field entails both activity and structure.\n\nDarwin's theory of organic descent placed primary emphasis on the role of natural selection, but there would be nothing to select if not for variation. Variations that are the result of mutations in the biological sense and variations that are the result of individually acquired modifications in the personal sense are attributed by Smuts to Holism; further it was his opinion that because variations appear in complexes and not singly, evolution is more than the outcome of individual selections; it is holistic.\n\nThe whole exhibits a discernible regulatory function as it relates to cooperation and coordination of the structure and activity of parts, and to the selection and deselection of variations. The result is a balanced correlation of organs and functions. The activities of the parts are directed to central ends; co-operation and unified action instead of the separate mechanical activities of the parts.\n\nIt is the intermingling of fields which is creative or causal in nature. This is seen in matter, where if not for its dynamic structural creative character matter could not have been the mother of the universe. This function, or factor of creativity is even more marked in biology where the protoplasm of the cell is vitally active in an ongoing process of creative change where parts are continually being destroyed and replaced by new protoplasm. With minds the regulatory function of Holism acquires consciousness and freedom, demonstrating a creative power of the most far-reaching character. Holism is not only creative but self-creative, and its final structures are far more holistic than its initial structures.\n\nAs it relates to causality Smuts makes reference to A. N. Whitehead, and indirectly Baruch Spinoza; the Whitehead premise is that organic mechanism is a fundamental process which realizes and actualizes individual syntheses or unities. Holism (the factor) exemplifies this same idea while emphasizing the holistic character of the process. The whole completely transforms the concept of Causality; results are not directly a function of causes. The whole absorbs and integrates the cause into its own activity; results appear as the consequence of the activity of the whole. Note that this material relating to Whitehead's influence as it relates to causality was added in the second edition, and of course will not be found in reprints of the first edition; nor is it included in the most recent Holst edition. It is the second edition of \"Holism and Evolution\" (1927) that provides the most recent and definitive treatment by Smuts.\n\nThe fundamental holistic characters as a unity of parts which is so close and intense as to be more than the sum of its parts; which not only gives a particular conformation or structure to the parts, but so relates and determines them in their synthesis that their functions are altered; the synthesis affects and determines the parts, so that they function towards the whole; and the whole and the parts, therefore reciprocally influence and determine each other, and appear more or less to merge their individual characters: the whole is in the parts and the parts are in the whole, and this synthesis of whole and parts is reflected in the holistic character of the functions of the parts as well as of the whole.\n\nA \"rough and provisional\" summary of the progressive grading of wholes that comprise holism is as follows:\n\n\nIn philosophy, any doctrine that emphasizes the priority of a whole over its parts is holism. Some suggest that such a definition owes its origins to a non-holistic view of language and places it in the reductivist camp. Alternately, a 'holistic' definition of holism denies the necessity of a division between the function of separate parts and the workings of the 'whole'. Effectively this means that the concept of a part has no absolute foundation in observation, but is rather a result of a materialist structuring of reality based on the necessity of logical and distinct units as a means to deriving information through comparative analysis. It suggests that the key recognizable characteristic of a concept of 'true' holism is a sense of the fundamental truth of any particular experience. This exists in contradistinction to what is perceived as the reductivist reliance on inductive method as the key to verification of its concept of how the parts function within the whole. Equally the potential for recognising the clarity of holistic experience within the logical terms of maths is limited by the abstract nature of numbers. In terms of real life measurements numbers have no scale or dimensional properties, so they have to rely on experimentally verified units (e.g. inches, volts, calories etc.), to describe reality. It is this reliance on the holistic integrity of experience which leads to the recognition that intuitive perception rather than mathematical calculation is the source of the truth of effective theories. (See references Holism, 2016.)\n\nIn the philosophy of language this becomes the claim, called semantic holism, that the meaning of an individual word or sentence can only be understood in terms of its relations to a larger body of language, even a whole theory or a whole language. In the philosophy of mind, a mental state may be identified only in terms of its relations with others. This is often referred to as \"content holism\" or \"holism of the mental\". This notion involves the philosophies of such figures as Frege, Wittgenstein, and Quine.\n\nEpistemological and confirmation holism are mainstream ideas in contemporary philosophy.\n\nOntological holism was espoused by David Bohm in his theory on the implicate and explicate order.\n\nThe concept of holism played a pivotal role in Baruch Spinoza's philosophy.\n\nHegel rejected \"the fundamentally atomistic conception of the object,\" (Stern, 38) arguing that \"individual objects exist as manifestations of indivisible substance-universals, which cannot be reduced to a set of properties or attributes; he therefore holds that the object should be treated as an ontologically primary whole.\" (Stern, 40) In direct opposition to Kant, therefore, \"Hegel insists that the unity we find in our experience of the world is not constructed by us out of a plurality of intuitions.\" (Stern, 40) In \"his ontological scheme a concrete individual is not reducible to a plurality of sensible properties, but rather exemplifies a substance universal.\" (Stern, 41) His point is that it is \"a mistake to treat an organic substance like blood as nothing more than a compound of unchanging chemical elements, that can be separated and united without being fundamentally altered.\" (Stern, 103) In Hegel's view, a substance like blood is thus \"more of an organic unity and cannot be understood as just an external composition of the sort of distinct substances that were discussed at the level of chemistry.\" (Stern, 103) Thus in Hegel's view, blood is blood and cannot be successfully reduced to what we consider are its component parts; we must view it as a whole substance entire unto itself. This is most certainly a fundamentally holistic view. \n\nThere are several newer methods in agricultural science such as permaculture and holistic planned grazing (holistic management) that integrate ecology and social sciences with food production. Organic farming is sometimes considered a holistic approach.\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, holism led to systems thinking and its derivatives. Systems in biology, psychology, or sociology are frequently so complex that their behavior is, or appears, \"new\" or \"emergent\": it cannot be deduced from the properties of the elements alone.\n\nHolism has thus been used as a catchword. This contributed to the resistance encountered by the scientific interpretation of holism, which insists that there are ontological reasons that prevent reductive models in principle from providing efficient algorithms for prediction of system behavior in certain classes of systems.\n\nScientific holism holds that the behavior of a system cannot be perfectly predicted, no matter how much data is available. Natural systems can produce surprisingly unexpected behavior, and it is suspected that behavior of such systems might be computationally irreducible, which means it would not be possible to even approximate the system state without a full simulation of all the events occurring in the system. Key properties of the higher level behavior of certain classes of systems may be mediated by rare \"surprises\" in the behavior of their elements due to the principle of interconnectivity, thus evading predictions except by brute force simulation.\n\nComplexity theory (also called \"science of complexity\") is a contemporary heir of systems thinking. It comprises both computational and holistic, relational approaches towards understanding complex adaptive systems, and especially in the latter, some argue that it can be seen as the polar opposite to reductive methods. General theories of complexity have been proposed, and numerous complexity institutes and departments have sprung up around the world. The Santa Fe Institute is arguably the most famous of them.\n\nHolistic thinking is often applied to ecology, combining biological, chemical, physical, economic, ethical, and political insights. The complexity grows with the area, so that it is necessary to reduce the characteristic of the view in other ways, for example to a specific time of duration.\n\nJohn Muir, Scots-born early American conservationist, wrote \"When we try to pick out anything by itself we find it hitched to everything else in the Universe\".\n\nMore information is to be found in the field of systems ecology, a cross-disciplinary field influenced by general systems theory.\n\nIn primary care the term \"holistic,\" has been used to describe approaches that take into account social considerations and other intuitive judgements. The term holism, and so-called approaches, appear in psychosomatic medicine in the 1970s, when they were considered one possible way to conceptualize psychosomatic phenomena. Instead of charting one-way causal links from psyche to soma, or vice versa, it aimed at a systemic model, where multiple biological, psychological and social factors were seen as interlinked.\n\nOther, alternative approaches in the 1970s were psychosomatic and somatopsychic approaches, which concentrated on causal links only from psyche to soma, or from soma to psyche, respectively. At present it is commonplace in psychosomatic medicine to state that psyche and soma cannot really be separated for practical or theoretical purposes. A disturbance on any level—somatic, psychic, or social—will radiate to all the other levels, too. In this sense, psychosomatic thinking is similar to the biopsychosocial model of medicine.\n\nMany alternative medicine practitioners claim a holistic approach to healing.\n\nA lively debate has run since the end of the 19th century regarding the functional organization of the brain. The holistic tradition (e.g., Pierre Marie) maintained that the brain was a homogeneous organ with no specific subparts whereas the localizationists (e.g., Paul Broca) argued that the brain was organized in functionally distinct cortical areas which were each specialized to process a given type of information or implement specific mental operations. The controversy was epitomized with the existence of a language area in the brain, nowadays known as Broca's area.\n\nArchitecture is often argued by design academics and those practicing in design to be a holistic enterprise. Used in this context, holism tends to imply an all-inclusive design perspective. This trait is considered exclusive to architecture, distinct from other professions involved in design projects.\n\nA holistic brand (also holistic branding) is considering the entire brand or image of the company. For example, a universal brand image across all countries, including everything from advertising styles to the stationery the company has made, to the company colours.\n\nWith roots in Schumpeter, the evolutionary approach might be considered the holistic theory in economics. It shares certain language from the biological evolutionary approach. It takes into account how the innovation system evolves over time. Knowledge and know-how, know-who, know-what and know-why are part of the whole business economics. Knowledge can also be tacit, as described by Michael Polanyi. These models are open, and consider that it is hard to predict exactly the impact of a policy measure. They are also less mathematical.\n\nThe Taxonomy of Educational Objectives identifies many levels of cognitive functioning, which can be used to create a more holistic education. In authentic assessment, rather than using computers to score multiple choice tests, a standards based assessment uses trained scorers to score open-response items using holistic scoring methods. In projects such as the North Carolina Writing Project, scorers are instructed not to count errors, or count numbers of points or supporting statements. The scorer is instead instructed to judge holistically whether \"as a whole\" is it more a \"2\" or a \"3\". Critics question whether such a process can be as objective as computer scoring, and the degree to which such scoring methods can result in different scores from different scorers.\n\nA major holistic movement in the early twentieth century was gestalt psychology. The claim was that perception is not an aggregation of atomic sense data but a field, in which there is a figure and a ground. Background has holistic effects on the perceived figure. Gestalt psychologists included Wolfgang Koehler, Max Wertheimer, and Kurt Koffka. Koehler claimed the perceptual fields corresponded to electrical fields in the brain. Karl Lashley did experiments with gold foil pieces inserted in monkey brains purporting to show that such fields did not exist. However, many of the perceptual illusions and visual phenomena exhibited by the gestaltists were taken over (often without credit) by later perceptual psychologists. Gestalt psychology had influence on Fritz Perls' gestalt therapy, although some old-line gestaltists opposed the association with counter-cultural and New Age trends later associated with gestalt therapy. Gestalt theory was also influential on phenomenology. Aron Gurwitsch wrote on the role of the field of consciousness in gestalt theory in relation to phenomenology. Maurice Merleau-Ponty made much use of holistic psychologists such as work of Kurt Goldstein in his \"Phenomenology of Perception\".\n\nAlfred Adler believed that the individual (an integrated whole expressed through a self-consistent unity of thinking, feeling, and action, moving toward an unconscious, fictional final goal), must be understood within the larger wholes of society, from the groups to which he belongs (starting with his face-to-face relationships), to the larger whole of mankind. The recognition of our social embeddedness and the need for developing an interest in the welfare of others, as well as a respect for nature, is at the heart of Adler's philosophy of living and principles of psychotherapy.\n\nEdgar Morin, the French philosopher and sociologist, can be considered a holist based on the transdisciplinary nature of his work.\n\nMel Levine, M.D., author of \"A Mind at a Time\", and co-founder (with Charles R. Schwab) of the not-for-profit organization All Kinds of Minds, can be considered a holist based on his view of the 'whole child' as a product of many systems and his work supporting the educational needs of children through the management of a child's educational profile as a whole rather than isolated weaknesses in that profile.\n\nThere is an ongoing dispute as to whether anthropology is intrinsically holistic. Supporters of this concept consider anthropology holistic in two senses. First, it is concerned with all human beings across times and places, and with all dimensions of humanity (evolutionary, biophysical, sociopolitical, economic, cultural, psychological, etc.) Further, many academic programs following this approach take a \"four-field\" approach to anthropology that encompasses physical anthropology, archeology, linguistics, and cultural anthropology or social anthropology.\n\nSome leading anthropologists disagree, and consider anthropological holism to be an artifact from 19th century social evolutionary thought that inappropriately imposes scientific positivism upon cultural anthropology.\n\nThe term \"holism\" is additionally used within social and cultural anthropology to refer to an analysis of a society as a whole which refuses to break society into component parts. One definition says: \"as a methodological ideal, holism implies ... that one does not permit oneself to believe that our own established institutional boundaries (e.g. between politics, sexuality, religion, economics) necessarily may be found also in foreign societies.\"\n\nÉmile Durkheim developed a concept of holism which he set as opposite to the notion that a society was nothing more than a simple collection of individuals. In more recent times, Louis Dumont has contrasted \"holism\" to \"individualism\" as two different forms of societies. According to him, modern humans live in an individualist society, whereas ancient Greek society, for example, could be qualified as \"holistic\", because the individual found identity in the whole society. Thus, the individual was ready to sacrifice himself or herself for his or her community, as his or her life without the \"polis\" had no sense whatsoever.\n\nThe French Protestant missionary Maurice Leenhardt coined the term \"cosmomorphism\" to indicate the state of perfect symbiosis with the surrounding environment which characterized the culture of the Melanesians of New Caledonia. For these people, an isolated individual is totally indeterminate, indistinct, and featureless until he can find his position within the natural and social world in which he is inserted. The confines between the self and the world are annulled to the point that the material body itself is no guarantee of the sort of recognition of identity which is typical of our own culture.\n\nHolistic concepts are strongly represented within the thoughts expressed within Logos (per Heraclitus), Panentheism and Pantheism.\n\nIn theological anthropology, which belongs to theology and not to anthropology, holism is the belief that body, soul and spirit are not separate components of a person, but rather facets of a united whole.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20098157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20098157", "title": "Ideological repression", "text": "Ideological repression\n\nIdeological repression refers to forceful activities against competing ideologies and philosophies.\n\nAlan Wolfe defines ideological repression as \"the attempt to manipulate people's consciousness so they accept the ruling ideology, and distrust and refuse to be moved by competing ideologies\".\n\nIn the early days of the Soviet Union and in other countries, ideological repression was carried out by political repression of the carriers of competing ideologies.\n\nInstruments of ideological repression are propaganda and censorship. During the days of \"Marxism-Leninism\" in the Soviet Union -around the early 1930s- students of this particular school of thought were given textbooks that encouraged one particular way of thinking (the Marxist way) as being paramount and the most scientific and true school of thought.\n\nThrough ideological repression and control of output information, the Soviet Union was attempting to keep social revolutions at bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "14372651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14372651", "title": "Indian political philosophy", "text": "Indian political philosophy\n\nIndian political philosophy may be categorized into several distinct traditions, including: the Vedic (c. 1200 BCE - 10th century CE); the Jain-Buddhist-Hindu (6th century BCE - 2nd century CE); the Indo-Islamic (10th century CE-1857); the modern or Indo-British (c. 1857 - 1947); and the contemporary (post-independence - present).\n\nIn India as elsewhere, political philosophy involves on the one hand speculations on the relationships between individual, society and state, and detailed treatises on the mechanics of statecraft, state policy, war and diplomacy and international relations.\n\nContemporary Indian political philosophy is an emerging discipline garnering increasing interest with the rise of comparative political theory. The Indian political theorist Aakash Singh Rathore has been attempting to cultivate the discipline with the 2010 book \"Indian Political Thought--A Reader\" (Routledge), and the 2017 monograph \"Indian Political Theory: Laying the Groundwork for Svaraj\" (Routledge).\n\n"}
{"id": "11400503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11400503", "title": "Ironism", "text": "Ironism\n\nIronist (n. Ironism) (from Greek: \"eiron\", \"eironeia\"), a term coined by Richard Rorty, describes someone who fulfills three conditions:\n\nIn \"Contingency, Irony, and Solidarity\", Rorty argues that Proust, Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger, Derrida, and Nabokov, among others, all exemplify Ironism to different extents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1627004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627004", "title": "Javelin argument", "text": "Javelin argument\n\nThe javelin argument, credited to Lucretius, is an ancient logical argument that the universe, or cosmological space, must be infinite: \n\nThis argument was used to support the Epicurean thesis about the universe.\n\nHowever, the argument assumes incorrectly that a finite universe must necessarily have a \"limit\" or edge. The argument fails in the case that the universe might be shaped like the surface of a hypersphere or torus. (Consider a similar fallacious argument that the Earth's surface must be infinite in area: because otherwise one could go to the Earth's edge and throw a javelin, proving that the Earth's surface continued wherever the javelin hit the ground.)\n"}
{"id": "58844642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58844642", "title": "Julio Cabrera (philosopher)", "text": "Julio Cabrera (philosopher)\n\nJulio Cabrera is an Argentine philosopher living in Brazil. He is a retired professor of the Department of Philosophy at the University of Brasília and former head of the department. Previously he taught in Argentina, at the National University of Córdoba, the University of Belgrano and then in Brazil at the Federal University of Santa Maria. Currently, he is a senior associate researcher, by invitation, in the Bioethics Doctoral Program of the University of Brasília. He is best known for his works on \"negative ethics\" and cinema and philosophy. Other areas of philosophy that he deals with are philosophy of language, logic and Latin American philosophy.\n\nIn his book \"A Critique of Affirmative Morality (A reflection on Death, Birth and the Value of Life)\", Julio Cabrera presents his theory about the value of human existence. Human life, for Cabrera, is \"structurally negative\" in that its constitutive components are inherently adverse: as prominent among them Cabrera cites loss, scarcity, pain, conflicts, fragility, illness, aging, boredom and death. According to Cabrera they form the basic structure to human life, which he analyzes through what he calls naturalistic phenomenology, drawing freely from thinkers such as Martin Heidegger, Arthur Schopenhauer and Friedrich Nietzsche. Cabrera has called his work an attempt to put together Schopenhauer and Heidegger, introducing a determinant judgement of the value of Being into the analysis of Dasein, and putting morality above life, against Nietzsche. \n\nCabrera develops an ethical theory, negative ethics, that is informed by this phenomenological analysis. He argues that there has been an unwarranted prejudice in ethics against non-Being, a view he calls \"affirmativity\". Because affirmative views take Being as good, they always view things that threaten this hegemony as bad; particularly things like abstention from procreation or suicide. Cabrera criticizes affirmative ethics for asking how people should live without asking the radical question of whether people should live tout court. He argues that, because of the structural negativity of Being, there is a fundamental \"moral disqualification\" of human beings due to the impossibility of nonharming and nonmanipulating others. Nonharming and nonmanipulating others is called by him the \"fundamental ethical articulation\" (\"FEA\"). The FEA is violated by our structural \"moral impediment\", by the worldly discomforts – notably pain and discouragement – imposed on us that prevent us from acting ethically. Cabrera argues that an affirmative morality is a self-contradiction because it conceives a human existence that precludes the possibility of not-harming or not-manipulating others. Thus he believes that affirmative societies, through their politics, require the common suspension of the FEA to even function.\n\nAs a response to the negative structure of Being, Cabrera's negative ethics is acutely aware of the morally disqualifying nature of Being. Cabrera believes children are usually considered as mere aesthetic objects, are not created for their own sake but for the sake of their parents, and are thrown into a structurally negative life by the act of procreation. Procreation is, as Cabrera argues, a supreme act of manipulation, a harm and a violation of autonomy. He argues that the consistent application of normal moral concepts – like duty, virtue or respect – present in most affirmative moralities entails antinatalism. Cabrera also believes that a human being adopting negative ethics should not only abstain from procreation, but also should have a complete willingness for an ethical death, by immediate suspension of all personal projects in benefit of a political fight or an altruistic suicide, when it becomes the least immoral course of action.\n\nCabrera’s \"Critique\" is one of his most systematic defenses of negative ethics, but he has also explored the same ideas in other works, such as \"Projeto de Ética Negativa\", \"Ética Negativa: problemas e discussoes\", \"Porque te amo, não nascerás! Nascituri te salutant\" and \"Mal-estar e moralidade: situação humana, ética e procriação responsável\".\n\nIn his first book about cinema-philosophical thought, \"Cine, 100 anos de filosofia: Una Introducción a la Filosofia A Traves del Análisis de Películas\", Julio Cabrera proposes the notion of \"logopathy\" (from Greek: \"logos\" – \"reason\" and \"páthos\" – \"feelings\"), that is, of \"cognitive-affective concepts\", treating them as capable of putting in question the traditional view of philosophy about concepts, which he calls apathetic and tied to purely intellectual concepts. Cabrera sustains that logopathic philosophy is of the order of meaning, and not of truth, and that it adds affective elements of judgment to these traditional intellectual view of concepts. \n\nCabrera considers cinema one of the most fruitful means for the generation of concepts of a logopathic type, specifically denominated by him as \"concept-image\", as opposed to \"concept-idea\", the apathetic type of concept. He believes that cinema, by its powerful audiovisual means of expression, would provide a \"superpotentiation\" of conceptual possibilities, and therefore, of the establishment of the experience of the film, indispensable to the development of the concept-image, with the consequent increase of affective impact.\n\nOn the other hand, Cabrera believes that throughout history of European philosophy, at various moments, written philosophy – the opposite of visual philosophy – has also been logopathic, it has thought through affections, but without assuming it openly, while cinema usually has been seen only as a mere affective phenomenon, without relevant cognitive power. His notions of logopathy and concept-image seek to eliminate this dichotomy, pointing to the affectivity of the intellect and the cognitiveness of affections.\nCabrera gave continuity to the exposition of his cinema-philosophy thinking in books like \"De Hitchcock a Greenaway pela história da filosofia: novas reflexoes sobre cinema e filosofia\" (a sort of second volume of \"Cine: 100 anos de filosofia\") and \"Diálogo/cinema\", where in a debate through letters with Marcia Tiburi, he discusses the subject from the perspective that, long before the invention of the cinema, philosophy was already \"filming\" ideas through images, and also in articles \"Para una des-comprensión filosófica Del cine: el caso Inland Empire de David Lynch\", \"Três ensaios sobre a repetição: Kierkegaard, Jarmush, Hitchcock, Van Sant e três damas que desembarcam antes de chegar (Uma reflexão transversal sobre escrita e imagem)\", \"Existencia naufragada. Los 4 viajes del Titanic\", \"Repetición y cine vacío\". and \"Cine, filosofía y filosofía analítica\". \n\nFor Cabrera, philosophies of language are philosophies for which language does not matter in so far as it merely conveys something, but insofar as it constitutes – and implements – concepts and structures of understanding of the world. From this large sense of the term, he identifies four philosophies of language, which are: analytical, hermeneutic, phenomenological and meta-critical. Looking through the prism of negativity, Cabrera shows how the four above types of philosophies of language fail at a common point: their incapacity to fight against the failures of meaning. For the analytics, the point presents itself in the “meaninglessness” of expressions which is treated as a limit beyond which one should not go. However, according to Cabrera, this analytic objectivism excludes fundamental dimensions of the problem of meaning, such as time and lived experience. Phenomenology expands the analytic semantic horizon with the dimension of intentionality (of which analytic intensionality is only an inauthentic correlate, essentially objective) without the problem of meaninglessness being tamed. It remains for phenomenology, however, the temporality and historicity that hermeneutics adds to the approach of the problem, which is called \"misunderstanding\". Hermeneutic falls into the basic \"distortions of meanings\", something stronger than \"meaninglessness\" and \"misunderstanding\", a subject of meta-critical philosophies, represented by Karl Marx’s and Sigmund Freud’s philosophies of language. \n\nCabrera strongly criticizes the analytic approach to language for its denial of everything that is not objective. But according to him, also the other philosophies of language show their faults, from phenomenology to hermeneutics and even meta-criticism harboring therapies redeeming only in an illusory manner: psychoanalytic healing or communist utopia. Cabrera’s philosophy of language is a philosophy of confrontations between philosophies, which can only be made under the sign of resignation in finitude and negativism. He argues that not one of the kinds of philosophies of language that have been side-by-side in the last century and a half can, by itself, account for the complexity of the human. It is in this sense that, for Cabrera, all understanding is, ultimately, a self-sustaining illusion.\n\nLogic for Cabrera is often linked to three fundamental principles: (1) The object that propositions deal with is indeterminate and general, (2) Logic applies to ordinary reasoning, albeit with some effort, and (3) Logic is formal rather than lexical, that is, based on the structural and non-semantic connections in language. Cabrera constructs his thought in this area by criticizing each of these three basic premises of the logical tradition. \n\nHis intuition in this field of research is the same as in others: the intersections of traditions enriches thought and is essential to account for the human condition. Thus, logical formalization is important for thinking about existence, just as the issues of human existence are essential for understanding thinking and logic. This conception of philosophy owes the hardly unorthodox intersections that Cabrera did in his studies of logic, connecting Saul Kripke with Martin Heidegger, Immanuel Kant with John Austin, and Ludwig Wittgenstein with Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nCabrera's work has the expectation of allying the formal instruments to the existential contents of life. The critique to the alleged empty generality of logic goes in this direction as well as the proposal of a lexical logic of predicative connections, in an attempt to lend to lexical analysis a formal dimension, but loaded with content. The specific work on concept networks in lexical logic was developed in partnership with the physicist Olavo Leopoldino da Silva Filho, from the University of Brasilia.\n\nHis work on logic also proceeds to a revision of the history of logic. An outline of his version of the history of logic would be as follows: (1) Aristotle, in syllogisms and beyond, (2) The Platonic conception of logic, (3) The logic of the connections of meanings in the Middle Ages, (4) Modern criticisms of formal logic: Francis Bacon, Rene Descartes and John Locke, the scientific method and logic, philosophical analysis and heuristics, the Port-Royal Logic, (5) The case of Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz: what the official history took and what it didn't analyze, (6) Formal logic, transcendental logic: Immanuel Kant, (7) The logic in motion of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel: Hegelian criticism of denial, (8) the logic of the induction of John Stuart Mill, (9) Three conceptions of logic in the passage from the nineteenth to the twentieth century: Gottlob Frege, John Dewey and Edmund Husserl, logic within analysis, pragmatism, and phenomenology, (10) The case of Charles Sanders Peirce: what the official story took and what it didn't analyze.\n\nCabrera also develops a negative approach to argumentation in the field of informal logic, a pessimistic parallel theory to his negative ethics. For him, an affirmative approach to argumentation is one in which philosophical problems are considered to have one solution or at least an adequate treatment amongst many others that are inadequate and wrong. In Cabrera's view, according to the affirmative approach, the multiplicity of answers given by philosophy is a mistake which must be \"resolved\" in some way. On the other hand, according to the negative approach, the multiplicity of answers given by philosophy is not a mistake, but its most natural development. The negative approach to argumentation is concerned with treating one's own position and perspective not as a unique truth, but as one of many within an extensive and complex holistic web of approaches and perspectives, that speak and criticize mutually without discarding one another, although each of such positions may be fiercely maintained based on its perspective and assumptions, supported on defensible grounds.\n\nCabrera argues that there are epistemic injustices associated with the practice of philosophy in colonized contexts such as in Latin America. In a lecture in Unisinos University, Cabrera began to enunciate the problem of colonization in philosophy in a succinct and direct way:\n\nA central idea he came to defend is that the current status of philosophy in many Latin American countries is a product of the way philosophy is taught, researched, and written by local institutions that are subordinate to the international scene. Professional philosophy in these countries have been developed around commenting European (and, to a lesser extent, North American) philosophers, and this emphasis has developed as a corollary of the idea that philosophy is done only with reference to European philosophers and no Latin American is encouraged to challenge this hegemony. Alongside this inhibition of Latin American philosophy is the idea that what is European is universal while what is Latin American is merely local or national. He makes a diagnosis in the form of \"acervo T\" (\"T collection\"), theses on the hegemony of Eurocentric philosophy; this collection of theses is understood by Cabrera as being tacitly adopted by most of the Latin American philosophers. In opposition to this colonial order, Cabrera proposes and recommends several practices concerning the teaching and practice of philosophy, among them: (1) A greater attention to Latin American sources so that the history of philosophy on the continent does not continue to be ignored by local philosophers and that the work of these philosophers be as much discussed as that of European sources, (2) A stimulus to philosophy that is not from Latin America nor about Latin America, but from Latin America where the local starting point is made explicit, (3) The practice of appropriation in which philosophers from other contexts are placed in discussions of interest to Latin America. This practice can be found in important philosophical works in Latin America such as that of Enrique Dussel with which Cabrera maintained published debates.\n\nCabrera has defended the crossing of boundaries between traditions and has on many occasions shown the potential for fertilization stemming from the juxtaposition, friction and debate between philosophies originating from analytical and continental traditions. Over time, he extended this metaphilosophical approach in the direction of making it an element of the struggle against what he began to clearly see as the colonized state of philosophy in Latin America.\n\nIn his book \"Diário de um filósofo no Brasil\", Cabrera documents the problems of self-reliant inventive philosophy in Brazil; the book describes the environment of suppression of philosophical intuition in its many mechanisms attending to what is specific in the Brazilian colonized context. The book portraits what it means to philosophize from somewhere and tries to present alternatives to the philosophical commentary that can flourish even in a hostile environment. \n\nFor Cabrera, it is important to understand from where philosophy in Latin America is made: it is made from invaded, looted, dominated countries that have been placed in intellectual subservience. He claims that this makes the philosophy produced there different from all European philosophy – and it is important to stress that no philosophy is born universal. Cabrera notes that philosophy in Brazil, especially made in departments in the academy, is particularly blind to the sources of Latin American thought, both from the classics (Bartolomé de Las Casas, Antônio Vieira, Flora Tristan, Juan Bautista Alberdi, José Martí and José Enrique Rodó) and contemporary (José Carlos Mariátegui, Edmundo O'Gorman, Leopoldo Zea, Miguel León Portilla, Roberto Fernández Retamar and Santiago Castro-Gómez), known only in isolated expert communities. His proposition is a course in the history of thought that begins with pre-Columbian Amerindian thought and which does not pass through Europeans (nor Greeks) until the nineteenth century. The idea is to read nineteenth-century European philosophers who challenged intellectualist and Christian traditions, such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Søren Kierkegaard and Friedrich Nietzsche (and their precursors Michel de Montaigne, Denis Diderot and Jean-Jacques Rousseau), as influenced virtually by Amerindian ways of living and thinking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13793087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13793087", "title": "KK thesis", "text": "KK thesis\n\nThe KK thesis or KK principle is a principle of epistemic logic which states that \"If you know that p is the case then you know that you know that p is the case.\" In formal notation the principle can be stated as: \"Kp→KKp\" (literally: \"Knowing p implies the knowing of knowing p\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29792595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29792595", "title": "Landscapes of power", "text": "Landscapes of power\n\nIn political philosophy, the landscapes of power are the features of the built environment that perform political functions — including establishing the hegemony of a governing entity or an ideological creed in a particular territory and cultivating a sense of pride in place in residents of a territory. Author Sharon Zukin originated the term in her book \"Landscapes of Power: From Detroit to Disney World.\"\n\nJeremy Bentham's Panopticon is a prime example of how the organization of physical space performs some of the functions listed above — in this case, establishing the authority over a particular area. The Panopticon is a type of prison built with a circle of cells arranged around a guard tower. The occupants of these cells are visible to the guard, but the prisoners cannot see into the tower. They must consequently behave, as they would be under surveillance, or risk the possible consequences. The French philosopher Michel Foucault discussed the Panopticon in his book \"\"\n\nThere are 4 functions of landscape of power\n1. to show who owns what\n2. for nation building\n3. to create identity and\n4. to show who is in power.\nMore commonplace landscapes of power might include monuments, memorials and, as Zukin argues, even cities themselves.\n"}
{"id": "4205386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205386", "title": "Legal naturalism", "text": "Legal naturalism\n\nLegal naturalism is a term coined by Olufemi Taiwo to describe a current in the social philosophy of Karl Marx which can be interpreted as one of Natural Law. Taiwo considered it the manifestation of Natural Law in a dialectical materialist context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828083", "title": "Linguistic turn", "text": "Linguistic turn\n\nThe linguistic turn was a major development in Western philosophy during the early 20th century, the most important characteristic of which is the focusing of philosophy and the other humanities primarily on the relationship between philosophy and language.\n\nVery different intellectual movements were associated with the \"linguistic turn\", although the term itself is commonly thought popularised by Richard Rorty's 1967 anthology \"The Linguistic Turn\", in which it means the turn towards linguistic philosophy. According to Rorty, who later dissociated himself from linguistic philosophy and analytic philosophy generally, the phrase \"the linguistic turn\" originated with philosopher Gustav Bergmann.\n\nTraditionally, the linguistic turn is taken to also mean the birth of analytic philosophy. One of the results of the linguistic turn was an increasing focus on logic and philosophy of language, and the cleavage between ideal language philosophy and ordinary language philosophy.\n\nAccording to Michael Dummett, the linguistic turn can be dated to Gottlob Frege's 1884 work \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\", specifically paragraph 62 where Frege explores the identity of a numerical proposition. \n\nIn order to answer a Kantian question about numbers, \"How are numbers given to us, granted that we have no idea or intuition of them?\" Frege invokes his \"context principle\", stated at the beginning of the book, that only in the context of a proposition do words have meaning, and thus finds the solution to be in defining \"the sense of a proposition in which a number word occurs.\" Thus an ontological and epistemological problem, traditionally solved along idealist lines, is instead solved along linguistic ones.\n\nThis concern for the logic of propositions and their relationship to \"facts\" was later taken up by the notable analytic philosopher Bertrand Russell in \"On Denoting\", and played a weighty role in his early work in logical atomism.\n\nLudwig Wittgenstein, an associate of Russell, was one of the progenitors of the linguistic turn. This follows from his ideas in his \"Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus\" that philosophical problems arise from a misunderstanding of the logic of language, and from his remarks on language games in his later work. His later work (specifically \"Philosophical Investigations\") significantly departs from the common tenets of analytic philosophy and might be viewed as having some resonance in the post-structuralist tradition. \n\nW. V. O. Quine describes the historical continuity of the linguistic turn with earlier philosophy in \"Two Dogmas of Empiricism\": \"Meaning is what essence becomes when it is divorced from the object of reference and wedded to the word.\"\n\nLater in the twentieth century, philosophers like Saul Kripke in \"Naming and Necessity\" drew metaphysical conclusions from closely analyzing language.\n\nDecisive for the linguistic turn in the humanities were the works of yet another tradition, namely the Continental structuralism of Ferdinand de Saussure. Structuralism was the initial outcome of Saussure's linguistic turn, which later led to poststructuralism with the input of Friedrich Nietzsche's ideas. Influential poststructuralist theorists include Judith Butler, Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, Gilles Deleuze, Michel Foucault and Jacques Derrida. The power of language, more specifically of certain rhetorical tropes, in historical discourse was explored by Hayden White.\n\nThese various movements often lead to the notion that language 'constitutes' reality, a position contrary to intuition and to most of the Western tradition of philosophy. The traditional view (what Derrida called the 'metaphysical' core of Western thought) saw words as functioning labels attached to concepts. According to this view, there is something like 'the \"real\" chair', which exists in some external reality and corresponds roughly with a concept in human thought, \"chair\", to which the linguistic word \"chair\" refers. However, the founder of structuralism, Ferdinand de Saussure, held that definitions of concepts cannot exist independently from a linguistic system defined by difference, or, to put it differently, that a concept of something cannot exist without being named. Thus differences between meanings structure our perception; there is no \"real\" chair except insofar as we are manipulating symbolic systems. We would not even be able to recognize a chair \"as\" a chair without simultaneously recognising that a chair is \"not\" everything else - in other words a chair is defined as being a specific collection of characteristics which are themselves defined in certain ways, and so on, and all of this within the symbolic system of language. Thus, a large part of what we think of as \"reality\" is really a convention of naming and characterising, a convention which is itself called \"language\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20347", "title": "Meaning of life", "text": "Meaning of life\n\nThe meaning of life, or the answer to the question \"What is the meaning of life?\", pertains to the significance of living or existence in general. Many other related questions include: \"Why are we here?\", \"What is life all about?\", or \"What is the purpose of existence?\" There have been a large number of proposed answers to these questions from many different cultural and ideological backgrounds. The search for life's meaning has produced much philosophical, scientific, theological, and metaphysical speculation throughout history. Different people and cultures believe different things for the answer to this question. \n\nThe meaning of life as we perceive it is derived from philosophical and religious contemplation of, and scientific inquiries about existence, social ties, consciousness, and happiness. Many other issues are also involved, such as symbolic meaning, ontology, value, purpose, ethics, good and evil, free will, the existence of one or multiple gods, conceptions of God, the soul, and the afterlife. Scientific contributions focus primarily on describing related empirical facts about the universe, exploring the context and parameters concerning the \"how\" of life. Science also studies and can provide recommendations for the pursuit of well-being and a related conception of morality. An alternative, humanistic approach poses the question, \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\"\n\nQuestions about the meaning of life have been expressed in a broad variety of ways, including the following:\n\nThese questions have resulted in a wide range of competing answers and arguments, from scientific theories, to philosophical, theological, and spiritual explanations.\n\nMany members of the scientific community and philosophy of science communities think that science can provide the relevant context, and set of parameters necessary for dealing with topics related to the meaning of life. In their view, science can offer a wide range of insights on topics ranging from the science of happiness to death anxiety. Scientific inquiry facilitates this through nomological investigation into various aspects of life and reality, such as the Big Bang, the origin of life, and evolution, and by studying the objective factors which correlate with the subjective experience of meaning and happiness.\n\nResearchers in positive psychology study empirical factors that lead to life satisfaction, full engagement in activities, making a fuller contribution by utilizing one's personal strengths, and meaning based on investing in something larger than the self. Large-data studies of flow experiences have consistently suggested that humans experience meaning and fulfillment when mastering challenging tasks, and that the experience comes from the way tasks are approached and performed rather than the particular choice of task. For example, flow experiences can be obtained by prisoners in concentration camps with minimal facilities, and occur only slightly more often in billionaires. A classic example is of two workers on an apparently boring production line in a factory. One treats the work as a tedious chore while the other turns it into a game to see how fast she can make each unit, and achieves flow in the process.\n\nNeuroscience describes reward, pleasure, and motivation in terms of neurotransmitter activity, especially in the limbic system and the ventral tegmental area in particular. If one believes that the meaning of life is to maximize pleasure and to ease general life, then this allows normative predictions about how to act to achieve this. Likewise, some ethical naturalists advocate a science of morality—the empirical pursuit of flourishing for all conscious creatures.\n\nExperimental philosophy and neuroethics research collects data about human ethical decisions in controlled scenarios such as trolley problems. It has shown that many types of ethical judgment are universal across cultures, suggesting that they may be innate, whilst others are culture specific. The findings show actual human ethical reasoning to be at odds with most logical philosophical theories, for example consistently showing distinctions between action by cause and action by omission which would be absent from utility based theories. Cognitive science has theorized about differences between conservative and liberal ethics and how they may be based on different metaphors from family life such as strong fathers vs nurturing mother models.\n\nNeurotheology is a controversial field which tries to find neural correlates and mechanisms of religious experience. Some researchers have suggested that the human brain has innate mechanisms for such experiences and that living without using them for their evolved purposes may be a cause of imbalance. Studies have reported conflicted results on correlating happiness with religious belief and it is difficult to find unbiased meta-analyses.\n\nSociology examines value at a social level using theoretical constructs such as value theory, norms, anomie, etc. One value system suggested by social psychologists, broadly called Terror Management Theory, states that human meaning is derived from a fundamental fear of death, and values are selected when they allow us to escape the mental reminder of death.\n\nEmerging research shows that meaning in life predicts better physical health outcomes. Greater meaning has been associated with a reduced risk of Alzheimer's disease, reduced risk of heart attack among individuals with coronary heart disease, reduced risk of stroke, and increased longevity in both American and Japanese samples. In 2014, the British National Health Service began recommending a five step plan for mental well-being based on meaningful lives, whose steps are: (1) Connect with community and family; (2) Physical exercise; (3) Lifelong learning; (4) Giving to others; (5) Mindfulness of the world around you.\n\nThe exact mechanisms of abiogenesis are unknown: notable hypotheses include the RNA world hypothesis (RNA-based replicators) and the iron-sulfur world hypothesis (metabolism without genetics). The process by which different lifeforms have developed throughout history via genetic mutation and natural selection is explained by evolution. At the end of the 20th century, based upon insight gleaned from the gene-centered view of evolution, biologists George C. Williams, Richard Dawkins, and David Haig, among others, concluded that if there is a primary function to life, it is the replication of DNA and the survival of one's genes. This view has not achieved universal agreement; Jeremy Griffith is a notable exception, maintaining that the meaning of life is to be integrative. Responding to an interview question from Richard Dawkins about \"what it is all for\", James Watson stated \"I don't think we're \"for\" anything. We're just the products of evolution.\"\n\nThough scientists have intensively studied life on Earth, defining life in unequivocal terms is still a challenge. Physically, one may say that life \"feeds on negative entropy\" which refers to the process by which living entities decrease their internal entropy at the expense of some form of energy taken in from the environment. Biologists generally agree that lifeforms are self-organizing systems which regulate their internal environments as to maintain this organized state, metabolism serves to provide energy, and reproduction causes life to continue over a span of multiple generations. Typically, organisms are responsive to stimuli and genetic information changes from generation to generation, resulting in adaptation through evolution; this optimizes the chances of survival for the individual organism and its descendants respectively.\n\nNon-cellular replicating agents, notably viruses, are generally not considered to be organisms because they are incapable of independent reproduction or metabolism. This classification is problematic, though, since some parasites and endosymbionts are also incapable of independent life. Astrobiology studies the possibility of different forms of life on other worlds, including replicating structures made from materials other than DNA.\n\nThough the Big Bang theory was met with much skepticism when first introduced, it has become well-supported by several independent observations. However, current physics can only describe the early universe from 10 seconds after the Big Bang (where zero time corresponds to infinite temperature); a theory of quantum gravity would be required to understand events before that time. Nevertheless, many physicists have speculated about what would have preceded this limit, and how the universe came into being. For example, one interpretation is that the Big Bang occurred coincidentally, and when considering the anthropic principle, it is sometimes interpreted as implying the existence of a multiverse.\n\nThe ultimate fate of the universe, and implicitly humanity, is hypothesized as one in which biological life will eventually become unsustainable, such as through a Big Freeze, Big Rip, or Big Crunch.\n\nTheoretical cosmology studies many alternative speculative models for the origin and fate of the universe beyond the big bang theory. A recent trend has been models of the creation of 'baby universes' inside black holes, with our own big bang being a white hole on the inside of a black hole in another parent universe. Multiverse theories claim that every possibility of quantum mechanics is played out in parallel universes.\n\nThe nature and origin of consciousness and the mind itself are also widely debated in science. The explanatory gap is generally equated with the hard problem of consciousness, and the question of free will is also considered to be of fundamental importance. These subjects are mostly addressed in the fields of cognitive science, neuroscience (e.g. the neuroscience of free will) and philosophy of mind, though some evolutionary biologists and theoretical physicists have also made several allusions to the subject.\nReductionistic and eliminative materialistic approaches, for example the Multiple Drafts Model, hold that consciousness can be wholly explained by neuroscience through the workings of the brain and its neurons, thus adhering to biological naturalism.\n\nOn the other hand, some scientists, like Andrei Linde, have considered that consciousness, like spacetime, might have its own intrinsic degrees of freedom, and that one's perceptions may be as real as (or even more real than) material objects. Hypotheses of consciousness and spacetime explain consciousness in describing a \"space of conscious elements\", often encompassing a number of extra dimensions. Electromagnetic theories of consciousness solve the binding problem of consciousness in saying that the electromagnetic field generated by the brain is the actual carrier of conscious experience, there is however disagreement about the implementations of such a theory relating to other workings of the mind. Quantum mind theories use quantum theory in explaining certain properties of the mind. Explaining the process of free will through quantum phenomena is a popular alternative to determinism.\n\nBased on the premises of non-materialistic explanations of the mind, some have suggested the existence of a cosmic consciousness, asserting that consciousness is actually the \"ground of all being\". Proponents of this view cite accounts of paranormal phenomena, primarily extrasensory perceptions and psychic powers, as evidence for an incorporeal higher consciousness. In hopes of proving the existence of these phenomena, parapsychologists have orchestrated various experiments, but successful results might be due to poor experimental controls and might have alternative explanations.\n\nThe most common definitions of meaning in life involve three components. First, Reker and Wong define personal meaning as the \"cognizance of order, coherence and purpose in one's existence, the pursuit and attainment of worthwhile goals, and an accompanying sense of fulfillment\" (p. 221). In 2016 Martela and Steger defined meaning as coherence, purpose, and significance. In contrast, Wong has proposed a four-component solution to the question of meaning in life, with the four components purpose, understanding, responsibility, and enjoyment (PURE):\n\nThus, a sense of significance permeates every dimension of meaning, rather than stands as a separate factor.\n\nAlthough most psychology researchers consider meaning in life as a subjective feeling or judgment, most philosophers (e.g., Thaddeus Metz, Daniel Haybron) propose that there are also objective, concrete criteria for what constitutes meaning in life.\nWong has proposed that whether life is meaningful depends not only on subjective feelings but, more importantly, on whether a person's goal-striving and life as a whole is meaningful according to some objective normative standard.\n\nThe philosophical perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of ideals or abstractions defined by humans.\n\nPlato, a pupil of Socrates, was one of the earliest, most influential philosophers. His reputation comes from his idealism of believing in the existence of universals. His Theory of Forms proposes that universals do not physically exist, like objects, but as heavenly forms. In the dialogue of \"The Republic\", the character of Socrates describes the Form of the Good. His theory on justice in the soul relates to the idea of happiness relevant to the question of the meaning of life.\n\nIn Platonism, the meaning of life is in attaining the highest form of knowledge, which is the Idea (Form) of the Good, from which all good and just things derive utility and value.\n\nAristotle, an apprentice of Plato, was another early and influential philosopher, who argued that ethical knowledge is not \"certain\" knowledge (such as metaphysics and epistemology), but is \"general\" knowledge. Because it is not a theoretical discipline, a person had to study and practice in order to become \"good\"; thus if the person were to become virtuous, he could not simply study what virtue \"is\", he had to \"be\" virtuous, via virtuous activities. To do this, Aristotle established what is virtuous:\nYet, if action A is done towards achieving goal B, then goal B also would have a goal, goal C, and goal C also would have a goal, and so would continue this pattern, until something stopped its infinite regression. Aristotle's solution is the \"Highest Good\", which is desirable for its own sake. It is its own goal. The Highest Good is not desirable for the sake of achieving some other good, and all other \"goods\" desirable for its sake. This involves achieving \"eudaemonia\", usually translated as \"happiness\", \"well-being\", \"flourishing\", and \"excellence\".\n\nAntisthenes, a pupil of Socrates, first outlined the themes of Cynicism, stating that the purpose of life is living a life of Virtue which agrees with Nature. Happiness depends upon being self-sufficient and master of one's mental attitude; suffering is the consequence of false judgments of value, which cause negative emotions and a concomitant vicious character.\n\nThe Cynical life rejects conventional desires for wealth, power, health, and fame, by being free of the possessions acquired in pursuing the conventional. As reasoning creatures, people could achieve happiness via rigorous training, by living in a way natural to human beings. The world equally belongs to everyone, so suffering is caused by false judgments of what is valuable and what is worthless per the customs and conventions of society.\n\nAristippus of Cyrene, a pupil of Socrates, founded an early Socratic school that emphasized only one side of Socrates's teachings—that happiness is one of the ends of moral action and that pleasure is the supreme good; thus a hedonistic world view, wherein bodily gratification is more intense than mental pleasure. Cyrenaics prefer immediate gratification to the long-term gain of delayed gratification; denial is unpleasant unhappiness.\n\nEpicurus, a pupil of the Platonist Pamphilus of Samos, taught that the greatest good is in seeking modest pleasures, to attain tranquility and freedom from fear (ataraxia) via knowledge, friendship, and virtuous, temperate living; bodily pain (aponia) is absent through one's knowledge of the workings of the world and of the limits of one's desires. Combined, freedom from pain and freedom from fear are happiness in its highest form. Epicurus' lauded enjoyment of simple pleasures is quasi-ascetic \"abstention\" from sex and the appetites:\n\"When we say ... that pleasure is the end and aim, we do not mean the pleasures of the prodigal or the pleasures of sensuality, as we are understood to do, by some, through ignorance, prejudice or wilful misrepresentation. By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the soul. It is not by an unbroken succession of drinking bouts and of revelry, not by sexual lust, nor the enjoyment of fish, and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the grounds of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest tumults take possession of the soul.\"\n\nThe Epicurean meaning of life rejects immortality and mysticism; there is a soul, but it is as mortal as the body. There is no afterlife, yet, one need not fear death, because \"Death is nothing to us; for that which is dissolved, is without sensation, and that which lacks sensation is nothing to us.\"\n\nZeno of Citium, a pupil of Crates of Thebes, established the school which teaches that living according to reason and virtue is to be in harmony with the universe's divine order, entailed by one's recognition of the universal \"logos\", or reason, an essential value of all people. The meaning of life is \"freedom from suffering\" through \"apatheia\" (Gr: απαθεια), that is, being objective and having \"clear judgement\", \"not\" indifference.\n\nStoicism's prime directives are virtue, reason, and natural law, abided to develop personal self-control and mental fortitude as means of overcoming destructive emotions. The Stoic does not seek to extinguish emotions, only to avoid emotional troubles, by developing clear judgement and inner calm through diligently practiced logic, reflection, and concentration.\n\nThe Stoic ethical foundation is that \"good lies in the state of the soul\", itself, exemplified in wisdom and self-control, thus improving one's spiritual well-being: \"\"Virtue\" consists in a \"will\" which is in agreement with Nature.\" The principle applies to one's personal relations thus: \"to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy\".\n\nThe Enlightenment and the colonial era both changed the nature of European philosophy and exported it worldwide. Devotion and subservience to God were largely replaced by notions of inalienable natural rights and the potentialities of reason, and universal ideals of love and compassion gave way to civic notions of freedom, equality, and citizenship. The meaning of life changed as well, focusing less on humankind's relationship to God and more on the relationship between individuals and their society. This era is filled with theories that equate meaningful existence with the social order.\n\nClassical liberalism is a set of ideas that arose in the 17th and 18th centuries, out of conflicts between a growing, wealthy, propertied class and the established aristocratic and religious orders that dominated Europe. Liberalism cast humans as beings with inalienable natural rights (including the right to retain the wealth generated by one's own work), and sought out means to balance rights across society. Broadly speaking, it considers individual liberty to be the most important goal, because only through ensured liberty are the other inherent rights protected.\n\nThere are many forms and derivations of liberalism, but their central conceptions of the meaning of life trace back to three main ideas. Early thinkers such as John Locke, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Adam Smith saw humankind beginning in the state of nature, then finding meaning for existence through labor and property, and using social contracts to create an environment that supports those efforts.\n\nKantianism is a philosophy based on the ethical, epistemological, and metaphysical works of Immanuel Kant. Kant is known for his deontological theory where there is a single moral obligation, the \"Categorical Imperative\", derived from the concept of duty. Kantians believe all actions are performed in accordance with some underlying maxim or principle, and for actions to be ethical, they must adhere to the categorical imperative.\n\nSimply put, the test is that one must universalize the maxim (imagine that all people acted in this way) and then see if it would still be possible to perform the maxim in the world without contradiction. In \"Groundwork\", Kant gives the example of a person who seeks to borrow money without intending to pay it back. This is a contradiction because if it were a universal action, no person would lend money anymore as he knows that he will never be paid back. The maxim of this action, says Kant, results in a contradiction in conceivability (and thus contradicts perfect duty).\n\nKant also denied that the consequences of an act in any way contribute to the moral worth of that act, his reasoning being that the physical world is outside one's full control and thus one cannot be held accountable for the events that occur in it.\n\nThe origins of utilitarianism can be traced back as far as Epicurus, but, as a school of thought, it is credited to Jeremy Bentham, who found that \"nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters, pain and pleasure\", then, from that moral insight, deriving the \"Rule of Utility\": \"that the good is whatever brings the greatest happiness to the greatest number of people\". He defined the meaning of life as the \"greatest happiness principle\".\n\nJeremy Bentham's foremost proponent was James Mill, a significant philosopher in his day, and father of John Stuart Mill. The younger Mill was educated per Bentham's principles, including transcribing and summarizing much of his father's work.\n\nNihilism suggests that life is without objective meaning.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche characterized nihilism as emptying the world, and especially human existence, of meaning, purpose, comprehensible truth, and essential value; succinctly, nihilism is the process of \"the devaluing of the highest values\". Seeing the nihilist as a natural result of the idea that God is dead, and insisting it was something to overcome, his questioning of the nihilist's life-negating values returned meaning to the Earth.\nTo Martin Heidegger, nihilism is the movement whereby \"being\" is forgotten, and is transformed into value, in other words, the reduction of being to exchange value. Heidegger, in accordance with Nietzsche, saw in the so-called \"death of God\" a potential source for nihilism:\n\"If God, as the supra-sensory ground and goal, of all reality, is dead; if the supra-sensory world of the Ideas has suffered the loss of its obligatory, and above it, its vitalizing and up-building power, then nothing more remains to which Man can cling, and by which he can orient himself.\"\n\nThe French philosopher Albert Camus asserts that the absurdity of the human condition is that people search for external values and meaning in a world which has none, and is indifferent to them. Camus writes of value-nihilists such as Meursault, but also of values in a nihilistic world, that people can instead strive to be \"heroic nihilists\", living with dignity in the face of absurdity, living with \"secular saintliness\", fraternal solidarity, and rebelling against and transcending the world's indifference.\n\nThe current era has seen radical changes in both formal and popular conceptions of human nature. The knowledge disclosed by modern science has effectively rewritten the relationship of humankind to the natural world. Advances in medicine and technology have freed humans from significant limitations and ailments of previous eras; and philosophy—particularly following the linguistic turn—has altered how the relationships people have with themselves and each other are conceived. Questions about the meaning of life have also seen radical changes, from attempts to reevaluate human existence in biological and scientific terms (as in pragmatism and logical positivism) to efforts to meta-theorize about meaning-making as a personal, individual-driven activity (existentialism, secular humanism).\n\nPragmatism originated in the late-19th-century US, concerning itself (mostly) with truth, and positing that \"only in struggling with the environment\" do data, and derived theories, have meaning, and that \"consequences\", like utility and practicality, are also components of truth. Moreover, pragmatism posits that \"anything\" useful and practical is not always true, arguing that what most contributes to the most human good in the long course is true. In practice, theoretical claims must be \"practically verifiable\", i.e. one should be able to predict and test claims, and, that, ultimately, the needs of humankind should guide human intellectual inquiry.\n\nPragmatic philosophers suggest that the practical, useful understanding of life is more important than searching for an impractical abstract truth about life. William James argued that truth could be made, but not sought. To a pragmatist, the meaning of life is discoverable only via experience.\n\nTheists believe God created the universe and that God had a purpose in doing so. Theists also hold the view that humans find their meaning and purpose for life in God's purpose in creating. Theists further hold that if there were no God to give life ultimate meaning, value and purpose, then life would be absurd.\n\nAccording to existentialism, each man and each woman creates the essence (meaning) of their life; life is not determined by a supernatural god or an earthly authority, one is free. As such, one's ethical prime directives are \"action\", \"freedom\", and \"decision\", thus, existentialism opposes rationalism and positivism. In seeking meaning to life, the existentialist looks to where people find meaning in life, in course of which using only reason as a source of meaning is insufficient; this gives rise to the emotions of anxiety and dread, felt in considering one's free will, and the concomitant awareness of death. According to Jean-Paul Sartre, existence precedes essence; the (essence) of one's life arises \"only\" after one comes to existence.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard spoke about a \"\", arguing that life is full of absurdity, and one must make his and her own values in an indifferent world. One can live meaningfully (free of despair and anxiety) in an unconditional commitment to something finite, and devotes that meaningful life to the commitment, despite the vulnerability inherent to doing so.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer answered: \"What is the meaning of life?\" by stating that one's life reflects one's will, and that the will (life) is an aimless, irrational, and painful drive. Salvation, deliverance, and escape from suffering are in aesthetic contemplation, sympathy for others, and asceticism.\n\nFor Friedrich Nietzsche, life is worth living only if there are goals inspiring one to live. Accordingly, he saw nihilism (\"all that happens is meaningless\") as without goals. He stated that asceticism denies one's living in the world; stated that values are not objective facts, that are rationally necessary, universally binding commitments: our evaluations are interpretations, and not reflections of the world, as it is, in itself, and, therefore, all ideations take place from a particular perspective.\n\nIn absurdist philosophy, the Absurd arises out of the fundamental disharmony between the individual's search for meaning and the apparent meaninglessness of the universe. As beings looking for meaning in a meaningless world, humans have three ways of resolving the dilemma. Kierkegaard and Camus describe the solutions in their works, \"The Sickness Unto Death\" (1849) and \"The Myth of Sisyphus\" (1942):\n\nPer secular humanism, the human species came to be by reproducing successive generations in a progression of unguided evolution as an integral expression of nature, which is self-existing. Human knowledge comes from human observation, experimentation, and rational analysis (the scientific method), and not from supernatural sources; the nature of the universe is what people discern it to be. Likewise, \"values and realities\" are determined \"by means of intelligent inquiry\" and \"are derived from human need and interest as tested by experience\", that is, by critical intelligence. \"As far as we know, the total personality is [a function] of the biological organism transacting in a social and cultural context.\"\n\nPeople determine human purpose without supernatural influence; it is the human personality (general sense) that is the purpose of a human being's life. Humanism seeks to develop and fulfill: \"Humanism affirms our ability and responsibility to lead ethical lives of personal fulfillment that aspire to the greater good of humanity\". Humanism aims to promote enlightened self-interest and the common good for all people. It is based on the premises that the happiness of the individual person is inextricably linked to the well-being of all humanity, in part because humans are social animals who find meaning in personal relations and because cultural progress benefits everybody living in the culture.\n\nThe philosophical subgenres posthumanism and transhumanism (sometimes used synonymously) are extensions of humanistic values. One should seek the advancement of humanity and of all life to the greatest degree feasible and seek to reconcile Renaissance humanism with the 21st century's technoscientific culture. In this light, every living creature has the right to determine its personal and social \"meaning of life\".\n\nFrom a humanism-psychotherapeutic point of view, the question of the meaning of life could be reinterpreted as \"What is the meaning of \"my\" life?\" This approach emphasizes that the question is personal—and avoids focusing on cosmic or religious questions about overarching purpose. There are many therapeutic responses to this question. For example, Viktor Frankl argues for \"Dereflection\", which translates largely as: cease endlessly reflecting on the self; instead, engage in life. On the whole, the therapeutic response is that the question itself—what is the meaning of life?—evaporates when one is fully engaged in life. (The question then morphs into more specific worries such as \"What delusions am I under?\"; \"What is blocking my ability to enjoy things?\"; \"Why do I neglect loved-ones?\".) \"See also: Existential Therapy and Irvin Yalom\"\n\nLogical positivists ask: \"What is the meaning of life?\", \"What is the meaning in asking?\" and \"If there are no objective values, then, is life meaningless?\" Ludwig Wittgenstein and the logical positivists said: \"Expressed in language, the question is meaningless\"; because, \"in\" life the statement the \"meaning of x\", usually denotes the \"consequences\" of x, or the \"significance\" of x, or \"what is notable\" about x, etc., thus, when the meaning of life concept equals \"x\", in the statement the \"meaning of x\", the statement becomes recursive, and, therefore, nonsensical, or it might refer to the fact that biological life is essential to having a meaning in life.\n\nThe things (people, events) in the life of a person can have meaning (importance) as parts of a whole, but a discrete meaning of (the) life, itself, aside from those things, cannot be discerned. A person's life has meaning (for themselves, others) as the life events resulting from their achievements, legacy, family, etc., but, to say that life, itself, has meaning, is a misuse of language, since any note of significance, or of consequence, is relevant only \"in\" life (to the living), so rendering the statement erroneous. Bertrand Russell wrote that although he found that his distaste for torture was not like his distaste for broccoli, he found no satisfactory, empirical method of proving this:\nWhen we try to be definite, as to what we mean when we say that this or that is \"the Good,\" we find ourselves involved in very great difficulties. Bentham's creed, that pleasure is the Good, roused furious opposition, and was said to be a pig's philosophy. Neither he nor his opponents could advance any argument. In a scientific question, evidence can be adduced on both sides, and, in the end, one side is seen to have the better case—or, if this does not happen, the question is left undecided. But in a question, as to whether this, or that, is the ultimate Good, there is no evidence, either way; each disputant can only appeal to his own emotions, and employ such rhetorical devices as shall rouse similar emotions in others ... Questions as to \"values\"—that is to say, as to what is good or bad on its own account, independently of its effects—lie outside the domain of science, as the defenders of religion emphatically assert. I think that, in this, they are right, but, I draw the further conclusion, which they do not draw, that questions as to \"values\" lie wholly outside the domain of knowledge. That is to say, when we assert that this, or that, has \"value\", we are giving expression to our own emotions, not to a fact, which would still be true if our personal feelings were different.\n\nPostmodernist thought—broadly speaking—sees human nature as constructed by language, or by structures and institutions of human society. Unlike other forms of philosophy, postmodernism rarely seeks out \"a priori\" or innate meanings in human existence, but instead focuses on analyzing or critiquing \"given\" meanings in order to rationalize or reconstruct them. Anything resembling a \"meaning of life\", in postmodernist terms, can only be understood within a social and linguistic framework, and must be pursued as an escape from the power structures that are already embedded in all forms of speech and interaction. As a rule, postmodernists see awareness of the constraints of language as necessary to escaping those constraints, but different theorists take different views on the nature of this process: from radical reconstruction of meaning by individuals (as in deconstructionism) to theories in which individuals are primarily extensions of language and society, without real autonomy (as in poststructuralism).\n\nAccording to naturalistic pantheism, the meaning of life is to care for and look after nature and the environment.\n\nEmbodied cognition uses the neurological basis of emotion, speech, and cognition to understand the nature of thought. Cognitive neuropsychology has identified brain areas necessary for these abilities, and genetic studies show that the gene FOXP2 affects neuroplasticity which underlies language fluency. \nGeorge Lakoff, a professor of cognitive linguistics and philosophy, advances the view that metaphors are the usual basis of meaning, not the logic of verbal symbol manipulation. Computers use logic programming to effectively query databases but humans rely on a trained biological neural network. Post modern philosophies that use the indeterminacy of symbolic language to deny definite meaning ignore those who feel they know what they mean and feel that their interlocutors know what they mean. Choosing the correct metaphor results in enough common understanding to pursue questions such as the meaning of life. Improved knowledge of brain function should result in better treatments producing healthier brains. When combined with more effective training, a sound personal assessment as to the meaning of one’s life should be straightforward.\n\nThe Mohist philosophers believed that the purpose of life was universal, impartial love. Mohism promoted a philosophy of impartial caring—a person should care equally for all other individuals, regardless of their actual relationship to him or her. The expression of this indiscriminate caring is what makes man a righteous being in Mohist thought. This advocacy of impartiality was a target of attack by the other Chinese philosophical schools, most notably the Confucians who believed that while love should be unconditional, it should not be indiscriminate. For example, children should hold a greater love for their parents than for random strangers.\n\nConfucianism recognizes human nature in accordance with the need for discipline and education. Because humankind is driven by both positive and negative influences, Confucianists see a goal in achieving virtue through strong relationships and reasoning as well as minimizing the negative. This emphasis on normal living is seen in the Confucianist scholar Tu Wei-Ming's quote, \"we can realize the ultimate meaning of life in ordinary human existence.\"\n\nThe Legalists believed that finding the purpose of life was a meaningless effort. To the Legalists, only practical knowledge was valuable, especially as it related to the function and performance of the state.\n\nThe religious perspectives on the meaning of life are those ideologies which explain life in terms of an implicit purpose not defined by humans. According to the Charter for Compassion signed by many of the world's leading religious and secular organizations, the core of religion is the golden rule of `treat others as you would have them treat you'. The Charter's founder, Karen Armstrong, quotes the ancient Rabbi Hillel who suggested that `the rest is commentary'. This is not to reduce the commentary's importance, and Armstrong considers that its study, interpretation and ritual are the means by which religious people internalize and live the golden rule.\n\nZoroastrianism is the religion and philosophy named after its prophet Zoroaster, which is believed to have influenced the beliefs of Judaism and its descendant religions. Zoroastrians believe in a universe created by a transcendental God, Ahura Mazda, to whom all worship is ultimately directed. Ahura Mazda's creation is \"asha\", truth and order, and it is in conflict with its antithesis, \"druj\", falsehood and disorder. (See also Zoroastrian eschatology).\n\nSince humanity possesses free will, people must be responsible for their moral choices. By using free will, people must take an active role in the universal conflict, with good thoughts, good words and good deeds to ensure happiness and to keep chaos at bay.\n\nIn Islam, humanity's ultimate purpose is to discover their creator Allah () through His signs, and be grateful to Him through sincere love and devotion. This is practically shown by following the Divine guidelines revealed in the Qur'an and the Tradition of the Prophet. Earthly life is a test, determining one's position of closeness to Allah in the hereafter. A person will either be close to Him and His Love in \"Jannah\" (Paradise) or far away in \"Jahannam\" (Hell).\n\nFor Allah's satisfaction, via the Qur'an, all Muslims must believe in God, his revelations, his angels, his messengers, and in the \"Day of Judgment\". The Qur'an describes the purpose of creation as follows: \"Blessed be he in whose hand is the kingdom, he is powerful over all things, who created death and life that he might examine which of you is best in deeds, and he is the almighty, the forgiving\" (Qur'an 67:1–2) and \"And I (Allâh) created not the jinn and mankind except that they should be obedient (to Allah).\" (Qur'an 51:56). Obedience testifies to the oneness of God in his lordship, his names, and his attributes. Terrenal life is a test; how one \"acts\" (behaves) determines whether one's soul goes to Jannat (Heaven) or to Jahannam (Hell). However, on the day of Judgement the final decision is of Allah alone.\n\nThe Five Pillars of Islam are duties incumbent to every Muslim; they are: Shahadah (profession of faith); salat (ritual prayer); Zakah (charity); Sawm (fasting during Ramadan), and Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca). They derive from the Hadith works, notably of Sahih Al-Bukhari and Sahih Muslim. The five pillars are not mentioned directly in the Quran.\n\nBeliefs differ among the Kalam. The Sunni and the Ahmadiyya concept of pre-destination is divine decree; likewise, the Shi'a concept of pre-destination is divine justice; in the esoteric view of the Sufis, the universe exists only for God's pleasure; Creation is a grand game, wherein Allah is the greatest prize.\n\nThe Sufi view of the meaning of life stems from the hadith qudsi that states \"I (God) was a Hidden Treasure and loved to be known. Therefore I created the Creation that I might be known.\" One possible interpretation of this view is that the meaning of life for an individual is to know the nature of God, and the purpose of all of creation is to reveal that nature, and to prove its value as the ultimate treasure, that is God. However, this hadith is stated in various forms and interpreted in various ways by people, such, as 'Abdu'l-Bahá of the Bahá'í Faith, and in Ibn'Arabī's Fuṣūṣ al-Ḥikam.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith emphasizes the unity of humanity. To Bahá'ís, the purpose of life is focused on spiritual growth and service to humanity. Human beings are viewed as intrinsically spiritual beings. People's lives in this material world provide extended opportunities to grow, to develop divine qualities and virtues, and the prophets were sent by God to facilitate this.\n\nIn the Judaic world view, the meaning of life is to elevate the physical world ('Olam HaZeh') and prepare it for the world to come ('Olam HaBa'), the messianic era. This is called Tikkun Olam (\"Fixing the World\"). Olam HaBa can also mean the spiritual afterlife, and there is debate concerning the eschatological order. However, Judaism is not focused on personal salvation, but on communal (between man and man) and individual (between man and God) spiritualised actions in this world.\n\nJudaism's most important feature is the worship of a single, incomprehensible, transcendent, one, indivisible, absolute Being, who created and governs the universe. Closeness with the God of Israel is through study of His Torah, and adherence to its mitzvot (divine laws). In traditional Judaism, God established a special covenant with a people, the people of Israel, at Mount Sinai, giving the Jewish commandments. Torah comprises the written Pentateuch and the transcribed oral tradition, further developed through the generations. The Jewish people are intended as \"a kingdom of priests and a holy nation\" and a \"light to the Nations\", influencing the other peoples to keep their own religio-ethical Seven Laws of Noah. The messianic era is seen as the perfection of this dual path to God.\n\nJewish observances involve ethical and ritual, affirmative and prohibitive injunctions. Modern Jewish denominations differ over the nature, relevance and emphases of mitzvot. Jewish philosophy emphasises that God is not affected or benefited, but the individual and society benefit by drawing close to God. The rationalist Maimonides sees the ethical and ritual divine commandments as a necessary, but insufficient preparation for philosophical understanding of God, with its love and awe. Among fundamental values in the Torah are pursuit of justice, compassion, peace, kindness, hard work, prosperity, humility, and education. The world to come, prepared in the present, elevates man to an everlasting connection with God. Simeon the Righteous says, \"the world stands on three things: on Torah, on worship, and on acts of loving kindness.\" The prayer book relates, \"blessed is our God who created us for his honor...and planted within us everlasting life.\" Of this context, the Talmud states, \"everything that God does is for the good,\" including suffering.\n\nThe Jewish mystical Kabbalah gives complimentary esoteric meanings of life. As well as Judaism providing an immanent relationship with God (personal theism), in Kabbalah the spiritual and physical creation is a paradoxical manifestation of the immanent aspects of God's Being (panentheism), related to the Shekhinah (Divine feminine). Jewish observance unites the sephirot (Divine attributes) on high, restoring harmony to creation. In Lurianic Kabbalah, the meaning of life is the messianic rectification of the shattered sparks of God's persona, exiled in physical existence (the Kelipot shells), through the actions of Jewish observance. Through this, in Hasidic Judaism the ultimate essential \"desire\" of God is the revelation of the Omnipresent Divine essence through materiality, achieved by man from within his limited physical realm, when the body will give life to the soul.\n\nChristianity has its roots in Judaism, and shares much of the latter faith's ontology. Its central beliefs derive from the teachings of Jesus Christ as presented in the New Testament. Life's purpose in Christianity is to seek divine salvation through the grace of God and intercession of Christ (John 11:26). The New Testament speaks of God wanting to have a relationship with humans both in this life and the life to come, which can happen only if one's sins are forgiven (John 3:16–21; 2 Peter 3:9).\n\nIn the Christian view, humankind was made in the Image of God and perfect, but the Fall of Man caused the progeny of the first Parents to inherit Original Sin and its consequences. Christ's passion, death and resurrection provide the means for transcending that impure state (Romans 6:23). The good news that this restoration from sin is now possible is called the gospel. The specific process of appropriating salvation through Christ and maintaining a relationship with God varies between different denominations of Christians, but all rely on faith in Christ and the gospel as the fundamental starting point. Salvation through faith in God is found in Ephesians 2:8–9 – \"For by grace you have been saved through faith; and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God; not as a result of works, that no one should boast\" (NASB; 1973). The gospel maintains that through this belief, the barrier that sin has created between man and God is destroyed, thereby allowing God to regenerate (change) the believer and instill in them a new heart after God's own will with the ability to live righteously before him. This is what the terms \"Born again\" or \"saved\" almost always refer to.\n\nIn the \"Westminster Shorter Catechism\", the first question is: \"What is the chief end of Man?\" (that is, \"What is Man's main purpose?\"). The answer is: \"Man's chief end is to glorify God, and enjoy him forever\". God requires one to obey the revealed moral law, saying: \"love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbour as yourself\". The \"Baltimore Catechism\" answers the question \"Why did God make you?\" by saying \"God made me to know Him, to love Him, and to serve Him in this world, and to be happy with Him forever in heaven.\"\n\nThe Apostle Paul also answers this question in his speech on the Areopagus in Athens: \"And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, so that they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us.\"\n\nCatholicism's way of thinking is better expressed through the Principle and Foundation of St. Ignatius of Loyola: \"The human person is created to praise, reverence, and serve God Our Lord, and by doing so, to save his or her soul. All other things on the face of the earth are created for human beings in order to help them pursue the end for which they are created. It follows from this that one must use other created things, in so far as they help towards one's end, and free oneself from them, in so far as they are obstacles to one's end. To do this, we need to make ourselves indifferent to all created things, provided the matter is subject to our free choice and there is no other prohibition. Thus, as far as we are concerned, we should not want health more than illness, wealth more than poverty, fame more than disgrace, a long life more than a short one, and similarly for all the rest, but we should desire and choose only what helps us more towards the end for which we are created.\"\n\nMormonism teaches that the purpose of life on Earth is to gain knowledge and experience and to have joy. Mormons believe that humans are literally the spirit children of God the Father, and thus have the potential to progress to become like Him. Mormons teach that God provided his children the choice to come to Earth, which is considered a crucial stage in their development—wherein a mortal body, coupled with the freedom to choose, makes for an environment to learn and grow. The Fall of Adam is not viewed as an unfortunate or unplanned cancellation of God's original plan for a paradise; rather, the opposition found in mortality is an essential element of God's plan because the process of enduring and overcoming challenges, difficulties, and temptations provides opportunities to gain wisdom and strength, thereby learning to appreciate and choose good and reject evil. Because God is just, he allows those who were not taught the gospel during mortality to receive it after death in the spirit world, so that all of his children have the opportunity to return to live with God, and reach their full potential.\n\nA recent alternative Christian theological discourse interprets Jesus as revealing that the purpose of life is to elevate our compassionate response to human suffering; nonetheless, the conventional Christian position is that people are justified by belief in the propitiatory sacrifice of Jesus' death on the cross.\n\nHinduism is a religious category including many beliefs and traditions. Since Hinduism was the way of expressing meaningful living for a long time, before there was a need for naming it as a separate religion, Hindu doctrines are supplementary and complementary in nature, generally non-exclusive, suggestive and tolerant in content. Most believe that the ātman (spirit, soul)—the person's true \"self\"—is eternal. In part, this stems from Hindu beliefs that spiritual development occurs across many lifetimes, and goals should match the state of development of the individual. There are four possible aims to human life, known as the \"purusharthas\" (ordered from least to greatest): (i)\"Kāma\" (wish, desire, love and sensual pleasure), (ii)\"Artha\" (wealth, prosperity, glory), (iii)\"Dharma\" (righteousness, duty, morality, virtue, ethics), encompassing notions such as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) and satya (truth) and (iv)\"Moksha\" (liberation, i.e. liberation from Saṃsāra, the cycle of reincarnation).\n\nIn all schools of Hinduism, the meaning of life is tied up in the concepts of karma (causal action), sansara (the cycle of birth and rebirth), and moksha (liberation). Existence is conceived as the progression of the ātman (similar to the western concept of a soul) across numerous lifetimes, and its ultimate progression towards liberation from karma. Particular goals for life are generally subsumed under broader yogas (practices) or dharma (correct living) which are intended to create more favorable reincarnations, though they are generally positive acts in this life as well. Traditional schools of Hinduism often worship Devas which are manifestations of Ishvara (a personal or chosen God); these Devas are taken as ideal forms to be identified with, as a form of spiritual improvement.\n\nIn short, the goal is to realize the fundamental truth about oneself. This thought is conveyed in the Mahāvākyas (\"Tat Tvam Asi\" (thou art that), \"Aham Brahmāsmi\", \"Prajñānam Brahma\" and \"Ayam Ātmā Brahma\" (the soul and the world are one)).\n\nLater schools reinterpreted the vedas to focus on Brahman, \"The One Without a Second\", as a central God-like figure.\n\nIn monist Advaita Vedanta, ātman is ultimately indistinguishable from Brahman, and the goal of life is to know or realize that one's ātman (soul) is identical to Brahman. To the Upanishads, whoever becomes fully aware of the ātman, as one's core of self, realizes identity with Brahman, and, thereby, achieves Moksha (liberation, freedom).\n\nDvaita Vedanta and other bhakti schools have a dualist interpretation. Brahman is seen as a supreme being with a personality and manifest qualities. The ātman depends upon Brahman for its existence; the meaning of life is achieving Moksha through love of God and upon His grace.\n\nVaishnavism is a branch of Hinduism in which the principal belief is the identification of Vishnu or Narayana as the one supreme God. This belief contrasts with the Krishna-centered traditions, such as Vallabha, Nimbaraka and Gaudiya, in which Krishna is considered to be the One and only Supreme God and the source of all avataras.\n\nVaishnava theology includes the central beliefs of Hinduism such as monotheism, reincarnation, samsara, karma, and the various Yoga systems, but with a particular emphasis on devotion (bhakti) to Vishnu through the process of Bhakti yoga, often including singing Vishnu's name's (bhajan), meditating upon his form (dharana) and performing deity worship (puja). The practices of deity worship are primarily based on texts such as Pañcaratra and various Samhitas.\n\nOne popular school of thought, Gaudiya Vaishnavism, teaches the concept of Achintya Bheda Abheda. In this, Krishna is worshipped as the single true God, and all living entities are eternal parts and the Supreme Personality of the Godhead Krishna. Thus the constitutional position of a living entity is to serve the Lord with love and devotion. The purpose of human life especially is to think beyond the animalistic way of eating, sleeping, mating and defending and engage the higher intelligence to revive the lost relationship with Krishna.\n\nJainism is a religion originating in ancient India, its ethical system promotes self-discipline above all else. Through following the ascetic teachings of Jina, a human achieves enlightenment (perfect knowledge). Jainism divides the universe into living and non-living beings. Only when the living become attached to the non-living does suffering result. Therefore, happiness is the result of self-conquest and freedom from external objects. The meaning of life may then be said to be to use the physical body to achieve self-realization and bliss.\n\nJains believe that every human is responsible for his or her actions and all living beings have an eternal soul, \"jiva\". Jains believe all souls are equal because they all possess the potential of being liberated and attaining Moksha. The Jain view of karma is that every action, every word, every thought produces, besides its visible, an invisible, transcendental effect on the soul.\n\nJainism includes strict adherence to ahimsa (or \"ahinsā\"), a form of nonviolence that goes far beyond vegetarianism. Jains refuse food obtained with unnecessary cruelty. Many practice a lifestyle similar to veganism due to the violence of modern dairy farms, and others exclude root vegetables from their diets in order to preserve the lives of the plants from which they eat.\n\nBuddhists practice to embrace with mindfulness the ill-being (suffering) and well-being that is present in life. Buddhists practice to see the causes of ill-being and well-being in life. For example, one of the causes of suffering is unhealthy attachment to objects material or non-material. The Buddhist sūtras and tantras do not speak about \"the meaning of life\" or \"the purpose of life\", but about the potential of human life to end suffering, for example through embracing (not suppressing or denying) cravings and conceptual attachments. Attaining and perfecting dispassion is a process of many levels that ultimately results in the state of Nirvana. Nirvana means freedom from both suffering and rebirth.\nTheravada Buddhism is generally considered to be close to the early Buddhist practice. It promotes the concept of Vibhajjavada (Pali), literally \"Teaching of Analysis\", which says that insight must come from the aspirant's experience, critical investigation, and reasoning instead of by blind faith. However, the Theravadin tradition also emphasizes heeding the advice of the wise, considering such advice and evaluation of one's own experiences to be the two tests by which practices should be judged. The Theravadin goal is liberation (or freedom) from suffering, according to the Four Noble Truths. This is attained in the achievement of Nirvana, or Unbinding which also ends the repeated cycle of birth, old age, sickness and death. The way to attain Nirvana is by following and practicing the Noble Eightfold Path.\n\nMahayana Buddhist schools de-emphasize the traditional view (still practiced in Theravada) of the release from individual Suffering (Dukkha) and attainment of Awakening (Nirvana). In Mahayana, the Buddha is seen as an eternal, immutable, inconceivable, omnipresent being. The fundamental principles of Mahayana doctrine are based on the possibility of universal liberation from suffering for all beings, and the existence of the transcendent Buddha-nature, which is the eternal Buddha essence present, but hidden and unrecognised, in all living beings.\n\nPhilosophical schools of Mahayana Buddhism, such as Chan/Zen and the vajrayana Tibetan and Shingon schools, explicitly teach that bodhisattvas should refrain from full liberation, allowing themselves to be reincarnated into the world until all beings achieve enlightenment. Devotional schools such as Pure Land Buddhism seek the aid of celestial buddhas—individuals who have spent lifetimes accumulating positive karma, and use that accumulation to aid all.\n\nThe monotheistic Sikh religion was founded by Guru Nanak Dev, the term \"Sikh\" means student, which denotes that followers will lead their lives forever learning. This system of religious philosophy and expression has been traditionally known as the Gurmat (literally \"the counsel of the gurus\") or the Sikh Dharma. The followers of Sikhism are ordained to follow the teachings of the ten Sikh Gurus, or enlightened leaders, as well as the holy scripture entitled the \"Gurū Granth Sāhib\", which includes selected works of many philosophers from diverse socio-economic and religious backgrounds.\n\nThe Sikh Gurus say that salvation can be obtained by following various spiritual paths, so Sikhs do not have a monopoly on salvation: \"The Lord dwells in every heart, and every heart has its own way to reach Him.\" Sikhs believe that all people are equally important before God. Sikhs balance their moral and spiritual values with the quest for knowledge, and they aim to promote a life of peace and equality but also of positive action.\n\nA key distinctive feature of Sikhism is a non-anthropomorphic concept of God, to the extent that one can interpret God as the Universe itself (pantheism). Sikhism thus sees life as an opportunity to understand this God as well as to discover the divinity which lies in each individual. While a full understanding of God is beyond human beings, Nanak described God as not wholly unknowable, and stressed that God must be seen from \"the inward eye\", or the \"heart\", of a human being: devotees must meditate to progress towards enlightenment and the ultimate destination of a Sikh is to lose the ego completely in the love of the lord and finally merge into the almighty creator. Nanak emphasized the revelation through meditation, as its rigorous application permits the existence of communication between God and human beings.\n\nTaoist cosmogony emphasizes the need for all sentient beings and all man to return to the \"primordial\" or to rejoin with the \"Oneness\" of the Universe by way of self-cultivation and self-realization. All adherents should understand and be in tune with the ultimate truth.\n\nTaoists believe all things were originally from Taiji and Tao, and the meaning in life for the adherents is to realize the temporal nature of the existence. \"Only introspection can then help us to find our innermost reasons for living ... the simple answer is here within ourselves.\"\n\nShinto is the native religion of Japan. Shinto means \"the path of the kami\", but more specifically, it can be taken to mean \"the divine crossroad where the kami chooses his way\". The \"divine\" crossroad signifies that all the universe is divine spirit. This foundation of free will, choosing one's way, means that life is a creative process.\n\nShinto wants life to live, not to die. Shinto sees death as pollution and regards life as the realm where the divine spirit seeks to purify itself by rightful self-development. Shinto wants individual human life to be prolonged forever on earth as a victory of the divine spirit in preserving its objective personality in its highest forms. The presence of evil in the world, as conceived by Shinto, does not stultify the divine nature by imposing on divinity responsibility for being able to relieve human suffering while refusing to do so. The sufferings of life are the sufferings of the divine spirit in search of progress in the objective world.\n\nThere are many new religious movements in East Asia, and some with millions of followers: Chondogyo, Tenrikyo, Cao Đài, and Seicho-No-Ie. New religions typically have unique explanations for the meaning of life. For example, in Tenrikyo, one is expected to live a Joyous Life by participating in practices that create happiness for oneself and others.\n\nThe mystery of life and its true meaning is an often recurring subject in popular culture, featured in entertainment media and various forms of art.\n\nIn \"Monty Python's The Meaning of Life\", there are several allusions to the meaning of life. At the end of the film, a character played by Michael Palin is handed an envelope containing \"the meaning of life\", which she opens and reads out to the audience: \"Well, it's nothing very special. Uh, try to be nice to people, avoid eating fat, read a good book every now and then, get some walking in, and try to live together in peace and harmony with people of all creeds and nations.\"\n\nMany other Python sketches and songs are also existential in nature, questioning the importance we place on life (\"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\") and other meaning-of-life related questioning. John Cleese also had his sit-com character Basil Fawlty contemplating the futility of his own existence in Fawlty Towers.\n\nIn Douglas Adams' popular comedy book, movie, television, and radio series \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\", the Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything is given the numeric solution \"42\", after seven and a half million years of calculation by a giant supercomputer called Deep Thought. When this answer is met with confusion and anger from its constructors, Deep Thought explains that \"I think the problem such as it was, was too broadly based. You never actually stated what the question was.\". Deep Thought then constructs another computer—the Earth—to calculate what the Ultimate Question actually is. \nLater Ford and Arthur manage to extract the question as the Earth computer would have rendered it. That question turns out to be \"what do you get if you multiply six by nine\", and it is realised that the program was ruined by the unexpected arrival of the Golgafrinchans on Earth, and so the actual Ultimate Question Of Life, The Universe, And Everything remains unknown. While 6 x 9 would be written as 42 in the tridecimal numeral system, author Douglas Adams claimed that this was mere coincidence and completely serendipitous.\n\nIn \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Homer the Heretic\", a representation of God agrees to tell Homer what the meaning of life is, but the show's credits begin to roll just as he starts to say what it is.\n\nIn \"Red vs. Blue\" season 1 episode 1 the character Simmons asks Grif the question \"Why are we here?\" and is a major line in the series.\n\nIn \"Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure\", the characters are asked how we should live our lives, and reply with a version of the golden rule `be excellent to each other' followed by 'party on, dudes!'.\n\nIn \"Person of Interest\" season 5 episode 13, an artificial intelligence referred to as The Machine tells Harold Finch that the secret of life is \"Everyone dies alone. But if you mean something to someone, if you help someone, or love someone. If even a single person remembers you then maybe you never really die at all.\" This phrase is then repeated at the very end of the show to add emphasis to the finale.\n\n\"What is the meaning of life?\" is a question many people ask themselves at some point during their lives, most in the context \"What is the purpose of life?\". Some popular answers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52603511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52603511", "title": "Modern Stoicism", "text": "Modern Stoicism\n\nModern Stoicism is an intellectual and popular movement in the late 20th and early 21st century which attempts to revive the Stoic philosophy in the modern setting. It is not to be confused with Neostoicism, an analogous phenomenon in the 17th century. The term \"Modern Stoicism\" covers both the revival of interest in the Stoic philosophy and the philosophical efforts to adjust\nAncient Stoicism to the language and conceptual framework of the present. 'The rise of Modern Stoicism' has received attention in the international media since around November 2012 when the first Annual Stoic Week event was organized.\n\nModern Stoicism has developed in the context of the 20th-century surge of interest in virtue ethics in general. \"The [...] work by philosophers like Philippa Foot, Alasdair MacIntyre, and Martha Nussbaum, among others, have brought back virtue ethics as a viable alternative to the dominant Kantian-deontological and utilitarian-consequentialist approaches.\" Modern Stoicism draws a lot from the late 20th and early 21st century spike in publications of scholarly works on ancient Stoics. Beyond that, “the Modern Stoicism movement traces its roots to the work of Dr Albert Ellis, who developed Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy, as well as Aaron T. Beck, who is regarded by many as the father to early versions of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy. Viktor Frankl also found stoicism useful while he was imprisoned in a Nazi concentration camp during World War II; he later developed his theory known as logotherapy. \n\nOne major premise of Modern Stoicism can be expressed as, in Lawrence Becker's words, \"it is interesting to try to imagine what might have happened if Stoicism had had a continuous twenty-three-hundred-year history; if Stoics had had to confront Bacon and Descartes, Newton and Locke, Hobbes and Bentham, Hume and Kant, Darwin and Marx.\" Or, as Massimo Pigliucci puts it more concisely, \"it is worth considering what it means to 'be a Stoic' in the 21st century.\"\n\nThe first major modern work that spelled out the key premises of Modern Stoicism is, arguably, \"A New Stoicism\" by Lawrence Becker, first published in 1997. For other important books, see the notable books section below.\n\nStoic philosophy was the original philosophical inspiration for modern cognitive psychotherapy, particularly as mediated by Dr Albert Ellis' Rational-Emotive Behaviour Therapy (REBT), the major precursor of CBT. The original cognitive therapy treatment manual for depression by Aaron T. Beck et al. states, \"The philosophical origins of cognitive therapy can be traced back to the Stoic philosophers\". A well-known quotation from \"The Handbook\" of Epictetus was taught to most clients during the initial session of traditional REBT by Ellis and his followers: \"It's not the events that upset us, but our judgments about the events.\" This subsequently became a common element in the \"socialization\" phase of many other approaches to CBT. The question of Stoicism's influence on modern psychotherapy, particularly REBT and CBT, was described in detail in \"The Philosophy of Cognitive-Behavioural Therapy\" (2010) by Donald Robertson. Moreover, several early 20th century psychotherapists were influenced by stoicism, most notably the \"rational persuasion\" school founded by the Swiss neurologist and psychotherapist Paul DuBois, who drew heavily on Stoicism in his clinical work and encouraged his clients to study passages from Seneca as homework assignments.\n\nIt is characteristic of the Modern Stoicism movement that it is global and that it relies heavily on the social media and online communities. As E.O. Scott puts it \"Modern Stoicism is really a “Web 2.0” phenomenon.\" One of the key sites is the Modern Stoicism website, which harbors the Stoicism Today blog and hosts the Annual Stoic Week (online) and Stoicon (offline) events. Another important place is the New Stoa, which was founded in May 1996 and is arguably the first lasting stoic community on the internet. Three key podcasts talking about Stoicism applied to modern thought are the \"Stoic Solutions Podcast\" hosted by Justin Vacula, \"The Practical Stoic Podcast\" hosted by Simon Drew and Steve Karafit's \"The Sunday Stoic\" \n\nThere are also a number of personal blogs exploring stoicism, some of them run by notable stoic scholars (e.g. Massimo Pigliucci, William Irvine or John Sellars) and some by therapists who explore stoic applications (e.g. Donald Robertson). In addition, articles on Stoicism have appeared on popular websites. In E.O.Scott's words, \"[the] potent combination of social media and a few highly publicized books and articles [...] has recently launched stoicism on an exponential growth curve.\" There is a variety of stoic meetups and groups based in places like Australia, Denver, Dublin, Edinburgh, Fremont, Helsinki, London, Manchester, Milwaukee, New York, Orlando, San Francisco, Toronto and Warsaw - amongst others. According to E.O.Scott, \"arguably the most important and influential gathering place for Modern Stoics [online]\" is the \"stoicism group\" on Facebook of ~27 000 people (as of July 19, 2017). The analogous Reddit group has amassed ~96 400 users (as of June 11, 2018). Beyond the Anglophone there is the “Sztuka życia według stoików” site run by Piotr Stankiewicz, \"Stoicyzm Uliczny\" run by Marcin Fabjański and Centrum Praktyki Stoickiej run by Tomasz Mazur and others.\n\nApplications of Modern Stoicism are reported across industries. According to \"Forbes,\" Modern Stoic thought \"hold[s] fascinating promise for business and government leaders tackling global problems in a turbulent, post-recession slump.\" However, two Stoic academics, Kai Whiting and Leonidas Konstantakos, have warned against using \"life-hack Stoicism\" or \"Silicon Valley Stoicism\", as the primary means of understanding Stoic philosophy. Subsequently, they discussed on a popular Stoic blog, Stoicism's role in advocating for change in society, including when it comes to standing against gender-based discrimination in the workplace .\n\nSimilarities of Modern Stoicism and Third Wave CBT have been suggested as well, and its potency in treating depression has been studied. There has also been interest in applying the tenets of Ancient Stoicism to the human origin story and the modern challenges of sustainable development, material consumption and consumerism. \n\nPresumably, the single most difficult challenge that Modern Stoicism faces is its relationship to the core principle of Ancient Stoicism, that is to the principle of “following nature.” In a word, the Ancient Stoics put forward it was unquestionable that in order to live a good life, one needed to live consistently with nature. According to the Ancient Stoics, nature was by definition good and everything which was conformable to nature was deemed good. Moreover, the Ancient Stoics had a teleological outlook on the world, that is, they held that everything in the universe was purposefully and rationally organized to a good end.\n\nHowever, this view is much more difficult to uphold in the present day. As Becker puts it, “science presented significant challenges to our [Stoic] metaphysical views.” The notion of the rational organization of the world seems much more doubtful in the 21st century than it, presumably, was two millennia ago. “When we face the universe,” Becker writes, “we confront its indifference to us and our own insignificance to it. It takes no apparent notice of us, has no role other than Extra for us to play, no aim for us to follow.” Even more pressing questions are raised when we face our own human realm, with the long and still expanding record of genocide and atrocity and the manslaughter that followed. These are major challenges for the ancient Stoic view of the world as a rational and essentially good being.\n\nWe happen upon an analogous problem if we narrow down our interest to human nature (as contrasted to the nature of the universe as a whole). In other words, the idea of “following our human nature” also raises serious questions. As Becker describes it, “it is ‘natural’ to find these [defining] traits in human character and conduct, but it is equally natural to find a significant number of exceptions. As a result, none of these characteristics fits into the most familiar forms of ethical argument from human nature, e.g. (a) that humans are by nature X, and that Y is contrary to X, hence, that Y is contrary to human nature; or (b) that X is what defines the unique function (the essence) of a human being, thus to flourish as a human being is to excel at X.\" In this vein, “following human nature” yields no specific guidelines for conduct either. All told, this is one of the central problems for Modern Stoicism: that in the 21st century it is far more difficult to ground our ethical framework in “nature,” be it universal, cosmic nature, or to special human nature.\n\nBecker acknowledges this problem and even goes to the point of asserting that “stoic ethics would be much better off without its ‘follow nature’ slogan.\" Yet, he reflects that the stoics are, “however, too deeply branded with it to renounce it now. The best we can do is reinterpret it.”\n\nThe reinterpretation he proposes is this. “Following nature means following the facts. It means getting the facts about the physical and social world we inhabit, and the facts about our situation in it [...] before we deliberate about normative matters. It means facing those facts - accepting them for exactly what they are, no more and no less - before we draw normative conclusions from them. It means doing ethics from the facts constructing normative propositions a posteriori. It means adjusting those normative propositions to fit changes in the facts, and accepting those adjustments for exactly what they are, no more and no less. And it means living within the facts - within the realm of actual rather than hypothetical norm.”\n\nThis process of “getting the facts about the [...] world” happens in some measure (but not exclusively) through science. In Becker’s words, “The biological, behavioral, and social sciences contribute to ethics in three important ways: they offer a wealth of material that can be used in the naturalistic arguments [...], they offer explanatory theories (e.g. from evolutionary biology) that help separate relatively fixed traits from transient or malleable ones and they offer powerful, elaborate analyses of learning, rationality, and rational choice.\" Ethical reasoning of a stoic “cannot begin until all relevant description, representation, and prediction are in hand, [...] – until, let us say, the empirical work is done.” This empirical work may be obtained by the scientific method and thus the principle of “following facts” can be (in some contexts) read as “not contradicting science” (not to be confused with simple “following science,” which would be reductive and misleading).\n\nBecker organizes his reading of stoic ethics around the concept of agency. “The Development of Virtue [happens through] the Perfection of Agency,” or through the “ideal agency” as he calls it. In other words, this can be described as the belief in the “inherent primacy of virtue in terms of maximization of one’s agency.” This agency is understood in terms of “a balance of control and stability” and is executed all-things-considered, i.e. upon having obtained the most detailed information about the facts as available.\n\nHappiness, in this view, is also explained and achieved through agency. “We hold,” this is Becker again, “that happiness as understood by mature and fit agents is a property of whole lives, not of transient mental states. We hold that it is achievable only through a proper balance of stability and control in the exercise of agency.” And, “this sort of happiness with one’s life also appears to be a psychological consequence of healthy agency [...] The life of a stoic sage is filled with such happiness, as a consequence of virtue.\"\n\nIn Becker’s version of Stoicism, several dogmas of Ancients Stoics are questioned or challenged. For example, the traditional stoic all-or-nothing understanding of virtue is questioned (to some extent). In the original, Orthodox Stoicism one was either a perfect sage or no sage at all, there was no “middle ground,” or “in between.” The Ancient Stoic virtue admits of no degrees. And yet, Becker lays ground for a softer, more nuanced approach. “You can drown,” he writes, “face down on the calm surface of the sea as surely as at the bottom. [...] We [i.e. the Modern Stoics] follow later colleagues in thinking that these doctrines are untenable.”\n\nAnother dogma of the Ancient Stoics that is sometimes questioned in Modern Stoicism is the idea that the gateways of stoic philosophy are open to everyone and that living a stoic life is definitely the best option for every human being. E.g. in Becker’s \"New Stoicism\" suggests that “acting appropriately, as understood here, is a special kind of optimization project – one that it is logically possible to reject. (Which people with compulsive, obsessive, or addictive personalities may in fact reject.) [Modern Stoic] claim is, only healthy agents, at least those well along the road to fitness in their deliberative powers, cannot plausibly reject it.”\n\nAnother example of possible discrepancies between the Modern Stoic approach and Ancient Stoicism is the question of whether a certain amount of external goods is required for a good life. In the Orthodox Stoic view there are absolutely no entry conditions to living a stoic life. One can become a sage no matter the circumstances: be it poverty, illness, physical adversity and so on. This issue has been traditionally the bone of contention between the stoics (who held the mentioned position) and the followers of Aristotle (who held that a certain amount of external goods is necessary for development of virtue). In this context, Becker’s words are quite non-orthodox coming from the stoic position. He writes that “it is [...] plausible to conclude, however, that there is an identifiable kernel of bodily and psychological health that is a necessary condition of all further development. If this kernel is damaged, so is the capacity to develop agency.”\n\nA very important concept of Traditional Stoicism is the distinction between things within one’s power and not within our power. While this concept is embraced fully by many Modern Stoics, some reinterpret it. Becker, for instance, points out that the whole idea of the dichotomy is in fact a major oversimplification. As he puts it, “[the] distinction between things that are within our control, or ‘up to us,’ and those who are not [...] [is] misleading.” Instead, he proposes to read it along the lines of “it is wise to calibrate the strength, depth, and dissemination of our attachments to the fragility and transience of the objects involved.”\n\nOn the other hand, William Irvine goes even further and undermines the central premise of the dichotomy, i.e. that the distinction between things “in our power” and “not in our power” is sharp and that there is no third option. In other words, Irvine suggests the possibility of turning the “dichotomy of control” into a “trichotomy of control.” Irvine argues “We can restate Epictetus’s dichotomy as follows: There are things over which we have complete control and things over which we have no control at all. As well as suggesting \"the dichotomy is a false dichotomy, since it ignores the existence of things over which we have some but not complete control.” Pigliucci describes it as follows: “some things are up to us (chiefly, our judgments and actions), some things are not up to us (major historical events, natural phenomena), but on a number of other things we have partial control. Irvine recasts the third category in terms of internalized goals, which makes more sense of the original dichotomy.”\n\nThere is also no unity in evaluating the ascetic elements in stoicism and in defining the sage’s attitude towards the ordinary pleasures of life. Becker mentions “the confusion, both among stoics and their critics” and the “false notion that the stoic ideal is a life devoid of the ordinary pleasures of sex, food, drink, music, wealth, fame, friends, and so on” (according to Becker this confusion happens because “stoics have occasionally claimed that, for the sage, \"eudaiomonia\" somehow replaces ordinary happiness”. In this vein, Stankiewicz argued against the “ascetic misinterpretation,” saying that “stoicism is not asceticism and a stoic is not a monk. In fact, it is the school of The Pale Epicureans that is closer to the ideal of abstemiousness. The stoic proposal is far broader and it extends far beyond the narrow passage of the ascetic way.” Thus, “we [the Modern Stoics] must face the lushness, diversity and – yes! – sensuality of life and we have to live and thrive inside this world, accepting it as it is. Unlike a monk, a stoic doesn’t dodge the myriad of different aspects of the earthly and sensual life.”\n\nOn the other hand, Kevin Patrick refutes this argument, ridiculing it as “hedonic stoicism” and saying that the mentioned position “falls into the more common trap and misinterpretation, that since externals are indifferent to us, we should go ahead and indulge in all of those things for which we have a proclivity.” “Modern Stoics,” he concludes, “ought to be stoics.”\n\nIrvine takes a more modest stance and he proposes a program of “voluntary discomfort.” As he describes it: “By undertaking acts of voluntary discomfort – by, for example, choosing to be cold and hungry when we could be warm and well fed – we harden ourselves against misfortunes that might befell us in the future. If all we know is comfort, we might be traumatized when we are forced to experience pain or discomfort, as we someday almost surely will. In other words, voluntary discomfort can be thought of as a kind of vaccine: By exposing ourselves to a small amount of a weakened virus now, we create in ourselves an immunity that will protect us from a debilitating illness in the future.”\n\nThe following list, arranged by the time of first publication, includes positions representing modern Stoicism only, while it excludes purely scholarship books on ancient Stoics, biographies, etc.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36266017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36266017", "title": "Paradox of fiction", "text": "Paradox of fiction\n\nThe paradox of fiction is a philosophical problem about how people can experience strong emotions from purely fictional things, such as art, literature, and imagination. The paradox draws attention to an everyday issue of how people are moved by things which, in some ways, do not exist. Although the ontology of fictional things in general has been discussed in philosophy since Plato, the paradox was first suggested by Colin Radford and Michael Weston in 1975. After Radford and Weston's original paper, they and others have continued the discussion by giving the problem slightly differing formulations and solutions.\n\nThe basic paradox is as follows:\n\n\nThe paradox is that all three premises seem to be true, but can not logically be true at the same time. If any two points (e.g. 1 and 3) are taken to be true, then the third (e.g. 2) must either be false or else produce a contradiction.\n\nThe various proposed solutions to the paradox can be divided into three basic groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6501070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6501070", "title": "Part–whole theory", "text": "Part–whole theory\n\nPart–whole theory is the name of a loose collection of historical theories, all informal and nearly all unwitting, relating wholes to their parts via inclusion. Part–whole theory has been overtaken by mereology.\n\nMetaphysics, especially ontology, has invoked part–whole concepts ever since Aristotle founded the subject.\n\nHusserl (1970) (German original first published in 1901) was the first to consciously elaborate a part–whole theory (on which see Tieszen 1995). However he employed no symbolism or logic, even though his doctorate was in mathematics and Georg Cantor was his friend and colleague; Husserl wrote only for his fellow philosophers.\n\n19th century mathematicians became dimly aware that they were invoking a part–whole theory of sorts only after Cantor and Peano first articulated set theory. Before then, mathematicians often confused inclusion and membership. Grattan-Guinness (2000) appears to have been the first to draw attention to this unwitting part–whole theory.\n\nPeano was among the first to articulate clearly the distinction between membership in a given set, and being a subset of that set. A subset of a set is usually not also a member of that set. However, the members of a subset are all members of the set. In set theory, a singleton cannot be identified with its member. In part–whole theory and mereology, this identification necessarily holds.\n\nThe Cantor–Peano concept of set did not become canonical until about 1910, when the first volume of \"Principia Mathematica\" appeared, and right after Ernst Zermelo proposed the first axiomatization of set theory in 1908. \n\nStarting in 1916, and culminating in his 1929 \"Process and Reality\", A. N. Whitehead published several books invoking part–whole concepts of varying degrees of formality; see Whitehead's point-free geometry.\n\nPart–whole theory has been superseded by a collection of fully formal theories called mereology, Stanislaw Lesniewski's term for a formal part–whole theory he began expositing in 1912. Over the course of the 20th century, a number of Polish logicians and mathematicians contributed to this \"Polish mereology.\" Even though Polish mereology is now only of historical interest, the word \"mereology\" endures as the name of a collection of first order theories relating parts to their respective wholes. These theories, unlike set theory, can be proved sound and complete.\n\nNearly all work that has appeared since 1970 under the heading of mereology descends from the 1940 calculus of individuals of Henry Leonard and Nelson Goodman. Simons (1987) is a survey of mereology aimed at philosophers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1018141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018141", "title": "Philosophy of business", "text": "Philosophy of business\n\nThe philosophy of business considers the fundamental principles that underlie the formation and operation of a business enterprise; the nature and purpose of a business, and the moral obligations that pertain to it.\n\nPhilipp Blom summarises the development and impact of business-centric ideas in society prior to the global financial crisis of 2008:\n[...] Friedrich von Hayek and Ludwig von Mises [...] were Europeans who had passed their formative years in the chaotic interwar years and whose conclusion was that state intervention and planned economies were hallmarks of dictatorship [...]. They believed that it was healthier to take ideology out of politics and base the workings of society on the objective, nonideological laws of the free market. [...] The Enlightenment cult of reason and of the common good was replaced by the concepts of rationalization and the maximization of profits, which were applied to a reevaluation of social institutions - infrastructure, schools, universities, prisons, health care, and so on - according to business-driven criteria of profitability and cost-effectiveness. Especially in the United States but also increasingly in Europe, we began to run our societies as businesses. Beginning in the late 1970s and gaining speed in the 1980s, this gospel changed and polarized our societies - but it also provided an umbrella of meaning and necessity under which we could hide from challenges from without as well as doubts from within. For many in the West, the idea of the market became their ideological home. Living in accordance with its guiding providence and iron laws created a sense of stability, of virtue even. But 2008 shattered this collective piety and made millions understand that they had been lied to [...].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40023871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40023871", "title": "Philosophy of eating", "text": "Philosophy of eating\n\nPhilosophy of Eating is a concept of food production and nutritional philosophy that matches the source and result of health together.\n\nThe core of these points of view is to attach a mental state of mind with the sources of proper agricultural food sources in a balance of harmony in part because the sources have freshness and purity. Modern assertions are that the fresh foods contain vital micronutrients generally lost in most food processing.\n\nAdditional issues are brought to light in modern times where advertising along with subtle cues in color or related sensory inputs are masking substandard or even toxic ingredients present. The masquerade of dyes and organic chemicals from non-food sources become key in the current vernacular of various publications and nutrition movements.\n\nAs a book The Philosophy of Eating by author Andrew Bellows in the late 1860s. The author portrayed the concepts in light of science as well as views drawn from religiosity common in the middle to late 1860's era. So with a biblical fervor as an original direction of inspiration the author then supplies a variety of what was then scientific knowledge to correctly apply that in agriculture to the table in the kitchen. Fresh fruits and grains as those so ordained in the work making up a core of inputs to the meats of the day looked upon in detail most up to that time obtained from the local butcher.\n\nMore recent incarnations derived from this are exhibited in raw foodism for people. This manifestation seen in a variety of areas including vegan food preparation and offshoots related. The micronutrients amylases, proteases, and lipases aid digestion. to a variety of shared characteristics of the origins of food spelled out in the 1860s book started to mainstream more so as a backlash to simplify the sourcing to consumption in thought as well a contexts for acceptability.\n\nContemporary revisiting of this in a new updated book continuing is a more secular scientific work by George Davey who published a 2013 book called \"Break the Trance\". Break the Trance\n. With more up to date scientific analysis than the treatise from Andrew Bellows the author describes how mechanisms of discovery, chemical masks and the driving forces beyond that of the earlier works in the topic.\n\nPhilosophy extends from the scientific observation to how we as people treat our animals versus ourselves in dietary habits from youth through to adulthood.\n\nReviving the lost art of nourishing ourselves blogged about in part to illustrate this as a proper approach.\n\nThough cited in Break the Trance, health philosophy of eating like our paleolithic ancestors is found in a variety directions including mineral intake.\n\nProcessed foods get celebration along with trepidation in newer periodicals in 2013. Scientific American and Wired devote entire issues to food content and philosophy of nutrition.\n\nParticularly, the scientific basis is now better understood and psychological remediation or behavior patterns are more amenable to that of a reader in modern times contrasted with processed food celebration by. The continued strength of industrialized food troubles some people though.\n\n"}
{"id": "31564169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31564169", "title": "Philosophy of happiness", "text": "Philosophy of happiness\n\nThe philosophy of happiness is the philosophical concern with the existence, nature, and attainment of happiness. Philosophers believe, happiness can be understood as the moral goal of life or as an aspect of chance; indeed, in most European languages the term happiness is synonymous with luck. Thus, philosophers usually explicate on happiness as either a state of mind, or a life that goes well for the person leading it.\n\nPlato (c. 428 c. 347 BCE), using Socrates (c. 470 399 BCE) as the main character in his philosophical dialogues, outlined the requirements for happiness in \"The Republic\".\n\nIn \"The Republic\", Plato asserts that those who are moral are the only ones who may be truly happy. Thus, one must understand the cardinal virtues, particularly justice. Through the thought experiment of the Ring of Gyges, Plato comes to the conclusion that one who abuses power enslaves himself to his appetites, while the man who chooses not to remains rationally in control of himself, and therefore is happy.\n\nHe also sees a type of happiness stemming from social justice through fulfilling one's social function; since this duty forms happiness, other typically seen sources of happiness such as leisure, wealth, and pleasure are deemed lesser, if not completely false, forms of happiness.\n\nAristotle (384 – 322 BCE) held that \"eudaimonia\" (Greek: ) is the goal of human thought and action. Eudaimonia is usually translated as happiness, but \"human flourishing\" may be a more accurate translation. Eudaimonia involves activity, exhibiting virtue (\"arete\", Greek: ἀρετή) in accordance with virtue.\n\nWithin the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle points to the fact that many aims are really only intermediate aims, and are desired only because they make the achievement of higher aims possible. Therefore, things such as wealth, intelligence, and courage are valued only in relation to other things, while eudaimonia is the only thing valuable in isolation.\n\nAristotle regarded virtue as necessary for a person to be happy and held that without virtue the most that may be attained is contentment. Aristotle has been criticized for failing to show that virtue is necessary in the way he claims it to be, and he does not address this moral skepticism.\n\nAntisthenes (c. 445 – c. 365 BCE), often regarded as the founder of Cynicism, advocated an ascetic life lived in accordance with virtue. Xenophon testifies that Antisthenes had praised the joy that sprang \"from out of one's soul,\" and Diogenes Laertius relates that Antisthenes was fond of saying: \"I would rather go mad than feel pleasure.\" He maintained that virtue was sufficient in itself to ensure happiness, only needing the strength of a Socrates.\n\nHe, along with all following Cynics, rejected any conventional notions of happiness involving money, power, and fame, to lead entirely virtuous, and thus happy, lives. Thus, happiness can be gained through rigorous training (askesis, Greek: ) and by living in a way which was natural for humans, rejecting all conventional desires, preferring a simple life free from all possessions.\n\nDiogenes of Sinope (c. 412 – c. 323 BCE) is most frequently seen as the perfect embodiment of the philosophy. The Stoics themselves saw him as one of the few, if not only, who have had achieved the state of sage.\n\nStoicism was a school of philosophy established by Zeno of Citium (c. 334 – c. 262 BCE). While Zeno was syncretic in thought, his primary influence were the Cynics, with Crates of Thebes (c. 365 – c. 285 BCE) as his mentor.\n\nStoics believe that \"virtue is sufficient for happiness\". One who has attained this sense of virtue would become a sage. In the words of Epictetus, this sage would be \"sick and yet happy, in peril and yet happy, dying and yet happy, in exile and happy, in disgrace and happy,\"\n\nThe Stoics therefore spent their time trying to attain virtue. This would only be achieved if one was to dedicate their life studying Stoic logic, Stoic physics, and Stoic ethics.\n\nThe Cyrenaics were a school of philosophy established by Aristippus of Cyrene (c. 435 – c. 356 BCE). The school asserted that the only good is positive pleasure, and pain is the only evil. They posit that all feeling is momentary so all past and future pleasure have no real existence for an individual, and that among present pleasures there is no distinction of kind. Claudius Aelianus, in his \"Historical Miscellany\", writes about Aristippus:\n\nSome immediate pleasures can create more than their equivalent of pain. The wise person should be in control of pleasures rather than be enslaved to them, otherwise pain will result, and this requires judgement to evaluate the different pleasures of life.\n\nEpicureanism was founded by Epicurus (c. 341 – c. 270 BCE). The goal of his philosophy was to attain a state of tranquility (\"ataraxia\", Greek: ) and freedom from fear, as well as absence of bodily pain (\"aponia\", Greek: ). Toward these ends, Epicurus recommended an ascetic lifestyle, noble friendship, and the avoidance of politics.\n\nOne aid to achieving happiness is the \"tetrapharmakos\" or the four-fold cure:\n\n\"Do not fear god,<br>\nDo not worry about death;<br>\nWhat is good is easy to get, and<br>\nWhat is terrible is easy to endure.\"<br>\n(\"Philodemus, Herculaneum Papyrus, 1005, 4.9–14\").\n\nThe School of the Sextii was founded by Quintus Sextius the Elder (fl. 50 BCE). It characterized itself mainly as a philosophical-medical school, blending Pythagorean, Platonic, Cynic, and Stoic elements together. They argued that to achieve happiness, one ought to be vegetarian, have nightly examinations of conscience, and avoid both consumerism and politics, and believe that an elusive incorporeal power pervades the body.\n\nSt. Augustine of Hippo (354 – 430 AD) was an early Christian theologian and philosopher whose writings influenced the development of Western Christianity and Western philosophy.\n\nFor St. Augustine, all human actions revolve around love, and the primary problem humans face is the misplacing of love. Only in God can one find happiness, as He is source of happiness. Since humanity was brought forth from God, but has since fallen, one's soul dimly remembers the happiness from when one was with God. Thus, if one orients themselves toward the love of God, all other loves will become properly ordered. In this manner, St. Augustine follows the Neoplatonic tradition in asserting that happiness lays in the contemplation of the purely intelligible realm.\n\nSt. Augustine deals with the concept of happiness directly in his treatises \"De beata vita\" and \"Contra Academicos\".\n\nBoethius (c. 480–524 AD) was a philosopher, most famous for writing \"The Consolation of Philosophy\". The work has been described as having had the single most important influence on the Christianity of the Middle Ages and early Renaissance and as the last great work of the Classical Period. The book describes many themes, but among them he discusses how happiness can be attainable despite changing fortune, while considering the nature of happiness and God.\n\nHe posits that happiness is acquired by attaining the perfect good, and that perfect good is God. He then concludes that as God ruled the universe through Love, prayer to God and the application of Love would lead to true happiness.\n\nAvicenna (c. 980–1037), also known as 'Ibn-Sina', was polymath and jurist; he is regarded as one of the most significant thinkers in the Islamic Golden Age. According to him, happiness is the aim of humans, and that real happiness is pure and free from worldly interest. Ultimately, happiness is reached through the conjunction of the human intellect with the separate active intellect.\n\nAl-Ghazali (c. 1058–1111) was a Muslim theologian, jurist, philosopher, and mystic of Persian descent. Produced near the end of his life, al-Ghazali wrote \"The Alchemy of Happiness\" (\"Kimiya-yi Sa'ādat\", (). In the work, he emphasizes the importance of observing the ritual requirements of Islam, the actions that would lead to salvation, and the avoidance of sin. Only by exercising the human faculty of reason - a God-given ability - can one transform the soul from worldliness to complete devotion to God, the ultimate happiness.\n\nAccording to Al-Ghazali, there are four main constituents of happiness: self-knowledge, knowledge of God, knowledge of this world as it really is, and the knowledge of the next world as it really is.\n\nMaimonides (c. 1135-1204) was a Jewish philosopher and astronomer, who became one of the most prolific and influential Torah scholars and physicians. He writes that happiness is ultimately and essentially intellectual.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas (1225 – 1274 AD) was a philosopher and theologian, who became a Doctor of the Church in 1323. His system syncretized Aristotelianism and Catholic theology within his \"Summa Theologica\". The first part of the second part is divided into 114 articles, the first five deal explicitly with the happiness of humans. He states that happiness is achieved by cultivating several intellectual and moral virtues, which enable us to understand the nature of happiness and motivate us to seek it in a reliable and consistent way. Yet, one will be unable to find the greatest happiness in this life, because final happiness consists in a supernatural union with God. As such, man’s happiness does not consist of wealth, status, pleasure, or in any created good at all. Most goods do not have a necessary connection to happiness, since the ultimate object of man’s will, can only be found in God, who is the source of all good.\n\nMichel de Montaigne (1533-1592) was a French philosopher. Influenced by Aristotelianism and Christianity, alongside the conviction of the separation of public and private spheres of life, Montaigne writes that happiness is a subjective state of mind and that satisfaction differs from person to person. He continues by acknowledging that one must be allowed a private sphere of life to realize those particular attempts of happiness without the interference of society.\n\nJeremy Bentham (1748-1832) was a British philosopher, jurist, and social reformer. He is regarded as the founder of modern utilitarianism.\n\nHis particular brand of utilitarianism indicated that the most moral action is that which causes the highest amount of utility, where defined utility as the aggregate pleasure after deducting suffering of all involved in any action. Happiness, therefore, is the experience of pleasure and the lack of pain. Actions which do not promote the greatest happiness is morally wrong - such as ascetic sacrifice. This manner of thinking permits the possibility of a calculator to measure happiness and moral value.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860) was a German philosopher. His philosophy express that egotistical acts are those that are guided by self-interest, desire for pleasure or happiness, whereas only compassion can be a moral act.\n\nSchopenhauer explains happiness in terms of a wish that is satisfied, which in turn gives rise to a new wish. And the absence of satisfaction is suffering, which results in an empty longing. He also links happiness with the movement of time, as we feel happy when time moves faster and feel sad when time slows down.\n\nWładysław Tatarkiewicz (1886-1980) was a Polish philosopher, historian of philosophy, historian of art, esthetician, and ethicist.\n\nFor Tatarkiewicz, happiness is a fundamental ethical category.\n\nHerbert Marcuse (1898–1979) was a German-American philosopher, sociologist, and political theorist, associated with the Frankfurt School of critical theory.\n\nIn his 1937 essay 'The Affirmative Character of Culture,' he suggests culture develops tension within the structure of society, and in that tension can challenge the current social order. If it separates itself from the everyday world, the demand for happiness will cease to be external, and begin to become an object of spiritual contemplation.\n\nIn the \"One-Dimensional Man\", his criticism of consumerism suggests that the current system is one that claims to be democratic, but is authoritarian in character, as only a few individuals dictate the perceptions of freedom by only allowing certain choices of happiness to be available for purchase. He further suggests that the conception that 'happiness can be bought' is one that is psychologically damaging.\n\nViktor Frankl (1905-1997) was an Austrian neurologist, psychiatrist, Holocaust survivor and founder of logotherapy. His philosophy revolved around the emphasis on meaning, the value of suffering, and responsibility to something greater than the self; only if one encounters those questions can one be happy.\n\nRobert Nozick (1938-2002) was an American philosopher.\n\nIn his 1974 book, \"Anarchy, State, Utopia\", he proposed a thought experiment where one is given the option to enter a machine that would give the maximum amount of unending hedonistic pleasure for the entirety of one's life.\n\nScientism is the approach that the empirical sciences are the most valuable branches of learning and culture.\n\nHappiness economics is the quantitative and theoretical study of happiness, positive and negative affect, well-being, quality of life, life satisfaction and related concepts, typically combining economics with other fields such as psychology and sociology. The tracking of Gross National Happiness or the satisfaction of life grow increasingly popular as the economics of happiness challenges traditional economic aims.\n\nRichard Layard has been very influential in this area. He has shown that mental illness is the main cause of unhappiness.\n\nSonja Lyubomirsky asserted in her 2007 book, \"The How of Happiness\", that happiness is 50 percent genetically determined (based on twin studies), 10 percent circumstancial, and 40 percent subject to self-control. Lyubomirsky suggests a twelve-point program to maximize the final 40 percent.\n\nNot all cultures seek to maximise happiness, and some cultures are averse to happiness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2871407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871407", "title": "Positivism", "text": "Positivism\n\nPositivism is a philosophical theory stating that certain (\"positive\") knowledge is based on natural phenomena and their properties and relations. Thus, information derived from sensory experience, interpreted through reason and logic, forms the exclusive source of all certain knowledge. Positivism holds that valid knowledge (certitude or truth) is found only in this \"a posteriori\" knowledge.\n\nVerified data (positive facts) received from the senses are known as empirical evidence; thus positivism is based on empiricism.\n\nPositivism also holds that society, like the physical world, operates according to general laws. Introspective and intuitive knowledge is rejected, as are metaphysics and theology because metaphysical and theological claims cannot be verified by sense experience. Although the positivist approach has been a recurrent theme in the history of western thought, the modern sense of the approach was formulated by the philosopher Auguste Comte in the early 19th century. Comte argued that, much as the physical world operates according to gravity and other absolute laws, so does society, and further developed positivism into a \"Religion of Humanity\".\n\nThe English noun \"positivism\" was re-imported in the 19th century from the French word \"positivisme\", derived from \"positif\" in its philosophical sense of 'imposed on the mind by experience'. The corresponding adjective (lat. \"positīvus\") has been used in a similar sense to discuss law (positive law compared to natural law) since the time of Chaucer.\"\n\nPositivism is part of a more general ancient quarrel between philosophy and poetry, notably laid out by Plato and later reformulated as a quarrel between the sciences and the humanities, Plato elaborates a critique of poetry from the point of view of philosophy in his dialogues \"Phaedrus\" 245a, \"Symposium\" 209a, \"Republic\" 398a, \"Laws\" 817 b-d and \"Ion\". Wilhelm Dilthey (1833–1911) popularized the distinction between Geisteswissenschaft (humanities) and Naturwissenschaften (natural sciences).\n\nThe consideration that laws in physics may not be absolute but relative, and, if so, this might be more true of social sciences, was stated, in different terms, by G. B. Vico in 1725. Vico, in contrast to the positivist movement, asserted the superiority of the science of the human mind (the humanities, in other words), on the grounds that natural sciences tell us nothing about the inward aspects of things.\n\nPositivism asserts that all authentic knowledge allows verification and that all authentic knowledge assumes that the only valid knowledge is scientific. Thinkers such as Henri de Saint-Simon (1760–1825), Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749–1827) and Auguste Comte (1798–1857) believed the scientific method, the circular dependence of theory and observation, must replace metaphysics in the history of thought. Émile Durkheim (1858–1917) reformulated sociological positivism as a foundation of social research.\n\nWilhelm Dilthey (1833–1911), in contrast, fought strenuously against the assumption that only explanations derived from science are valid. He reprised the argument, already found in Vico, that scientific explanations do not reach the inner nature of phenomena and it is humanistic knowledge that gives us insight into thoughts, feelings and desires. Dilthey was in part influenced by the historicism of Leopold von Ranke (1795–1886).\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century the first wave of German sociologists, including Max Weber and Georg Simmel, rejected the doctrine, thus founding the antipositivist tradition in sociology. Later antipositivists and critical theorists have associated positivism with \"scientism\"; science \"as ideology\". Later in his career (1969), German theoretical physicist Werner Heisenberg, Nobel laureate for pioneering work in quantum mechanics, distanced himself from positivism by saying: The positivists have a simple solution: the world must be divided into that which we can say clearly and the rest, which we had better pass over in silence. But can any one conceive of a more pointless philosophy, seeing that what we can say clearly amounts to next to nothing? If we omitted all that is unclear we would probably be left with completely uninteresting and trivial tautologies.\n\nIn the early 20th century, logical positivism—a descendant of Comte's basic thesis but an independent movement—sprang up in Vienna and grew to become one of the dominant schools in Anglo-American philosophy and the analytic tradition. Logical positivists (or 'neopositivists') rejected metaphysical speculation and attempted to reduce statements and propositions to pure logic. Strong critiques of this approach by philosophers such as Karl Popper, Willard Van Orman Quine and Thomas Kuhn have been highly influential, and led to the development of postpositivism.\n\nIn historiography the debate on positivism has been characterized by the quarrel between positivism and historicism. (Historicism is also sometimes termed \"historism\" in the German tradition.)\n\nArguments against positivist approaches in historiography include that history differs from sciences like physics and ethology in subject matter and method. That much of what history studies is nonquantifiable, and therefore to quantify is to lose in precision. Experimental methods and mathematical models do not generally apply to history, and it is not possible to formulate general (quasi-absolute) laws in history.\n\nPositivism in the social sciences is usually characterized by quantitative approaches and the proposition of quasi-absolute laws. A significant exception to this trend is represented by cultural anthropology, which tends naturally toward qualitative approaches.\n\nIn psychology the positivist movement was influential in the development of operationalism. The 1927 philosophy of science book \"The Logic of Modern Physics\" in particular, which was originally intended for physicists, coined the term operational definition, which went on to dominate psychological method for the whole century.\n\nIn economics, practising researchers tend to emulate the methodological assumptions of classical positivism, but only in a \"de facto\" fashion: the majority of economists do not explicitly concern themselves with matters of epistemology. Economic thinker Friedrich Hayek (see \"Law, Legislation and Liberty\") rejected positivism in the social sciences as hopelessly limited in comparison to evolved and divided knowledge. For example, much (positivist) legislation falls short in contrast to pre-literate or incompletely defined common or evolved law. In jurisprudence, \"legal positivism\" essentially refers to the rejection of natural law; thus its common meaning with philosophical positivism is somewhat attenuated and in recent generations generally emphasizes the authority of human political structures as opposed to a \"scientific\" view of law.\n\nIn the early 1970s, urbanists of the positivist-quantitative school like David Harvey started to question the positivist approach itself, saying that the arsenal of scientific theories and methods developed so far in their camp were \"incapable of saying anything of depth and profundity\" on the real problems of contemporary cities.\n\nIn contemporary social science, strong accounts of positivism have long since fallen out of favour. Practitioners of positivism today acknowledge in far greater detail observer bias and structural limitations. Modern positivists generally eschew metaphysical concerns in favour of methodological debates concerning clarity, replicability, reliability and validity. This positivism is generally equated with \"quantitative research\" and thus carries no explicit theoretical or philosophical commitments. The institutionalization of this kind of sociology is often credited to Paul Lazarsfeld, who pioneered large-scale survey studies and developed statistical techniques for analyzing them. This approach lends itself to what Robert K. Merton called middle-range theory: abstract statements that generalize from segregated hypotheses and empirical regularities rather than starting with an abstract idea of a social whole.\n\nOther new movements, such as critical realism, have emerged to reconcile the overarching aims of social science with postmodern critiques. There are now at least twelve distinct epistemologies that are referred to as positivism.\n\nAuguste Comte (1798–1857) first described the epistemological perspective of positivism in \"The Course in Positive Philosophy\", a series of texts published between 1830 and 1842. These texts were followed by the 1844 work, \"A General View of Positivism\" (published in French 1848, English in 1865). The first three volumes of the \"Course\" dealt chiefly with the physical sciences already in existence (mathematics, astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology), whereas the latter two emphasized the inevitable coming of social science. Observing the circular dependence of theory and observation in science, and classifying the sciences in this way, Comte may be regarded as the first philosopher of science in the modern sense of the term. For him, the physical sciences had necessarily to arrive first, before humanity could adequately channel its efforts into the most challenging and complex \"Queen science\" of human society itself. His \"View of Positivism\" therefore set out to define the empirical goals of sociological method.\n\nComte offered an account of social evolution, proposing that society undergoes three phases in its quest for the truth according to a general \"law of three stages\". The idea bears some similarity to Marx's belief that human society would progress toward a communist peak (see dialectical materialism). This is perhaps unsurprising as both were profoundly influenced by the early Utopian socialist, Henri de Saint-Simon, who was at one time Comte's mentor. Comte intended to develop a secular-scientific ideology in the wake of European secularisation.\n\nComte's stages were (1) the \"theological\", (2) the \"metaphysical\", and (3) the \"positive\". The theological phase of man was based on whole-hearted belief in all things with reference to God. God, Comte says, had reigned supreme over human existence pre-Enlightenment. Humanity's place in society was governed by its association with the divine presences and with the church. The theological phase deals with humankind's accepting the doctrines of the church (or place of worship) rather than relying on its rational powers to explore basic questions about existence. It dealt with the restrictions put in place by the religious organization at the time and the total acceptance of any \"fact\" adduced for society to believe. Comte describes the metaphysical phase of humanity as the time since the Enlightenment, a time steeped in logical rationalism, to the time right after the French Revolution. This second phase states that the universal rights of humanity are most important. The central idea is that humanity is invested with certain rights that must be respected. In this phase, democracies and dictators rose and fell in attempts to maintain the innate rights of humanity.\n\nThe final stage of the trilogy of Comte's universal law is the scientific, or positive, stage. The central idea of this phase is that individual rights are more important than the rule of any one person. Comte stated that the idea of humanity's ability to govern itself makes this stage inherently different from the rest. There is no higher power governing the masses and the intrigue of any one person can achieve anything based on that individual's free will. The third principle is most important in the positive stage. Comte calls these three phases the universal rule in relation to society and its development. Neither the second nor the third phase can be reached without the completion and understanding of the preceding stage. All stages must be completed in progress.\n\nComte believed that the appreciation of the past and the ability to build on it towards the future was key in transitioning from the theological and metaphysical phases. The idea of progress was central to Comte's new science, sociology. Sociology would \"lead to the historical consideration of every science\" because \"the history of one science, including pure political history, would make no sense unless it was attached to the study of the general progress of all of humanity\". As Comte would say: \"from science comes prediction; from prediction comes action.\" It is a philosophy of human intellectual development that culminated in science. The irony of this series of phases is that though Comte attempted to prove that human development has to go through these three stages, it seems that the positivist stage is far from becoming a realization. This is due to two truths: The positivist phase requires having a complete understanding of the universe and world around us and requires that society should never know if it is in this positivist phase. Anthony Giddens argues that since humanity constantly uses science to discover and research new things, humanity never progresses beyond the second metaphysical phase.\n\nComte's fame today owes in part to Emile Littré, who founded \"The Positivist Review\" in 1867. As an approach to the philosophy of history, positivism was appropriated by historians such as Hippolyte Taine. Many of Comte's writings were translated into English by the Whig writer, Harriet Martineau, regarded by some as the first female sociologist. Debates continue to rage as to how much Comte appropriated from the work of his mentor, Saint-Simon. He was nevertheless influential: Brazilian thinkers turned to Comte's ideas about training a scientific elite in order to flourish in the industrialization process. Brazil's national motto, \"Ordem e Progresso\" (\"Order and Progress\") was taken from the positivism motto, \"Love as principle, order as the basis, progress as the goal\", which was also influential in Poland.\n\nIn later life, Comte developed a 'religion of humanity' for positivist societies in order to fulfil the cohesive function once held by traditional worship. In 1849, he proposed a calendar reform called the 'positivist calendar'. For close associate John Stuart Mill, it was possible to distinguish between a \"good Comte\" (the author of the \"Course in Positive Philosophy\") and a \"bad Comte\" (the author of the secular-religious \"system\"). The \"system\" was unsuccessful but met with the publication of Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" to influence the proliferation of various Secular Humanist organizations in the 19th century, especially through the work of secularists such as George Holyoake and Richard Congreve. Although Comte's English followers, including George Eliot and Harriet Martineau, for the most part rejected the full gloomy panoply of his system, they liked the idea of a religion of humanity and his injunction to \"vivre pour autrui\" (\"live for others\", from which comes the word \"altruism\").\n\nThe early sociology of Herbert Spencer came about broadly as a reaction to Comte; writing after various developments in evolutionary biology, Spencer attempted (in vain) to reformulate the discipline in what we might now describe as socially Darwinistic terms.\n\nFabien Magnin was the first working class adherent to Comte's ideas. Comte appointed him as his successor as president of the Positive Society in the event of Comte's death. Magnin filled this role from 1857 to 1880, when he resigned. Magnin was in touch with the English positivists Richard Congreve and Edward Spencer Beesly. He established the Cercle des prolétaires positivistes in 1863 which was affiliated to the First International. Eugène Sémérie was a psychiatrist who was also involved in the Positivist movement, setting up a positivist club in Paris after the foundation of the French Third Republic in 1870. \"Positivism is not only a philosophical doctrine, it is also a political party which claims to reconcile order – the necessary basis for all social activity – with Progress, which is its goal.\" he wrote.\n\nThe modern academic discipline of sociology began with the work of Émile Durkheim (1858–1917). While Durkheim rejected much of the details of Comte's philosophy, he retained and refined its method, maintaining that the social sciences are a logical continuation of the natural ones into the realm of human activity, and insisting that they may retain the same objectivity, rationalism, and approach to causality. Durkheim set up the first European department of sociology at the University of Bordeaux in 1895, publishing his \"Rules of the Sociological Method\" (1895). In this text he argued: \"[o]ur main goal is to extend scientific rationalism to human conduct... What has been called our positivism is but a consequence of this rationalism.\"\n\nDurkheim's seminal monograph, \"Suicide\" (1897), a case study of suicide rates amongst Catholic and Protestant populations, distinguished sociological analysis from psychology or philosophy. By carefully examining suicide statistics in different police districts, he attempted to demonstrate that Catholic communities have a lower suicide rate than Protestants, something he attributed to social (as opposed to individual or psychological) causes. He developed the notion of objective \"sui generis\" \"social facts\" to delineate a unique empirical object for the science of sociology to study. Through such studies, he posited, sociology would be able to determine whether a given society is 'healthy' or 'pathological', and seek social reform to negate organic breakdown or \"social anomie\". Durkheim described sociology as the \"science of institutions, their genesis and their functioning\".\n\nAshley Ornstein has alleged, in a consumer textbook published by Pearson Education, that accounts of Durkheim's positivism are possibly exaggerated and oversimplified; Comte was the only major sociological thinker to postulate that the social realm may be subject to scientific analysis in exactly the same way as natural science, whereas Durkheim saw a far greater need for a distinctly sociological scientific methodology. His lifework was fundamental in the establishment of practical social research as we know it today—techniques which continue beyond sociology and form the methodological basis of other social sciences, such as political science, as well of market research and other fields.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, the first wave of German sociologists formally introduced methodological antipositivism, proposing that research should concentrate on human cultural norms, values, symbols, and social processes viewed from a subjective perspective. Max Weber argued that sociology may be loosely described as a 'science' as it is able to identify causal relationships—especially among ideal types, or hypothetical simplifications of complex social phenomena. As a nonpositivist, however, one seeks relationships that are not as \"ahistorical, invariant, or generalizable\" as those pursued by natural scientists. Weber regarded sociology as the study of social action, using critical analysis and verstehen techniques. The sociologists Georg Simmel, Ferdinand Tönnies, George Herbert Mead, and Charles Cooley were also influential in the development of sociological antipositivism, whilst neo-Kantian philosophy, hermeneutics, and phenomenology facilitated the movement in general.\n\nKarl Marx's theory of historical materialism and critical analysis drew upon positivism, a tradition which would continue in the development of critical theory. However, following in the tradition of both Weber and Marx, the critical theorist Jürgen Habermas has critiqued pure instrumental rationality (in its relation to the cultural \"rationalisation\" of the modern West) as meaning that scientific thinking becomes something akin to ideology itself. Positivism may be espoused by \"technocrats\" who believe in the inevitability of social progress through science and technology. New movements, such as critical realism, have emerged in order to reconcile postpositivist aims with various so-called 'postmodern' perspectives on the social acquisition of knowledge.\n\nIn the original Comtean usage, the term \"positivism\" roughly meant the use of scientific methods to uncover the laws according to which both physical and human events occur, while \"sociology\" was the overarching science that would synthesize all such knowledge for the betterment of society. \"Positivism is a way of understanding based on science\"; people don't rely on the faith of God but instead of the science behind humanity. \"Antipositivism\" formally dates back to the start of the twentieth century, and is based on the belief that natural and human sciences are ontologically and epistemologically distinct. Neither of these terms is used any longer in this sense. There are no fewer than twelve distinct epistemologies that are referred to as positivism. Many of these approaches do not self-identify as \"positivist\", some because they themselves arose in opposition to older forms of positivism, and some because the label has over time become a term of abuse by being mistakenly linked with a theoretical empiricism. The extent of antipositivist criticism has also become broad, with many philosophies broadly rejecting the scientifically based social epistemology and other ones only seeking to amend it to reflect 20th century developments in the philosophy of science. However, positivism (understood as the use of scientific methods for studying society) remains the dominant approach to both the research and the theory construction in contemporary sociology, especially in the United States.\n\nThe majority of articles published in leading American sociology and political science journals today are positivist (at least to the extent of being quantitative rather than qualitative). This popularity may be because research utilizing positivist quantitative methodologies holds a greater prestige in the social sciences than qualitative work; quantitative work is easier to justify, as data can be manipulated to answer any question. Such research is generally perceived as being more scientific and more trustworthy, and thus has a greater impact on policy and public opinion (though such judgments are frequently contested by scholars doing non-positivist work).\n\nThe contestation over positivism is reflected in older (see the Positivism dispute) and current debates over the proper role of science in the public sphere. Public sociology—especially as described by Michael Burawoy—argues that sociologists should use empirical evidence to display the problems of society so they might be changed. Conversely, Thibodeaux argued that critical theory—public sociology in particular—relies on a dialectical, unilineal evolutionary view of social change. If a public sociologists assumes a multi-lineal interpretation of social change, public sociology will fail to affect social change for three reasons: (1) there's no objective criteria for the assessment of different goals (2) the rejection of one goal does not necessarily lead to an adherence to some other particular goal and (3) criticizing a goal maintains its relevance at the expense of possible alternatives.\n\nLogical positivism (later and more accurately called logical empiricism) is a school of philosophy that combines empiricism, the idea that observational evidence is indispensable for knowledge of the world, with a version of rationalism, the idea that our knowledge includes a component that is not derived from observation.\n\nLogical positivism grew from the discussions of a group called the \"First Vienna Circle\" which gathered at the Café Central before World War I. After the war Hans Hahn, a member of that early group, helped bring Moritz Schlick to Vienna. Schlick's Vienna Circle, along with Hans Reichenbach's Berlin Circle, propagated the new doctrines more widely in the 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nIt was Otto Neurath's advocacy that made the movement self-conscious and more widely known. A 1929 pamphlet written by Neurath, Hahn, and Rudolf Carnap summarized the doctrines of the Vienna Circle at that time. These included: the opposition to all metaphysics, especially ontology and synthetic \"a priori\" propositions; the rejection of metaphysics not as wrong but as meaningless (i.e., not empirically verifiable); a criterion of meaning based on Ludwig Wittgenstein's early work (which he himself later set out to refute); the idea that all knowledge should be codifiable in a single standard language of science; and above all the project of \"rational reconstruction,\" in which ordinary-language concepts were gradually to be replaced by more precise equivalents in that standard language. However, the project is widely considered to have failed.\n\nAfter moving to the United States, Carnap proposed a replacement for the earlier doctrines in his \"Logical Syntax of Language\". This change of direction, and the somewhat differing beliefs of Reichenbach and others, led to a consensus that the English name for the shared doctrinal platform, in its American exile from the late 1930s, should be \"logical empiricism.\" While the logical positivism movement is now considered dead, it has continued to influence philosophy development.\n\nHistorical positivism is the historiographical view that historical evidence requires no interpretation, the work of the historian being to compile the primary sources, “letting them speak for themselves”. Many of its tenets were later contradicted by Postmodernism.\n\nWithin years of the publication of Comte's book \"A General View of Positivism\" (1848), other scientific and philosophical thinkers began creating their own definitions for positivism. They included Émile Zola, Emile Hennequin, Wilhelm Scherer, and Dimitri Pisarev. Émile Zola was an influential French novelist, the most important example of the literary school of naturalism, and a major figure in the political liberalization of France.\n\nEmile Hennequin was a Parisian publisher and writer who wrote theoretical and critical pieces. He \"exemplified the tension between the positivist drive to systematize literary criticism and the unfettered imagination inherent in literature.\" He was one of the few thinkers who disagreed with the notion that subjectivity invalidates observation, judgment and prediction. Unlike many positivist thinkers before him, he believed that subjectivity does play a role in science and society. His contribution to positivism pertains not to science and its objectivity, but rather to the subjectivity of art and the way artists, their work, and audiences interrelate. Hennequin tried to analyse positivism strictly on the predictions, and the mechanical processes, but was perplexed due to the contradictions of the reactions of patrons to artwork that showed no scientific inclinations.\n\nWilhelm Scherer was a German philologist, a university professor, and a popular literary historian. He was known as a positivist because he based much of his work on \"hypotheses on detailed historical research, and rooted every literary phenomenon in 'objective' historical or philological facts\". His positivism is different due to his involvement with his nationalist goals. His major contribution to the movement was his speculation that culture cycled in a six-hundred-year period.\n\nDimitri Pisarev was a Russian critic who showed the greatest contradictions with his belief in positivism. His ideas incorporated imagination and style though he did not believe in romantic ideas because they reminded him of the oppressive tsarist government under which he lived. His basic beliefs were \"an extreme anti-aesthetic scientistic position.\" He focused his efforts on defining the relation between literature and the environment.\nStephen Hawking was a recent high-profile advocate of positivism, at least in the physical sciences. In \"The Universe in a Nutshell\" (p. 31) he wrote:\n\nAny sound scientific theory, whether of time or of any other concept, should in my opinion be based on the most workable philosophy of science: the positivist approach put forward by Karl Popper and others. According to this way of thinking, a scientific theory is a mathematical model that describes and codifies the observations we make. A good theory will describe a large range of phenomena on the basis of a few simple postulates and will make definite predictions that can be tested. ... If one takes the positivist position, as I do, one cannot say what time actually is. All one can do is describe what has been found to be a very good mathematical model for time and say what predictions it makes.\n\nHowever, the claim that Popper was a positivist is a common misunderstanding that Popper himself termed the \"Popper legend.\" In fact, he developed his beliefs in stark opposition to and as a criticism of positivism and held that scientific theories talk about how the world really is, not, as positivists claim, about phenomena or observations experienced by scientists. In the same vein, continental philosophers like Theodor Adorno and Jürgen Habermas regarded Popper as a positivist because of his alleged devotion to a unified science. However, this was also part of the \"Popper legend\"; Popper had in fact been the foremost critic of this doctrine of the Vienna Circle, critiquing it, for instance, in his \"Conjectures and Refutations\".\n\nThe key features of positivism as of the 1950s, as defined in the \"received view\", are:\n\nPositivism is elsewhere defined as the belief that all true knowledge is scientific, and that all things are ultimately measurable. Positivism is closely related to reductionism, in that both involve the belief that \"entities of one kind... are reducible to entities of another,\" such as societies to configurations of individuals, or mental events to neural phenomena. It also involves the contention that \"processes are reducible to physiological, physical or chemical events,\" and even that \"social processes are reducible to relationships between and actions of individuals,\" or that \"biological organisms are reducible to physical systems.\"\n\nWhile most social scientists today are not explicit about their epistemological commitments, articles in top American sociology and political science journals generally follow a positivist logic of argument. It can be thus argued that \"natural science and social science [research articles] can therefore be regarded with a good deal of confidence as members of the same genre\".\n\nHistorically, positivism has been criticized for its reductionism, i.e., for contending that all \"processes are reducible to physiological, physical or chemical events,\" \"social processes are reducible to relationships between and actions of individuals,\" and that \"biological organisms are reducible to physical systems.\"\n\nMax Horkheimer criticized the classic formulation of positivism on two grounds. First, he claimed that it falsely represented human social action. The first criticism argued that positivism systematically failed to appreciate the extent to which the so-called social facts it yielded did not exist 'out there', in the objective world, but were themselves a product of socially and historically mediated human consciousness. Positivism ignored the role of the 'observer' in the constitution of social reality and thereby failed to consider the historical and social conditions affecting the representation of social ideas. Positivism falsely represented the object of study by reifying social reality as existing objectively and independently and labour actually produced those conditions. Secondly, he argued, representation of social reality produced by positivism was inherently and artificially conservative, helping to support the status quo, rather than challenging it. This character may also explain the popularity of positivism in certain political circles. Horkheimer argued, in contrast, that critical theory possessed a reflexive element lacking in the positivistic traditional theory.\n\nSome scholars today hold the beliefs critiqued in Horkheimer's work, but since the time of his writing critiques of positivism, especially from philosophy of science, have led to the development of postpositivism. This philosophy greatly relaxes the epistemological commitments of logical positivism and no longer claims a separation between the knower and the known. Rather than dismissing the scientific project outright, postpositivists seek to transform and amend it, though the exact extent of their affinity for science varies vastly. For example, some postpositivists accept the critique that observation is always value-laden, but argue that the best values to adopt for sociological observation are those of science: skepticism, rigor, and modesty. Just as some critical theorists see their position as a moral commitment to egalitarian values, these postpositivists see their methods as driven by a moral commitment to these scientific values. Such scholars may see themselves as either positivists or antipositivists.\n\nPositivism has also come under fire on religious and philosophical grounds, whose proponents state that truth begins in sense experience, but does not end there. Positivism fails to prove that there are not abstract ideas, laws, and principles, beyond particular observable facts and relationships and necessary principles, or that we cannot know them. Nor does it prove that material and corporeal things constitute the whole order of existing beings, and that our knowledge is limited to them. According to positivism, our abstract concepts or general ideas are mere collective representations of the experimental order—for example; the idea of \"man\" is a kind of blended image of all the men observed in our experience. This runs contrary to a Platonic or Christian ideal, where an idea can be abstracted from any concrete determination, and may be applied identically to an indefinite number of objects of the same class From the idea's perspective, Platonism is more precise. Defining an idea as a sum of collective images is imprecise and more or less confused, and becomes more so as the collection represented increases. An idea defined explicitly always remains clear.\n\nExperientialism, which arose with second generation cognitive science, asserts that knowledge begins and ends with experience itself.\n\nEchoes of the \"positivist\" and \"antipositivist\" debate persist today, though this conflict is hard to define. Authors writing in different epistemological perspectives do not phrase their disagreements in the same terms and rarely actually speak directly to each other. To complicate the issues further, few practicing scholars explicitly state their epistemological commitments, and their epistemological position thus has to be guessed from other sources such as choice of methodology or theory. However, no perfect correspondence between these categories exists, and many scholars critiqued as \"positivists\" are actually postpositivists. One scholar has described this debate in terms of the social construction of the \"other\", with each side defining the other by what it is \"not\" rather than what it \"is\", and then proceeding to attribute far greater homogeneity to their opponents than actually exists. Thus, it is better to understand this not as a debate but as two different arguments: the \"antipositivist\" articulation of a social meta-theory which includes a philosophical critique of scientism, and \"positivist\" development of a scientific research methodology for sociology with accompanying critiques of the reliability and validity of work that they see as violating such standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5154273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5154273", "title": "Positivism dispute", "text": "Positivism dispute\n\nThe positivism dispute (German: \"Positivismusstreit\") was a political-philosophical dispute between the critical rationalists (Karl Popper, Hans Albert) and the Frankfurt School (Theodor Adorno, Jürgen Habermas) in 1961, about the methodology of the social sciences. It grew into a broad discussion within German sociology from 1961 to 1969. The naming itself is controversial, since it was the Frankfurt School proponents who accused the critical rationalists of being positivists—while the latter considered themselves as opponents of positivism. On the political level, it was a dispute between the leftist Frankfurt School proponents supporting revolution, and the allegedly bourgeois critical rationalists supporting reform as the method to be preferred to change society.\n\nThe debate began in 1961 in Tübingen, West Germany at the Conference of the German Society of Sociology. The speakers at the conference were invited to discuss the differences between social and natural sciences and the status of values in the social sciences.\n\nIn 1963, the debate was heated by Jürgen Habermas in the \"Festschrift für Adorno\" (writings in honour of Adorno). The debate became more intensely critical at the Sociology Day in Heidelberg when Herbert Marcuse joined the discussion. A spirited literary debate between Habermas and Hans Albert sprung up and positivism became the centre of the debate.\n\nThe participants also discussed the question of whether Popper's and Albert's critical rationalism had exacerbated ethical problems. The Frankfurt School believed this should be impossible, because as a theory of science critical rationalism is seen to be restricted to the field of knowledge.\n\nThe famous dispute inspired a collection of essays which were published in 1969. This book was translated into several languages, including English in 1976 (see below). This collection revived the debate and introduced these ideas to a broader audience.\n\nThe dispute has its foundation in the value judgment dispute (\"Werturteilsstreit\") in German sociology and economics around the question of whether or not the social sciences is a normative obligatory statement in politics and its measures applied in political actions, and whether or not their measures can be justified scientifically. Consequently, the positivism dispute is also called the Second \"Werturteilsstreit\".\n\nThe precursor of the debate about positivism can be traced back to Max Horkheimer's essay \"Der neueste Angriff auf die Metaphysik\" (\"The Latest Attack on Metaphysics\") published in 1937 that criticizes the logical positivism of the Vienna Circle. The prolonged criticism of positivism led to the formation of two camps: on one side we find \"critical rationalism\" advanced by Karl Popper and on the other side there is the \"critical theory\" advanced in the Frankfurt School. This view was strengthened by the fact that Popper's main work, \"Logic of Scientific Discovery\", was published in the main book series of the Vienna Circle. Popper, however, considered himself an opponent of positivism, and his main work was a sharp attack on it.\n\nBoth camps accept that sociology cannot avoid a value judgement that inevitably influences subsequent conclusions. In critical rationalism the scientific approach should be maintained in sociology and wherever the use of an induction method is not possible it should be avoided. This leads to a sociology having a firm ground in observations and assured deductions that cannot be ignored in politics.\n\nFor critical rationalism, sociology is best conceived as a set of empirical questions subject to scientific investigation. Frankfurt School \"critical theory,\" by contrast, denies that sociology can be severed from its \"metaphysical\" heritage; empirical questions are necessarily rooted in substantive philosophical issues. Drawing on concepts from Hegelian and Marxian traditions, critical theory conceives of society as a concrete totality, a social environment in which various \"psycho-social agencies\" (family, authorities, peers, mass media) shape individual consciousness.\n\nAccording to the Frankfurt school, it is important to discover the society's fabrics to allow for individuals to overcome being cornered. Critical rationalism considers this goal to be impossible and any attempts (changing society out of possibly non-scientific deductions) to be dangerous. The Frankfurt school counters critical rationalism as being itself cornered, disallowing itself from asking scientific questions when just some methods are not available. Looking back in history \"It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but their social existence that determines their consciousness\" (Karl Marx). The social existence determines the mindset of scientists as well. All the hypotheses generated by scientists (which would need to be falsified) are limited to this society's thinkable. While critical rationalism provides methods that are supposed to have an influence on society it is this totality that makes the reforms advocated by Popper ineffective for noticeable changes.\n\nPopper, in contrast, held that the Frankfurt school view was historicist ideology failing to see that any attempt to cause a total change of society (i.e., revolution) leads to violence, and that society should better be changed step by step (by reforms) to solve specific problems and abolish specific evils. According to Popper, individuals, including scientists, are free to decide, and are perhaps restricted by their social existence, but not totally determined by it. Changes may then look ineffective and very slow, but will accumulate over time. Popper thinks it is the lesser evil compared to violent revolutions, since such reforms can be undone if they turn out to only make things worse, while revolutions usually lead to lengthy periods of tyranny. Thus, for Popper, the method of reforms should be preferred.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338130", "title": "Postpositivism", "text": "Postpositivism\n\nIn philosophy and models of scientific inquiry, postpositivism (also called postempiricism) is a metatheoretical stance that critiques and amends positivism. While positivists emphasize independence between the researcher and the researched person (or object), postpositivists accept that theories, background, knowledge and values of the researcher can influence what is observed. Postpositivists pursue objectivity by recognizing the possible effects of biases. While positivists emphasize quantitative methods, postpositivists consider both quantitative and qualitative methods to be valid approaches. \n\nPostpositivists believe that human knowledge is based not on a priori assessments from an objective individual, but rather upon human \"conjectures\". As human knowledge is thus unavoidably conjectural, the assertion of these conjectures are \"warranted\", or more specifically, justified by a set of \"warrants\", which can be modified or withdrawn in the light of further investigation. However, postpositivism is not a form of relativism, and generally retains the idea of objective truth.\n\nPostpositivists believe that a reality exists, but, unlike positivists, they believe reality can be known only imperfectly and probabilistically. Postpositivists also draw from social constructionism in forming their understanding and definition of reality.\n\nWhile positivists believe that research is or can be value-free or value-neutral, postpositivists take the position that bias is undesired but inevitable, and therefore the investigator must work to detect and try to correct it. Postpositivists work to understand how their axiology (i.e. values and beliefs) may have influenced their research, including through their choice of measures, populations, questions, and definitions, as well as through their interpretation and analysis of their work.\n\nHistorians identify two types of positivism: classical positivism, an empirical tradition first described by Henri de Saint-Simon and Auguste Comte, and logical positivism, which is most strongly associated with the Vienna Circle, which met near Vienna, Austria, in the 1920s and 1930s. Postpositivism is the name D.C. Phillips gave to a group of critiques and amendments which apply to both forms of positivism.\n\nOne of the first thinkers to criticize logical positivism was Sir Karl Popper. He advanced falsification in lieu of the logical positivist idea of verificationism.. Falsificationism argues that it is impossible to verify that beliefs about universals or unobservables are true, though it is possible to reject false beliefs if they are phrased in a way amenable to falsification. Thomas Kuhn's idea of paradigm shifts offers a broader critique of logical positivism, arguing that it is not simply individual theories but whole worldviews that must occasionally shift in response to evidence. \n\nPostpositivism is not a rejection of the scientific method, but rather a reformation of positivism to meet these critiques. It reintroduces the basic assumptions of positivism: the possibility and desirability of objective truth, and the use of experimental methodology. The work of philosophers Nancy Cartwright and Ian Hacking are representative of these ideas. Postpositivism of this type is described in social science guides to research methods.\n\nRobert Dubin describes the basic components of a postpositivist theory as being composed of basic \"units\" or ideas and topics of interest, \"laws of interactions\" among the units, and a description of the \"boundaries\" for the theory. A postpositivist theory also includes \"empirical indicators\" to connect the theory to observable phenomena, and hypotheses that are testable using the scientific method.\n\nAccording to Thomas Kuhn, a postpositivist theory can be assessed on the basis of whether it is \"accurate\", \"consistent\", \"has broad scope\", \"parsimonious\", and \"fruitful\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46538208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46538208", "title": "Sophia Wadia", "text": "Sophia Wadia\n\nSophia Wadia, née Sophia Camacho, was a Colombian-born naturalized Indian theosophist, littérateur, the founder of \"PEN All India Centre\" and the founder editor of its journal, \"The Indian PEN\". She also cofounded The Indian Institute of World Culture, Bengaluru and the Asian Book Trust, Mumbai. The Government of India honoured Wadia in 1960, with the award of Padma Shri, the fourth highest Indian civilian award for her services to the nation.\n\nSophia Camacho was born in 1901 in Colombia and did her education in her motherland, Paris, London and New York. In 1927, she met B. P. Wadia, an Indian theosophist on tour to European countries, was influenced by his philosophy and married him in 1928. The next year, she went to India with her spouse and got involved in his activities. The Wadias founded several branches of the United Lodge of Theosophists in various places in Europe and founded the first Indian branch in Mumbai in 1929.\n\nThe couple founded the \"All India Centre of the International P.E.N.\" in Mumbai in 1930 and launched two journals, \"The India PEN\" and The Aryan Path. Sophia was the editor of \"The India Pen\" and remained in that position till her death. In 1945, she established \"The Indian Institute of World Culture\" in 1945 at Basavanagudi, near Bengaluru in the South Indian state of Karnataka. During this period, she published two books, \"The Brotherhood of Religions\" in 1936 and \"Preparation for Citizenship\" in 1941, the latter with foreword by Nobel Laureate, Rabindranath Tagore. The second edition of \"The Brotherhood of Religions\" came out in 1944 with foreword written by Mahatma Gandhi. She was also instrumental in the establishment of \"Asian Book Trust\" in Mumbai which later published her husband's renowned work, \"The Gandhian Way\".\n\nSophia Wadia continued her social life after her husband's death in 1958 and organized eleven All India Writers' Conferences. The Government of India awarded her the civilian honour of Padma Shri in 1960. She died on 27 April 1986, at the age of 85.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54524279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54524279", "title": "The First Moderns", "text": "The First Moderns\n\nThe First Moderns: Profiles in the Origins of Twentieth-Century Thought is a book on Modernism by historian William Everdell, published in 1997 by the University of Chicago Press. A \"New York Times\" Notable Book of 1997, \"The First Moderns\" suggests that \"the heart of Modernism is the postulate of ontological discontinuity.\"\n\nEverdell, Dean of Humanities at Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, posits that Modernism first emerged in the field of mathematics rather than the arts, specifically in the work of German mathematician Richard Dedekind, who, in 1872, demonstrated that mathematicians operate without a continuum; this represents the formalization of Everdell's axiom of \"ontological discontinuity,\" which he goes on to examine in a multiplicity of contexts. He examines this emerging framework of discreteness in science (Ludwig Boltzmann's mechanics, Cajal's neuroscience, Hugo de Vries's conception of the gene and Planck's quantum work, Einstein's physics); mathematics, logic, and philosophy (Georg Cantor, Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell and the linguistic turn, Husserl and the beginnings of phenomenology); in addition to the arts (James Joyce's novels, Picasso's \"Demoiselles D'Avignon\", Schoenberg's twelve-tone music).\n\nCritics largely reviewed \"The First Moderns\" favorably, appreciating Everdell's interdisciplinary approach, in publications including the \"New York Review of Books\", the \"New York Times,\" the \"Los Angeles Times,\" and the \"Washington Post\".\n"}
{"id": "50340216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50340216", "title": "Transactionalism", "text": "Transactionalism\n\nTransactionalism is a philosophical approach that addresses the fundamental nature of social exchange or human transaction; that all human exchange is best understood as a set of transactions within a reciprocal and co-constitutive whole. A transactionalist demands that all human exchange, including learning, is best understood as a transactional whole shaped and defined by a set of experiences in an ecology that are all-at-once biological, socio-linguistic, and intellectual; \"man is an information-processing, organizing, open-energy system.\" Attention must be paid to organizing acts within, and as-if always, a reciprocal and co-constitutive, exchange whether it be in buying and selling, teaching and learning, in a marital contract, or a social situation in-person or online.\n\nStemming from the Latin \"transigere\" (\"˜to drive through\", \"to accomplish\"), the root word \"transaction\" is not restricted to the economic sense of \"buying and selling\" or merely a financial transaction. A much larger field of exchange is employed such as, \"any sort of social interaction, such as verbal communication, eye contact, or touch. A 'stroke' [of one's hand] is an act of recognition of a transaction\" as employed in psychology with transactional analysis It not only examines exchanges, or \"transactions,\" between borrower and lender, but encompasses any transaction involving people and objects whether it involves \"borrowing-lending, buying-selling, writing-reading, parent-child, and husband-wife.\" A transaction, then is \"a creative act, engaged in by one who, by virtue of his participation in the act – of which he is always an \"aspect\", never an \"entity\" – together with the other participants, be they human or otherwise environmental, becomes [,] in the process [,] modified.\"\n\nWhile John Dewey is viewed by many transactionalists as a principal architect, social anthropologist Fredrik Barth was among the first to articulate the concept as it is understood in contemporary study. Political scientists Karl W. Deutsch and Ben Rosamond have also written on the subject. Transactionalist analysis is a core paradigm advanced by social psychologist Eric Berne in his book \"Games People Play\". A transactionalist view of psychology, for instance, views an individual as \"embedded and integrated\" in an ever-evolving world of situations, actors, and exchange.\n\nThe discourse of transactionalist problem-solving is applied to a vast array of academic and professional discourses including educational philosophy in the humanities; social psychology, political science, and political anthropology in the social sciences; and occupational science in the health sciences; cognitive science, zoology, and quantum mechanics in the natural sciences; and transactional competence and leadership-as-practice in business.\n\nJohn Dewey offered a sophisticated, yet pragmatic approach to understanding man as an organism-environment purposefully designed to correct the \"fragmentation of experience\" often found in other philosophical approaches found in Subjectivism, Objectivism, Constructivism and Skepticism.\n\nHe asserted that human life is not organized into separate entities, as if the mind (emotions, feelings, creativity, imagination) and the world outside it (raw and manufactured goods as well as social roles and institutions such as family, school, and media) are irreconcilable, leading to the question \"How does the mind know the world?\"\nGalileo refused to seek the causes of the behavior of physical phenomena in the phenomena alone and sought the causes in the conditions under which the phenomena occur.The writing of John Dewey and Arthur Bentley in \"Knowing and the Known\" offers a deep dive into transactionalism but its historical antecedents date back to Polybius and Galileo. Trevor J. Phillips (1927–2016), American professor emeritus in educational foundations and inquiry at Bowling Green State University from 1963 to 1996, wrote a comprehensive review of the historical, philosophical, psychological, and educational development of transactionalism in his 1966 dissertation \"Transactionalism: An Historical and Interpretive Study\" republished in 2013 by Influence Ecology. Phillips traced transactionalism's philosophical roots to Greek historians Polybius and Plato, 17th century polymath and architect of the scientific revolution Galileo, as well as the architect of modern western philosophy, René Descartes.\n\nGalileo's contributions to the scientific revolution rested on an understanding of transactionalism from which he argued Aristotelian physics was wrong, as he wrote in \"Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems\" (1632):\"In that case, if it is denied that circular motion is peculiar to celestial bodies, and affirmed to belong to all naturally movable bodies, then one must choose one of two necessary consequences. Either the attributes of generable-ingenerable, alterable-inalterable, divisibleindivisible, etc., suit equally and commonly all world bodies – as much the celestial as the elemental – or Aristotle has wrongly and erroneously deduced, from circular motion, those attributes which he has assigned to celestial bodiesThe philosophy abandons self-actional and interaction-al beliefs or suppositions as problem-solving in an objective world where co-operative exchange creates value in learning, and the foundation of transactional competence, how objects including people behave. Galileo deviated from the then current Aristotelian thinking, which was defined by mere interactions rather than co-constituetive transacting among people with different interests who may be solving competing intentions or conditions of life.\n\nTrevor Phillips also outlined the philosophy's more recent developments found in the American philosophical works of Charles Sanders Peirce, sociologist George Herbert Mead (symbolic interactionism), pragmatist William James, educational philosopher John Dewey, and political scientist Arthur Bentley.\n\nSeveral sources credit anthropologist Fredrik Barth as the scholar first to apply the term 'transactionalism\" in 1959. In a critique of structural functionalism, Barth offered a new interpretation of culture that did not portray an overly cohesive picture of society without attending to the \"roles, relationships, decisions, and innovations of the individual.\" Humans are transacting with one another at multiple levels of individual, group, and environment. Barth's study appears to not fully articulate how this is happening all-at-once as opposed to as if separate entities interacting (interactional):[T]he \"environment\" of any ethnic group is not only defined by natural conditions, but also by the presence and activities of other ethnic groups on which it depends. Each group exploits only a section of the total environment [perhaps in keeping with the idea of a \"transactional whole\"], and leaves large parts of it open for other groups to exploit (p. 1079).Using examples from the people of the Swat district of North Pakistan and, later, in 1966, organization among Norwegian fishermen, Barth set out to demonstrate that social forms like kinship groups, economic institutions, and political alliances are generated by the actions and strategies of the individuals who deploy organized acts against a context of social constraints. \"By observing how people interact with each other [through experience], an insight could be gained into the [interactional] nature of the competition, values and principles that govern individuals' choices.\"\n\nThis insight would be interactional at best and not transactional—reciprocal and co-constituetive transactions at the levels of individual, group, and environment (including man-as-organism and its ecological situations).\n\nSome scholars argue transactionalism is a theory rather than philosophical approach. Barth's contribution was initially criticized for paying insufficient attention to cultural constraints on individualism though it influenced the qualitative method known as symbolic interactionism used in the social sciences. As a pragmatic and philosophical approach, transactionalism is recognizable in the theory of the \"sociological imagination\" by American sociologist C. Wright Mills (1959), in which personal troubles are linked to public issues. In other words, the \"transactional whole\" is not readily apparent at the level of individuals who at that level operate in a self-actional manner when larger forces of sociality, history, biology, and culture are all-at-once at work as part of a global dynamic. Humans are never outside this dynamic current; operating the system in some self-actional or even interactional way.\n\nModern architects of the philosophy are John Patterson and Kirkland Tibbels, co-founders of Influence Ecology, acquired, edited, and published, Phillips' dissertation (as is) in 2013. With a foreword written by Tibbels, a hardback and Kindle version was published under the title \"Transactionalism: An Historical and Interpretive Study\" (2013). The monograph is an account of how human phenomena came to be viewed less as the behavior of static and/or mutually isolated entities, and more as dynamic aspects of events in the process of problem-solving, and thereby becoming or satisfying, the unavoidable and inescapable conditions of human life.\n\nIn a new model of organizational management known as the \"leadership-as-practice\" Dewey and Bentley's Knowing and the Known categories of action—self-action, inter-action, and trans-action brings transactionalism into the C-suite. A transactional leadership practice is defined by its \"trans-actors\" who \"enact new and unfolding meanings in on-going trans-actions\" situated in contrast to an older model leadership defined by self-actional (self-actors) and inter-actional (inter-actors) practices. In the latter, actors and situations often remain unchanged. In Leadership-as-Practice, Joseph A. Raelin distinguishes between a \"practice\" that extends and amplifies the meaning of work and its value vs. \"practices\" that are habitual and sequential activities evoked to simplify everyday routines. A transactional approach—leadership-as-practice—focuses attention on \"existing entanglements, complexities, processes, [while also] distinguishing problems in order to coordinate roles, acts, and practices within a group or organization.\" Said another way, \"trans-action attends to emergent becoming\"—a kind of seeing together--\"rather than substantive being (Tsoukas and Chia 2002)\" among the actors involved.\n\nThe transactional view of metaphysics—studying the nature of reality or what is real—deals with the inseparability of what is known and how humans inquire into what is known—both \"knowing and the known\". Since the age of Aristotle, humans have shifted from one paradigm or system of \"logic\" to another before a transactional metaphysics evolved with a focus that examines and inquires into solving problems first and foremost based on the relationship of man as a biological organism (with a brain and a body) shaped by its environment. In the book \"Transactionalism\" (2015), the nature of reality is traced historically from \"self-action\" to \"interaction\" to \"transactional\" competence each as its own \"age of knowing\" or episteme\".\"\n\nThe pre-Galilean age of knowing is defined by \"self-action\" \"where things [and thereby people] are viewed as acting on their own powers.\" In \"Knowing and the Known\", Dewey and Bentley wrote, \"The epistemologies, logics, psychologies and sociologies [of our day] are still largely [understood] on a self-actional basis.\"\n\nThe result of Newtonian physics\", interaction\" marks the second age of knowing; a system marked especially by the \"third 'law of motion'—that action and reaction are equal and opposite\".\n\nThe third episteme is \"transactional\" competence\".\" With origins in the contributions of Darwin, \"man's understandings are finite as opposed to infinite. In the same way, his views, goals, commitments, and beliefs have relative status as opposed to absolute.\" John Dewey and Arthur Bentley asserted this competence as \"the right to see together, extensionally and durationally, much that is talked about conventionally as if it were composed of irreconcilable separates.\" We tend to avoid considering our actions as part of a dynamic and transactional whole, whether in mundane or complex activities; whether in making an invitation, request, or offer or in the complex management of a program or company. We tend to avoid studying, thinking, and planning our moves and moods for a comprehensive, reciprocal, and co-constitutive—in other words, \"transactional\"—whole.\n\nA transactional whole includes the organized acts including ideas, narratives, people as resources implementing ideas, services, and products, the things involved, settings, and personalities, all considered in and over time. With this competence, that which \"acts\" and is \"acted upon\" become united for a moment in a mutual or ethical exchange, where both are reciprocally transformed contradicting \"any absolute separation or isolation\" often found in the dualistic thinking and categorization of Western thought.\n\nDualistic thinking and categorization often lead to over-simplification of the transactional whole found in the convenient but ineffective resorting to \"exclusive classifications.\" Such classifications tend to exclude and reify man as if he has dominion over his nature or the environment.\n\nIn his seminal 20th century work \"Physics and Philosophy\", Warner Heisenberg reflects this kind of transactionalist thinking: \"What we observe is not nature itself, but nature exposed to our method of questioning.” The together-at-once reality of man as organism-environment is often overlooked in the dualistic thinking of even major philosophers like Descartes who is often referenced for his \"I think, therefore I am\" philosophy. Of a transactionalist approach, Heisenberg writes, \"This was a possibility of which Descartes could not have thought, but it makes the sharp separation of the world and I impossible.\"\n\nDualistic thinking prevents man from thinking. \"In the spirit of [Charles Sanders] Peirce, transactionalism substitutes continuity for discontinuity, change and interdependence for separateness.\"\n\nFor example, in problem solving, whenever we \"insert a name instead of a problem,\" when words like \"soul,\" \"mind,\" \"need,\" \"I.Q.\" or \"trait\" are expressed as if real, they have the power to block and distort free inquiry into what is known in fact or as fact in the transactional whole.\n\nIn the nature of change and being, \"that which \"acts\" and that which is \"acted upon\"\" always undergo a reciprocal relationship that is affected by the presence and influence of the other. We as human beings, as part of nature as an organism \"integral to (as opposed to separate from, above or outside of) any investigation and inquiry may use a transactionalist approach to expand our personal knowledge so as to solve life's complex problems.\n\nThe purpose of \"transactionalism\" is not to discover what is already there, but for a person to seek and interpret senses, objects, places, positions, or any aspect of transactions between one's Self and one's environment (including objects, other people, and their symbolic interactions) in terms of the aims and desires each one needs and wants to satisfy and fulfill. It is essential that one simultaneously take into account the needs and desires of others in one's environment or ecology to avoid the self-actional or self-empowerment ideology of a rugged and competitive individualism. While other philosophies may discuss similar ethical concerns, this co-constitutive and reciprocal element of problem-solving is central to transactionalism.\n\nTo put it simply, \"to experience is to transact; in point of fact, experience is a transaction of organism-environment.\" In other words, what is \"known\" by the knower (or organism) is always filtered and shaped by both internal and external moods and narratives, mirrored in and through our relationships to the physical affordances and constraints in our environment or in specific ecologies.\n\nThe metaphysics of transactional inquiry is characterized in the pragmatic writing of William James who insists that \"single barreled terms,\" terms like \"thought\" and \"thing,\" actually stop or block inquiries into what is known and how we know it. Instead, a transactional orientation of ‘double-barreledness’ or the \"interdependence of aspects of experience\" must always be considered. James offers his readers insight into the \"double-barreledness\" of experience with an apt proposition:Is the preciousness of a diamond a quality of the gem [the thing] or is it a feeling in our mind [the thought]? Practically we treat it as both or as either, according to the temporary direction of our thought. The ‘experienced’ and the ‘experiencing,’ the ‘seen’ and the ‘seeing,’ are, in actuality, only names for a single fact.\n\nWhat is real then, from a transactionist perspective, must be constantly reevaluated relative to man as organism-environment in a co-constituitive and reciprocal dynamic with people, personalities, situations, aims, and given the needs each party seeks to satisfy.\n\nTransactionalists are firmly intolerant of \"anything resembling an 'ultimate' truth -- or 'absolute' knowledge.\" Due to the evolution of psychology about the nature of man, transactionalists reject the notion of a mind-body split or anything resembling the bifurcation of what they perceive as the circuitry in which our biological stimulus-response exists. Examples transactionalists reject include the self-acting notions of Aristotle who posited that \"the soul -- the psyche -- realized itself in and through the body, and that matter and form were two aspects involved in all existence.\" Later, the claims of French philosopher René Descartes, recognized as the father of modern Western philosophy, were examined and defined as \"interactional\". Descartes suggested stimulus-response as the realm where the mind controls the body and the body may influence the rational mind out of the passion of our emotions.\n\nTransactionalists recognize Cartesian dualism as a form of disintegrating the transactional whole of man \"into two complete substances, joined to another no one knows how.\" The body as a physical entity, on the one hand, and the soul or thought, on the other, was regarded in a Cartesian mindset as \"an angel inhabiting a machine and directing it by means of the pineal gland\" This tranactionalists reject.\n\nMan has the propensity to treat the mind and thought or the mind and body as abstractions and this tendency to deny the interrelatedness or coordinated continuity results in misconceptions in learning and inaccurate thinking as humans move and thrive with an ecology. Accurate thinking and learning begins and is constantly developed through action resulting from thought as a repetitive circuit of experience known in psychology as deliberate practice. Educational philosopher Trevor Phillips, now deceased, frames this tendency to falsely organize our perception: \"[W]e fail to realize that we can know nothing about things [or ourselves] beyond their significance to us,\" otherwise we distort our \"reality\" and treat things we perceive within it, including our bodies or mind, as if concrete thereby \"denying the interconnectedness of realities\" (plural). Transactionalists suggest that accurate (or inaccurate) thinking is rarely considered an unintended consequence of our propensity for abstractions.\n\nWhen an individual transacts through intelligent or consequential actions circumscribed within the constraints and conditions of her/his environment in a reflexive, repetitive arc of learned experience, there is a \"transaction between means and ends\" (see reference below). This transactional approach features twin aspects of a larger event rather than merely manipulating the means to an end in our circumstances and situations. For instance, a goal can never be produced by abstraction, by simply thinking about or declaring a promise to produce a result. Nor can it be anticipated or foreseen (an abstraction at best) without a significant \"pattern of inquiry,\" as John Dewey later defined and articulated, into the constraints and conditions that happen and are happening given the interdependence of all the people and objects involved in a simple or complex transaction. The nature of our environment affects all these entities within a transaction. Thus, revealing the limiting and reductive notion of manipulating a psychology around stimulus and response found in Aristotilian or Cartesian thought.\n\nA transaction is recognized here as one that occurs between the \"means and ends;\" in other words, transactional competence is derived from the \"distinctions between the how, the what (or subject-matter), and the why (or what for).\" This transactional whole constitutes a reciprocal connection and a reflexive arc of learned and lived experience. From a transactional approach one can derive a certain kind of value from one's social exchange. Value in knowing how, what, and why the work done with your mind and body fulfill on the kinds of transactions needed to live a good and satisfying life that functions well with others. Truth from actual inquiry is foundational for organism-environment to define and live by a set of workable ethical values that functions with others.\n\nWhile \"self-interest\" governs the ethical principles of Objectivism, here the principle is that man as an organism is in a \"reciprocal, constitutive\" relationship with her/his environment. Disabusing the psychological supposition of our \"skin-boundedness\" (discussed further below), transactionalism rejects the notion that we are apart from our environment or that man has dominion over it. Man, woman, and child must view life and be viewed in the undifferentiated whole of \"organism-environment\". This reciprocal and co-constitutive relationship is what sets Transactionalism apart from other philosophies.\n\nWhat John Dewey meant by \"reciprocal\" was that:... consequences have to be determined on the grounds of what is selected and handled as means in exactly the same sense in which the converse holds and demands constant attention if activities are to be intelligently conducted.In order for a human being to \"know\", in order for a human being to \"acquire\" intelligence, it must learn to relate to its Self as part of, not separate from the internal and/or external environments in which it lives as an \"organism-environment\". Whether the environment is natural or man-made, whether discussing biology, sociology, culture, linguistics, history and memory, or economics and physics, every \"organism-environment\" is \"reciprocal, constitutive, socially-conditioned and\" constantly in flux demanding our ethical attention to conditions and consequences as we live life. John Dewey and Arthur Bentley, like Charles Sanders Peirce before them, were out to distinguish an ethical \"living\" logic rather than a static one. Both rejected the supposition that man had dominion over or governed behavior in his/her environment embracing a presupposition of transactionalism; we are \"reciprocal, co-constitutive, socially-conditioned, and motivated\" \"together-at-once\" as we seek solutions to living a good life.\n\nTransactionalists reject the \"localization\" of our psychology as if \"skin-bound.\" Bentley wrote, \"No creature lives merely under its skin.\" In other words, we should not define and distinguish experience in and from the subjective mind and feelings. Conversely, we cannot rely solely on external circumstances or some static or inherited logic. Galileo said of followers of Aristotle in seeking ethical knowledge that one should \"come with arguments and demonstrations of your own...but bring us no more texts and naked authorities, for our disputes are about the sensible world and not a paper one.\" Humans are always transacting, \"together-at-once,\" part of, shaped by, and shap-ing the experience we call \"knowledge\" as an \"organism-environment\".\n\nDewey and Bentley were intrigued by, and ultimately questioned, \"the significance of the concept ‘skin’ and its role in philosophical and psychological thought.\" They offered a biological or natural justification that came to define a transactionalist approach. The known and what is known are both a function of man having \"evolved among other organisms\" within natural selection or evolution.\n\nMan's most intellectual and advanced \"knowings\" are not merely outgrowths of his own doing or being. The natural evolution of things outside our knowingness creates the very context in which our known and knowings arise. We are not inventing what is known outside or, in a vacuum beyond, who we are and who we are is an organism-environment together-at-once. We are not creatures separated by skin with an internal world of the mind and body \"in here\" separate from an environment of objects and people \"out there\". Human beings intelligently live, adapt to, and organize life in a reciprocal, co-constitutive experience that is what Dewey and Bentley term \"trans-dermal\".\n\nA \"trans-dermal\" experience demands knowledgeable and accurate inquiry into the conditions and consequences of each transaction where the organizing of ideas and acts (knowledge), is itself a transaction which grows out of the problem-solving and creative exploring within the universe of social situations in which we exist. Dewey and Bentley wrote, \"truth, or for that matter falsity, is a function of the deliberately striven for consequences arising out of inquiry.\"\n\nOur behavior and acts in knowing, or transacting, must be considered \"together\" and \"at-once\" with its conditions and consequences for any ambitious movement or fulfillment to occur alone and among other people in any setting with objects and constructd inherited from others known and unknown over time. Transacting demands study, a slowing down of our movement, and the development of a transactional competence in order to fulfill certain needs or solve problems while functioning among others.\n\nIn Dewey's final days, wrote Phillips, he emphasized the twin aspects of attending to both the means and the ends of any transaction: \"It is…impossible to have an end-in-view or to anticipate the consequences of any proposed line of action.\" A \"trans-dermal\" consciousness is, therefore, key to moving ethically. To move, experience life, or transact in a principled manner, considering the reciprocal and co-constituitive nature of organism-environment becomes an object lesson governing both social behavior as well as in transacting from a trans-dermal view with objects or other bodies.\n\nThe work of Australian educational philosopher Vicki L. Lee further elucidates and breaks down what is \"trans-dermal\" experience—how it works and why it matters—based on her work in the philosophy of cognitive science, educational philosophy, and radical behaviorism about which she has published extensively. This complex paradigm is clearly evidenced by Lee in this thickly described example: Acts are more than movements. ...Our discriminations depend on movements and their contexts seen together-at-once or as an undifferentiated whole. In discriminating watering the garden from hosing the driveway, we see the bodily movements and their occasion and results. We see the garden, the watering implement, and so forth, as much as we see the body's activities. The notion of together-at-once emphasizes that we do not see movements and contexts separately and then infer the action. Rather the context is internal to the action, because without the context, the action would not be the action it is.A basic presupposition of the philosophy of transactionalism is to always consider that that which is known about the world (extra-dermal) is \"directly concerned with the activity of the knower\" which is merely from some sense of \"skin-boundedness\" (intra-dermal). The known and the knower, as Dewey and Bentley examined in detail in their collaborative publication, must always be considered \"'twin aspects of common fact.\"\n\nBehavior, movement, and acts are not merely a function of the mind, of wishful or positive thinking or belief in external forces, nor can it be determined ethically from the philosophers of the past or knowledge written in a book. It is our ability to transact trans-dermally—to be and become ecologically-fit as an organism-environment—that begets truthful inquiry into living a good and satisying life, functioning well among others.\n\nPhilosophy and Women's Studies Professor Shannon Sullivan explores and applies \"transactional knowing through embodied and relational lived experience\" as a feminist epistemology developed out of the pragmatist tradition. See “pragmatist-feminist standpoint theory”.\n\nThe branch of philosophy recognized as \"politics\" concerns the governance of community and group interaction, not merely that of the state as conceived when thinking of a local or national government.\n\nIn \"Laws of Motion\" (1920), physicist James Clerk Maxwell articulated the modern conception of \"transaction\" used here—one that is not exclusive to an economic context limited to only the opposition of a buyer-seller in a trade or other analougous uses. Unlike its use in commercial affairs, there is a radical departure from any tendency to perceive buyer-seller (as well as organism-environment) as opposing or separate forces. In a transactionalist approach, Maxwell (as well as others) view the former and latter as \"two parts of the same phenomenon.\"\n\nDewey and Bentley apply this notion of 'transactional' to learning more than any other context. In the educative process, acting without knowing is a separation of the same phenomenon enjoined in inquiry. Without inquiry acting does not work. Acting and knowing cooperate to provide knowledge to an organism-environment which must essentially involve inquiry into things that have happened and are happening: Knowledge – if the term is to be employed at all – is a name for the product of competent inquiries, and is constituted only as the outcome of a particular inquiry.It is not \"a process taking place, or as a status located in or at an animal organism.\" Knowledge arises from inquiry and the testing of that inquiry to insure the fitness of not only the solution but the organism-environment. While a human being is central or \"nuclear\" to its organism-environment, it must abdicate any sense of dominion over the socio-biological cosmos of which human being is part and never outside of. Each situation—and this transactionalists assert is radical—must be examined and determined by a construction of moves and action based on the capacity of that organism to fulfill its intentions and thrive (or not). Dewey and Bentley later insisted that knowing \"as inquiry, [is therefore] a way, or distinct form, of behavior.\"\n\nTransactionalists define politics in this philosophy as a cooperative, genuine interaction between all participating parties whether buyer-seller, student-teacher, or worker-boss given that we are biological and social subjects involved not merely in \"transacting\" for our own advantage or gain. \"[S]ocial phenomena cannot be understood except as there is prior understanding of physical conditions and the laws of their [socio-biological] interactions,\" wrote John Dewey in \"\". He added further, \"Inquiry into [social phenomena], with respect both to data that are significant and to their relations or proper ordering, is conditioned upon extensive prior knowledge of physical phenomena and their laws. This fact accounts in part for the retarded and immature state of social subjects.\" Thus, cooperation and knowing as inquiry is foundational to governing communal affairs of any kind including economic trade and the educative process.\n\nIn our existing models of formal education, we bifurcate what Dewey viewed as indispensable. We, as a rule, segregate \"utility and culture, absorption and expression, theory and practice...in any educational scheme\" In 1952, progressive educator Elsie Ripley Clapp distinguished a similar commitment to \"cooperative transaction of inquiry\" in her vision that enjoined community and school.\n\nIntelligence, meaning that which is acquired through inquiry and testing, allows man to foresee consequences and take control of his actions without dogma or beliefs (that might be wrong) derived from past experience or expectations. If the study of politics in philosophy is a \"study of force,\" of knowing \"what actions are permissible\" given that man is an organism-environment, then transactionalists assert that cooperation and knowing-as-inquiry are vital to functioning among others.\n\n\"The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" noted that Dewey was critical of the classical neoliberal stance that the asbtract individual precedes a conception of society or social institutions. Dewey maintained that social institutions were not a \"means for obtaining something for individuals. They are means for 'creating' individuals\" (\"Reconstruction in Philosophy\", \"MW\"12, 190-192). In this way, classical liberalism seems to exemplify ‘the most pervasive fallacy of philosophical thinking’ (‘Context and Thought’, \"LW\"5, 5). Transactionalism is a radical form of governing that resists the tendency to \"divide up experienced phenomena, and to take the distinct analysed elements to be separate existences, independent both of the analysis and of each other.\"\n\nIntelligent thinking is anti-dualistic, accurate, forethought taking into account other people, communities, and cultures that stems from a \"deliberate control of what is done with reference to making what happens to us and what we do to things as fertile as possible of suggestions (of suggested meanings).\" Furthermore, intelligent thinking is a means for trying out the validity of those suggestions. The political governing of thinking towards dualisms and bifurcation as well as the \"false conception of the individual\" is what Dewey argued limited man's free, meaning \"liberal\", thought and action. All of this served as the core reasoning behind Dewey's development of an experimental philosophy that offset elite distortions regarding a public and transactional interest in education and learning.\n\nTransationalist psychologists and educational philosophers reject the ideologies precipitated from Western ideologies of \"do-it-yourself\" or the \"if it's up to me, it will be\" mentality that leads to entitlement and the naiveté of slogans like \"follow your passion\" that deny any consideration of our trans-dermal condition. Transactionalists assert that the \"advancing conformity and coercive competition so characteristic of our times\" demands reassessment. A new \"philosophical-psychological complex\" is offered that confronts the \"ever increasing growth of bureaucratic rule and the attendant rise of a complacent citizenry.\" Given the intensification of globalization and migration, a trans-dermal consciousness allows for a transactional emphasis on \"human dignity and uniqueness\" despite \"a matrix of anxiety and despair [and] feelings of alienation.\"\n\nTransactionalist psychologists and philosophers replace once sought-after Existentialism as a remedy to feelings of alienation with a trans-dermal orientation to living. Rather than applying a theory or approach that emphasizes the individual as a \"free and responsible agent determining their own development through acts of the will,\" subjects are invited to co-create as an organism-environment functioning among all other organism-environments, including the conditions and consequences of objects and personalities, in order to intelligently structure existence in and amongst it all. The very act of participating in co-creation, according to transactionalists, gives and allows each person her/his unique status and dignity in their environment.\n\nDistinct from an aesthetic theory of taste or a rationale for the beauty in an object of art, a transactionalist theory of aesthetics concerns the perceptual judgments we use to define value, purposeful activity or satisfaction in any experience. Based on studies by transactionalist psychologists Adelbert Ames, Jr. (known for The Ames Demonstrations), William Howard Ittelson, Hadley Cantril, along with John Dewey, the biological role of perception is key to understanding transactionalism. Perceiving is viewed as \"part of the process of living by which each one of us, from his own particular point of view, creates for himself the world within which he has his life’s experiences and through which he strives to gain his satisfactions.\" The sum total of these assumptions was recognized as the \"assumptive world.\"\n\nThe assumptive world stems from all that we experience, all the things and events we assess and assign meaning to, which function as a \"contextual whole\" also known as a \"transactional whole\". Dewey also referred to the assumptive world as a \"situation\" (where organism and environment are inseparable) or as a \"field\" in which behavior, stimulus, and response are framed as if a \"reflexive circuit\". \"To the modern transactionalist, experiences alter perceptual processes, and in the act of altering them, the purposing aspect of perception is either furthered or its fulfillment interfered with.\" It is through action, through movement, that man is capable of bringing forth a value-satisfaction to his or her experience. Man's capacity to \"sense value in the quality of his experience\" was registered through his serial expectations and standards stemming from previous transactions throughout life.\n\nA theory of value is therefore derived from one's behavioral inquiry within an assumptive world. \"Knowledge is a transaction that develops out of man's explorations within [that] cosmos.\" Transactionalists reject the notion that any truth is inherently settled or beyond question. The consequences of any inquiry will be dependent on the \"situation\" or transactional whole in which man as an organism-environment finds him- or her-self.\n\nTo clarify the theory of valuation for man, John Dewey wrote:\nTo declare something \"satisfactory\" [vs. satisfying] is to assert that it meets specifiable conditions. It is, in effect, a judgment that the thing 'will do'. It involves a prediction; it contemplates a future in which the thing will continue to serve; it \"will\" do. It asserts a consequence the thing will actively institute, it \"will\" do.\"\nUltimately, transactionalism is a move away from the conclusion that knowledge depends on an independent knower and something to be known. The reality of a particular situation depends, transactionally speaking, on the interpretation place[d] upon the situation by a particular person. Interpretation is possible only through the accumulation of experience which, in effect, is what is meant by “assumptions”. Without the hitches and mistakes one encounters in the welter of daily living, the nature of the assumptive world would never arise into consciousness. The assumptive world, initially highlighted in the 25 experiments in perception known as The Ames demonstrations, becomes the seeming reality of our world. Man’s transactions of living involve, in sum, capacities, and aspects of his nature operating together. To transact is to participate in the process of translating the ongoing energies of the environment into one’s own perceptual awareness, and to transform the environment through the perceptual act. Value-satisfaction arises when the inadequacies of man's assumptive world are revealed or invalidated. Thereby, the consequences of any transactional experience determines what is valuable or what will do vs. that which is satisfying but will not do. The good life, for the transactionalist, consists of a unity of values, achieved by means of reflective thought, and accepted in the full light of their conditions and consequences.\n\nTo transact is to act intelligently with an aim in mind while avoiding the tendency to surrender one's awareness to complacency or indifference that stems from mere information or untested knowledge. Without action, a person can fool herself, distort her sense of satisfaction or value on behalf of consequences she or others prefer. Through action, the individual perceptions and the shared perceptual common sense of an assumptive world are validated and modified. We predict and refine our conditions of life yet \"any standard set for these value qualities is influenced by the individual’s personal biological and life history.\" Transactionalism is a creativee process that takes into account the unique biology and biography of persons involved.\n\nThe importance of the study of transactionalism arose in the late 1960s in response to an \"alienation syndrome\" among youth of that generation. As the counter-culture challenged and reassessed society's \"philosophical-psychological complex, its \"Weltanschauung\",\" their political and social alienation sparked protests against the war and the draft as well as historic racial rebellions in various U.S. cities. The Long hot summer of 1967 and the counterculture movement named the Summer of Love also in 1967 reflected the antipathy of young people who questioned everything. American society's norms and values were perceived as denying dignity to all. Riots of the period were studied in a report by the U.S. Kerner Commission and scholars began to study the patterns of alienation expressed by youth in the sixties. Youth sought a kind of existentialism expressed by a need to be \"true to oneself.\" This current of alienation unfortunately veered away from a relevant understanding of the transactional whole taking into account the reciprocal and co-constitutive nature of man as an organism-environment fulfilling important conditions of life with others all the time. It resembles the famous line from \"Devotions upon Emergent Occasions\", written by English poet John Donne -- \"No man is an island\". Transactionalism presented an alternative to the limitation and unintended outcomes of the alienation syndrome.\n\nDesigned to account for all aspects of experience—subjective and objective—transactionalism requires a slowing down in assessing all the facts involved with the how, what, when, where, and why as we move to transact with others. It demands and requires always considering how a transaction with another and one's self (e.g., a parent or spouse spending additional hours socializing at the gym) is or is not beneficial to all involved in a transaction (e.g., other members of the family). The costs may be in time, attention, or money or in a condition of life (e.g., family, career, sleep). Transactionalism requires an interdependence of thought, study, and action.\n\nA transactionalist must account for one's biology and cognition (metaphysics); the ways knowing reality (epistemology); the reciprocal, co-constitutive, relationship (or ethics) between our social self and the interactions constrained by both our natural and man-made environment. We as human beings live in distinct sociological patterns with people, material and immaterial culture shaped by specific and ever-changing times and places further articulated by increasing migration and globalization. Transactionalism insists that one attend to the political distribution of goods and services along with the ways its value has and is exchanged and changing among people and groups (politics) as well as how persons are socialized to understand what it means to live a good life as well as fulfill those conditions over time (aesthetics).\n\nTransactionalism offers more than existentialism offered with its aim of being \"true to oneself.\" The alienation that results from its orientation to the self at the expense of societal norms and values, even in small groups, often leads to naiveté, despair, frustration, agitation, and even indifference, at the expense of consciously organizing one's acts, while functioning among others, to fulfill one's unique and necessary interests in living a good and satisfying life. Transactionalism counters the naive \"do as I see fit\" mentality of authenticity regardless of other's needs and concerns, which inevitably leads to negative consequences and outcomes over time. Transactionalism depends upon the \"integration of man and his surroundings.\"\n\nPhillips' dissertation documented the evolution of a \"transactional approach;\" one that rests on the fact that we are biological, linguistic, and that we must transact considering a trans-dermal experience of our thoughts, behavior, and exchange on every level imagined while ethically functioning with others well.\n\nA series of podcasts exemplify the application of a transactional approach to a diverse array of professionals from various countries .\n\n"}
{"id": "49901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901", "title": "Virtue", "text": "Virtue\n\nVirtue (, \"arete\") is moral excellence. A virtue is a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being. Personal virtues are characteristics valued as promoting collective and individual greatness. In other words, it is a behavior that shows high moral standards. Doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong. The opposite of virtue is vice. \n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are temperance, prudence, courage, and justice. Christianity derives the three theological virtues of faith, hope and love (charity) from 1 Corinthians. Together these make up the seven virtues. Buddhism's four brahmavihara (\"Divine States\") can be regarded as virtues in the European sense. The Japanese Bushidō code is characterized by up to ten virtues, including rectitude, courage, and benevolence.\n\nThe ancient Romans used the Latin word \"virtus\" (derived from \"vir\", their word for \"man\") to refer to all of the \"excellent qualities of men, including physical strength, valorous conduct, and moral rectitude.\" The French words \"vertu\" and \"virtu\" came from this Latin root. In the 13th century, the word \"virtue\" was \"borrowed into English\".\n\nDuring Egyptian civilization, Maat or Ma'at (thought to have been pronounced *[muʔ.ʕat]), also spelled māt or mayet, was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. Maat was also personified as a goddess regulating the stars, seasons, and the actions of both mortals and the deities. The deities set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation. Her (ideological) counterpart was Isfet, who symbolized chaos, lies, and injustice.\n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are:\n\nThis enumeration is traced to Greek philosophy and was listed by Plato in addition to piety: (hosiotēs), with the exception that wisdom replaced prudence as virtue. Some scholars consider either of the above four virtue combinations as mutually reducible and therefore not cardinal.\n\nIt is unclear whether multiple virtues were of later construct, and whether Plato subscribed to a unified view of virtues. In \"Protagoras\" and \"Meno\", for example, he states that the separate virtues cannot exist independently and offers as evidence the contradictions of acting with wisdom, yet in an unjust way; or acting with bravery (fortitude), yet without wisdom.\n\nIn his work \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle defined a virtue as a point between a deficiency and an excess of a trait. The point of greatest virtue lies not in the exact middle, but at a golden mean sometimes closer to one extreme than the other. However, the virtuous action is not simply the \"mean\" (mathematically speaking) between two opposite extremes. As Aristotle says in the Nicomachean Ethics: \"at the right times, about the right things, towards the right people, for the right end, and in the right way, is the intermediate and best condition, and this is proper to virtue.\" This is not simply splitting the difference between two extremes. For example, generosity is a virtue between the two extremes of miserliness and being profligate. Further examples include: courage between cowardice and foolhardiness, and confidence between self-deprecation and vanity. In Aristotle's sense, virtue is excellence at being human.\n\nSeneca, the Roman Stoic, said that perfect prudence is indistinguishable from perfect virtue. Thus, in considering all consequences, a prudent person would act in the same way as a virtuous person. The same rationale was expressed by Plato in Meno, when he wrote that people only act in ways that they perceive will bring them maximum good. It is the lack of wisdom that results in the making of a bad choice instead of a prudent one. In this way, wisdom is the central part of virtue. Plato realized that because virtue was synonymous with wisdom it could be taught, a possibility he had earlier discounted. He then added \"correct belief\" as an alternative to knowledge, proposing that knowledge is merely correct belief that has been thought through and \"tethered\".\n\nThe term \"virtue\" itself is derived from the Latin \"virtus\" (the personification of which was the deity Virtus), and had connotations of \"manliness\", \"honour\", worthiness of deferential respect, and civic duty as both citizen and soldier. This virtue was but one of many virtues which Romans of good character were expected to exemplify and pass on through the generations, as part of the Mos Maiorum; ancestral traditions which defined \"Roman-ness\". Romans distinguished between the spheres of private and public life, and thus, virtues were also divided between those considered to be in the realm of private family life (as lived and taught by the paterfamilias), and those expected of an upstanding Roman citizen.\n\nMost Roman concepts of virtue were also personified as a numinous deity. The primary Roman virtues, both public and private, were:\n\nIn 410 CE, Aurelius Prudentius Clemens listed seven \"heavenly virtues\" in his book Psychomachia (Battle of Souls) which is an allegorical story of conflict between vices and virtues. The virtues depicted were:\n\nIn the 8th Century, upon the occasion of his coronation as Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne published a list of knightly virtues:\n\nLove God\nLove your neighbour\nGive alms to the poor\nEntertain strangers\nVisit the sick\nBe merciful to prisoners\nDo ill to no man, nor consent unto such\nForgive as ye hope to be forgiven\nRedeem the captive\nHelp the oppressed\nDefend the cause of the widow and orphan\nRender righteous judgement\nDo not consent to any wrong\nPersevere not in wrath\nShun excess in eating and drinking\nBe humble and kind\nServe your liege lord faithfully\nDo not steal\nDo not perjure yourself, nor let others do so\nEnvy, hatred and violence separate men from the Kingdom of God\nDefend the Church and promote her cause.\n\nLoving God and obeying his laws, in particular the Ten Commandments, are central to Jewish conceptions of virtue. Wisdom is personified in the first eight chapters of the Book of Proverbs and is not only the source of virtue but is depicted as the first and best creation of God (Proverbs 8:12-31). Wisdom is also celebrated in the Book of Wisdom.\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the most concise terms, Hillel replied (reputedly while standing on one leg): \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is commentary; go and learn.\"\n\nIn Christianity, the three theological virtues are faith, hope and love, a list which comes from 1 Corinthians 13:13 ( \"pistis\" (faith), \"elpis\" (hope), \"agape\" (love), ). The same chapter describes love as the greatest of the three, and further defines love as \"patient, kind, not envious, boastful, arrogant, or rude.\" (The Christian virtue of love is sometimes called charity and at other times a Greek word agape is used to contrast the love of God and the love of humankind from other types of love such as friendship or physical affection.)\n\nChristian scholars frequently add the four Greek cardinal virtues (prudence, justice, temperance, and courage) to the theological virtues to give the seven virtues; for example, these seven are the ones described in the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", sections 1803–1829.\n\nThe Bible mentions additional virtues, such as in the \"Fruit of the Holy Spirit,\" found in Galatians 5:22-23: \"By contrast, the fruit of the Spirit it is benevolent-love: joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, benevolence, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is absolutely no law against such a thing.\"\n\nThe medieval and renaissance periods saw a number of models of sin listing the seven deadly sins and the virtues opposed to each.\n\nIn Islam, the Qur'an is believed to be the literal word of God, and the definitive description of virtue. Muhammad is considered an ideal example of virtue in human form. The hadiths, his reported sayings, are central to the Islamic understanding of virtue.\n\nVirtue is defined in hadith. It is reported by An-Nawwas bin Sam'an:\nWabisah bin Ma’bad reported:\nFor Muslims fulfilling the human rights are valued as an important building block of Islam, According to Muslim beliefs Allah will forgive individual sins but the bad treatment of humans and injustice with others will only be pardoned by the humans and not by Allah.\nIn Jainism, attainment of enlightenment is possible only if the seeker possesses certain virtues. All Jains are supposed to take up the five vows of ahimsa (non violence), satya (truthfulness), asteya (non stealing), aparigraha (non attachment and brahmacharya (celibacy) before becoming a monk. These vows are laid down by the Tirthankaras. Other virtues which are supposed to be followed by both monks as well as laypersons include forgiveness, humility, self-restraint and straightforwardness. These vows assists the seeker to escape from the karmic bondages thereby escaping the cycle of birth and death to attain liberation.\n\nVirtue is a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. The essence, need and value of virtue is explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nVirtues lead to \"punya\" (Sanskrit: पुण्य, holy living) in Hindu literature; while vices lead to \"pap\" (Sanskrit: पाप, sin). Sometimes, the word \"punya\" is used interchangeably with virtue.\n\nThe virtues that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita - considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong - argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nBuddhist practice as outlined in the Noble Eightfold Path can be regarded as a progressive list of virtues.\n\nBuddhism's four \"brahmavihara\" (\"Divine States\") can be more properly regarded as virtues in the European sense. They are:\n\nThere are also the Paramitas (\"perfections\"), which are the culmination of having acquired certain virtues. In Theravada Buddhism's canonical Buddhavamsa there are Ten Perfections (\"dasa pāramiyo\"). In Mahayana Buddhism, the Lotus Sutra (\"Saddharmapundarika\"), there are Six Perfections; while in the Ten Stages (\"Dasabhumika\") Sutra, four more \"Paramitas\" are listed.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, virtues are direct spiritual qualities that the human soul possesses, inherited from the world of God. The development and manifestation of these virtues is the theme of the \"Hidden Words\" of Bahá'u'lláh and are discussed in great detail as the underpinnings of a divinely-inspired society by `Abdu'l-Bahá in such texts as \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\".\n\n\"Virtue\", translated from Chinese \"de\" (), is also an important concept in Chinese philosophy, particularly Daoism. \"De\" () originally meant normative \"virtue\" in the sense of \"personal character; inner strength; integrity\", but semantically changed to moral \"virtue; kindness; morality\". Note the semantic parallel for English \"\", with an archaic meaning of \"inner potency; divine power\" (as in \"by virtue of\") and a modern one of \"moral excellence; goodness\".\n\nIn early periods of Confucianism, moral manifestations of \"virtue\" include \"ren\" (\"humanity\"), \"xiao\" (\"filial piety\"), and \"li\" (\"proper behavior, performance of rituals\"). The notion of ren - according to Simon Leys - means \"humanity\" and \"goodness\". Ren originally had the archaic meaning in the Confucian Book of Poems of \"virility\", but progressively took on shades of ethical meaning. Some scholars consider the virtues identified in early Confucianism as non-theistic philosophy.\n\nThe Daoist concept of \"De\", compared to Confucianism, is more subtle, pertaining to the \"virtue\" or ability that an individual realizes by following the Dao (\"the Way\"). One important normative value in much of Chinese thinking is that one's social status should result from the amount of virtue that one demonstrates, rather than from one's birth. In the \"Analects\", Confucius explains \"de\" as follows: \"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.\" In later periods, particularly from the Tang dynasty period, Confucianism as practiced, absorbed and melded its own concepts of virtues with those from Daoism and Buddhism.\n\nIn Hagakure, Yamamoto Tsunetomo encapsulates his views on 'virtue' in the four vows he makes daily:\n\nYamamoto goes on to say:\nIf one dedicates these four vows to the gods and Buddhas every morning, he will have the strength of two men and never slip backward. One must edge forward like the inchworm, bit by bit. The gods and Buddhas, too, first started with a vow.\n\nThe Bushidō code is typified by seven virtues:\n\nOthers that are sometimes added to these:\n\nWhile religious scriptures generally consider \"dharma\" or \"aṟam\" (the Tamil term for virtue) as a divine virtue, Valluvar describes it as a way of life rather than any spiritual observance, a way of harmonious living that leads to universal happiness. For this reason, Valluvar keeps \"aṟam\" as the cornerstone throughout the writing of the Kural literature. Valluvar considered justice as a facet or product of \"aram.\" While ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and their descendants opined that justice cannot be defined and that it was a divine mystery, Valluvar positively suggested that a divine origin is not required to define the concept of justice. In the words of V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, justice according to Valluvar \"dwells in the minds of those who have knowledge of the standard of right and wrong; so too deceit dwells in the minds which breed fraud.\"\n\nFor the Rationalist philosopher René Descartes, virtue consists in the correct reasoning that should guide our actions. Men should seek the sovereign good that Descartes, following Zeno, identifies with virtue, as this produces a solid blessedness or pleasure. For Epicurus the sovereign good was pleasure, and Descartes says that in fact this is not in contradiction with Zeno's teaching, because virtue produces a spiritual pleasure, that is better than bodily pleasure. Regarding Aristotle's opinion that happiness depends on the goods of fortune, Descartes does not deny that these goods contribute to happiness, but remarks that they are in great proportion outside one's own control, whereas one's mind is under one's complete control.\n\nImmanuel Kant, in his \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\", expresses true virtue as different from what commonly is known about this moral trait. In Kant's view, to be goodhearted, benevolent and sympathetic is not regarded as true virtue. The only aspect that makes a human truly virtuous is to behave in accordance with moral principles. Kant presents an example for more clarification; suppose that you come across a needy person in the street; if your sympathy leads you to help that person, your response does not illustrate your virtue. In this example, since you do not afford helping all needy ones, you have behaved unjustly, and it is out of the domain of principles and true virtue. Kant applies the approach of four temperaments to distinguish truly virtuous people. According to Kant, among all people with diverse temperaments, a person with melancholy frame of mind is the most virtuous whose thoughts, words and deeds are one of principles.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche's view of virtue is based on the idea of an order of rank among people. For Nietzsche, the virtues of the strong are seen as vices by the weak and slavish, thus Nietzsche's virtue ethics is based on his distinction between master morality and slave morality. Nietzsche promotes the virtues of those he calls \"higher men\", people like Goethe and Beethoven. The virtues he praises in them are their creative powers (“the men of great creativity” - “the really great men according to my understanding” (WP 957)).\nAccording to Nietzsche these higher types are solitary, pursue a \"unifying project\", revere themselves and are healthy and life-affirming. Because mixing with the herd makes one base, the higher type “strives instinctively for a citadel and a secrecy where he is saved from the crowd, the many, the great majority…” (BGE 26). The 'Higher type' also \"instinctively seeks heavy responsibilities\" (WP 944) in the form of an \"organizing idea\" for their life, which drives them to artistic and creative work and gives them psychological health and strength. The fact that the higher types are \"healthy\" for Nietzsche does not refer to physical health as much as a psychological resilience and fortitude. Finally, a Higher type affirms life because he is willing to accept the eternal return of his life and affirm this forever and unconditionally.\n\nIn the last section of \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche outlines his thoughts on the noble virtues and places solitude as one of the highest virtues:\n\nAnd to keep control over your four virtues: courage, insight, sympathy, solitude. Because solitude is a virtue for us, since it is a sublime inclination and impulse to cleanliness which shows that contact between people (“society”) inevitably makes things unclean. Somewhere, sometime, every\ncommunity makes people – “base.” (BGE §284)\n\nNietzsche also sees truthfulness as a virtue:\n\nGenuine honesty, assuming that this is our virtue and we cannot get rid of it, we free spirits – well then, we will want to work on it with all the love and malice at our disposal and not get tired of ‘perfecting’ ourselves in our virtue, the only one we have left: may its glory come to rest like a gilded, blue evening glow of mockery over this aging culture and its dull and dismal seriousness! (Beyond Good and Evil, §227)\n\nThese are the virtues that Benjamin Franklin used to develop what he called 'moral perfection'. He had a checklist in a notebook to measure each day how he lived up to his virtues.\n\nThey became known through Benjamin Franklin's autobiography.\n\n\nMarc Jackson in his book \"Emotion and Psyche\" puts forward a new development of the virtues. He identifies the virtues as what he calls the good emotions \"The first group consisting of love, kindness, joy, faith, awe and pity is good\" These virtues differ from older accounts of the virtues because they are not character traits expressed by action, but emotions that are to be felt and developed by feeling not acting.\nAyn Rand held that her morality, the , contained a single axiom: existence exists, and a single choice: to live. All values and virtues proceed from these. To live, man must hold three fundamental values that one develops and achieves in life: Reason, Purpose, and Self-Esteem. A value is \"that which one acts to gain and/or keep ... and the virtue[s] [are] the act[ions] by which one gains and/or keeps it.\" The primary virtue in Objectivist ethics is rationality, which as Rand meant it is \"the recognition and acceptance of reason as one's only source of knowledge, one's only judge of values and one's only guide to action.\" These values are achieved by passionate and consistent action and the virtues are the policies for achieving those fundamental values. Ayn Rand describes seven virtues: rationality, productiveness, pride, independence, integrity, honesty and justice. The first three represent the three primary virtues that correspond to the three fundamental values, whereas the final four are derived from the virtue of rationality. She claims that virtue is not an end in itself, that virtue is not its own reward nor sacrificial fodder for the reward of evil, that life is the reward of virtue and happiness is the goal and the reward of life. Man has a single basic choice: to think or not, and that is the gauge of his virtue. Moral perfection is an unbreached rationality, not the degree of your intelligence but the full and relentless use of your mind, not the extent of your knowledge but the acceptance of reason as an absolute.\n\nChristopher Peterson and Martin Seligman, two leading researchers in positive psychology, recognizing the deficiency inherent in psychology's tendency to focus on dysfunction rather than on what makes a healthy and stable personality, set out to develop a list of \"Character Strengths and Virtues\". After three years of study, 24 traits (classified into six broad areas of virtue) were identified, having \"a surprising amount of similarity across cultures and strongly indicat[ing] a historical and cross-cultural convergence.\" These six categories of virtue are courage, justice, humanity, temperance, transcendence, and wisdom. Some psychologists suggest that these virtues are adequately grouped into fewer categories; for example, the same 24 traits have been grouped into simply: Cognitive Strengths, Temperance Strengths, and Social Strengths.\n\nThe opposite of a virtue is a vice. Vice is a habitual, repeated practice of wrongdoing. One way of organizing the vices is as the corruption of the virtues.\n\nAs Aristotle noted, however, the virtues can have several opposites. Virtues can be considered the mean between two extremes, as the Latin maxim dictates \"in medio stat virtus\" - in the centre lies virtue. For instance, both cowardice and rashness are opposites of courage; contrary to prudence are both over-caution and insufficient caution; the opposites of pride (a virtue) are undue humility and excessive vanity. A more \"modern\" virtue, tolerance, can be considered the mean between the two extremes of narrow-mindedness on the one hand and over-acceptance on the other. Vices can therefore be identified as the opposites of virtues - but with the caveat that each virtue could have many different opposites, all distinct from each other.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2077425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2077425", "title": "When a white horse is not a horse", "text": "When a white horse is not a horse\n\nWhen A White Horse Is Not A Horse (), also known as the White Horse Dialogue (), is a famous paradox in Chinese philosophy. Gongsun Long wrote this circa 300 BC dialectic analysis of the question 'Is \"white horse not horse\" permissibly assertible?'.\n\nThe White Horse Dialogue (\"Baima Lun\") constitutes chapter 2 of the eponymous \"Gongsun Longzi\" \"Master Gongsun Long\", who was counted among the \"School of Names\" (aka \"Logicians\" or \"Dialecticians\") in the Hundred Schools of Thought. Most of Gongsun's writings have been lost and the received \"Gongsun Longzi\" text only contains 6 of the supposedly 14 original chapters. Parts of the text are dislocated and some commentators and translators rearrange them for clarity. The dialogue is between two unnamed speakers.\nIs \"\" assertible?\n\nAdvocate: It is.\n\nObjector: How?\n\nAdvocate: \"Horse\" is that by means of which one names the shape. \"White\" is that by means of which one names the color. What names the color is not what names the shape. Hence, one may \"white horse not horse.\"\n\nObjector: If there are white horses, one cannot say that there are no horses. If one cannot say that there are no horses, doesn't that mean that there are horses? For there to be white horses is for there to be horses. How could it be that the white ones are not horses?\n\nAdvocate: If one wants horses, that extends to yellow or black horses. But if one wants white horses, that does not extend to a yellow or black horses. Suppose that white horses were horses. Then what one wants [in the two cases] would be the same. If what one wants were the same, then 'white' would not differ from 'horse.' If what one wants does not differ, then how is it that yellow or black horses are acceptable in one case and unacceptable in the other case? It is clear that acceptable and unacceptable are mutually contrary. Hence, yellow and black horses are the same, one can respond that there are horses, but one cannot respond that there are white horses. Thus, it is evident that white horses are not horses.\nThis dialogue continues with deliberations over colored and colorless horses and whether \"white\" and \"horse\" can be separated from \"white horse\".\n\nOther \"Gongsun longzi\" chapters discuss \"Baima\"-related concepts of \"jian\" \"hard; hardness\" and \"bai\" \"white; whiteness\", \"ming\" \"name; term\" and \"shi\" \"solid; true, actual; fact, reality\", and abstract \"zhi\" \"finger; pointing; designation; universal\" like \"whiteness\" and concrete \"wu\" \"thing; object; particular\" like a \"white horse\".\n\nThe Chinese of \"a white horse is not a horse\" is \"bai ma fei ma\" 白馬非馬, whose meaning hinges upon the negative \"fei\" \"not, is not; no, negative; oppose; wrong\". The Classical construction \"A \"fei\" B\" \"A非B\" can ambiguously mean either \"A is not a member of the class B\" or \"A is not identical to B\". Interpreting this equivocation fallacy, A.C. Graham says this \"white horse\" vs. \"horse\" paradox plays upon the ambiguity of whether \"is\" means:\n\nIn other words, the expression \"a white horse is not a horse\" is ambiguous between \"a white horse is not identical with a horse\" (true, because \"white horse\" is more specific than \"horse\"), and \"a white horse is not a member of the set of horses\" (obviously false). The Advocate in the dialogue is asserting that \"a white horse is not [identical with] a horse,\" while the Objector is interpreting the Advocate's statement as \"a white horse is not [a member of the group of] horses.\"\n\nAn illustration of the alternative uses of \"fei\" may be found in the widely known \"Happiness of Fish\" dialogue in \"Zhuangzi\" (17, tr. Watson 1968:188-9). Huizi says \"You're not a fish [子非魚] — how do you know what fish enjoy?\" (denying that Zhuangzi is a member of the class of fish) and Zhuangzi replies \"You're not I [子非我], so how do you know I don't know what fish enjoy?\" (denying that the individuals Huizi and Zhuangzi are identical).\n\nBeyond the inherent semantic ambiguities of \"Baima fei ma\", the first line obscurely asks \"ke hu\" \"Can it be that …?\". This dialogue could be an attempted proof that a white horse is not a horse, or a question if such a statement is possible, or both. Bryan W. Van Norden suggests that \"the Advocate is only arguing that 'a white horse is not a horse' \"could\" be true, given a certain interpretation. He might acknowledge that, in another interpretation, 'a white horse \"is\" a horse.' \"\n\nAn alternative interpretation is offered in Feng Youlan's \"History of Chinese Philosophy \"(translated in 1952 by Derk Bodde):\n\nStrictly speaking, names or terms are divided into those that are abstract and those that are concrete. The abstract term denotes the universal, the concrete term the particular. The particular is the denotation, and the universal the connotation, of the term. In western inflected languages there is no difficulty in distinguishing between the particular ('white' or 'horse') and the abstract ('whiteness' or 'horseness'). In Chinese, however, owing to the fact that the written characters are ideographic and pictorial and lack all inflection, there is no possible way, as far as the form of individual words is concerned, of distinguishing between abstract and concrete terms. Thus in Chinese the word designating a particular horse and that designating the universal, 'horseness,' are written and pronounced in the same way. Similarly with other terms, so that such words as 'horse' and 'white', being used to designate both the concrete particular and the abstract universal, thus hold two values.\n\nHowever, there are no contemporary histories of Chinese philosophy that subscribe to Feng Youlan's interpretation. Other philosophers and sinologists who have analyzed the dialogue include Graham, Hansen, Harbsmeier, Thompson, and Van Norden.\n\nIn the Chinese philosophical tradition, the \"Baima Lun\"'s significance is evident from how many Chinese classic texts directly or indirectly discuss it. The \"Liezi\", which lists and criticizes the paradoxes of Gongsun Long as \"perversions of reason and sense\", explains \"'A white horse is not a horse', because the name diverges from the shape.\"\n\nTwo \"Zhuangzi\" chapters (17 and 33) mock Gongsun Long, and another (2) combines his \"zhi\" 指 \"attribute\" and \"ma\" 馬 \"horse\" notions in the same context.\nTo use an attribute to show that attributes are not attributes is not as good as using a nonattribute to show that attributes are not attributes. To use a horse to show that a horse is not a horse is not as good as using a non-horse to show that a horse is not a horse, Heaven and earth are one attribute; the ten thousand things are one horse.\n\nThe \"Mengzi\" (6A4) notes that \"bai\" 白 \"white\" has different connotations whether we are using it to refer to a graying person (who is worthy of respect because of his age) or a white horse (which should be treated like any other animal):\nMencius said, 'There is no difference between our pronouncing a white horse to be white and our pronouncing a white man to be white. But is there no difference between the regard with which we acknowledge the age of an old horse and that with which we acknowledge the age of an old man? And what is it which is called righteousness? The fact of a man's being old? Or the fact of our giving honour to his age?'\nOther early \"A white horse is not a horse\" references are found in the \"Hanfeizi\" (32), \"Mozi\" (11B), and \"Zhanguoce\" (4).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25313916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25313916", "title": "Wonderism", "text": "Wonderism\n\nWonderism is a term coined by French sinologist Terrien de Lacouperie (1845-1894) to differentiate the proto-Daoism of Jixia Academy from the philosophical Daoism of Laozi, although his ideas were received with skepticism at the time of assertion and have since been discredited by modern sinology.\n\nLacouperie believed that Chinese civilization was influenced by early sea traders from the Erythraean Sea and Indian Ocean who established a settlement in East China circa 675 BCE. It was located in the Zhou Dynasty state of Qi 齊 (present day Shandong Province) at Langye 琅琊 (near Linyi) and Jimo 即墨 (northeast and southwest of Jiaozhou Bay). In the history of Ancient Chinese coinage, Jimo was an important mint where large bronze knife money called \"Qi knives\" were manufactured.\nThese foreigners, Sabaeans, Syrians and Hindus introduced new notions, such as astrology and superstitions, and by their sailors' yarns awakened a curiosity for the wonderful. The social and political condition of the country was favourable to a movement of this sort. The Chinese princes were anxious of novelty to show their independence from the once respected and now disregarded suzerainty of the Kings of Chou. It was really an age of wonderism.\n\nAccording to Lacouperie, this school of thought combined with early philosophical Daoism to create religious Daoism. \nThe school of Wonderism, which had grown out of the influence of the trader-colonists of the Indian Ocean settled at Lang-ya and Tsih-Moh who had taught Astrology and an overrated conception of the transforming powers of nature, amalgamated with the pure Taoism of Lao-tze, and formed henceforth what may be called the Neo-Taoism or Tao-szeism, while Confucianism remained in opposition to it, such as his founder had conceived it against the encroachments of Wonderism, Taoism, and Shamanism. It was indeed the rising of Confucianism which led to the fusion of these various elements. \nThis terminology is outmoded. \"Taoszeism\" (from the French romanization \"tao-sze\" for \"daoshi\" 道士 \"Daoist master, Daoist priest/priestess\") was used by Léon de Rosny in reference to religious Daoism. \"Neotaoism\" or \"Neodaoism\" usually refers to Xuanxue 玄學 (lit. \"arcane studies\").\n"}
