{"id": "49742724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49742724", "title": "21st century skills", "text": "21st century skills\n\n21st century skills comprise skills, abilities, and learning dispositions that have been identified as being required for success in 21st century society and workplaces by educators, business leaders, academics, and governmental agencies. This is part of a growing international movement focusing on the skills required for students to master in preparation for success in a rapidly changing, digital society. Many of these skills are also associated with deeper learning, which is based on mastering skills such as analytic reasoning, complex problem solving, and teamwork. These skills differ from traditional academic skills in that they are not primarily content knowledge-based.\n\nDuring the latter decades of the 20th century and into the 21st century, society has undergone an accelerating pace of change in economy and technology. Its effects on the workplace, and thus on the demands on the educational system preparing students for the workforce, have been significant in several ways. Beginning in the 1980s, government, educators, and major employers issued a series of reports identifying key skills and implementation strategies to steer students and workers towards meeting the demands of the changing workplace and society.\n\nThe current workforce is significantly more likely to change career fields or jobs. Those in the Baby Boom generation entered the workforce with a goal of stability; subsequent generations are more concerned with finding happiness and fulfillment in their work lives. Young workers in North America are now likely to change jobs at a much higher rate than previously, as much as once every 4.4 years on average. With this employment mobility comes a demand for different skills, ones that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different career fields.\n\nAs western economies have transformed from industrial-based to service-based, trades and vocations have smaller roles. However, specific hard skills and mastery of particular skill sets, with a focus on digital literacy, are in increasingly high demand. People skills that involve interaction, collaboration, and managing others are increasingly important. Skills that enable people to be flexible and adaptable in different roles or in different fields, those that involve processing information and managing people more than manipulating equipment—in an office or a factory—are in greater demand. These are also referred to as \"applied skills\" or \"soft skills\", including personal, interpersonal, or learning-based skills, such as life skills (problem-solving behaviors), people skills, and social skills. The skills have been grouped into three main areas: \n\nMany of these skills are also identified as key qualities of progressive education, a pedagogical movement that began in the late nineteenth century and continues in various forms to the present.\n\nSince the early 1980s, a variety of governmental, academic, non-profit, and corporate entities have conducted considerable research to identify key personal and academic skills and competencies they determined were needed for the current and next generation. The identification and implementation of 21st century skills into education and workplaces began in the United States but has spread to Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand, and through national and international organizations such as APEC and the OECD.\n\nIn 1981, the US Secretary of Education created the National Commission on Excellence in Education to examine the quality of education in the United States.\" The commission issued its report \"A Nation at Risk: The Imperative for Educational Reform\" in 1983. A key finding was that \"educational reform should focus on the goal of creating a Learning Society.\" The report's recommendations included instructional content and skills:\n\nFive New Basics: English, Mathematics, Science, Social Studies, Computer Science\nOther Curriculum Matters: Develop proficiency, rigor, and skills in Foreign Languages, Performing Arts, Fine Arts, Vocational Studies, and the pursuit of higher level education.\nSkills and abilities (consolidated):\n\nUntil the dawn of the 21st century, education systems across the world focussed on preparing their students to accumulate content and knowledge. As a result, schools focussed on providing literacy and numeracy skills to their students, as these skills were perceived as necessary to gain content and knowledge. Recent developments in technology and telecommunication have made information and knowledge ubiquitous and easily accessible in the 21st century. Therefore, while skills such as literacy and numeracy are still relevant and necessary, they are no longer sufficient. In order to respond to technological, demographic and socio-economic changes, education systems began to make the shift toward providing their students with a range of skills that relied not only on cognition but also on the interdependencies of cognitive, social, and emotional characteristics. \n\nNotable efforts were conducted by the US Secretary of Labor's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS), a national coalition called the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (P21), the international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the American Association of College and Universities, researchers at MIT and other institutions of higher learning, and private organizations.\n\nAdditional research has found that the top skills demanded by U.S. Fortune 500 companies by the year 2000 had shifted from traditional reading, writing and arithmetic to teamwork, problem solving, and interpersonal skills. A 2006 Conference Board survey of some 400 employers revealed that the most important skills for new workforce entrants included oral and written communications and critical thinking/problem solving, ahead of basic knowledge and skills, such as the reading comprehension and mathematics. While the ‘three Rs’ were still considered foundational to new workforce entrants’ abilities, employers emphasized that applied skills like collaboration/teamwork and critical thinking were ‘very important’ to success at work.\"\n\nA 2006 report from MIT researchers countered the suggestion that students acquire critical skills and competencies independently by interacting with popular culture, noting three continuing trends that suggest the need for policy and pedagogical interventions:\"\n\nAccording to labor economists at MIT and Harvard’s Graduate School of Education, the economic changes brought about over the past four decades by emerging technology and globalization, employers’ demands for people with competencies like complex thinking and communications skills has increased greatly. They argue that the success of the U.S. economy will rely on the nation’s ability to give students the \"foundational skills in problem-solving and communications that computers don’t have.\"\n\nIn 2010, the Common Core State Standards Initiative, an effort sponsored by the National Governors Association (NGA) and the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO), issued the Common Core Standards, calling for the integration of 21st century skills into K-12 curricula across the United States.\n\nThe skills and competencies that are generally considered \"21st Century skills\" are varied but share some common themes. They are based on the premise that effective learning, or deeper learning, a set of student educational outcomes including acquisition of robust core academic content, higher-order thinking skills, and learning dispositions. This pedagogy involves creating, working with others, analyzing, and presenting and sharing both the learning experience and the learned knowledge or wisdom, including to peers and mentors as well as teachers. This contrasts with more traditional learning methodology that involves learning by rote and regurgitating info/knowledge back to the teacher for a grade. The skills are geared towards students and workers to foster engagement; seeking, forging, and facilitating connections to knowledge, ideas, peers, instructors, and wider audiences; creating/producing; and presenting/publishing. The classification or grouping has been undertaken to encourage and promote pedagogies that facilitate deeper learning through both traditional instruction as well as active learning, project-based learning, problem based learning, and others. A 2012 survey conducted by the American Management Association (AMA) identified three top skills necessary for their employees: critical thinking, communication and collaboration. Below are some of the more readily identifiable lists of 21st century skills.\n\nThe Common Core Standards issued in 2010 were intended to support the \"application of knowledge through higher-order thinking skills.\" The initiative's stated goals are to promote the skills and concepts required for college and career readiness in multiple disciplines and life in the global economy. Skills identified for success in the areas of literacy and mathematics:\n\nFollowing the release of \"A Nation at Risk\", the U.S. Secretary of Labor appointed the Secretary's Commission on Achieving Necessary Skills (SCANS) to determine the skills needed for young people to succeed in the workplace to foster a high-performance economy. SCANS focused on what they called \"learning a living\" system. In 1991, they issued their initial report, \"What Work Requires of Schools\". The report concluded that a high-performance workplace requires workers who have key fundamental skills: basic skills and knowledge, thinking skills to apply that knowledge, personal skills to manage and perform; and five key workplace competencies.\n\nFundamental Skills\n\nWorkplace Competencies\n\nIn 2002 the Partnership for 21st Century Skills (now the Partnership for 21st Century Learning, or P21) was founded as a non-profit organization by a coalition that included members of the national business community, education leaders, and policymakers: the National Education Association (NEA), United States Department of Education, AOL Time Warner Foundation, Apple Computer, Inc., Cable in the Classroom, Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Computer Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, SAP, Ken Kay (President and Co-Founder), and Dins Golder-Dardis. To foster a national conversation on \"the importance of 21st century skills for all students\" and \"position 21st century readiness at the center of US K-12 education\", P21 identified six key skills:\n\n7C Skills have been identified by P21 senior fellows at P21, Bernie Trilling and Charles Fadel:\n\nThe P21 organization also conducted research that identified deeper learning competencies and skills they called the Four Cs of 21st century learning:\n\nThe University of Southern California's Project New Literacies website list four different \"C\" skills: \n\nIn 2008, author and Harvard Graduate School of Education researcher Tony Wagner identified what he termed the \"7 Survival Skills\" needed for the modern workplace:\n\n\nResearchers at MIT, led by Henry Jenkins, Director of the Comparative Media Studies Program, in 2006 issued a white paper (\"Confronting the Challenges of a Participatory Culture: Media Education for the 21st Century\"), that examined digital media and learning. To address this Digital Divide, they recommended an effort be made to develop the cultural competencies and social skills required to participate fully in modern society instead of merely advocating for installing computers in each classroom. What they term participatory culture shifts this literacy from the individual level to a broader connection and involvement, with the premise that networking and collaboration develop social skills that are vital to new literacies. These in turn build on traditional foundation skills and knowledge taught in school: traditional literacy, research, technical, and critical analysis skills.\n\nParticipatory culture is defined by this study as having: low barriers to artistic expression and civic engagement, strong support for creating and sharing one’s creations, informal mentorship, belief that members' own contributions matter, and social connection (caring what other people think about their creations).\nForms of participatory culture include:\n\nThe skills identified were:\n\nA 2005 study (Lenhardt & Madden) found that more than one-half of all teens have created media content, and roughly one third of teens who use the Internet have shared content they produced, indicating a high degree of involvement in participatory cultures. Such digital literacies emphasize the intellectual activities of a person working with sophisticated information communications technology, not on proficiency with the tool.\n\nIn 2003 the North Central Regional Educational Laboratory and the Metiri Group issued a report entitled \"enGauge® 21st Century Skills: Literacy in the Digital Age\" based on two years of research. The report called for policymakers and educators to define 21st century skills, highlight the relationship of those skills to conventional academic standards, and recognize the need for multiple assessments to measure and evaluate these skills within the context of academic standards and the current technological and global society. To provide a common understanding of, and language for discussing, the needs of students, citizens, and workers in a modern digital society, the report identified four \"skill clusters\":\n\nIn 1997, member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development launched the Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) to monitor \"the extent to which students near the end of compulsory schooling have acquired the knowledge and skills essential for full participation in society\". In 2005 they identified three \"Competency Categories:\" \n\nThe AAC&U conducted several studies and surveys of their members. In 2007 they recommended that graduates of higher education attain four skills - The Essential Learning Outcomes:\n\nThey found that skills most widely addressed in college and university goals are:\n\nA 2015 survey of AAC&U member institutions added the following goals:\n\nThe ISTE Educational Technology Standards (formerly National Educational Technology Standards (NETS)) are a set of standards published by the International Society for Technology in Education (ISTE) to leverage the use of technology in K-12 education. These are sometimes intermixed with information and communication technologies (ICT) skills. In 2007 NETS issued a series of six performance indicators (only the first four are on their website as of 2016):\n\n\nIn 2007 the Educational Testing Service (ETS) ICT Literacy Panel released its digital literacy standards:\nInformation and Communication Technologies (ICT) proficiencies:\n\nA person possessing these skills would be expected to perform these tasks for a particular set of information: access, manage, integrate, evaluate, create/publish/present. The emphasis is on proficiency with digital tools.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Dede of the Harvard Graduate School of Education developed a framework based on new digital literacies entitled\nNeomillennial Learning Styles:\n\nDede category system\nWith the exponential expansion of personal access to Internet resources, including social media, information and content on the Internet has evolved from being created by website providers to individuals and communities of contributors. The 21st century Internet centered on material created by a small number of people, Web 2.0 tools (e.g. Wikipedia) foster online communication, collaboration, and creation of content by large numbers of people (individually or in groups) in online communities.\n\nIn 2009, Dede created a category system for Web 2.0 tools: \n\nIn 2015, the World Economic Forum published a report titled ‘New Vision for Education: Unlocking the Potential of Technology’ that focused on the pressing issue of the 21st-century skills gap and ways to address it through technology. In the report, they defined a set of 16 crucial proficiencies for education in the 21st century. Those skills include six “foundational literacies”, four “competencies” and six “character qualities” listed below.\n\nFoundation Literacies\n\nCompetencies\n\n\nCharacter Qualities\n\nIn a paper titled ‘Education for Life and Work: Developing Transferable Knowledge and Skills in the 21st Century’ produced by the National Research Council of National Academies, the National Research defines 21st century skills, describes how the skills relate to each other and summaries the evidence regarding 21st century skills. \n\nAs a first step toward describing “21st century skills,” the National Research Council identified three domains of competence: cognitive, interpersonal, and intrapersonal while recognizing that the three domains while different, are intertwined in human development and learning. These three domains represent distinct facets of human thinking and build on previous efforts to identify and organize dimensions of human behaviour. The committee produced the following cluster of 21st century skills in the above mentioned 3 domains. \n\nCognitive Competencies\n\n\nIntrapersonal Competencies\n\n\nInterpersonal Competencies\n\n\nMultiple agencies and organizations have issued guides and recommendation for implementation of 21st century skills in a variety of learning environments and learning spaces. These include five separate educational areas: standards, assessment, professional development, curriculum & instruction, and learning environments.\n\nThe designs of learning environments and curricula have been impacted by the initiatives and efforts to implement and support 21st century skills with a move away from the factory model school model and into a variety of different organizational models. Hands-on learning project-based learning have resulted in the development of programs and spaces such as STEM and makerspaces. Collaborative learning environments have fostered flexibility in furniture and classroom layout as well as differentiated spaces, such as small seminar rooms near classrooms. Literacy with, and access to, digital technology has impacted the design of furniture and fixed components as students and teachers use tablets, interactive whiteboards and interactive projectors. Classroom sizes have grown to accommodate a variety of furniture arrangements and grouping, many of which are less space-efficient than traditional configurations of desks in rows.\n\n\nBellanca, J. (Ed.) (2010) 21st Century Skills: Rethinking How Students Learn. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. \nBellanca, J (Ed.) (2014) Deeper Learning: Beyond 21st Century Skills. Solution Tree Press, Bloomington, In. (Ben Franklin Award, Independent Publishers. Asso. 2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "44917940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44917940", "title": "929: Tanakh B'yachad", "text": "929: Tanakh B'yachad\n\n929: Tanakh B'yachad (Hebrew: Bible Together, 929 - תנך ביחד) is a project for learning one chapter of Tanakh per day (except Friday and Saturday), totaling 5 chapters per week. The name '929' refers to the total number of chapters in the Tanakh.\n\nThe project was announced by the Israeli Education Ministry, and began on December 21, 2014. The first cycle was completed on April 18, 2018, coinciding with Israel's 70th Independence Day. \n\nThe first cycle of the project offered content in Hebrew only. The second cycle, which began on July 15, 2018, offers some content in English as well. It will conclude on February 2, 2022. \n\n"}
{"id": "42057469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42057469", "title": "Academic program prioritization", "text": "Academic program prioritization\n\nAcademic program prioritization is the activity or process in which an academic institution assesses and prioritizes its programs for the purpose of more strategically allocating its funding and resources. This is a process a school engages in when it intends to make systematic changes. For instance, Boise State University underwent a yearlong process of exploring and assessing its programs with the intention of making the university more focused and more aligned with the needs of its students.\n\nProgram prioritization is similar to program evaluation but differs in that it not only involves evaluating programs but also involves making financial decisions concerning program funding. Program prioritization can be a significant issue, having the potential to affect the lives and goals of both students and faculty. This page deals with program prioritization in the context of higher education, and it attempts to provide a basic description of what this entails.\n\nA school engaged in the process of prioritizing its programs may decide to either increase, decrease, continue, or discontinue the funding for particular programs, leading to these programs being either expanded, downsized, unchanged, or discontinued entirely. For example, in 2013, Western Carolina University announced that after a process of program prioritization it would discontinue several programs including a bachelor’s in German, a minor in women’s studies, as well master’s programs in music, health sciences, English, and mathematics. \nPrograms are generally prioritized on the basis of their student populations and potential to attract new students. Though, other factors may also weigh in on the likelihood of a program being downsized or discontinued, such as its overall cost for the university.\n\nPrioritization of programs and reallocation of funding are usually necessitated by the combination of two factors: 1) A school’s desire to develop and expand, and 2) limited funding. If a school wants to grow and expand its programs, but doesn’t possess the resources to develop each program equally, prioritization may become necessary. Schools are under pressure to expand and therefore they are going to be under pressure to reallocate funding towards more successful programs.\n"}
{"id": "36073594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36073594", "title": "Adventures of the Mind", "text": "Adventures of the Mind\n\nAdventures of the Mind is an achievement-focused mentoring camp for talented high school students. Educators from across the nation nominate students whom they believe, with guidance and nurture, can maximize their potential and make important contributions to society. Honored guests share their life stories that can serve as a road map to the students on their own personal paths to success.\n\nFounded in 2003, the \"Adventures of the Mind\" achievement mentoring camp brings together, on a college campus, high potential teens from across the country with accomplished mentors from a variety of fields: artists, astronauts, athletes, entrepreneurs, inventors, journalists, Nobel laureates, novelists, poets, poker players, programmers, public servants, Pulitzer prize winners, scholars, and more. Adventures of the Mind provides the students — who are the great thinker and achievers of tomorrow — with an opportunity to interact with some of the great thinkers and achievers of today. The camp runs for 7 days and is developed by student achievement and advocacy services. Murray Gell-Mann who was awarded the 1969 Nobel Prize in Physics and a Mentor at the 2011 summit, is quoted as saying:\n\nStudent attendees are selected through a highly personalized and rigorous search that goes beyond traditional measures of achievement — grades and test scores — by asking teachers to personally nominate an exceptional teen. Attendees are chosen regardless of learning disabilities, socioeconomic factors, or other obstacles that may obscure real potential. Additionally, participants are chosen from runners-up in national competitions ranging from the Presidential Scholars Program to the Intel Science Talent Search to the National Poetry Slam. \"Adventures of the Mind\" targets high potential students who may not yet garner the same level of recognition as their peers, but would benefit just as much from the experience the camp provides.\n\nMentors represent a wide variety of backgrounds and fields including arts, business, literature, public service, philanthropy, science and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23606648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606648", "title": "All About Us: Living and Growing", "text": "All About Us: Living and Growing\n\nAll About Us: Living and Growing is a British Sex and Relationships Education series for 5–13 year olds published by Channel 4 on VHS and DVD. The series is often referred to by its short name of \"Living and Growing\". It covers the differences between a boy and a girl, Puberty, how babies are made and how babies are born. The programmes were put into units 1, 2, 3 and 4.\n\nIn the first three units the programme includes gently introducing sex education to younger children, through puberty and birth, to media images, same-sex relationships and teenage pregnancy. The fourth unit covers puberty and body image in more detail with a focus on maintaining a healthy mind and body\n\nUnit 1 - Age 5-7\nDifferences | How did I get here? | Growing up\n\nUnit 2 - Age 7-9\nChanges | How babies are made | How babies are born\n\nUnit 3 - Age 9-11\nGirl talk | Boy talk | Let's talk about sex\n\nUnit 4 - Age 11-13\nPuberty | Body image | Making the right choices\n\nAs of July 7, 2012, the DVDs were removed from the Channel 4 product catalogue as a result of the Government’s announcement that the PSHE curriculum is under review. The Alternative version, featuring the first three units, was released in 2013 as the review had not taken place.\n\nIn the Alternative version Girl Talk and Boy Talk were moved to Unit 2 which now focuses mainly on puberty. How babies are made and How babies are born took their place in Unit 3 and the Let's talk about sex episode was dropped.\n\nThe program has come under scrutiny by parents because of its graphic depictions of sexual intercourse and foreplay in Unit 2, in which, among other scenes, it \"shows a naked cartoon couple pillow fighting before having sexual intercourse in several positions, as a narrator describes sex and its physical changes as \"fun and very exciting\". Although the Alternative version removed some of more explicit content concerns have still been expressed and it has been noted that the worksheets remain unchanged and the original DVDs were not recalled.\n"}
{"id": "26513686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26513686", "title": "Ancient higher-learning institutions", "text": "Ancient higher-learning institutions\n\nA variety of ancient higher-learning institutions were developed in many cultures to provide institutional frameworks for scholarly activities. These ancient centres were sponsored and overseen by courts; by religious institutions, which sponsored cathedral schools, monastic schools, and madrasas; by scientific institutions, such as museums, hospitals, and observatories; and by individual scholars. They are to be distinguished from the Western-style university, an autonomous organization of scholars that originated in medieval Europe and has been adopted in other regions in modern times (see list of oldest universities in continuous operation).\n\nThe Platonic Academy (sometimes referred to as the University of Athens), founded ca. 387 BC in Athens, Greece, by the philosopher Plato, lasted 916 years (until AD 529) with interruptions. It was emulated during the Renaissance by the Florentine Platonic Academy, whose members saw themselves as following Plato's tradition.\n\nAround 335 BC, Plato's successor Aristotle founded the Peripatetic school, the students of which met at the Lyceum gymnasium in Athens. The school ceased in 86 BC during the famine, siege and sacking of Athens by Sulla.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, the Museion in Alexandria (which included the Library of Alexandria) became the leading research institute for science and technology from which many Greek innovations sprang. The engineer Ctesibius (fl. 285–222 BC) may have been its first head. It was suppressed and burned between AD 216 and 272, and the library was destroyed between 272 and 391.\n\nThe reputation of these Greek institutions was such that at least four central modern educational terms derive from them: the academy, the lyceum, the gymnasium and the museum.\n\nThe Pandidakterion of Constantinople, founded as an institution of higher learning in 425, educated graduates to take on posts of authority in the imperial service or within the Church. It was reorganized as a corporation of students in 849 by the regent Bardas of emperor Michael III, is considered by some to be the earliest institution of higher learning with some of the characteristics we associate today with a university (research and teaching, auto-administration, academic independence, et cetera). If a university is defined as \"an institution of higher learning\" then it is preceded by several others, including the Academy that it was founded to compete with and eventually replaced. If the original meaning of the word is considered \"a corporation of students\" then this could be the first example of such an institution. The Preslav Literary School and Ohrid Literary School were the two major literary schools of the First Bulgarian Empire.\n\nIn Western Europe during the Early Middle Ages, bishops sponsored cathedral schools and monasteries sponsored monastic schools, chiefly dedicated to the education of clergy. The earliest evidence of a European episcopal school is that established in Visigothic Spain at the Second Council of Toledo in 527. These early episcopal schools, with a focus on an apprenticeship in religious learning under a scholarly bishop, have been identified in Spain and in about twenty towns in Gaul during the 6th and 7th centuries.\n\nIn addition to these episcopal schools, there were monastic schools which educated monks and nuns, as well as future bishops, at a more advanced level. Around the turn of the 12th and 13th centuries, some of them developed into autonomous universities. A notable example is when the University of Paris grew out of the schools associated with the Cathedral of Notre Dame, the Monastery of Ste. Geneviève, and the Abbey of St. Victor.\n\nMajor Buddhist monasteries (\"mahaviharas\"), notably those at Pushpagiri, Nalanda, and Taxila, included schools that were some of the primary institutions of higher learning in ancient India.\n\nThe school in Pushpagiri was established in the 3rd century AD as present Odisha, India. As of 2007, the ruins of this Mahavihara had not yet been fully excavated. Consequently, much of the Mahavihara's history remains unknown. Of the three Mahavihara campuses, Lalitgiri in the district of Cuttack is the oldest. Iconographic analysis indicates that Lalitgiri had already been established during the Shunga period of the 2nd century BC, making it one of the oldest Buddhist establishments in the world. The Chinese traveller Xuanzang (Hiuen Tsang), who visited it in AD 639, as \"Puphagiri Mahavihara\", as well as in medieval Tibetan texts. However, unlike Takshila and Nalanda, the ruins of Pushpagiri were not discovered until 1995, when a lecturer from a local college first stumbled upon the site. The task of excavating Pushpagiri's ruins, stretching over of land, was undertaken by the Odisha Institute of Maritime and South East Asian Studies between 1996 and 2006. It is now being carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).\nThe Nagarjunakonda inscriptions also mention about this learning center.\n\nNalanda was established in the fifth century AD in Bihar, India and survived until circa 1200 AD. It was devoted to Buddhist studies, but it also trained students in fine arts, medicine, mathematics, astronomy, politics and the art of war.\n\nThe center had eight separate compounds, ten temples, meditation halls, classrooms, lakes and parks. It had a nine-story library where monks meticulously copied books and documents so that individual scholars could have their own collections. It had dormitories for students, housing 10,000 students in the school’s heyday and providing accommodation for 2,000 professors. Nalanda attracted pupils and scholars from Sri Lanka, Korea, Japan, China, Tibet, Indonesia, Persia and Turkey, who left accounts of the center.\n\nIn 2014 a modern Nalanda University was launched in nearby Rajgir.\n\nAncient Taxila or Takshashila, in ancient Gandhara (modern-day Pakistan), was an early Hindu and Buddhist centre of learning. According to scattered references that were only fixed a millennium later, it may have dated back to at least the fifth century BC. Some scholars date Takshashila's existence back to the sixth century BC. The school consisted of several monasteries without large dormitories or lecture halls where the religious instruction was most likely still provided on an individualistic basis.\n\nTakshashila is described in some detail in later Jātaka tales, written in Sri Lanka around the fifth century AD.\n\nIt became a noted centre of learning at least several centuries BC, and continued to attract students until the destruction of the city in the fifth century AD. Takshashila is perhaps best known because of its association with Chanakya. The famous treatise Arthashastra (Sanskrit for The knowledge of Economics) by Chanakya, is said to have been composed in Takshashila itself. Chanakya (or Kautilya), the Maurya Emperor Chandragupta and the Ayurvedic healer Charaka studied at Taxila.\n\nGenerally, a student entered Takshashila at the age of sixteen. The Vedas and the Eighteen Arts, which included skills such as archery, hunting, and elephant lore, were taught, in addition to its law school, medical school, and school of military science.\n\nVikramashila was one of the two most important centres of learning in India during the Pala Empire, along with Nalanda. Vikramashila was established by King Dharmapala (783 to 820) in response to a supposed decline in the quality of scholarship at Nalanda. Atisha, the renowned pandita, is sometimes listed as a notable abbot. It was destroyed by the forces of Muhammad bin Bakhtiyar Khilji around 1200.\n\nVikramashila is known to us mainly through Tibetan sources, especially the writings of Tāranātha, the Tibetan monk historian of the 16th–17th centuries.\n\nVikramashila was one of the largest Buddhist universities, with more than one hundred teachers and about one thousand students. It produced eminent scholars who were often invited by foreign countries to spread Buddhist learning, culture and religion. The most distinguished and eminent among all was Atisha Dipankara, a founder of the Sarma traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. Subjects like philosophy, grammar, metaphysics, Indian logic etc. were taught here, but the most important branch of learning was tantrism.\n\nFurther centers include Telhara in Bihar (probably older than Nalanda), Odantapuri, in Bihar (circa 550 - 1040), Somapura, in Bangladesh (from the Gupta period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Sharada Peeth, Pakistan, Jagaddala Mahavihara, in Bengal (from the Pala period to the Turkic Muslim conquest), Nagarjunakonda, in Andhra Pradesh, Vikramashila, in Bihar (\"circa\" 800-1040), Valabhi, in Gujarat (from the Maitrak period to the Arab raids), Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh (eighth century to modern times), Kanchipuram, in Tamil Nadu, Manyakheta, in Karnataka, Mahavihara, Abhayagiri Vihāra, and Jetavanaramaya, in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn China, the ancient imperial academy known as Taixue was established by the Han Dynasty. It was intermittently inherited by succeeding Chinese dynasties up until the Qing dynasty, in some of which the name was changed to Guozixue or Guozijian. Peking University (Imperial University of Peking) established in 1898 is regarded as the replacement of Taixue. By 725 AD, Shuyuan or Academies of Classical Learning were private learning institutions established during the medieval Chinese Tang dynasty. In Japan, Daigakuryo was founded in 671 and Ashikaga Gakko was founded in the 9th century and restored in 1432. In Korea, Taehak was founded in 372 and Gukhak was established in 682. Seowons were private institutions established during the Joseon dynasty which combined functions of a Confucian shrine and a preparatory school. The Seonggyungwan was founded by in 1398 to offer prayers and memorials to Confucius and his disciples, and to promote the study of the Confucian canon. It was the successor to Gukjagam from the Goryeo Dynasty (992). It was reopened as a private Western-style university in 1946.\n\nThe Academy of Gondishapur was established in the 3rd century AD under the rule of Sassanid kings and continued its scholarly activities up to four centuries after Islam came to Iran. It was an important medical centre of the 6th and 7th centuries and a prominent example of higher education model in pre-Islam Iran. When the Platonic Academy in Athens was closed in 529, some of its pagan scholars went to Gundishahpur, although they returned within a year to Byzantium.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20005809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20005809", "title": "Assessment in computer-supported collaborative learning", "text": "Assessment in computer-supported collaborative learning\n\nAssessment in computer-supported collaborative learning (CSCL) environments is a subject of interest to educators and researchers. The assessment tools utilized in computer-supported collaborative learning settings are used to measure groups' knowledge of the collaborative processes, the quality of groups' products and individuals' collaborative learning skills.\n\nTraditional assessment is equated with individualized exams and evaluations. However, in online collaborative learning, assessment requires a broader perspective as it encompasses the collaborative interactions using asynchronous and synchronous communications between group members. Assessment has been found to have a significant effect on CSCL by motivating learners through accountability and constructive feedback. It supports students in growing familiar with the course content through discourse and effectively encourages the participation of students.\n\nAssessment is the systematic basis for making inferences about the learning and development of students. Specifically, assessment is the process of defining, selecting, analyzing, interpreting, and using information to increase students' learning and development.\n\nAssessment is an ongoing process aimed at understanding and improving student learning. It involves making expectations explicit and public; setting appropriate criteria and high standards for learning quality; systematically gathering, analyzing, and interpreting evidence to determine how well performance matches those expectations and standards; and using the resulting information to document, explain, and improve performance.\nTypes of assessment in CSCL include whole-group assessment, self-assessment, peer assessment, assessment tools in CSCL, performance rubric, product rubric, and blogs\n\nA paradigm shift occurs in the assessment of the products and processes in CSCL. In the traditional educational setting, final assessment is performed exclusively by the instructor.(p. 232) In CSCL, the instructor designs, facilitates, direct instruction and provide technical guidance. The participants take an active role in setting the standard criteria for assessing individual and group learning.\n\nVarious technologies may provide information that may be used for assessment purposes. For example, email, computer conferencing systems, bulletin boards, and hypermedia can be used as media for communication between group members in CSCL classrooms.(p. 13). This technology can be used to keep a record of the students' interactions. This interaction record enables the instructor and students in assessing a learner's participation and collaboration with the group.(p. 664).\n\nIn CSCL settings, the relative value of the collaborative process and the product must be appropriately balanced. The pedagogical principle in CSCL environments is the assumption that knowledge is constructed through social negotiation and discussion with others. This social interaction encourages critical thinking and understanding.(p. 309) When learning occurs through social interaction, knowledge building can also be observed through text analysis or discourse analysis. One way to assess knowledge construction in online collaborative settings is by collecting and analyzing the discursive events recorded and kept as history in computer conferencing systems in the form of virtual artifact. Transcripts can be used to determine the quantity and quality of interactions in negotiating meaning of the course material.(p. 379) The instructor evaluates the messages exchanged by the students for meaningfulness and pertinence in regards to the target content.\n\nInstructors can use discourse analysis to assess the students' learning of the collaborative process itself. The instructor can make use of the dialogue to look for cues of collaboration: support and respect in their criticisms, consideration of other teammates' opinions, negotiation of meaning, demonstration of mutual understanding, achievement of consensus, problem-solving, and time and task management issues. Another consideration in assessing students' collaborative skills, is the students' competence in online collaboration. As proficiency develops in progressive stages, the instructor can design the assessment to account for the students' developing competence in progressive steps throughout the online collaborative process.(p. 378)\n\nCollaborative products can be used to assess learners' knowledge acquisition. The products can be: a concept map, a report, a research paper, an essay, a wiki, a website, etc. Two assessable elements of collaborative product are the overall quality of the collaborative product and the contributions of each individual.(p. 386) Each member of the group must participate in the collaborative activities. The products created by groups of students in CSCL contexts cannot be used as the sole evidence of knowledge acquisition. Although a quality product may be important, it is the process that generates the actual learning.\"(p. 170)\n\nSelf assessment in CSCL, students taking responsibility of learning by evaluating and judging aspects of their own learning activity. In peer assessment, individuals take into account the quantity and quality of their own product or performance. In CSCL, these two types of assessments are dynamically interrelated. The aim of self and peer assessments in CSCL is to improve students' learning, and develop individual learning skills as well as grading individual learning outcomes.\nSelf and peer assessment:\nGroup work assessment in CSCL measures the quantity and quality of students' learning as a team. Group work or teamwork is a collaborative learning situation in which students share the task of developing a product presented at the end of the course. Group work is not measured and interpreted independently but evaluated with other assessment tools, and plays a role in assisting learners' to reflect on their learning process.\nGroup work assessment:\n\nE-portfolio can be used in assessment of CSCL activities by showing students' growth or proficiency in learning. Organizing information about individual students, the instructor keeps track of the student's learning process. These portfolios are managed online and are referred to as electronic portfolio, digital portfolio, or web-portfolio.\nIn using E-portfolios in CSCL assessment an instructor determines:\n\n"}
{"id": "9985739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9985739", "title": "Assessment of basic language and learning skills", "text": "Assessment of basic language and learning skills\n\nThe assessment of basic language and learning skills (ABLLS, often pronounced \"ables\") is an educational tool used frequently with applied behavior analysis (ABA) to measure the basic linguistic and functional skills of an individual with developmental delays or disabilities.\n\nThe revised assessment of basic language and learning skills (ABLLS-R) is an assessment tool, curriculum guide, and skills-tracking system used to help guide the instruction of language and critical learner skills for children with autism or other developmental disabilities. It provides a comprehensive review of 544 skills from 25 skill areas including language, social interaction, self-help, academic and motor skills that most typically developing children acquire prior to entering kindergarten. Expressive language skills are assessed based upon the behavioral analysis of language as presented by Dr. B.F. Skinner in his book, Verbal Behavior (1957). The task items within each skill area are arranged from simpler to more complex tasks. This practical tool facilitates the identification of skills needed by the child to effectively communicate and learn from everyday experiences. The information obtained from this assessment allows parents and professionals to pinpoint obstacles that have been preventing a child from acquiring new skills and to develop a comprehensive language-based curriculum.\nThe ABLLS-R comprises two documents. The ABLLS-R Protocol is used to score the child’s performance on the task items and provides 15 appendices that allow for the tracking of a variety of specific skills that are included in the assessment. The ABLLS-R Guide provides information about the features of the ABLLS-R, how to correctly score items, and how to develop Individualized Education Program (IEP) goals and objectives that clearly define and target the learning needs of a student. \n\nThe original version was first released in 1998 by Behavior Analysts, Inc. and was developed by James W. Partington, Ph.D., BCBA-D and Mark L. Sundberg, Ph.D, BCBA-D. It was revised in 2006 by Partington. The revised version incorporates many new task items and provides a more specific sequence in the developmental order of items within the various skill areas. Significant changes were made in the revised version of the vocal imitation section with input from Denise Senick-Pirri, SLP-CCC. Additional improvements were made to incorporate items associated with social interaction skills, motor imitation and other joint attention skills, and to ensure the fluent use of established skills.\n\nThe WebABLLS is an electronic version of the assessment. It allows parents, teachers, speech pathologists, behavior analysts, and others who design, coordinate, or supervise language or skill-acquisition programs to expedite the development of IEPs, progress reports, and to easily share information about a child. The WebABLLS provides videos of many skills that are measured by the ABLLS-R and can be used to demonstrate those specific skills.\n\nOver the past four years, parents, relatives and friends of typically developing children have been participating in an ongoing research project by entering data into the WebABLLS. The data are collected by parents or professionals who both know the children and have received training in the administration of the ABLLS-R. The data are updated at three-month intervals (i.e., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months) in order to track the specific changes in skills over the course of the children’s development. These preliminary data have been collected in a systematic manner to provide information about when each skill measured by the ABLLS-R is usually acquired by typically developing children. \n\nThe preliminary data from this research project are from 81 children (42 females & 39 males) ranging in age from 6 months to 60 months. Children are from a variety of geographical locations (both nationally and internationally) and of differing ethnic, socio-economic and educational backgrounds. The average percent of the total possible scores along with the range from the highest to the lowest scores for the sample at each 3-month age intervals are presented. The data clearly indicate that typically developing children demonstrate most of the basic language and learning skills measured by the ABLLS-R by the time they are 4 to 5 years of age.\n\nWhile the ABLLS-R is most commonly used on children with developmental disabilities and delays (including autism), it can be used for anyone who may be lacking in basic communication or life skills.\n\nIt assesses the strengths and weaknesses of an individual in each of the 25 skill sets. Each skill set is broken down into multiple skills, ordered by typical development or complexity. So, a skill of F1 (Requests by indicating) is a simpler skill than F12 (Requesting Help). \"Usually\", lower level skills are needed before proceeding to teach higher skills. However, many individuals display splinter skills that are above their practical level.\n\nThe ABLLS-R is conducted via observation of the child's behavior in each skill area. The instructor will provide a stimulus to the child (verbal, hand-over-hand, non-verbal, etc.), and, depending on what the child does (the behavior), determines their skill-level. Some skills are difficult or time-consuming to test; instructors frequently accept anecdotal evidence from parents and other instructors as to a child's ability at a given skill-level.\n\nThe ABLLS-R is split into 25 functional areas, each corresponding to a letter in the alphabet. The sections between the ABLLS and ABLLS-R are similar; it is mostly the skills that vary in number and scope.\n\nThe following is a very brief list of advantages and disadvantages to using the ABLLS-R assessment.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29983514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29983514", "title": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad", "text": "Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad\n\nThe Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Faisalabad (BISE Faisalabad) is an examining board for intermediate (higher secondary) and secondary (high school) education in Faisalabad Division.\n\nBISE Faisalabad was established in 1988. The current jurisdiction of the board was first under the supervision of Board of Intermediate and Secondary Education, Sargodha.\nIts main building is now on the main jhang road near the Faisalabad International Airport.\n\nThe jurisdiction of Faisalabad Board includes Faisalabad Division which includes the following districts:\n\n\nBoard of Intermediate and Secondary Education conducts Matric (9th and 10th) class exams and Intermediate (part I and part II) exams every year. A great number of students participate in these exams every year. The exams mostly started in the month of March and ends April while the results of BISE Faisalabad announced in the month of July and August. The matric result usually announced in July while the inter result announced in the end of August or the start of September. Results of all the classes are also published on the BISE website. On the days when the results of 10th and 12th class are announced, there is a ceremony at the Board office where medals and other awards are given to the position holder students.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5733800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5733800", "title": "Cheat sheet", "text": "Cheat sheet\n\nA cheat sheet (also \"cheatsheet\") or crib sheet is a concise set of notes used for quick reference.\n\nCheat sheets are so named because they may be used by students without the instructor's knowledge to cheat on a test. However, at higher levels of education where rote memorization is not as important as in basic education, students may be permitted to consult their own notes during the exam (which is not considered cheating). The act of preparing a crib sheet can be an educational exercise, and students are sometimes only allowed to use crib sheets they have written themselves. \n\nA cheat sheet is a physical piece of paper, often filled with equations and/or facts in compressed writing. Students often print cheat sheets in extremely small font, fitting an entire page of notes in the palm of their hands during the exam.\n\nCrib sheets are also fully worked solutions for exams or work sheets normally handed out to university staff in order to ease marking.\n\nIn more general usage, a crib sheet is any short (one or two page) reference to terms, commands, or symbols where the user is expected to understand the use of such terms but not necessarily to have memorized all of them. Many computer applications, for example, have crib sheets included in their documentation, which list keystrokes or menu commands needed to achieve specific tasks to save the user the effort of digging through an entire manual to find the keystroke needed to, for example, move between two windows. An example of such a crib sheet is one for the GIMP photo editing software. Other examples include \"Read Me First\" and \"Quick Reference Card\" documents included with consumer electronics.\n\nSome academic and technical publishers also publish crib sheets for software packages and technical topics. In some cases these are also intended as display items in that they are colorful and visually appealing. Web-based crib sheets, such as references to terms, commands, or symbols, have become extremely common.\n\n"}
{"id": "41992497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41992497", "title": "Connected learning", "text": "Connected learning\n\nConnected learning is a type of learning that integrates personal interest, peer relationships, and achievement in academic, civic, or career-relevant areas. In addition, connected learning is an approach to educational reform keyed to the abundance of information and social connection brought about by networked and digital media. Advocates of connected learning posit that this approach leverages new media to broaden access to opportunity and meaningful learning experiences. The connected learning model suggests that youth learn best when: they are interested in what they are learning; they have peers and mentors who share these interests; and their learning is directed toward opportunity and recognition. According to the proponents of connected learning, social support for interest-driven learning and connections to multiple sites of learning activity drive individual learning outcomes. These individual outcomes also lead to collective outcomes by building knowledge, capacity and expertise in diverse communities. Environments that support connected learning are generally characterized as having a sense of shared purpose, a focus on production, and openly networked infrastructures.\n\nConnected learning has been a term used in research since the early 1990s. The original usages piggybacked on the concept of , which emphasized the importance of context in the development of knowledge for women. Many articles from this time used the term connected learning in reference to hands-on education like fieldwork or internships which is tied to the concept of learning in context. The early research that used the term connected learning also shared the common theme of sociality being important to learning outcomes. From 2000, the term connected learning began to be used in research publications to refer variously to project-based, networked, social, and information-age learning.\nCronwell and Cronwell created the first \"framework and an organizing set of principles to guide educational research and development,\" (p. 17). This research was supported by the Center for Internet Research. This connected learning framework is based on the following set of principles:\nThis idea of connected learning is supposed to be an alternative to traditional in-school instruction. They label this connected learning framework as a work in progress that needs more research to support it. However, no further research has been completed on this framework.\n\nExamples of learning environments that integrate peer, interest, and academic pursuits including athletics programs that are tied to in-school recognition, certain arts and civic learning programs, and interest-driven academic programs such as math, chess, or robotics competitions. These connected learning environments embody values of equity, social belonging, and participation. Connected learning environments include a sense of shared purpose, a focus on production, and openly networked infrastructures. Learning environments that embody principles of connected learning include:\n\nConnected learning since its recent ramp up has been well received from the global education community. Educators and policymakers have raised concerns regarding the new model of learning laid out by research and practitioner groups, which included:\n\nConnected Learning Research Network chair Mimi Ito responded to the criticism pointing out that, \"the connected learning principles were developed with a very diverse range of practitioners in K-12 and other learning institutions like museums and libraries, as well as people working in popular culture/media, technology, and university researchers. So while the research network hopes to provide a research component to feed the broader connected learning effort, we are by no means the driving force behind it.”\n"}
{"id": "38607104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38607104", "title": "Constructivism in science education", "text": "Constructivism in science education\n\nConstructivism has been considered as a dominant paradigm, or research programme, in the field of science education. The term constructivism is widely used in many fields, and not always with quite the same intention. This entry offers an account of how constructivism is most commonly understood in science education.\n\nScience Education is now an established field within Education, and worldwide has its own journals, conferences, university departments and so forth. Although a diverse field, a major influence on its development was research considered to be undertaken from a constructivist perspective on learning, and supporting approaches to teaching that themselves became labelled constructivist. Thus, this constructivism was largely of a psychological flavour, often drawing on the work of Jean Piaget, David Ausubel, Robert M. Gagné and Jerome Bruner. One influential group of science education researchers were also heavily influenced by George Kelly (psychologist)'s Personal Construct Theory. The work of Lev Vygotsky (since being championed in the West by Jerome Bruner) has also been increasingly influential.\n\nThese workers from psychology informed the first generation of science education researchers. Active research groups developed in centres like the University of Waikato (Aotearoa/New Zealand), University of Leeds (UK) and University of Surrey (UK), with a strong interest in students' ideas in science (formed before, or during instruction) as these were recognised as being highly influential on future learning, and so whether canonical scientific would be learnt. This work, sometimes labelled the 'alternative conceptions movement' was motivated by a series of influential publications on children's ideas in science and their implications for learning (and so for how teaching should be planned to take them into account). Whilst a range of influential papers could be cited it has been suggested that a number of seminar contributions in effect set out the commitments, or 'hard core' of a constructivist research programme into the learning and teaching of science. The perspective was also the focus of a number of books aimed at the science education community - researchers and teachers.\n\nThese papers presented learning as process of personal sense making, and an iterative matter such that what is learnt was channelled by existing knowledge and understanding (whether canonical or alternative), and teaching as needing to take learners' existing ideas into account in teaching. The research programme soon amounted to thousands of studies on aspects of students' (of different ages and educational levels, from different countries) thinking and learning in science topics.\n\nThere have been a wide range of criticisms of constructivist work in science, including strong criticism from philosophical perspectives. Such criticisms have done little to stem the influence of the perspective, perhaps because they tend not to refer to the core tenets of constructivism as an approach based on learning theory and research from cognitive science.\n\nLearners' ideas in science have been variously labelled as alternative conceptions, alternative conceptual frameworks, preconceptions, scientific misconceptions, naive theories etc. Although some scholars have attempted to distinguish between these terms, there is no consensual usage and often these terms are in effect synonymous. It has been found that some alternative conceptions are very common, although others appear quite idiosyncratic. Some seem to be readily overcome in teaching, but others have proved to be tenacious and to offer a challenge to effective instruction. Sometimes it is considered important to distinguish fully developed conceptions (i.e., explicit ways of understanding aspects of the natural work that are readily verbalised) from more 'primitive' features of cognition acting at a tacit level, such as the so-called phenomenology primitives. The 'knowledge-in-pieces' perspective suggests the latter act as resources for new learning which have potential to support the development of either alternative or canonical knowledge according to how teachers proceed, whereas alternative conceptions (or misconceptions) tend to be seen as learning impediments to be overcome. What research has shown is the prevalence among learners at all levels of alternative ways to thinking about just about all science topics, and a key feature of guidance to teachers is to elicit students' ideas as part of the teaching process. The success of constructivism is that this is now largely taken-for-granted in science teaching and has become part of standard teaching guidance in many contexts. Previously there was a strong focus on the abstract nature of concepts to be learnt, but little awareness that often the teacher was not seeking to replace ignorance with knowledge, but rather to modify and develop learners existing thinking which was often at odds with the target knowledge set out in the curriculum.\n\nConstructivism is seen as an educational theory, and a key perspective to inform pedagogy. There are many books informing teachers and others about constructivist research findings and ideas, and giving guidance on how to teach science form a constructivist perspective.\n\n"}
{"id": "39327850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39327850", "title": "Coursepacks", "text": "Coursepacks\n\nCoursepacks are printed collections of readings assembled by teachers to supplement college and university courses.\n\nThe practice of assembling coursepacks for students developed as a systematization of the practice of disseminating \"handouts\" for readings in class. This practice operated in parallel to the practice of libraries providing \"reserves\"—material pulled off shelves and \"reserved\" for use at the library, to ensure access for students in a class. Some teachers used coursepacks to supplement textbooks; others used them basically to create their own ad hoc textbooks.\n\nOver time, teachers began assembling their handouts at the beginning of the course, or having school administrators assemble them and charge students enough fees to recoup costs. As copy shops such as \"Kinko's\" became a thriving business in the late 1970s and early 1980s, they developed a market for making these coursepacks, offering different sorts of bindings, and so forth. Once the market became commercialized, licensing entities such as CCC (the \"Copyright Clearance Center\") in the United States became involved, negotiating licensing and \"clearance\" fees for use of materials in coursepacks. Materials that could not be licensed could not be included in coursepacks. Primarily as a result of escalating license fees, coursepacks have become a significant expense for students, along with textbooks.\n\nCoursepacks themselves operated primarily as an efficient service for providing print copies of material. As information has become increasingly available electronically, academic libraries have begun a transition to electronic reserves, making materials they have already acquired available for students registered in particular classes. Publishers, once critics of coursepack providers, have been critical of ereserves, arguing that libraries' provision of ereserves will supplant the commercial coursepack services.\n\nIn the United States, the question of classroom handouts received significant attention in the lobbying and negotiation leading up to the 1976 Copyright Act. The statute as passed included a legislative codification of fair use at 17 U.S.C. 107 which specifically described handouts (\"multiple copies for classroom use\") as a fair use. [T]he fair use of a copyrighted work, including such use by reproduction in copies ... for purposes such as ... teaching (including multiple copies for classroom use) ... is not an infringement of copyright.\" However, the transition from classroom handouts to coursepacks led to a shift in how these materials were treated under US copyright law. In a series of \"coursepack cases\", US courts found that commercial services that profited from developing coursepacks were not protected by fair use. \"See\" \"Princeton University Press v. Michigan Document Services\" (1996), \"Basic Books v. Kinko's Graphics\" (1991); 1982 litigation against New York University.\n\nPublishers and rights clearance agencies have sued universities in several other countries (Canada, New Zealand, India), in order to require fees for coursepacks or library ereserves.\n\n"}
{"id": "23483101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23483101", "title": "Culturally Authentic Pictorial Lexicon", "text": "Culturally Authentic Pictorial Lexicon\n\nThe Culturally Authentic Pictorial Lexicon is a dictionary database of images of various objects in a culturally authentic setting for language learning. All images are presented with a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike license, allowing for broad academic use by language teachers. The database is also useful for researchers in the field of applied linguistics, visual cognition, and automated image recognition. The database averages 30,000 hits per month and has been incorporated into the curricula of many college and high-school level German teachers.\n\nThe idea for the lexicon is partially based on Shaughnessy's experience with teaching materials that used American-based images and clip art to demonstrate German words and concepts. By presenting objects in their culturally authentic context, the CAPL is designed to prepare students to live in the environment where the language is spoken. The photographic entries are real photographs, not clip art, to force teachers to \"teach terms for things that actually occur in everyday German life – instead of American concepts that have no direct European equivalent.\"\n\nThe project was founded in 2003 as a pilot project with over 1,000 unique entries for the German language. The first images were collected by Shaughnessy in Germany and Austria through a grant from W&J College. In 2006, it received a $200,000 appropriation from the U.S. federal government. In 2008, the project was expanded to include more languages thanks to a $85,480 grant from the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nThe CAPL was featured in an article in The Chronicle of Higher Education and has been recommended for use by the Goethe Institute, German Academic Exchange Office and the National Capital Language Resource Center. The book \"The Bilingual Mental Lexicon\" noted the Culturally Authentic Pictorial Lexicon's value in German language instruction for \"naming and sorting activities, and in awareness-raising discussions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6130036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6130036", "title": "Curriculum theory", "text": "Curriculum theory\n\nCurriculum Theory (CT) is an academic discipline devoted to examining and shaping educational curricula. There are many interpretations of CT, being as narrow as the dynamics of the learning process of one child in a classroom to the lifelong learning path an individual takes. CT can be approached from the educational, philosophical, psychological and sociological perspectives. James MacDonald states \"one central concern of theorists is identifying the fundamental unit of curriculum with which to build conceptual systems. Whether this be rational decisions, action processes, language patterns, or any other potential unit has not been agreed upon by the theorists.\" Curriculum theory is fundamentally concerned with values, the historical analysis of curriculum, ways of viewing current educational curriculum and policy decisions, and theorizing about the curricula of the future. \n\nPinar defines the contemporary field of curriculum theory as \"the effort to understand curriculum as a symbolic representation\".\n\nThe first mention of the word \"curriculum\" in university records was in 1582, at the University of Leiden, Holland: \"having completed the curriculum of his studies\". However, curriculum theory as a field of study is thought to have been initiated with the publication of The Yale Report on the Defense of the Classics in 1828, which promoted the study of a classical curriculum, including Latin and Greek, by rote memorization.\n\nThe school of faculty psychology, dominating the field from 1860-1890 in the United States, believed that the brain was a muscle that could be improved by the exercise of memorization (with comprehension a secondary consideration). This supports the classical theory, which previously emphasized a method of teaching school subjects using memorization and recitation as primary instructional tools. The theory itself claims three constituent faculties or power:\n\n\nThe idea is that education should expand the faculty of the mind and this is achieved through the key concepts of discipline and furniture. The faculty theory, which steered curriculum policy for elementary, secondary, and high schools, was institutionalized by three committees appointed by the National Education Association (NEA) in the 1890s to follow faculty psychology principles: the Committee of Ten on Secondary School Studies (1893), the Committee of Fifteen on Elementary Education (1895) and the Committee on College Entrance Requirements. \n\nDifferent schools of Curriculum Theory developed as a reaction to the classicism of faculty psychology, including the Herbartians, who organized the Herbart Club in 1892, and later the National Herbart Society (1895-1899). Their philosophy was based on the thoughts of Johann Frederich Herbart, a German philosopher, psychologist and educator, who believed that \"the mere memorizing of isolated facts, which had characterized school instruction for ages, had little value of either educational or moral ends\".\nThe publication of John Bobbitt's The Curricula in 1918 took the prevalent industrial revolutionary concepts of experimental science and social efficiency and applied them to the classroom. He believed that \"curriculum must directly and specifically prepare students for tasks in the adult world\". He also believed that \"human life...consists in the performance of specific activities. Education that prepares for life is one that prepares definitely and adequately for these specific activities.\" From this idea, he suggested that curriculum was a series of experiences that children have in order to meet \"objectives,\" or abilities and habits that people need for particular activities.\n\nOther famous theorists of this movement included Edward L. Thorndyke (1874-1949), the father of experimental psychology in education, Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856-1915), with his theory of scientific management, David Snedden, an educational sociologist who promoted social efficiency and vocational education, and W.W. Charters (1875-1952), a teacher educator who felt that \"curriculum was those methods by which objectives are determined\". By using education as an efficiency tool, these theorists believed that society could be controlled. Students were scientifically evaluated by testing (such as IQ tests), and educated towards their predicted role in society. This involved the introduction of vocational and junior high schools to address the curriculum designed around specific life activities that correlated with each student's determined societal future. The socially efficient curriculum consisted of minute parts or tasks that together formed a bigger concept.\n\nThe progressive reform movement began in the late 1870s with the work of Colonel Francis Parker, but is most identified with John Dewey, and also John Mayer Rice and Lester Frank Ward. Dewey's 1899 book The School and Society is often credited with starting the movement. These reformers felt that curriculum should be child driven and at the child's present capacity level. To aid in understanding the relationship of curriculum and child, Dewey described curriculum as, \"a map, a summary, an arranged and orderly view of previous experiences, serves as a guide to future experience; it gives direction; it facilitates control; it economizes effort, preventing useless wandering, and pointing out the paths which lead most quickly and most certainly to a desired result\". He envisioned \"the child and the curriculum are simply two limits which define a single process\".\n\nThe Social Efficiency and Progressive Reform movements were rivals throughout the 1920s in the United States, with the 1930s belonging to the Progressives, or a curriculum combining aspects of both. Ralph W. Tyler's Basic Principles of Curriculum and Instruction (1949) swung the pendulum of curriculum theory away from child centeredness toward more generalized behaviors.\n\nTyler's theory was based on four fundamental questions which became known as the \"Tyler Rationale\":\n\nThere is a racial crisis in America, which is exacerbated by the widening gap between the rich and the poor. In order to address this gap within the multicultural education movement there is a body of knowledge which argues for the need to reconceptualise, re-envision, and rethink American schooling. Numerous authors advocate the need for fundamental changes in the educational system which acknowledges that there is a plurality within teaching and learning for students of diversity. Current research suggests that educational structure is oppressive to students of diversity and is an obstacle to integration into society and student achievement. Current multicultural education theory suggests that curriculum and institutional change is required to support the development of students from diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. This is a controversial view but multicultural education argues that traditional curriculum does not adequately represent the history of the non dominant group. Nieto (1999) supports this concern for students who do not belong to the dominant group and seem to have challenging curriculum experiences that conflict with their personal cultural identity and their wider community reference groups.\n\nThe launch of Sputnik in 1957 created a focus on science and math in the United States curriculum. Admiral Hyman Rickover accused the American public of indifference to intellectual achievement. \"Our schools must return to the tradition of formal education in Western civilization-transmission of cultural heritage, and preparation for life through rigorous intellectual training of young minds to think clearly, logically, and independently\". The result was a return to curricula similar to the classicists of the 1890s and the modern birth of the traditionalists, with massive federal funding for curriculum development provided by the National Defense Act of 1958.\n\nJoseph J. Schwab was instrumental in provoking curriculum developers to think beyond the traditionalist approach. In his 1969 paper \"The Practical: A Language for Curriculum\" he declared the curriculum field \"moribund\". This, plus the social unrest of the 1960s and '70s stirred a new movement of \"reconceptualization\" of curricula. A group of theorists, including James Macdonald, Dwayne Huebner, Ross Mooney, Herbert M. Kliebard, Paul Klohr, Michael Apple, W.F. Pinar, and others, created ways of thinking about curriculum and its role in the academy, in schools, and in society in general. Their approach included perspectives from the social, racial, gender, phenomenological, political, autobiographical and theological points of view.\n\nW.F. Pinar describes the present field \"balkanized...divided into relatively separate fiefdoms or sectors of scholarship, each usually ignoring the other except for occasional criticism.\" The top-down governmental control of educational curriculum in the Anglophone world, including the United States, has been criticized as being \"ahistorical and atheoretical, and as a result prone to difficult problems in its implementation\". But there are theorists who are looking beyond curriculum as \"simply as a collection of study plans, syllabi, and teaching subjects. Instead, the curriculum becomes the outcome of a process reflecting a political and societal agreement about the what, why, and how of education for the desired society of the future.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34738297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34738297", "title": "Digital learning", "text": "Digital learning\n\nDigital learning is any type of learning that is accompanied by technology or by instructional practice that makes effective use of technology. It encompasses the application of a wide spectrum of practices including: blended and virtual learning. \n\nSometimes confused with online learning or e-learning, digital learning encompasses the aforementioned concepts.\n\nA digital learning strategy may include any of or a combination of any of the following:\n\nDigital learning is meant to enhance the learning experience rather than replace traditional methods altogether. Listed below are common pedagogies, or practices of teaching, that combine technology and learning:\n\nThere are a plethora of tools and resources online (many that are FREE!) that can be used to create and enhance a digital learning environment. Listed below are resources and tools 21st century teachers can use for digital learning:\n\n"}
{"id": "11620122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11620122", "title": "Early college high school", "text": "Early college high school\n\nThe Early College High School Initiative in the United States allows students to receive a high school diploma and an associate degree, or up to two years of college credit, by taking a mixture of high school and college classes. This differs from dual enrollment, where students are enrolled in a traditional high school and take college classes, whereas early college students take high school classes in preparation for full college workloads. At early colleges, students also have fewer high school classes because some of their college classes replace their high school classes. Early colleges differ from closely related middle colleges. ECHS students spend their school day at college, and go to their home school occasionally for events such as football games, homecoming, and prom. \n\nThe ECHS Initiative began in 2002 with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, among others. The first early college in the United States, Bard College at Simon's Rock, was founded in 1966. Today, more than 230 early colleges across 28 states serve 50,000+ students.\n\n\nFourteen intermediary partners work directly with early college schools, school districts, and postsecondary institutions. They provide start-up and ongoing technical support, guidance, and professional development for their networks of schools.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17684930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17684930", "title": "Edupunk", "text": "Edupunk\n\nEdupunk is a do it yourself (DIY) attitude to teaching and learning practices. Tom Kuntz described edupunk as \"an approach to teaching that avoids mainstream tools like PowerPoint and Blackboard, and instead aims to bring the rebellious attitude and DIY ethos of ’70s bands like The Clash to the classroom.\" Many instructional applications can be described as DIY education or \"edupunk\".\n\nThe term was first used on May 25, 2008, by Jim Groom in his blog, and covered less than a week later in the Chronicle of Higher Education. Stephen Downes, an online education theorist and an editor for the \"International Journal of Instructional Technology and Distance Learning\", noted that \"the concept of edupunk has totally caught wind, spreading through the blogosphere like wildfire\".\n\nEdupunk has risen from an objection to the efforts of government and corporate interests in reframing and bundling emerging technologies into \"cookie-cutter\" products with pre-defined application—somewhat similar to traditional punk ideologies.\n\nThe reaction to corporate influence on education is only one part of edupunk, though. Stephen Downes has identified three aspects to this approach:\n\nAn example of edupunk was the University of British Columbia's course \"\" experiment of creating articles on Wikipedia in spring 2008, \"(having) one’s students as partners and peers.\" A video clip illustrating an edupunk approach, produced by Tony Hirst at the Open University in the UK, on 8 June 2008, illustrated how quickly the edupunk concept has been adopted outside North America.\nA website set up by Australian educators illustrates how edupunk spread, and a presentation by Norm Friesen of Thompson Rivers University identifies a number of possible intellectual precursors for the movement.\n\nHampshire College, Evergreen State College, Marlboro College, New College of Florida, and Warren Wilson College are collegiate institutions imbued with edupunk ideology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "944016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=944016", "title": "Fartlek", "text": "Fartlek\n\nFartlek, which means \"speed play\" in Swedish, is continuous training with interval training. Fartlek runs are a very simple form of a long distance run. Fartlek training “is simply defined as periods of fast running intermixed with periods of slower running.\" For some people, this could be a mix of jogging and sprinting, but for beginners it could be walking with jogging sections added in when possible. A simple example of what a runner would do during a fartlek run is “sprint all out from one light pole to the next, jog to the corner, give a medium effort for a couple of blocks, jog between four light poles and sprint to a stop sign, and so on, for a set total time or distance.\" The variable intensity and continuous nature of the exercise places stress on both the aerobic and anaerobic systems. It differs from traditional interval training in that it is unstructured; intensity and/or speed varies, as the athlete wishes. Fartlek training is generally associated with running, but can include almost any kind of exercise.\n\nSwedish coach Gösta Holmér developed fartlek in 1937, and, since then, many physiologists have adopted it. It was designed for the downtrodden Swedish cross country running teams that had been beaten throughout the 1920s by Paavo Nurmi and the Finns. Holmér's plan used a faster-than-race pace and concentrated on both speed and endurance training.\n\nThis is the first session that was designed by Gösta Holmér for a cross country (multi-terrain) runner. This is also an example of what a fartlek session might look like, but fartlek sessions should be designed for an athlete's own event or sport, as well as catering to their individual needs. Sessions should be at an intensity that causes the athlete to work at 60% to 80% of his or her maximum heart rate. This should mean that the body will not experience too much discomfort while exercising. An athlete should also include a good warm up at the beginning of the session, and a cool down at the end of the session, to improve performance, minimize post-workout muscle soreness, to decrease the chances of injury and for other reasons.\n\nRunners hypothetically “run hard for two mailboxes, recover for three, run hard for three, recover for two.\" When executing this type, the runner continues like this for the allotted time or distance determined. \n\nRunners speed up when they get close to a dog in order to pass them; after passing the dog, they would then slow down for the recovery period. \n\nMany runners use music while they run. Runners can use their music as a template for their fartlek run by changing their speed according to different parts of a song. For example, they can speed up during the chorus and slow down for the rest of the song.\n\nIn order to add more variety and complexity, runners can add another speed into the run. Within any run, “there is no reason why three different paces should not be included.\" This would change a normal fartlek by doing a jog, run, and a full out sprint.\n\nSteve Moneghetti (Mona) devised this session with his coach Chris Wardlaw over the phone back in 1983 when he was just 20. He wanted a solid fartlek session, one that would help improve his speed as well as endurance and stimulate an ability to change pace mid-run, something that helped later on his career when competing against African athletes, who tended to speed up mid-race. A session would consist of: 2×90sec, 4×60sec, 4×30sec, 4×15sec with a slower tempo for recovery of the same time between each repetition. The session takes 20 minutes in total.\n\nSince this workout is very easily manipulated, “fartlek training allows you to add an endless variety of intervals to your aerobic workouts, which helps to keep you stimulated.\" A great plus to performing this workout is the variety it adds to fitness regimens; it is possible to change the amount of distance, time, fast bursts, recovery periods, and even the time at which you do each component.\n\nFor competitive runners, fartleks and all other types of interval runs are the key for race day readiness. The alternating speeds that are the defining point of fartleks allow runners to work “both the aerobic and anaerobic training systems while simulating the ebb and flow nature of competitive running.\" \n\nFartleks keep runners' bodies at top shape so that they can keep racing. Putting fartlek runs in a workout routine keeps “muscles, tendons, nerves, etc. used in running going at top capacity.\" In other words, regularly implementing fartleks keeps your body strong enough to maintain the mechanics of racing.\n\nBy alternating the “intensity of your workouts, you will burn more calories than you would by keeping a steady pace.\" While running, the runner's body first burns the stored sugars and then begins to burn fat after the sugar is depleted. During a fartlek workout while the body is trying to replace the sugar storage, “fat stores are burned in a metabolic effect that lasts long after your workout.\" Fartleks are a great option for people that run for their health because the fat burning portion makes it a very efficient exercise.\n\nFartleks can be specially tailored to fit the needs of different types of athletes. An example includes basketball, where “you must exert maximum effort while running a fast break, while you exert very little effort while standing at the foul line.\" It is possible to alter the type and timing of the fartlek in order to mimic the intensity of an average basketball game. This can be done for other sports such as tennis, soccer, and football as well.\n\nComparable runs include the traditional interval training, tempo runs, and ladders. These workouts are very similar to fartleks, but there are slight differences that distinguish one from another.\n\nTempo runs are typically run for 20 to 25 minutes at a 6 or 7 RPE. This exercise is “like an Oreo cookie, with the warmup and cooldown as the cookie, and a run at an effort at or slightly above your anaerobic threshold (the place where your body shifts to using more glycogen for energy) as the filling.\" What runners do here is warm up at a slow and steady pace, then run harder than they would on a normal distance jog for an allotted amount of time, and then do a cool down with a very similar speed to the warm up. \n\nIntervals “are short, intense efforts followed by equal or slightly longer recovery time.\" By the end of a short burst of speed, the runner is barely able to keep up that pace. Unlike fartleks, interval runs are much more structured; usually running the fast and slow spurts at exact times or distances. Interval runs and tempo runs differ in the fact that tempo runs maintain a slightly fast pace for a set amount of time, while interval runs consist of alternating between sprints and slow sections instead of keeping one speed.\n\nThis workout is defined as “a speed workout in which the fast parts vary in length.\" Basically, athletes will run a small amount at a hard pace, work their way up, and work their way back down with timed breaks in between. Ladders are similar to interval training in that they require more structure, but they are different because the faster speed sections vary in time or distance. Although ladders are most similar to interval runs, the fact that the portions performed at the faster speed vary in length or time mirrors fartlek runs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47796549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47796549", "title": "Flex model of learning", "text": "Flex model of learning\n\nThe flex model is a method of teaching for students who are non-traditional learners. Learning material and instructions are given online and the lessons are self-guided. The teacher is available on-site. The students work independently and learn to develop and create new concepts in a digital environment. They work in computer labs most of the time. The schedules of learning modalities are customized individually and the teacher-of-record is on-site. Though most of the instructions are given online, the face-to-face support as needed by the student is given by the teacher-of-records and adults through activities such as group projects, small group instruction and individual tutoring. This model provides the students a flexible learning environment. They are free to arrive and leave the learning premises within the given timing of the day. The teacher in this model acts as a mentor and give equal importance in delivering the proper instruction to the students.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9173009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173009", "title": "Ger Brennan", "text": "Ger Brennan\n\nGer Brennan is an Irish Gaelic footballer who plays for St Vincents and formerly played for Dublin.\n\nFrom a family of nine, he attended Belvedere College. At Belvedere he played Rugby, soccer, hurling and Gaelic Football.\n\nGraduating from Maynooth College with undergraduate and master's degrees, he qualified as a school teacher and taught Irish and religion at St. Kevin's College, Ballygall Road, in Dublin 11. In November 2015 he was appointed Gaelic Games Executive at University College Dublin.\n\nBrennan won his first Dublin Senior Football Championship medal with St Vincents in 2007 in the final against St Brigids at Parnell Park. He then went on to win the Leinster Senior Club Football Championship final against Tyrrellspass of Westmeath. Brennan was chosen as the Leinster club player of the year for his performances in the Leinster club championship with St Vincents.\n\nBrennan won the 2008 All-Ireland Senior Club Football Championship with St Vincents in a hard fought game. He won the Dublin Senior Football Championship for St. Vincents, as captain, in 2013.\n\nBrennan madee his national league debut for Dublin against Tyrone on 3 February 2007. He was a member of Dublin team that won the 2007 O'Byrne Cup, playing against Laois at O'Connor Park in Offaly. The game finished on a scoreline of 1-18 to 2-13. He finished the tournament with a total of 0-04.\n\nIn 2008, he retired from Dublin's football panel, citing burnout and fatigue as his reasons. However, on July 30, 2008, he was named in Dublin's panel for the quarter-final and accepted a return. He was part of the victorious Dublin squad that won the 2011 All-Ireland Senior Football Championship. He won an All-Ireland with Dublin for a second time in 2013, scoring two points in the final against Mayo.\n\nIn October 2015, Brennan announced his retirement from Inter County football but will continue to play club football.\n\nBrennan is a Catholic who has spoken about his faith in God. He has stated that while non-denominational schools may teach subjects such as science, Catholic schools \"enable young students to have the skills to pray\".\n\nBrennan was praised for his \"nonchalant delivery\" of thanks to the \"girlfriends and boyfriends of the players\" after St Vincent's defeated Castlebar Mitchels in the 2014 All-Ireland Club Championship Final at Croke Park (a speech delivered in front of a live television audience). However just over a year later, Brennan wrote an op-ed for the \"Irish Independent\" arguing against the legalisation of same-sex marriage in that year's Marriage Equality referendum, which was ultimately carried in a 62% to 38% popular vote. His stance was criticised by others, including fellow GAA star Conor Cusack.\n"}
{"id": "26188751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26188751", "title": "Gifted pull-out", "text": "Gifted pull-out\n\nGifted pull-outs (also called \"send-out\" or \"resource\" programs) are an educational approach in which gifted students are removed (or \"pulled-out\") from a heterogeneous (mixed-ability) classroom to spend a portion of their time with academic peers. Pull-outs tend to meet one to two hours per week. The students meet with a teacher to engage in enrichment or extension activities that may or may not be related to the curriculum being taught in the regular classroom. Pull-out teachers in some states are not required to have any formal background in gifted education.\n\nResearch has suggested that there are benefits to grouping gifted children together for the majority of the school day, which suggests that the limited meeting times and durations of gifted pull-out groups may have limited benefits for the gifted children. A 1993 U.S. Government report found up to 72% of school districts using the pull-out approach despite this method being generally unsuccessful. This lack of effectiveness has been echoed in more recent literature. Likewise, Borland (2003) concludes that pull-out programming is generally unproductive. Specifically, this is because pull-outs are composed of a hodge-podge of critical thinking, logic puzzles, and random subjects (like mythology) which are unlikely to result in any significant academic progress because they are not tied directly to the core curriculum. Winebrenner (2001) recommends those same ineffective practices, including creative problem solving, chess, logic puzzles, and academic competitions. Oddly, Winebrenner also recommends that students selected for pull-out should be those who are capable in the areas the pull-out will address. This is exactly the opposite of the approach recommended by most gifted literature, which argues for matching the instruction \"to the student,\" not vice versa. Jan and Bob Davidson of the Davidson Institute for Talent Development criticize pull-outs in their book, \"Genius Denied: How to Stop Wasting Our Brightest Young Minds.\" On page 47, they say, \"Most pull-out programs provide little beyond a creative outlet--and since districts that offer such programs claim they are helping gifted children when they aren't, they are often worse than no programs at all.\" Matthews and Foster also criticize pull-out gifted classes. They claim that the learning needs of advanced students are too important to be restricted to the day(s) on which their gifted class is scheduled. Furthermore, as they also point out, students can be penalized for missing their regular class (for example, by missing a class field trip), and sometimes teachers resent the pull-out teacher taking the strongest students out of their class. And perhaps most worrisome, the work in withdrawal gifted classes is often not differentiated for learning needs or properly integrated into children’s other studies. However, pull-out programs, when properly implemented, can be used to complement cluster grouping and other in-class differentiation.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17974170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17974170", "title": "Higher education policy", "text": "Higher education policy\n\nHigher education policy refers to how higher education institutions like universities are organised, funded and operated in a society. According to Ansell (2006) there are \"three different institutional forms of higher education provision: the Anglo-Saxon, Continental and the Scandinavian education system.\"\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Anglo-Saxon education system leads to a mass, partially private and publicly inexpensive system\". The Anglo-Saxon system is sometimes described as an Anglo-American education system.\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Continental educational system leads to an elite, fully public and inexpensive system\".\n\nAccording to Ansell (2006), \"[t]he Scandinavian education system leads to a mass, fully public, but highly expensive system\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3407585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3407585", "title": "K-5 (education)", "text": "K-5 (education)\n\nK-5 (pronounced \"kay through five\") is an American term for the education period from kindergarten to fifth grade. It receives equal amounts of criticism and support in the educational industry. While many early childhood experts deem it too closely aligned with more developmentally inappropriate \"watered-down\" early elementary teaching methods, administrators and policy-makers see it as a way to integrate kindergarten under the guise of the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "2468507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2468507", "title": "Knowledge building", "text": "Knowledge building\n\nThe Knowledge Building (KB) theory was created and developed by Carl Bereiter and Marlene Scardamalia for describing what a community of learners needs to accomplish in order to create knowledge. The theory addresses the need to educate people for the knowledge age society, in which knowledge and innovation are pervasive.\n\nKnowledge building may be defined simply as \"the creation, testing, and improvement of conceptual artifacts. It is not confined to education but applies to creative knowledge work of all kinds\".\n\nScardamalia & Bereiter distinguish between knowledge building and learning. They see learning as an internal, (almost) unobservable process that results in changes of beliefs, attitudes, or skills. By contrast, KB is seen as creating or modifying public knowledge. KB produces knowledge that lives ‘in the world’, and is available to be worked on and used by other people.\n\nA good way to understand the difference between learning and knowledge building is by considering mathematics and scientific contents as examples of public knowledge. Furthermore, Bereiter in his book on Education and Mind (2002) based his observation of the educational value of KB on Karl Popper's ontological analysis of our existence as made up of three interacting worlds: World 1 (the physical), World 2 (the subjective) and World 3 (the locus of cultural products). Thus, learning takes place in World 2, while knowledge is built in World 3.\n\nKnowledge building refers to the process of creating new cognitive artifacts as a result of common goals, group discussions, and synthesis of ideas. These pursuits should advance the current understanding of individuals within a group, at a level beyond their initial knowledge level, and should be directed towards advancing the understanding of what is known about that topic or idea. The theory \"encompasses the foundational learning, subskills, and socio-cognitive dynamics pursued in other approaches, along with the additional benefit of movement along the trajectory to mature education\".\n\nKnowledge building can be considered as \"deep constructivism\" that involves making a collective inquiry into a specific topic, and coming to a deeper understanding through interactive questioning, dialogue, and continuing improvement of ideas. Ideas are thus the medium of operation in KB environments. The teacher becomes a guide, rather than a director, and allows students to take over a significant portion of the responsibility for their own learning, including planning, execution, and evaluation.\n\nOne of the hallmarks of KB is a sense of \"we\" superseding the sense of \"I\", a feeling that the group is operating collectively, and not just as an assemblage of individuals. Discussion software can enable such an environment, one being Knowledge Forum, which supports many of the prerequisite processes of KB. Bereiter and colleagues state that Knowledge building projects focus on understanding rather than on accomplishing tasks, and on collaboration rather than on controversy.\n\nSetting children on a KB trajectory is a promising foundation for education in the knowledge age.\n\nScardamalia (2002) identifies twelve principles of KB as follows:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4852131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4852131", "title": "Language attrition", "text": "Language attrition\n\nLanguage attrition is the process of losing a native, or first, language. This process is generally caused by both isolation from speakers of the first language and the acquisition and use of a second language, which interferes with the correct production and comprehension of the first. Such interference from a second language is likely experienced to some extent by all bilinguals, but is most evident among speakers for whom a language other than their first has started to play an important, if not dominant, role in everyday life; these speakers are at a higher risk for experiencing language attrition. A notable example of this is found in immigrants, who may move to a country in which a language foreign to them is spoken, and go on to use that later-learned environmental language in their daily lives. Their gradual decline in proficiency in their first language, or L1, resulting from both isolation from other speakers of their L1 and interference from the L2 they are acquiring, is considered language attrition.\n\nThere are a number of factors which may affect the process of L1 attrition. Frequent exposure and use of a particular language is often assumed adequate to maintain the native language system intact. However, research has often failed to confirm this prediction. A positive attitude towards the potentially attriting language or its speech community and motivation to retain the language are other factors which may reduce the effects of attrition. This factor too is difficult to confirm by research. However, age of the attriter can well predict the likelihood of attrition; children are demonstrably more likely to lose their first language than adults. All of these potential or proven factors are similar to those that affect second language acquisition, and the two processes are sometimes compared. However, the overall impact of these factors is far less strongly pronounced than what has been found in second language acquisition.\n\nLanguage attrition results in a decrease of language proficiency from what was previously acquired. The current consensus is that attrition manifests itself first and most noticeably in the vocabulary knowledge of speakers (in their lexical access and their mental lexicon) while grammatical and especially phonological representations appear more stable among speakers for whom emigration took place after puberty.\n\nThe term \"first language attrition\" (FLA) refers to the gradual decline in native language proficiency. As speakers use their L2 frequently and become proficient (or even dominant) in it, some aspects of the L1 can deteriorate or become subject to L2 influence.\n\nThe study of language attrition became a subfield of linguistics with a 1980 conference at the University of Pennsylvania called \"Loss of Language Skills\". The aim of the conference was to discuss areas of second language, or L2, attrition and to ideate on possible future research. The conference revealed that attrition is a wide topic, with numerous factors and taking many forms. Decades later, the field of first language attrition gained new momentum with two conferences held in Amsterdam in 2002 and 2005, as well as a series of graduate workshops and panels at international conferences, such as the International Symposium on Bilingualism (2007, 2009), the annual conferences of the European Second Language Association, and the AILA World Congress (2008). The outcomes of some of these meetings were later published in edited volumes.\n\nTo study the process of language attrition, researchers initially looked at neighboring areas of linguistics to identify which parts of the L1 system attrite first; lacking years of experimental data of attrition itself, linguists studied language contact, creolization, L2 acquisition, and aphasia, and applied their findings to language acquisition.\n\nOne issue that is faced when researching attrition is distinguishing between normal L2 influence on the L1 and actual attrition of the L1. Since all bilinguals experience some degree of cross linguistic influence, where the L2 interferes with the retrieval of the speaker's L1, it is difficult to determine if delays and/or mistakes in the L1 are due to attrition or cause by CLI. Also, simultaneous bilinguals may not have a language that is indistinguishable from that of a native speaker or a language where their knowledge of it is less extensive than a native speaker's; therefore testing for attrition is difficult.\n\nThe first linguistic system to be affected by first language attrition is the lexicon. The lexical-semantic relationship usually starts to deteriorate first and most quickly, driven by Cross Linguistic Interference (CLI) from the attriter's L2, and it is believed to be exacerbated by continued exposure to, and frequent use of, the L2. Evidence for such interlanguage effects can be seen in a study by Pavlenko (2003, 2004) which shows that there was some semantic extension from the L2, which was English, into the L1 Russian speakers' lexicons. In order to test for lexical attrition, researchers use tests such as picture naming tasks, where they place a picture of an item in front of the participant and ask them to name it, or by measuring lexical diversity in the speaker's spontaneous speech (speech that is unprompted and improvised). In both cases, attriters performed worse than non-attriters. One hypothesis suggests that when a speaker tries to access a lexical item from their L1 they are also competing with the translation equivalents of their L2 and that there is either a problem with activating the L1 due to infrequent use or with the inhibition of the competing L2.\n\nGrammatical attrition can be defined as \"the disintegration of the structure of a first language (L1) in contact situations with a second language (L2)\". In a study of bilingual Swedes raised outside of Sweden, who in their late twenties returned to their home country for schooling, there was noted to be attrition of their L1. The participants demonstrated a complete retention of the underlying syntactic structure of their L1. Notably, they exhibited the V2, verb second, word order present in most Germanic languages, except English. This rule requires the tense-marked verb of a main clause to occur in the second position of the sentence, even if that means it comes before the subject (e.g. there is an adverb at the beginning of the sentence). These speakers' ability to form sentences with V2 word order was compared against L2 learners who often overproduce the rigid SVO word order rather than applying the V2 rule. Although the study did not show evidence for attrition of syntax of the person's L1, there was evidence for attrition in the expatriates' morphology, especially in terms of agreement. They found that the bilinguals would choose to use the unmarked morphemes in place of the marked one when having to differentiate between gender and plurality; also they tend to overgeneralize where certain morphemes can be used. For example, they may use the suffix /-a/, which is used to express an indefinite plural, and overextend this morpheme to also represent the indefinite singular. There is little evidence to support the view that there is a complete restructuring of the language systems. That is, even under language attrition the syntax is largely unaffected and any variability observed is thought to be due to interference from another language, rather than attrition.\n\nL1 attriters, like L2 learners, may use language differently from native speakers. In particular, they can have variability on certain rules which native speakers apply deterministically. In the context of attrition, however, there is strong evidence that this optionality is not indicative of any underlying representational deficits: the same individuals do not appear to encounter recurring problems with the same kinds of grammatical phenomena in different speech situations or on different tasks. This suggests that problems of L1 attriters are due to momentary conflicts between the two linguistic systems and not indicative of a structural change to underlying linguistic knowledge (that is, to an emerging representational deficit of any kind). This assumption is in line with a range of investigations of L1 attrition which argue that this process may affect interface phenomena (e.g. the distribution of overt and null subjects in pro-drop languages) but will not touch the narrow syntax.\n\nPhonological attrition is a form of language loss that affects the speaker's ability to produce their native language with their native accent. A study of five native speakers of American English who moved to Brazil and learned Portuguese as their L2 demonstrates the possibility that one could lose one's L1 accent in place of an accent that is directly influenced by the L2. It is thought that phonological loss can occur to those who are closer to native-like fluency in the L2, especially in terms of phonological production, and for those who have immersed themselves and built a connection to the culture of the country for the L2. A sociolinguistic approach to this phenomenon is that the acquisition of a native-like L2 accent and the subsequent loss of one's native accent is influenced by the societal norms of the country and the speakers' attempt to adapt in order to feel a part of the culture they are trying to assimilate into. This type of attrition is not to be confused with contact-induced change since that would mean speech production changes due to an increased use of another language and not due to the less frequent use of the L1.\n\nLambert and Moore attempted to define numerous hypotheses regarding the nature of language loss, crossed with various aspects of language. They envisioned a test to be given to American State Department employees that would include four linguistic categories (syntax, morphology, lexicon, and phonology) and three skill areas (reading, listening, and speaking). A translation component would feature on a sub-section of each skill area tested. The test was to include linguistic features that are the most difficult, according to teachers, for students to master. Such a test may confound testing what was not acquired with what was lost. Lambert, in personal communication with Köpke and Schmid, described the results as 'not substantial enough to help much in the development of the new field of language skill attrition'.\n\nThe use of translation tests to study language loss is inappropriate for a number of reasons: it is questionable what such tests measure; too much variation; the difference between attriters and bilinguals is complex; activating two languages at once may cause interference. Yoshitomi attempted to define a model of language attrition that was related to neurological and psychological aspects of language learning and unlearning. She discussed four possible hypotheses and five key aspects related to acquisition and attrition. The hypotheses are:\n\nAccording to Yoshitomi, the five key aspects related to attrition are neuroplasticity, consolidation, permastore/savings, decreased accessibility, and receptive versus productive abilities.\n\nThe regression hypothesis, first formulated by Roman Jakobson in 1941 and originally formulated on the phonology of only Slavic languages, goes back to the beginnings of psychology and psychoanalysis. It states that that which was learned first will be retained last, both in 'normal' processes of forgetting and in pathological conditions such as aphasia or dementia. As a template for language attrition, the regression hypothesis has long seemed an attractive paradigm. However, regression is not in itself a theoretical or explanatory framework. Both order of acquisition and order of attrition need to be put into the larger context of linguistic theory in order to gain explanatory adequacy.\n\nKeijzer (2007) conducted a study on the attrition of Dutch in Anglophone Canada. She finds some evidence that later-learned rules, such as diminutive and plural formation, indeed erode before earlier learned grammatical rules. However, there is also considerable interaction between the first and second language and so a straightforward 'regression pattern' cannot be observed. Also, parallels in noun and verb phrase morphology could be present because of the nature of the tests or because of avoidance by the participants. In a follow up 2010 article, Keijzer suggests that the regression hypothesis may be more applicable to morphology than to syntax.\n\nCiting the studies on the regression hypothesis that have been done, Yukawa says that the results have been contradictory. It is possible that attrition is a case-by-case situation depending on a number of variables (age, proficiency,& literacy, the similarities between the L1 and L2, and whether the L1 or the L2 is attriting). The threshold hypothesis states that there may be a level of proficiency that once attained, enables the attriting language to remain stable.\n\nChildren are more susceptible to (first) language attrition than adults. Research shows an age effect around the ages of 8 through 13. Before this time period, a first language can attrite under certain circumstances, the most prominent being a sudden decline in exposure to the first language. Various case studies show that children who emigrate before puberty and have little to no exposure to their first language end up losing the first language. In 2009, a study compared two groups of Swedish-speaking groups: native Swedish speakers and Korean international adoptees who were at risk for losing their Korean. Of the Korean adoptees, those who were adopted the earliest essentially lost their Korean and those adopted later still retained some of it, although it was primarily their comprehension of Korean that was spared. A 2007 study looked at Korean adoptees in France and found that they performed on par with native French speakers in French proficiency and Korean.\n\nAttrition of a first language does not guarantee an advantage in learning a second language. Attriters are outperformed by native speakers of the second language in proficiency. A 2009 study tested the Swedish proficiency of Swedish speakers who had attrited knowledge of Spanish. These participants did show almost but not quite native-like proficiency when compared to native Swedish speakers, and they did not show an advantage when compared with bilingual Swedish-Spanish speakers.\n\nOn the other hand, L1 attrition may also occur if the overall effort to maintain the first language is insufficient while exposed to a dominant L2 environment. Another recent investigation, focussing on the development of language in late bilinguals (i.e. adults past puberty), has claimed that maintenance of the mother tongue in an L1 environment requires little to no maintenance for individuals, whereas those in the L2 environment have an additive requirement for the maintenance of the L1 and the development of the L2 (Optiz, 2013).\n\nthere have been cases in which adults have undergone first language attrition. A 2011 study tested adult monolingual English speakers, adult monolingual Russian speakers and adult bilingual English-Russian speakers on naming various liquid containers (cup, glass, mug, etc.) in both English and Russian. The results showed that the bilinguals had attrited Russian vocabulary because they did not label these liquid containers the same way as the monolingual Russian speakers. When grouped according to Age of Acquisition (AoA) of English, the bilinguals showed an effect of AoA (or perhaps length of exposure to the L2) in that bilinguals with earlier AoA (mean AoA 3.4 years) exhibited much stronger attrition than bilinguals with later AoA (mean AoA 22.8 years). That is, the individuals with earlier AoA were the more different from monolingual Russian speakers in their labeling and categorization of drinking vessels, than the people with later AoA. However, even the late AoA bilinguals exhibited some degree of attrition in that they labeled the drinking vessels differently from native monolingual Russian-speaking adults.\n\nGiven that exposure to an L2 at a younger age typically leads to stronger attrition of the L1 than L2 exposure at later ages, there may be a relationship between language attrition and the critical period hypothesis. The critical period for language claims that there is an optimal time period for humans to acquire language, and after this time language acquisition is more difficult (though not impossible). Language attrition also seems to have a time period; before around age 12, a first language is most susceptible to attrition if there is reduced exposure to that language. Research shows that the complete attrition of a language would occur before the critical period ends.\n\nAll available evidence on the age effect for L1 attrition therefore indicates that the development of susceptibility displays a curved, not a linear, function. This suggests that in native language learning there is indeed a Critical Period effect, and that full development of native language capacities necessitates exposure to L1 input for the entire duration of this CP.\n\nIn Hansen & Reetz-Kurashige (1999), Hansen cites her own research on L2-Hindi and Urdu attrition in young children. As young pre-school children in India and Pakistan, the subjects of her study were often judged to be native speakers of Hindi or Urdu; their mother was far less proficient. On return visits to their home country, the United States, both children appeared to lose all their L2 while the mother noticed no decline in her own L2 abilities. Twenty years later, those same young children as adults \"comprehend not a word from recordings of their own animated conversations in Hindi-Urdu; the mother still understands much of them\".\n\nYamamoto (2001) found a link between age and bilinguality. In fact, a number of factors are at play in bilingual families. In her study, bicultural families that maintained only one language, the minority language, in the household, were able to raise bilingual, bicultural children without fail. Families that adopted the one parent – one language policy were able to raise bilingual children at first but when the children joined the dominant language school system, there was a 50% chance that children would lose their minority language abilities. In families that had more than one child, the older child was most likely to retain two languages, if it was at all possible. Younger siblings in families with more than two other brothers and sisters had little chance of maintaining or ever becoming bilingual.\n\nThere are few principled and systematic investigations of FLA specifically investigating the impact of AoA. However, converging evidence suggests an age effect on FLA which is much stronger and more clearly delineated than the effects that have been found in SLA research. Two studies that consider prepuberty and postpuberty migrants (Ammerlaan, 1996, AoA 0–29 yrs; Pelc, 2001, AoA 8–32 years) find that AoA is one of the most important predictors of ultimate proficiency, and a number of studies that investigate the impact of age among postpuberty migrants fail to find any effect at all (Köpke, 1999, AoA 14–36 yrs; Schmid, 2002, AoA 12–29 yrs; Schmid, 2007, AoA 17–51 yrs). A range of studies conducted by Montrul on Spanish heritage speakers in the US as well as Spanish-English bilinguals with varying levels of AoA also suggests that the L1 system of early bilinguals may be similar to that of L2 speakers, while later learners pattern with monolinguals in their L1 (e.g. Montrul, 2008; Montrul, 2009). These findings therefore indicate strongly that early (prepuberty) and late (postpuberty) exposure to an L2 environment have a different impact on possible fossilization and/or deterioration of the linguistic system.\n\nFrequency of use has been shown to be an important factor in language attrition. Decline in use of a given language leads to gradual loss of that language.\n\nIn the face of much evidence to the contrary, one study is often cited to suggest that frequency of use does not correlate strongly with language attrition. Their methodology, however, can be called into question, especially concerning the small sample size and the reliance on self reported data. The researchers themselves state that their findings may be inaccurate. The overall evidence suggests that frequency of use is a strong indicator of language attrition.\n\nMotivation could be defined as the willingness and desire to learn a second language, or, in the case of attrition, the incentive to maintain a language. Motivation can be split into four categories, but it is often simply split into two distinct forms: the instrumental and the integrative. Instrumental motivation, in the case of attrition, is the desire to maintain a language in order to complete a specific goal, i.e. maintaining a language to maintain a job. Integrative motivation, however, is motivation that comes from a desire to fit in or maintain one's cultural ties. These inferences can be drawn, as strategies for knowledge maintenance will, by definition, precisely oppose actions that lead to forgetting.\n\nThere are differences in attrition related to motivation depending on the type at hand. Instrumental motivation is often less potent than integrative motivation, but, given sufficient incentives, it can be equally as powerful. A 1972 study by Gardner and Lambert emphasized the importance of integrative motivation in particular in regards to factors relating to language acquisition, and, by extension, language attrition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4087321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087321", "title": "Latent learning", "text": "Latent learning\n\nLatent learning is a form of learning that is not immediately expressed in an overt response; it occurs without any obvious reinforcement of the behavior or associations that are learned. Interest in latent learning arose largely because the phenomenon seemed to conflict with the widely held view that reinforcement was necessary for learning to occur.\n\nIn a classic study by Edward C. Tolman, three groups of rats were placed in mazes and their behavior observed each day for more than two weeks. The rats in Group 1 always found food at the end of the maze; the rats in Group 2 never found food; and the rats in Group 3 found no food for 10 days, but then received food on the eleventh. The Group 1 rats quickly learned to rush to the end of the maze; Group 2 rats wandered in the maze but did not preferentially go to the end. Group 3 acted the same as the Group 2 rats until food was introduced on Day 11; then they quickly learned to run to the end of the maze and did as well as the Group 1 rats by the next day. This showed that the Group 3 rats had learned about the organisation of the maze, but without the reinforcement of food. Until this study, it was largely believed that reinforcement was necessary for animals to learn such tasks. Other experiments showed that latent learning can happen in shorter durations of time, e.g. 3–7 days. Among other early studies, it was also found that animals allowed to explore the maze and then detained for one minute in the empty goal box learned the maze much more rapidly than groups not given such goal orientation. (so what?)\n\nIn 1949, John Seward conducted studies in which rats were placed in a T-maze with one arm coloured white and the other black. One group of rats had 30 mins to explore this maze with no food present, and the rats were not removed as soon as they had reached the end of an arm. Seward then placed food in one of the two arms. Rats in this exploratory group learned to go down the rewarded arm much faster than another group of rats that had not previously explored the maze. Similar results were obtained by Bendig in 1952 where rats were trained to escape from water in a modified T-maze with food present while satiated for food, then tested while hungry. Upon being returned to the maze while food deprived, the rats learned where the food was located at a rate that increased with the number of pre-exposures given the rat in the training phase. This indicated varying levels of latent learning.\n\nMost early studies of latent learning were conducted with rats, but a study by Stevenson in 1954 explored this method of learning in children. Stevenson required children to explore a series of objects to find a key, and then he determined the knowledge the children had about various non-key objects in the set-up. The children found non-key objects faster if they had previously seen them, indicating they were using latent learning. Their ability to learn in this way increased as they became older.\n\nIn 1982, Wirsig and co-researchers used the taste of sodium chloride to explore which parts of the brain are necessary for latent learning in rats. Decorticate rats were just as able as normal rats to accomplish the latent learning task.\n\nAn experiment with infants explored latent learning at an early age. Three-month-olds were exposed to two different hand puppets simultaneously. The infants were then periodically presented with one of the puppets until they reached 6-months of age, at which point a target behavior was demonstrated on the first puppet. Finally, the infants were presented with the alternative puppet and performed the target behavior on that puppet at a higher rate than the control group which had not seen the two puppets paired. This suggests that the pre-exposed infants had formed an association between the puppets without obvious reinforcement.\n\nAnother experiment suggested that not all potential associations are easily formed by latent learning. Human participants undeprived of caffeine were given a novel caffeinated drink for four days and then were given the drink on a caffeine-deprived fifth day. These participants did not show an increased liking for the flavor upon being caffeine-deprived, while subjects who underwent the same procedure while deprived of caffeine every day showed an increased liking for the flavor each day. In this case, flavor quality as a function of caffeine did not seem to be acquired through latent learning.\n\nThere have been several investigations of the neural processes involved in latent learning. In one study, patients with medial temporal amnesia had particular difficulty with a latent learning task which required representational processing. Another study, conducted with mice, found intriguing evidence that the absence of a prion protein disrupts latent learning and other memory functions in the water maze latent learning task, while phencyclidine was found to impair latent learning in a water finding task.\n"}
{"id": "366338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366338", "title": "Lecturer", "text": "Lecturer\n\nLecturer is an academic rank within many universities, though the meaning of the term varies somewhat from country to country. It generally denotes an academic expert who is hired to teach on a full- or part-time basis. They may also conduct research.\n\nIn the UK, the term lecturer is ambiguous and covers several academic ranks. The key distinction is between permanent/open-ended or temporary/fixed-term lectureships.\n\nA permanent lecturer in UK universities usually holds an open-ended position that covers teaching, research, and administrative responsibilities. Permanent lectureships are tenure-track or tenured positions that are equivalent to an assistant or associate professorship in North America. After a number of years, a lecturer may be promoted based on his or her research record to become a senior lecturer. This position is below reader and professor.\n\nResearch lecturers (where they are permanent appointments) are the equivalent in rank of lecturers and senior lecturers, but reflect a research-intensive orientation. Research lecturers are common in fields such as medicine, engineering, and biological and physical sciences.\n\nIn contrast, fixed-term or temporary lecturers are appointed for specific short-term teaching needs. These positions are often non-renewable and are common post-doctoral appointments. In North American terms, a fixed-term lecturer can hold an equivalent rank to assistant professor without tenure. Typically, longer contracts denote greater seniority or higher rank. Teaching fellows may also sometimes be referred to as lecturers—for example, Exeter named some of that group as education and scholarship lecturers (E & S) to recognise the contribution of teaching, and elevate the titles of teaching fellows to lecturers. Some universities also refer to graduate students or others, who undertake ad-hoc teaching for a department sessional lecturers. Like adjunct professors and sessional lecturers in North America, these non-permanent teaching staff are often very poorly paid (as little as £6000 p.a. in 2011-12). These varying uses of the term lecturer cause confusion for non-UK academics.\n\nAs a proportion of UK academic staff, the proportion of permanent lectureships has fallen considerably. This is one reason why permanent lectureships are usually secured only after several years of post-doctoral experience. Data from the Higher Education Statistics Agency show that in 2013-14, 36 per cent of full- and part-time academic staff were on fixed-term contracts, down from 45 per cent a decade earlier. Over the same period, the proportion of academic staff on permanent contracts rose from 55 per cent to 64 per cent. Others were on contracts classed as “atypical”.'\n\nHistorically in the UK, promotion to a senior lectureship reflected prowess in teaching or administration rather than research, and the position was much less likely to lead direct to promotion to professor.\n\nIn contrast, promotion to senior lecturer nowadays is based on research achievements (for research-intensive universities), and is an integral part of the promotion path to a full chair. Promotion to reader is sometimes still necessary before promotion to a full chair; however, some universities no longer make appointments at the level of reader (for instance, the University of Leeds and the University of Oxford). Senior lecturers and readers are sometimes paid on the same salary scale, although readers are recognized as more senior. Readers in pre-1992 universities are generally considered at least the equivalent, in terms of status, of (full) professors in post-1992 universities. Many academics consider it more prestigious to have been a reader in a pre-1992 university than a professor in a post-1992 university.\n\nMany open-ended lecturers in the UK have a doctorate (50.1% in 2009-2010) and often have postdoctoral research experience. In almost all fields, a doctorate is a prerequisite, although historically this was not the case. Some academic positions could have been held on the basis of research merit alone, without a higher degree.\n\nThe new universities (that is universities that were until 1992 termed polytechnics) have a slightly different ranking naming scheme from the older universities. Many pre-1992 universities use the grades: Lecturer (A), Lecturer (B), Senior Lecturer, Reader, Professor. Meanwhile, post-1992 grades are normally: Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Principal Lecturer (management-focused) or Reader (research-focused), Professor. Much confusion surrounds the differing use of the \"Senior Lecturer\" title. A Senior Lecturer in a post-1992 university is equivalent to a Lecturer (B) in a pre-1992 university, whereas a Senior Lecturer in a pre-1992 university is most often equivalent to a Principal Lecturer in a post-1992 university.\n\nAccording to the Times Higher Education, the University of Warwick decided in 2006 \"to break away from hundreds of years of academic tradition, renaming lecturers 'assistant professors', senior lecturers and readers 'associate professors' while still calling professors 'professors'. The radical move will horrify those who believe the \"professor\" title should be reserved for an academic elite.\" Nottingham has a mixture of the standard UK system, and the system at Warwick, with both lecturers and assistant professors. At Reading, job advertisements and academic staff web pages use the title associate professor, but the ordinances of the university make no reference to these titles. They address only procedures for conferring the traditional UK academic ranks.\n\nSince the Conservatives' 1988 Education Reform Act, the ironclad tenure that used to exist in the UK has given way to a less secure form of tenure. Technically, university vice-chancellors can make individual faculty members redundant for poor performance or institute departmental redundancies, but in practice, this is rare. The most noted use of this policy happened in 2012 at Queen Mary University of London where lecturers on permanent contracts were fired. The institutions now has a stated policy of firing and replacing under-performing \"teaching\" staff members. This policy is complicated by the 2008 \"Ball v Aberdeen\" tribunal decision, the distinction between teaching and research faculty is blurring- with implications for who can and cannot be made redundant at UK universities, and under what conditions.\n\nDespite this recent erosion of tenure in the UK, it is still practiced in most universities. Permanent contracts use the word \"tenure\" for lecturers who are \"reappointed to the retiring age\". This is equivalent to a US tenure decision—references are sought from world-leading academics and tenure and promotions committees meet to decide \"tenure\" cases. There is normally no title elevation in such instances—tenure and title are independent.\n\nThe table presents a broad overview of the traditional main systems, but there are universities which use a combination of those systems or other titles. Note that some universities in Commonwealth countries have adopted the American system in place of the Commonwealth system.\n\nAs different US academic institutions use the term lecturer in various ways, there is sometimes confusion. On a generic level, the term broadly denotes \"one who teaches at a university but is not eligible for tenure and has no research obligations\". At non-research colleges, the latter distinction is less meaningful, making the absence of tenure the main difference between lecturers and other academic faculty. Unlike the adjective adjunct (which can modify most academic titles, from professor to lecturer to instructor, etc. and refers to part-time status), the title of lecturer at most schools does \"not\" address the issue of full-time vs. part-time status.\n\nLecturers are almost always required to have at least a master's degree and quite often have earned doctorates. (For example, at Columbia University in New York, the title of lecturer actually requires a doctorate or its professional equivalent; they also use the term for \"instructors in specialized programs.\") Sometimes the title is used as an equivalent-alternative to instructor, but schools that use both titles tend to provide relatively more advancement potential (e.g. multiple ranks of progression, at least some of which entail faculty voting privileges or faculty committee service) to their lecturers.\n\nMajor research universities are more frequently hiring full-time lecturers, whose responsibilities tend to focus primarily in undergraduate education, especially for introductory/survey courses. In addition to the reason of higher-ranking faculty tending to prefer higher-level courses, part of the reason is also cost-savings, as non-tenure-track faculty tend to have lower salaries. When a lecturer is part-time, there is little practical distinction in the position from an adjunct professor/instructor/etc., since all non-tenure-track faculty by definition are not on the tenure-track. However, for full-time lecturers (or those regularly salaried above some stated level, such as half-time), many institutions now incorporate the role quite formally—managing it with performance reviews, promotional tracks, administrative service responsibilities, and many faculty privileges (e.g. voting, use of resources, etc.).\n\nAn emerging alternative to using full-time lecturers at research institutions is to create a parallel professorship track that is focused on teaching. It may offer tenure, and typically has a title series such as teaching professor. (This is analogous to the \"research-only\" faculty tracks at some universities, which typically have title series such as research professor/scientist/scholar.) A related concept—at least in professional fields—is the clinical professor or professor of practice, which in addition to a teaching focus (vs. research), also tend to have a practical/professional/skills oriented focus (vs. theory and scholarship, etc.).\n\nIn some institutions, the position of lecturer, especially \"distinguished lecturer\", may also refer to a position somewhat similar to \"emeritus professor\" or a temporary post used for visiting academics of considerable prominence—e.g. a famous writer may serve for a term or a year, for instance. When confusion arose about President Barack Obama's status on the law faculty at the University of Chicago, the institution stated that although his title was \"senior lecturer\", the university considered him to be a \"professor\" and further noted that it uses that title for notable people, such as federal judges and politicians, who are deemed of high prestige but lack the time to commit to a traditional tenure-track position. While other universities instead use the term \"senior\" as simply a matter of rank or promotion, all such references to lecturers of any rank are consistent with the normal U.S. practice of using \"lower-case-p\" \"professor\" as a common noun for anyone who teaches college, as well as a \"pre-nominal\" title of address (e.g. \"Professor Smith\") without necessarily referring to \"job\" title or position \"rank\" (e.g. \"John Smith, Assistant/Associate/Full Professor of X\").\n\nIn Australia, the term lecturer may be used informally to refer to anyone who conducts lectures at a university or elsewhere, but formally refers to a specific academic rank. The academic ranks in Australia are similar to those in the UK, with the rank of associate professor roughly equivalent to reader in UK universities. The academic levels in Australia are (in ascending academic level): A) associate lecturer, (B) lecturer, (C) senior lecturer, (D) associate professor, and (E) professor.\n\nIn India, one can appear for interviews for a post of a lecturer after passing the competitive exam of National Eligibility Test conducted by the University Grants Commission.\n\nThe position is equivalent to assistant professor in the US system. The term is not universally applied, with some universities preferring the lecturer/reader /professor titles, while others work with the assistant professor/associate professor/professor title.\n\nAs such, most lecturers' position can be considered tenure track.\n\nIn many states of India, the term lecturer or Post Graduate Teacher (PGT) is also used for the intermediate college teachers. The intermediate colleges or Junior Colleges are equivalent to higher secondary schools. Such lecturers are subject experts specifically engaged to teach a particular subject in higher classes.\n\nIn other countries, usage varies. In Israel, the term has a meaning in academia similar to that in the UK.\n\nIn France, the title \"maître de conférences\" (\"lecture master\") is a permanent position that covers research and teaching (and usually administrative responsibilities). It is the lower of the two permanent faculty ranks (the other being \"professeur des universités\" or \"university professor\"). The title of \"lecteur\" is used for teachers of foreign languages with no research responsibilities.\n\nIn German-speaking countries, the term \"lektor\" historically denoted a teaching position below a professor, primarily responsible for delivering and organizing lectures. The contemporary equivalent is \"dozent\" or . Nowadays, the German term \"lektor\" exists only in philology or modern-language departments at German-speaking universities for positions that primarily involve teaching a foreign language. The equivalent rank within the German university system is something like \"Juniorprofessor\", \"Dozent\", \"Hochschuldozent\", \"Juniordozent\", \"Akademischer Rat\" or \"-Oberrat\", \"Lehrkraft für besondere Aufgaben\", and the like.\n\nIn Poland, the related term \"lektor\" is used for a teaching-only position, generally for teaching foreign languages.\n\nIn Norway, a \"lektor\", University Lektor and University College Lektor are academic ranks at universities and university colleges in Norway. The requirements for such position is a combination of relevant degree on master level (five years master or bachelor plus two years master) or higher, research experience, teaching experience and pedagogic education and training. The rank is similar to Lecturer in Great Britain.\nThe Rank is also an academic rank which enables a teacher to lecture at Ungdomsskole (secondary school) on specialized fields and Videregående skole (high school) level. All teacher students in Norway are now required to reach a master's degree in order to be able to teach at all levels up to universities and university colleges. \nIn Sweden and Denmark, a \"lektor\" or \"universitetslektor\" is an academic rank similar to that of senior lecturer in Great Britain and associate professor in USA. The \"lektor\" holds the position below professor in rank.\n\nIn Singapore, a Lecturer at the National University of Singapore is a full-time and renewable position that include both the opportunities for research funding and for promotion to Associate Professor on the Educator Track. It is equivalent to Teaching Assistant Professor at a US university.\n\nIn South Korea, the term \"gangsa\" is the literal translation of \"part-time lecturer\". A gangsa is usually part-time, paid by the number of hours of teaching. No research or administrative obligation is attached. In most disciplines, gangsa is regarded as a first step in one's academic career. In Korea, the tenure position started from \"full-time lecturer\". The tenure track positions in South Korea are \"full-time lecturer (JunImGangSa)\", \"assistant professor (JoKyoSu)\", \"associate professor (BuKyosu)\", and \"professor (KyoSu)\". Therefore, \"full-time lecturer\" is the same position as \"assistant professor\" in other countries, including the USA.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a \"lector\" used to be equivalent to the rank of associate professor at universities. Nowadays, it is the highest rank at so-called \"applied universities\" (i.e., school providing higher vocational/professional training to their students). At regular universities, this rank does not exist anymore.\n"}
{"id": "47522503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47522503", "title": "List of online high schools in Florida", "text": "List of online high schools in Florida\n\nFlorida offers resident students the opportunity to take online high school courses.\n\nThe list of private and public online schools in Florida include the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "6674998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6674998", "title": "List of works on Waldorf education", "text": "List of works on Waldorf education\n\nThis is a list of works on Waldorf education by authors other than Rudolf Steiner. See also this List of Rudolf Steiner's works on education.\n\n\"Works on Waldorf education include:\"\n\nReviews at:\nhttps://www.amazon.com.au/Steiner-Education-Theory-Practice-Gilbert/dp/0863151310\n"}
{"id": "5914151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5914151", "title": "Oracy", "text": "Oracy\n\nThe term oracy was coined by Andrew Wilkinson, a British researcher and educator, in the 1960s. This word is formed by analogy from literacy and numeracy. The purpose is to draw attention to the neglect of oral skills in education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1938323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1938323", "title": "Overjustification effect", "text": "Overjustification effect\n\nThe overjustification effect occurs when an expected external incentive such as money or prizes decreases a person's intrinsic motivation to perform a task. Overjustification is an explanation for the phenomenon known as motivational \"crowding out.\" The overall effect of offering a reward for a previously unrewarded activity is a shift to extrinsic motivation and the undermining of pre-existing intrinsic motivation. Once rewards are no longer offered, interest in the activity is lost; prior intrinsic motivation does not return, and extrinsic rewards must be continuously offered as motivation to sustain the activity.\n\nThe overjustification effect has been widely demonstrated in many settings. In one of the earliest demonstrations of this effect, Edward Deci and his colleagues conducted a laboratory experiment in 1971 where subjects showing baseline interest in solving a puzzle were exposed to two different conditions. The control group were not paid on all three days while the experimental group were not paid on the first day, were paid on the second day and were not paid again on the third day. The subjects were given a break in the middle of each session and were being observed while doing whatever they wanted. The results showed that the experimental group spent significantly more time than the control group playing the puzzle during their break time on day 2 when they were paid but significantly less on day 3 when they were not paid. This was interpreted as evidence that the extrinsic monetary reward significantly reduced their intrinsic motivation to engage in the task.\n\nResearchers at Southern Methodist University conducted an experiment on 188 female university students in which they measured the subjects' continued interest in a cognitive task (a word game) after their initial performance under different incentives. The subjects were divided into two groups. Members of the first group were told that they would be rewarded for competence. Above-average players would be paid more and below-average players would be paid less. Members of the second group were told that they would be rewarded only for completion. Their pay was scaled by the number of repetitions or the number of hours playing. Afterwards, half of the subjects in each group were told that they over-performed, and the other half were told that they under-performed, regardless of how well each subject actually did. Members of the first group generally showed greater interest in the game and continued playing for a longer time than the members of the second group. \"Over-performers\" continued playing longer than \"under-performers\" in the first group, but \"under-performers\" continued playing longer than \"over-performers\" in the second group. This study showed that, when rewards do not reflect competence, higher rewards lead to less intrinsic motivation. But when rewards do reflect competence, higher rewards lead to greater intrinsic motivation.\n\nRichard Titmuss suggested that paying for blood donations might reduce the supply of blood donors. To test this, a field experiment with three treatments was conducted. In the first treatment, the donors did not receive compensation. In the second treatment, the donors received a small payment. In the third treatment, donors were given a choice between the payment and an equivalent-valued contribution to charity. None of the three treatments affected the number of male donors, but the second treatment almost halved the number of female donors. However, allowing the contribution to charity fully eliminated this effect.\n\nAccording to self-perception theory, a person infers causes about his or her own behavior based on external constraints. The presence of a strong constraint (such as a reward) would lead a person to conclude that he or she is performing the behavior solely for the reward, which shifts the person's motivation from intrinsic to extrinsic.\n\nLaboratory studies in the 1970s indicated that individuals under conditions with extrinsic rewards showed diminished intrinsic motivation. Deci and his colleagues (e.g., Deci and Ryan 1985) developed the cognitive evaluation theory to explain the results. As a sub-theory of self-determination theory, cognitive evaluation theory explains that both control and competence underlie intrinsic motivation and how extrinsic rewards affect intrinsic motivation is dependent on the individual's interpretation. Intrinsic motivation increases if individuals interpret rewards as pertaining positive information about their own competence and self-control over results, whereas if they interpret the results as indicative of external control, this decreases their feelings of self-control and competence, which in turn decreases intrinsic motivation. Cognitive evaluation theory also suggests social context as another implication on intrinsic motivation. Social cues can exert either positive or negative effects on intrinsic motivation depending on the messages that the context conveys regarding a person's autonomy and competence. Verbal rewards such as positive feedback and praise are predicted to be experienced as controlling hence decreasing intrinsic motivation. However, verbal rewards that are informational and not experienced as controlling are predicted to exert positive effects.\n\nSelf-determination theory is a broad theory of motivation in work organizations that maintains the predictions of cognitive evaluation theory but also recognizes the limitations of the theory, such as organizational conditions under which predictions do not apply or are less relevant in real-world settings, which cognitive evaluation theory fails to recognize. The theory differentiates between various types of motivational states, distinguishes the organizational conditions where extrinsic rewards are more effective than intrinsic rewards, examines individual differences in orientation toward intrinsic versus extrinsic motivation and discusses managerial behavior that can enhance intrinsic motivation. Findings from the Deci et al. (1989) study have supported self-determination theory as an approach to work motivation by showing how managers can impact the work attitudes of their employees. The study reported that managerial autonomy support which included provision of options, giving relevant information in a non-autonomous way, acknowledging subordinates' perspectives and cultivating self-initiation resulted in employees having more positive work-related attitudes such as higher level of job satisfaction and increased level of trust in corporate management.\n\n The overjustification effect is controversial because it challenges previous findings in psychology on the general effectiveness of reinforcement on increasing behavior, and also the widespread practice of using incentives in the classroom. These findings fail to account for situations whereby the nature of activities differ, such as in cases where the initial level of intrinsic interest in the activity is very low, introducing extrinsic contingencies may be essential for producing involvement. These conclusions were challenged in a separate meta-analysis which found that tangible rewards offered for outperforming others and for performing uninteresting tasks (in which intrinsic motivation is low) lead to increased intrinsic motivation, and stated that the detrimental effects of rewards on motivation only occur in a specific, restricted set of conditions that could be easily avoided. This set of analyses included both high-interest and low-interest tasks, whereas the original meta-analyses conducted by Deci and colleagues (1999) restricted analyses to tasks in which participants initially had high interest. In fact, a 2001 meta-analysis showed that rewards can increase intrinsic motivation for tasks that initially hold little intrinsic interest.\n\nAlso, according to Eisenberger and Cameron, claimed negative effects of extrinsic rewards on task interest derived from the Deci study (1971) do not take into consideration that conditions manufactured in laboratory settings that produce these effects are not true reflections of situations in the real world. For example, in the Deci study the incentive was provided for one session and was then arbitrarily withdrawn in the next and such incentive plans do not exist in the real world. Also, the reduced intrinsic interest seen in subjects may be explained by a negative reaction when the reward was withheld.\nEisenberger and his colleges also claimed that the validity of the dependent measure is highly questionable in the Deci study. Laboratory results that used the amount of free time spend on the task as the dependent measure are shown to be far weaker than when self reports are used for these measures. The Deci study gives far less weight to self reports, however self-reports about subjects' level of internal motivation seem to be a more direct measure of the psychological state of interest.\n\nConsiderable research has also shown that rewards tend to enhance feelings of competence and autonomy and high standards, pressure and competitiveness are able to increase these effects. For example, employees view earning incentives as enjoyable rather than a dreaded tool of management control. These findings are in contrast with the psychological mechanism for effects that Deci and his colleges had claimed in the past. Also in the past 30 years, notable academic reviews of rewards have confirmed that monetary incentives have shown to significantly increase performance.\nAdditionally, some activities require a significant level of mastery or engagement before its attractiveness becomes apparent to an individual, in such cases external incentives may be useful to build individuals up to that level. Token economy programs represent one example in which there is evidence showing that such programs have successfully implemented extrinsic rewards to increase interest in certain broad classes of activities.\n\nThere are also differences in effect among the different age groups. According to Deci et al. (1999), the negative effects extrinsic contingencies have on intrinsic motivation seem to be more severe for children than college students. One possible explanation is that college students have greater cognitive capacity, enabling them to better separate informational and controlling aspects of rewards. Hence they are able to interpret rewards as indicators of effective performance rather than controlling their behavior, which causes them to operate with performance-goal orientations. It is therefore speculated that such differences are far greater between children and employed workers.\n\nA rebuttal defended the original findings, concluding that this analysis by Cameron (2001) was flawed and that Cameron's inclusion of boring tasks in analyzing potential overjustification effects made little theoretical or practical sense. This rebuttal argued that cognitive evaluation theory is the most consistent structure for explaining the effects of rewards on intrinsic motivation, pointing to several other papers that have supported the theory.\n\nFindings from the Lepper et al.'s (1973) study suggest that presenting these extrinsic rewards poses central problems in the schooling system in that it fails to preserve the intrinsic interest in learning and exploration that a child may seem to possess during his initial phase in school. This also has severe ramifications on the education system, as it seems to almost undermine children's spontaneous interest in the process of learning itself, instead their motivation is driven by these extrinsic rewards. Research in this area suggests that parents and educators should rely on intrinsic motivation and preserve feelings of autonomy and competence as much as possible. When the task is unattractive and intrinsic motivation is insufficient (e.g., household chores), then extrinsic rewards are useful to provide incentives for behavior.\n\nSchool programs that provide money or prizes for reading books have been criticized for their potential to reduce intrinsic motivation by overjustification. However, a study of the Pizza Hut program, Book It!, found that participation in the program neither increased nor decreased reading motivation. Although motivating students to read by rewarding them may undermine their interest in reading, it may also encourage the reading skills necessary for developing an interest in reading.\n\nCognitive evaluation theory further predicts the different types of rewards that will exert different effects. According to the theory, task non-contingent rewards like benefits that are based on things other than performance, such as employment that do not consist any information regarding autonomy and competence, will have no effect on intrinsic motivation. Task contingent rewards on the other hand like salary which are awarded for performing or completing a task, will be experienced as controlling and hence will have a negative effect on intrinsic motivation. The study conducted by Deckop and Cirka (2000) reported that introducing merit pay programs in a non-profit organization led to decreased feelings of autonomy and intrinsic motivation, indicating that rewards can undermine intrinsic motivation in work settings.\n\nPerformance contingent rewards like monetary incentives that are given for good performance or meeting a certain standard will be experienced as highly controlling hence decreasing intrinsic motivation. The Shirom, Westman, and Melamed (1999) study found that pay-for-performance plans resulted in lower well being in blue-collar workers, and this was especially evident for those who felt that their jobs were monotonous. However, in certain cases where the reward also conveys information about competence that will in turn reduce the negative effect.\n\nThe term gamification refers to the application of game design elements to non-game contexts in order to drive participation, often with the goal of encouraging greater engagement with the non-game context by providing symbolic rewards such as points, badges, or virtual currency. However, a number of academics and other critics have expressed concern that these rewards may backfire via the overjustification effect. Drawing directly on self-determination theory, these critics of gamification express concerns that gamified contexts such as foursquare might provide expected rewards for activities that do not adequately meet self-determination theory's three innate needs for intrinsic motivation—relatedness, autonomy, and competence—and therefore reduce intrinsic interest in those activities.\n\nWebsites that rely on user-generated content sometimes offer monetary rewards for contributions, but these may cause the contributors to succumb to the overjustification effect and stop contributing. For example, Amazon Mechanical Turk allows the creator of a task to offer a monetary reward, but a survey of 431 Mechanical Turk participants showed that they are driven more by intrinsic motivations than a desire for the usually meager monetary compensation. The overjustification effect was also considered in a study on how to maximize contributions when crowdsourcing creative endeavors.\n\nEmpirical evidence shows that expected financial rewards \"crowd out\" intrinsic motivation, while the size of the monetary reward simultaneously provides extrinsic motivation. If the size of the monetary reward is not large enough to compensate for the loss of intrinsic motivation, overall engagement can decline. A survey data-set revealed that small financial payments reduced volunteer hours among Swiss citizens, and that the median financial reward provided to these volunteers caused them to work less than volunteers who were not given any payment.\n\nThe overjustification effect has also been linked to professional sports. The performance of numerous athletes has diminished following the signing of a lucrative, multimillion-dollar contract. Some notable professional athletes whose performances have diminished following a large contract include Alex Rodriguez (MLB), Albert Pujols (MLB), Wayne Rooney (Premier League) and Albert Haynesworth (NFL).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4482937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4482937", "title": "Practicum", "text": "Practicum\n\nA practicum (also called work placement, especially in the UK) is a graduate level course, often in a specialized field of study, that is designed to give students supervised practical application of a previously or concurrently studied theory. Practicums (student teaching) are common for education and social work majors. In some cases, the practicum may be a part-time student teaching placement that occurs the semester before a student's full-time student teaching placement.\n\nThe process resembles an internship; however, the latter is often not part of the school program.\n\nPracticum is widely practiced in Asia, especially in India. There, a B.Ed. student has to undergo rigorous training in Teaching and they have to face a lot of practicums to earn their degree. It generally makes one practically face a situation and describe their experience. It differs from Practical in terms of its handling mainly alive beings whereas Practical is confined within the inert materials. \n"}
{"id": "1228447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228447", "title": "Pre-tertiary education", "text": "Pre-tertiary education\n\nPre-tertiary education, also referred to as basic education and pre-university, is education below the level of tertiary education or post-secondary education to include preschool education through secondary education. It may include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15870253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15870253", "title": "Professional learning community", "text": "Professional learning community\n\nA professional learning community (PLC) is a method to foster collaborative learning among colleagues within a particular work environment or field. It is often used in schools as a way to organize teachers into working groups of practice-based professional learning.\n\nThe phrase \"professional learning community\" began to be used in the 1990s after Peter Senge's book \"The Fifth Discipline\" (1990) had popularized the idea of learning organizations, related to the idea of reflective practice espoused by Donald Schön in books such as \"The Reflective Turn: Case Studies in and on Educational Practice\" (1991). Charles B. Myers and Lynn K. Myers used the phrase \"professional learning community\" in relation to schools in their 1995 book \"The Professional Educator: A New Introduction to Teaching and Schools\", and a year later Charles B. Myers presented a paper at the annual meeting of the American Educational Research Association titled \"Beyond the PDS: Schools as Professional Learning Communities\" that proposed a path from professional development school (PDS) efforts to schools as professional learning communities. In 1997, Shirley M. Hord issued a white paper titled \"Professional Learning Communities: Communities of Continuous Inquiry and Improvement\". A year later, Richard DuFour and Robert E. Eaker published the book \"Professional Learning Communities at Work\". Since the late 1990s, a large literature on PLCs has been published.\n\nPLCs have many variations. In Shirley M. Hord's 1997 definition, it means \"extending classroom practice into the community; bringing community personnel into the school to enhance the curriculum and learning tasks for students; or engaging students, teachers, and administrators simultaneously in learning\". Hord noted that the benefits of professional learning community to educators and students include reduced isolation of teachers, better informed and committed teachers, and academic gains for students. In 1998, Richard DuFour and Robert E. Eaker explained:\n\nIn 2004, DuFour stated that initiating and sustaining a PLC \"requires the school staff to focus on learning rather than teaching, work collaboratively on matters related to learning, and hold itself accountable for the kind of results that fuel continual improvement\". In 2005, the Ontario Ministry of Education defined a PLC as \"a shared vision for running a school in which everyone can make a contribution, and staff are encouraged to collectively undertake activities and reflection in order to constantly improve their students' performance\".\n\nMichael Fullan has noted that \"in the spread of PLCs, we have found that the term travels a lot faster than the concept, a finding common to all innovations. The concept is deep and requires careful and persistent attention in thorough learning by reflective doing and problem solving.\" Fullan also noted: \"Transforming the \"culture\" of schools and the systems within which they operate is the main point. It is not an innovation to be implemented, but rather a new culture to be developed.\"\n\nThere are many core characteristics of PLCs including collective teamwork in which leadership and responsibility for student learning are extensively shared, a focus on reflective inquiry and dialogue among educators, collective emphasis on improving student learning, shared values and norms, and development of common practices and feedback.\n\nThe 2005 report by the Ontario Ministry of Education titled \"Education for All\" indicates the characteristics of PLCs are as follows:\n\n\nAround the time that the term \"professional learning community\" was coined, a group of education researchers became interested in the similar idea of \"professional community\" in schools. Based on data they collected in their research for the Center on Organization and Restructuring of Schools, Sharon Kruse, Karen Seashore Louis, and Anthony Bryk developed a three-part framework to describe the critical elements and supportive conditions that are necessary to establish a healthy \"professional\" culture. The components of this framework are described in the following table. Kruse and colleagues found that \"in schools where professional community is strong, teachers work together more effectively, and put more efforts into creating and sustaining opportunities for student learning.\" They also suggested that the social and human resources are more important than the structural conditions in the development of professional community.\n\nIn their 2015 examination of middle school mathematics teachers' collaborative conversations regarding student data, Jason Brasel, Brette Garner, Britnie Kane and Ilana Horn found that the teachers used data to answer four questions:\n\nThe matrix in the following table shows how Brasel and colleagues found that the teachers combined these four questions to learn about two dimensions of teaching: student thinking and instruction. The authors found that while the most productive collaborative discussions—that allowed the teachers to learn more about mathematics content, students and pedagogy—focused more on \"why\" and \"how\", the teachers tended to address only the first two questions, \"what\" and to \"whom\". While these conversations were helpful in identifying students in need of remediation, they did little in the way to improve instruction in the long run.\n\nTeachers and other educators can feel as if they are pawns in a larger game of chess where school and district leaders are making decisions that cause problems for educators trying to do their jobs. Barriers that can inhibit the development of PLCs include subject areas, because some educational subjects tend to naturally take precedence over others. The physical layout of the school can be another obstacle.\n\nIn the book \"Intentional Interruption: Breaking Down Learning Barriers to Professional Practice\", Steven Katz and Lisa Ain Dack identified six mental barriers to learning in PLCs: \"we don't think through all possibilities; we focus on confirming our hypotheses and not challenging them; we pay too much attention to things that are vivid; we consider ourselves to be exceptions; we hesitate to take action in a new direction; we don't want others to see our vulnerabilities\". Katz and Dack opt for a psychological definition of learning: \"Learning is the process through which experience causes permanent change in knowledge or behaviour\". It is the characteristic of permanence which raises the bar for all professional learning, because learning as permanent change is not easy or natural to achieve. Katz and Dack urge designers of professional learning to avoid the \"activity trap\" of assuming that participation in a protocol or process guarantees real learning has occurred or putting so much emphasis on the activity that learning is lost in the shuffle.\n\nBecause of these difficulties many teachers are turning to the web for PLCs. Teachers are finding groups through Twitter, Facebook, and other social media websites that allow them to interact with teachers from across their country to brainstorm and exchange ideas. These groups can be helpful for those with PLCs already at their current school and those without PLCs.\n\nA PLC can be seen as an effective staff development team approach and a strategy for school improvement. The PLC process aims to be a reflective process where both individual and community growth is achieved, connected with the school's shared vision for learning. In his book \"The Fifth Discipline\", Peter Senge commented on the importance of building shared vision:\n\nCreation of a shared vision involves sharing diverse ideas and making compromises so that all members are satisfied with the direction in which the organization is moving. Conflicting goals can become a source of positive development: \"Top-down mandates and bottom-up energies need each other\".\n\nThrough this commitment and creation of a shared vision the team may become empowered to work together and achieve goals. As teachers' capacity increases and they develop a sense of professional growth, they may find they are able to reach goals they could not reach on their own.\n\nIn an educational setting, a PLC may include people from multiple levels of the organization who are collaboratively and continually working together for the betterment of the organization. Peter Senge believes \"it is no longer sufficient to have one person learning for the organization\". A major principle of PLCs is that people learn more together than if they were on their own, if conditions are right. Teachers may promote the idea of team learning to students in their classrooms, but teachers may not practice team learning in their professional lives; PLCs aim to help teachers practice the team learning that they preach. Senge suggests that when teams learn together there are beneficial results for the organization. Some school improvement evaluators have even claimed that \"high-quality collaboration has become no less than an imperative\".\n\nFor a school to be fully committed to implementing PLCs, the school's leadership must help establish and maintain PLCs. Successful PLCs will require a shift in the traditional leadership structure from leader-centered (top-down) to shared leadership. Sue C. Thompson and her colleagues pointed out how many educators often feel that \"new ideas that came from someone else without teacher input\" are a waste of time and do not qualify as true leadership or support. In a PLC, the view of the principal as the instructional leader changes to a view that reflects the principal as a member of a community of learners and leaders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53715889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53715889", "title": "Qualifications framework", "text": "Qualifications framework\n\nA qualifications framework is a formalized structure in which learning level descriptors and qualifications are used in order to understand learning outcomes. This allows for the ability to develop, assess and improve quality education in a number of contexts. Qualifications frameworks are typically found at the National, Regional, and International level.\n\nThe origin of qualification structures can be traced back to organized education in antique civilizations such as Greece, Sparta, Rome and China. As no specialized career structure existed in these cultures, organized education focused on broad issues of international citizenship, and not on vocational preparedness, which was achieved mainly through informal apprenticeships. As civilizations developed, the role of social class and caste received more emphasis, and people who displayed certain competences were grouped together. The advantage of having participated in and benefited from education gradually became more visible as civilizations developed. In this respect the Chinese civilization was the most organized, with a series of levels attached to examinations, which in turn granted the right of access to public office. During the Middle Ages education had a particularly religious nature, while the late medieval centuries were categorized by a new approach to education alongside the clergy and feudal knighthood. New economic objectives as a result of the Crusades and the development of banking, importing and shipping across Europe and the West gave rise to the development of cities, and a new form of education aimed at professional life. Education became available to the middle classes, and the merchant and craft guild system developed.\n\nThe first institutions of formal higher education were established at this time in the Islamic universities of Al-Azhar in Cairo and Sankore in Timbuktu. By the eleventh century, universities were developing in Europe, largely in reaction to the previous narrow religious doctrine. The establishment of the University of Bologna marked the beginning of the European university tradition. This was also the time when the term 'qualification' acquired a more definite meaning, although it retained its emphasis on social class structures. The nineteenth century brought with it a wave of liberalism and consciousness of equal rights and opportunities, accompanied by increased specialization and bureaucratization. The increased need for skilled employees eventually resulted in an emphasis on credentials which persists to the present day. During the twentieth century the emphasis shifted to human capital theory and technological development, eventually leading to concerns whether the education system was able to meet the demands of the labour market. At the time it was argued that the strong divisions were creating barriers to learning, and that there was a need to do away with the sharp distinction between academic and vocational systems.\n\nDuring the late 1980s, and strongly influenced by the thinking on integration but also by a focus on vocational training through a competency approach, the notion of a National Qualification Frameworks (NQF) emerged in the United Kingdom. Its roots lay in the competence approach to vocational education which was broadened by Jessup, as well as the Scottish Action Plan which led to the modularization of vocational education and training in Scotland. The idea developed that all qualifications could be expressed in terms of outcomes without prescribing learning pathways or programmes. Within this politically charged melting pot of factors, and a renewed emphasis on the importance of lifelong learning, the first NQFs were established in Australia, England, Scotland, New Zealand, Ireland and South Africa between 1989 and 1995. France, as a country with a different, notably non-Anglo Saxon tradition, was also a member of this group of first-generation NQFs (Bouder, 2003; Keevy et al., 2011). In the case of France, the NQF drew on a hierarchy of qualifications that found official expression at the end of 1960s in a nomenclature which tried to rationalize the number of students leaving the education and training system to correspond with the needs of the labour market.\n\nAcross the first-generation countries, NQFs were conceptualized as hierarchical classifications of levels of formal learning programmes and their associated qualifications and certificates. Integral features of NQFs included new quality assurance and standards-setting regimes based on learning outcomes, and importantly for this study, level descriptors which are used to determine the level at which a qualification should be pegged. \n\nAll qualifications frameworks are learning outcomes-based. In qualifications frameworks, qualifications are developed using learning outcomes, and the set of hierarchical levels they consist of are described with a set of learning level descriptors.\n\nQualifications frameworks emerged from two complementary education and training discourses in the late 1980s: the competence approach to vocational education, and the shift to learning outcomes, embedded within the broader concept of lifelong learning. As a result, the interrelationship between competences and learning outcomes was not only firmly embedded in qualifications framework thinking from the very outset, but was also used in a hybridized form.  \n\nA National Qualifications Framework (NQF) addresses the educational quality concerns of specific countries. Some examples include:\n\nA Regional Qualifications Framework (RQF) focuses specifically on qualifications at the regional level. Some examples include:\n\nThe purpose of the world reference levels lies mainly in their potential to provide a neutral and independent reference point against which a level of learning can be assessed.\n\nThe idea of a set of world reference levels was considered in May 2012, during the Third International Congress on TVET, held in Shanghai, China. The research included in this report was initiated by UNESCO based on the recommendation from the Congress to the UNESCO Director-General to undertake this work. The UNESCO TVET Section, in cooperation with the European Commission's Directorate General for Education and Culture and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP), subsequently invited key organizations in Brussels to deliberate on the Shanghai Consensus Recommendation in September 2013. The deliberations included regional developments in Europe, notably the European Qualifications Framework (EQF) and in Asia, notably a common standard for competences developed by the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), as well as the move towards regional qualifications frameworks (RQFs) in Central America and the Southern African Development Community (SADC). At the national level, the development of national qualifications frameworks (NQFs) was considered across and beyond these regions, including Mercosur (Mercado Común del Sur, the Common Market of the South) in South America and the development of a transnational qualifications framework (TQF) by twenty-nine small states of the Commonwealth. The additional dimension of learning metrics as used in longitudinal studies, international competence assessments and diagnostics reviews was also considered.\n\nThe Brussels deliberations concluded that the mobility of people (both learners and workers, including migrant workers) and jobs (including outsourcing and offshoring) constitutes an important driver for the world reference levels emanating from the Shanghai Consensus Recommendation. It was noted that jobs are not always matched to demands during these movements, because of demographic shifts and the differential capacities of economies to create jobs. The cross-border provision of education and training, as well as the technological developments resulting in increased open and distance learning, and online learning, were also identified as important drivers towards world reference levels. Another important driver identified in the Brussels deliberations was the need for international dialogue, cooperation and capacity-building in the field of the recognition of qualifications.\n\nSectoral qualifications frameworks are developed within a specific country and with a specific sectoral focus. Examples include: \n\nTransnational qualifications frameworks are developed across a range of countries. Where these countries are in the same geographical proximity they are referred to as regional qualifications frameworks (examples include the SADC RQF and the EQF). Transnational qualifications frameworks can also be developed across countries that are not in the same geographic proximity. \n\nThe E-xcellence framework was developed by the European Association of Distance Teaching Universities (EADTU). It is an instrument for benchmarking the quality of online, open and flexible education at programme, faculty and institutional levels. The framework defines requirements (called \"benchmarks\") for the entire process, from curriculum design to delivery, including the management and support of online and blended learning.\n\nThe OpenupEd quality label is derived from the E-xcellence framework. Ossiannilsson and colleagues identified this framework as useful for certification and benchmarking. The label describes a self-assessment and review Quality Assurance (QA) process for the MOOCs (Massive open online courses) in the European OpenupEd partnership, but the OpenupEd framework can be used for the QA of any MOOC. The benchmarks statements in this label, derived from benchmarks produced by the E-xcellence framework, are divided into two groups: those that apply at the institutional level and those for individual courses (MOOCs).\n\nLearning level descriptors are essential elements in Qualifications Frameworks. Learning Level descriptors are statements that provide a broad indication of learning appropriate to attainment at a particular level, describing the characteristics and context of learning expected at that level. They are designed to support the reviewing of specified learning outcomes and assessment criteria in order to develop particular modules and units and to assign credits at the appropriate level.\n\nA learning outcome is a measurable result of a learning experience which allows us to ascertain to which extent / level / standard a competence has been formed or enhanced. Learning outcomes can be used to describe many things, including knowledge, skills and competences (KSC), in the context of qualifications frameworks. Learning outcomes are increasingly being used in global context 'as a dynamic tool for modernisation and reform'. The key mechanism through which the learning outcomes approach is being implemented is qualifications frameworks, but there are also others, such as within curriculum reform on both national and international levels. The Tuning Project, which started in 2000, stands out as a good example of the introduction of learning outcomes outside of, but nonetheless related to, qualifications frameworks. Learning outcomes are used in the formulation of qualifications, and also in the formulation of level descriptors.\n\nDefinitions of the concept of learning outcomes vary across contexts, although some common elements can be identified. Here are several definitions. Learning outcomes...\nFrom a review of the interpretation of learning outcomes it is evident that learning outcomes are understood to be statements that describe mainly three major domains: knowledge (learning to know), skills (learning to do) and competences (learning to be).\n\nThe interrelationship between learning outcomes and competences is best illustrated in qualifications frameworks. While learning outcomes often describe competences, competences can also be stand alone. Competences represent a dynamic combination of cognitive and meta-cognitive skills, demonstration of knowledge and understanding, interpersonal, intellectual and practical skills, and ethical values. \n"}
{"id": "11050135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050135", "title": "Rapid interactivity", "text": "Rapid interactivity\n\nRapid interactivity is a method for rapidly developing interactive learning technologies. \n\n"}
{"id": "27036625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27036625", "title": "Robots and Avatars", "text": "Robots and Avatars\n\nRobots and Avatars was a programme of events and educational activities which explores how young people will work and play with new representational forms of virtual and physical life in 10–15 years time. It was produced by body>data>space with support from NESTA. between 2009 and 2012.\n\nThe project examined multi-identity evolutions of younger generations within the context of a world in which virtual and physical spaces are increasingly blended. A participatory web and events led programme with connected educational activities took taking place across 2010 and onwards, in the UK and internationally. The project included contributions by a diverse range of experts, professionals and specialists working with robots and avatars including Professor Noel Sharkey (Professor of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics and Professor of Public Engagement University of Sheffield), Pear Urishima (Apple), Ghislaine Boddington from body>data>space and Derek Richards from Hi8us South.\n\nRobots and Avatars launched in November 2009 with a Forum at NESTA, attended by an international group of 80 experts, professionals and young people in London.\n\nBetween June and November 2010 the programme hosted a series of Lunch Debates exploring Artificial Intelligence, Behaviour and Ethics, Health and Wellbeing and the Future Workplace with expert provocateurs and top level thinkers.\n\nThe programme continued throughout 2010-2011 with educational events, an exhibition, a website, vodcasts with key experts and a book/DVD.\n\nRobots and Avatars explored a wide range of themes including:\n\n"}
{"id": "1209581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1209581", "title": "Sail training", "text": "Sail training\n\nFrom its modern interpretations to its antecedents when maritime nations would send young naval officer candidates to sea (e.g., see Outward Bound), sail training provides an unconventional and effective way of building many useful skills on and off the water. \n\nBy 1900 most commercial sailing vessels were struggling to turn a profit in the face of competition from more modern steam ships which had become efficient enough to steam shorter great circle routes between ports instead of the longer trade wind routes used by sailing ships.\n\nShips were built larger to carry bulk cargoes more efficiently, their rigs were simplified to reduce manning costs and speed was no longer a premium. Owners shipped cargoes that were non-perishable so that their date of arrival (which steam ships had started to guarantee) were of less importance. Finally as the Panama Canal was opened, sailing ships were used in parts of the world where steam ships still found it hard to operate: principally on \nBoth Chile and Australian ports were difficult to supply with coal for steamships to refuel. Also, both routes to Europe went round Cape Horn.\n\nThe end of the First World War saw a brief return to profitability as all ship types were in scarce supply due to wartime losses but that boom became bust as many new steam ships were built to replace the sailing ships that were lost.\n\nWhile many countries of the world operated sailing ships as training vessels for officers in their Merchant Marine in the 1920s and 30s, several sailing ship owners such as Carl Laeisz and Gustaf Erikson determined that there was still a profit to be made from the last of the sailing ships. \n\nErikson purchased existing ships that required the minimum of capital investment and repaired them with parts cannibalised from other ships. Identifying the bulk cargo routes that would still offer paying freights, he manned the ships with a smattering of paid experienced officers. \n\nSome of the deckhands were apprentices from steamship lines and other adventurous youth who had paid a premium to sail while being trained, some recruited for very modest salaries. The apprentices were considered trainees and were the first formalization of sail trainers with crew drawn from members of the public who just went for the adventure, as opposed to a career. \n\nWith manning costs netted out on Erikson's balance sheet, the ships continued to return a paper profit. However Erikson was under no illusions as to the long term profitability of his venture, which depended on ignoring the depreciation on his ships and a shrinking supply of sound hulls and rigs. The company would use their profits to diversify into steam after World War II. While the shipping companies of Erickson and F. Laeisz gradually turned to steam, the next generation of captains were climbing up the hawsehole and taking command of their own vessels, redefining sail training as a purely educational endeavour with trainees as the cargo.\n\nFrom 1932 through 1958, Irving Johnson and his wife Electa \"Exy\" Johnson circumnavigated the world 7 times with amateur youth crews on board their vessels named \"Yankee\". Over the years, their voyages were featured in books they authored, and in National Geographic magazines and TV specials like \"Irving Johnson, High Seas Adventurer\". Their archives are at Mystic Seaport, Connecticut. \n\nAustralian Alan Villiers purchased the old school ship \"George Stage\" from Denmark in 1934. Renaming her the \"Joseph Conrad\", he sailed her round the world with no paying cargo and a crew of youth who had paid to be there. He also took as many non-paying youth as he could afford to fit in the budget, those he considered at risk on the streets of their inner cities and in need of what was then called \"character building\". These trips were the genesis of current modern sail training, using manually operated ships and the harsh discipline imposed by the sea to further personal development and taking those disadvantaged by circumstance to benefit from the experience.\n\nBy the end of World War II, the numbers of traditionally rigged sailing ships left were dwindling and public interest waned. After the German school ship Niobe had sunk in 1932, killing 69, the loss of the \"Pamir\" in 1957 and the \"Albatross\" in 1961 drew further ill will and seemed to signal the end of an era.\n\nIn what was conceived to be last great gathering of square-riggers under sail, Bernard Morgan and Greville Howard persuaded a number of ship owners to join together in a sort of farewell salute in 1956, organizing a race from Torbay on the South Coast of England to race informally across the Bay of Biscay to Lisbon in Portugal. Five square rigged school ships entered the race, Denmark's \"Danmark\", Norway's \"Christian Radich\" and \"Sorlandet\", Belgium's \"Mercator\" and Portugal's first \"Sagres\". The vessels would meet again the following year and every year since in an annual series that would astonish its original organizers today. Old vessels were saved or repaired and new purpose built sail training vessels were commissioned. With renewed interest in the age of sail, national sail training associations affiliated to Sail Training International (STI) (formerly \"Sail Training Association\") were organized and large summer events find upwards of 100 ships racing across the oceans.\n\nCrew exchanges allow young people from one country to sail with those from another. Long before the end of the Cold War, ships from Russia and Poland (which in some cases had been built in Germany) joined the International Fleet in 1974. A limited exchange between the East and West was initiated. One of the largest of the affiliate organizations of the STI is the American Sail Training Association (ASTA). Founded in 1973 with a handful of vessels, it has since grown to encompass an international organization with more than 250 tall ships representing 25 different countries. The UK National Member of STI is the Association of Sail Training Organisations (ASTO) Founded in 1972, http://www.asto.org.uk\n\nSquare rigged seamanship was in danger of becoming a lost art. As the 1997 restoration of the USS \"Constitution\" neared completion, the United States Navy called on the crew of HMS \"Bounty\" to train her sailors to sail the vessel as originally intended.\n\nMany boats are historical vessels and replicas which require coordinated manual labor to sail, operating in the original tradition proposed by Alan Villiers and Irving Johnson such as the \"Picton Castle\" while others are purpose built educational platforms carrying out scientific research under sail such as the \"Robert C. Seamans\" and the \"Corwith Cramer\" of the Sea Education Association. Another new direction is the development of floating maritime heritage centres, connected to a sail training organisation, and often in co-ordination with land based maritime museums. Tall Ship Atyla is one such example of this, with visitors to the Bilbao Maritime Museum enjoying free entry to the ship during the winter months when she is moored nearby. As the crew of the \"Irving Johnson\" and the award winning program at the Los Angeles Maritime Institute like to say \"We do not train youth for a life at sea ... we use the sea to educate youth for life\".\n\nTall ships have been found to be effective platforms for sail training as they combine many elements fundamental to sail training.\nA \"Tall ship\" is not a strictly defined type of vessel. \"Tall ship\" is commonly used today to define a large, traditionally rigged vessel, whether or not is it technically a ship. For example, the USCGC \"Eagle\" is technically a barque and not a full rigged ship. A tall ship is usually defined by the topmast and topsails she carries as opposed to the modern high aspect ratio rigs and marconi mains carried by the sloops and yawls seen in every harbor today.\n\nFor the purpose of classification and race rating, the STI divides Tall ships into the following classes :\n\nThe United States Coast Guard classifies vessels based on their intended use and structure, prescribing requirements for captain and crew manning, waters the vessel may operate in, number of passengers allowed and minimum safety equipment required.\n\nWith the exception of uninspected vessels, all such vessels are inspected annually and issued a Certificate of Inspection (COI) which must be displayed on the vessel and spells out the requirements that vessel must maintain. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8143628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8143628", "title": "Schooling in Capitalist America", "text": "Schooling in Capitalist America\n\nSchooling in Capitalist America: Educational Reform and the Contradictions of Economic Life is a 1976 book by Marxist economists Samuel Bowles and Herbert Gintis. Widely considered a groundbreaking work in sociology of education, it argues the \"correspondence principle\" explains how the internal organization of schools corresponds to the internal organisation of the capitalist workforce in its structures, norms, and values. For example, the authors assert the hierarchy system in schools reflects the structure of the labour market, with the head teacher as the managing director, pupils fall lower down in the hierarchy. Wearing uniforms and discipline are promoted among students from working class, as it would be in the workplace for lower levels employees. Education provides knowledge of how to interact in the workplace and gives direct preparation for entry into the labour market. \n\nThey also believe work casts a \"long shadow\" in education – education is used by the bourgeoisie to control the workforce. From their point of view schools reproduce existing inequalities and they reject the notion that there are equal opportunities for all. In this way they argue that education justifies and explains social inequality.\n\nThe book is now considered the key text for the Marxist theory of sociology of education.\n\nBowles and Gintis have been criticised:\n\nGottesman, Isaac (2016), \"The Critical Turn in Education: From Marxist Critique to Poststructuralist Feminism to Critical Theories of Race\" (New York: Routledge)\n\n"}
{"id": "3437663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3437663", "title": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics", "text": "Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics\n\nScience, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), previously Science, Math, Engineering and Technology (SMET), is a term used to group together these academic disciplines. This term is typically used when addressing education policy and curriculum choices in schools to improve competitiveness in science and technology development. It has implications for workforce development, national security concerns and immigration policy.\n\nThe acronym came into common use shortly after an interagency meeting on science education held at the US National Science Foundation chaired by the then NSF director Rita Colwell.\nA director from the Office of Science division of Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists, Peter Faletra, suggested the change from the older acronym SMET to STEM. Colwell, expressing some dislike for the older acronym, responded by suggesting NSF institute the change. However, the acronym STEM predates NSF and likely traces its origin to Charles Vela, the founder and director of the Center for the Advancement of Hispanics in Science and Engineering Education (CAHSEE). In the early 1990's CAHSEE started a summer program for talented under-represented students in the Washington, DC area called the STEM Institute. Based on the program's recognized success and his expertise in STEM education, Charles Vela was asked to serve on numerous NSF and Congressional panels in science, mathematics and engineering education; it is through this manner that NSF was first introduced to the acronym STEM. One of the first NSF projects to use the acronym was STEMTEC, the Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Teacher Education Collaborative at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, which was founded in 1998.\n\n\nIn the United States, the acronym began to be used in education and immigration debates in initiatives to begin to address the perceived lack of qualified candidates for high-tech jobs. It also addresses concern that the subjects are often taught in isolation, instead of as an integrated curriculum. Maintaining a citizenry that is well versed in the STEM fields is a key portion of the public education agenda of the United States. The acronym has been widely used in the immigration debate regarding access to United States work visas for immigrants who are skilled in these fields. It has also become commonplace in education discussions as a reference to the shortage of skilled workers and inadequate education in these areas. The term tends not to refer to the non-professional and less visible sectors of the fields, such as electronics assembly line work.\n\nMany organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field. The NSF uses a broader definition of STEM subjects that includes subjects in the fields of chemistry, computer and information technology science, engineering, geosciences, life sciences, mathematical sciences, physics and astronomy, social sciences (anthropology, economics, psychology and sociology), and STEM education and learning research. Eligibility for scholarship programs such as the CSM STEM Scholars Program use the NSF definition.\n\nThe NSF is the only American federal agency whose mission includes support for all fields of fundamental science and engineering, except for medical sciences. Its disciplinary program areas include scholarships, grants, fellowships in fields such as biological sciences, computer and information science and engineering, education and human resources, engineering, environmental research and education, geosciences, international science and engineering, mathematical and physical sciences, social, behavioral and economic sciences, cyberinfrastructure, and polar programs.\n\nAlthough many organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field, the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has its own functional definition used for immigration policy. In 2012, DHS or ICE announced an expanded list of STEM designated-degree programs that qualify eligible graduates on student visas for an optional practical training (OPT) extension. Under the OPT program, international students who graduate from colleges and universities in the United States are able to remain in the country and receive training through work experience for up to 12 months. Students who graduate from a designated STEM degree program can remain for an additional 17 months on an OPT STEM extension.\n\nAn exhaustive list of STEM disciplines does not exist because the definition varies by organization. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement lists disciplines including physics, actuarial science, chemistry, biology, mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, computational science, psychology, biochemistry, robotics, computer engineering, electrical engineering, electronics, mechanical engineering, industrial engineering, information science, information technology, civil engineering, aerospace engineering, chemical engineering, astrophysics, astronomy, optics, nanotechnology, nuclear physics, mathematical biology, operations research, neurobiology, biomechanics, bioinformatics, acoustical engineering, geographic information systems, atmospheric sciences, educational/instructional technology, software engineering, and educational research.\n\nBy cultivating an interest in the natural and social sciences in preschool or immediately following school entry, the chances of STEM success in high school can be greatly improved. School integration can help black, Hispanic and aboriginal students catch up with Asian and white students.\n\nSTEM supports broadening the study of engineering within each of the other subjects, and beginning engineering at younger grades, even elementary school. It also brings STEM education to all students rather than only the gifted programs. In his 2012 budget, President Barack Obama renamed and broadened the \"Mathematics and Science Partnership (MSP)\" to award block grants to states for improving teacher education in those subjects.\n\nIn the 2015 run of the international assessment test the Program for International Student Assessment (PISA), American students came out 35th in mathematics, 24th in reading and 25th in science, out of 109 countries. The United States also ranked 29th in the percentage of 24-year-olds with science or mathematics degrees. \n\nSTEM education often uses new technologies such as RepRap 3D printers to encourage interest in STEM fields.\n\nIn 2006 the United States National Academies expressed their concern about the declining state of STEM education in the United States. Its Committee on Science, Engineering, and Public Policy developed a list of 10 actions. Their top three recommendations were to:\n\nThe National Aeronautics and Space Administration also has implemented programs and curricula to advance STEM education in order to replenish the pool of scientists, engineers and mathematicians who will lead space exploration in the 21st century.\n\nIndividual states, such as California, have run pilot after-school STEM programs to learn what the most promising practices are and how to implement them to increase the chance of student success. Another state to invest in STEM education is Florida, where Florida Polytechnic University, Florida’s first public university for engineering and technology dedicated to science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), was established. During school, STEM programs have been established for many districts throughout the U.S. Some states include New Jersey, Arizona, Virginia, North Carolina, Texas, and Ohio.\n\nContinuing STEM education has expanded to the post-secondary level through masters programs such as the University of Maryland's STEM Program as well as the University of Cincinnati.\n\nIn the United States, the National Science Foundation found that the average science score on the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress was lower for black and Hispanic students than white, Asian, and Pacific Islanders. In 2011, eleven percent of the U.S. workforce was black, while only six percent of STEM workers were black. Though STEM in the U.S. has typically been dominated by white males, there have been considerable efforts to create initiatives to make STEM a more racially and gender diverse field. Some evidence suggests that all students, including black and Hispanic students, have a better chance of earning a STEM degree if they attend a college or university at which their entering academic credentials are at least as high as the average student's.\n\nIn the State of the Union Address on January 31, 2006, President George W. Bush announced the American Competitiveness Initiative. Bush proposed the initiative to address shortfalls in federal government support of educational development and progress at all academic levels in the STEM fields. In detail, the initiative called for significant increases in federal funding for advanced R&D programs (including a doubling of federal funding support for advanced research in the physical sciences through DOE) and an increase in U.S. higher education graduates within STEM disciplines.\n\nThe \"NASA Means Business\" competition, sponsored by the Texas Space Grant Consortium, furthers that goal. College students compete to develop promotional plans to encourage students in middle and high school to study STEM subjects and to inspire professors in STEM fields to involve their students in outreach activities that support STEM education.\n\nThe National Science Foundation has numerous programs in STEM education, including some for K–12 students such as the ITEST Program that supports The Global Challenge Award ITEST Program. STEM programs have been implemented in some Arizona schools. They implement higher cognitive skills for students and enable them to inquire and use techniques used by professionals in the STEM fields.\n\nThe STEM Academy is a national nonprofit-status organization dedicated to improving STEM literacy for all students. It represents a recognized national next-generation high-impact academic model. The practices, strategies, and programming are built upon a foundation of identified national best practices which are designed to improve under-represented minority and low-income student growth, close achievement gaps, decrease dropout rates, increase high school graduation rates and improve teacher and principal effectiveness. The STEM Academy represents a flexible use academic model that targets all schools and is for all students.\n\nProject Lead The Way (PLTW) is a leading provider of STEM education curricular programs to middle and high schools in the United States. The national nonprofit organization has over 5,200 programs in over 4,700 schools in all 50 states. Programs include a high school engineering curriculum called \"Pathway To Engineering\", a high school biomedical sciences program, and a middle school engineering and technology program called \"Gateway To Technology\". PLTW provides the curriculum and the teacher professional development and ongoing support to create transformational programs in schools, districts, and communities. PLTW programs have been endorsed by President Barack Obama and United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan as well as various state, national, and business leaders.\n\n\"The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education Coalition\" works to support STEM programs for teachers and students at the U. S. Department of Education, the National Science Foundation, and other agencies that offer STEM-related programs. Activity of the STEM Coalition seems to have slowed since September 2008.\n\nIn 20102, the Boy Scouts of America began handing out awards, titled NOVA and SUPERNOVA, for completing specific requirements appropriate to scouts' program level in each of the four main STEM areas. The Girl Scouts of the USA has similarly incorporated STEM into their program through the introduction of merit badges such as \"Naturalist\" and \"Digital Art\".\n\nSAE is an international organization, solutions'provider specialized on supporting education, award and scholarship programs for STEM matters, from pre-K to the College degree. It also promotes scientific and technologic innovation.\n\nThe eCybermission is a free, web-based science, mathematics and technology competition for students in grades six through nine sponsored by the U.S. Army. Each webinar is focused on a different step of the scientific method and is presented by an experienced eCybermission CyberGuide. CyberGuides are military and civilian volunteers with a strong background in STEM and STEM education, who are able to provide valuable insight into science, technology, engineering, and mathematics to students and team advisers.\n\nSTARBASE is a premier educational program, sponsored by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. Students interact with military personnel to explore careers and make connections with the \"real world.\" The program provides students with 20–25 hours of stimulating experiences at National Guard, Navy, Marines, Air Force Reserve and Air Force bases across the nation.\n\nSeaPerch is an innovative underwater robotics program that trains teachers to teach their students how to build an underwater remotely operated vehicle (ROV) in an in-school or out-of-school setting. Students build the ROV from a kit composed of low-cost, easily accessible parts, following a curriculum that teaches basic engineering and science concepts with a marine engineering theme.\n\nNASAStem is a program of the U.S. space agency NASA to increase diversity within its ranks, including age, disability, and gender as well as race/ethnicity.\n\nThe America COMPETES Act (P.L. 110-69) became law on August 9, 2007. It is intended to increase the nation's investment in science and engineering research and in STEM education from kindergarten to graduate school and postdoctoral education. The act authorizes funding increases for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Standards and Technology laboratories, and the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science over FY2008–FY2010. Robert Gabrys, Director of Education at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, articulated success as increased student achievement, early expression of student interest in STEM subjects, and student preparedness to enter the workforce.\n\nIn November 2012 the White House announcement before congressional vote on the STEM Jobs Act put President Obama in opposition to many of the Silicon Valley firms and executives who bankrolled his re-election campaign. The Department of Labor identified 14 sectors that are \"projected to add substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy or affect the growth of other industries or are being transformed by technology and innovation requiring new sets of skills for workers.\" The identified sectors were as follows: advanced manufacturing, Automotive, construction, financial services, geospatial technology, homeland security, information technology, Transportation, Aerospace, Biotechnology, energy, healthcare, hospitality, and retail.\n\nThe Department of Commerce notes STEM fields careers are some of the best-paying and have the greatest potential for job growth in the early 21st century. The report also notes that STEM workers play a key role in the sustained growth and stability of the U.S. economy, and training in STEM fields generally results in higher wages, whether or not they work in a STEM field.\n\nIn 2015, there were around 9.0 million STEM jobs in the United States, representing 6.1% of American employment. STEM jobs were increasing around 9% percent per year.. Brookings Institution found that the demand for competent technology graduates will surpass the number of capable applicants by at least one million individuals.  The BLS noted that almost 100 percent of STEM jobs require postsecondary education, while only 36 percent of other jobs call for that same degree.\n\nPEW findings revealed that Americans identified several issues that hound STEM education which included unconcerned parents, disinterested students, obsolete curriculum materials, and too much focus on state parameters. 57 percent of survey respondents pointed out that one main problem of STEM is lack of students’ concentration in learning. \n\nThe recent National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) report card made public technology as well as engineering literacy scores which determines whether students have the capability to apply technology and engineering proficiency to real-life scenarios. The report showed a gap of 28 points between low-income students and their high-income counterparts. The same report also indicated a 38-point difference between white and black students.\n\nThe 2019 fiscal budget proposal of the White House supported the funding plan in President Donald Trump’s Memorandum on STEM Education which allocated around $200 million (grant funding) on STEM education every year. This budget also supports STEM through a grant program worth $20 million for career as well as technical education programs. In September 2017, a number of large American technology firms collectively pledged to donate $300 million for computer science education in the U.S.\n\nCanada ranks 12th out of 16 peer countries in the percentage of its graduates who studied in STEM programs, with 21.2%, a number higher than the United States, but lower than France, Germany, and Austria. The peer country with the greatest proportion of STEM graduates, Finland, has over 30% of their university graduates coming from science, mathematics, computer science, and engineering programs.\n\nSHAD is an annual Canadian summer enrichment program for high-achieving high school students in July. The program focuses on academic learning particularly in STEAM fields.\n\nScouts Canada has taken similar measures to their American counterpart to promote STEM fields to youth. Their STEM program began in 2015.\n\nIn 2011 Canadian entrepreneur and philanthropist Seymour Schulich established the Schulich Leader Scholarships, $100 million in $60,000 scholarships for students beginning their university education in a STEM program at 20 institutions across Canada. Each year 40 Canadian students would be selected to receive the award, two at each institution, with the goal of attracting gifted youth into the STEM fields. The program also supplies STEM scholarships to five participating universities in Israel.\n\nSeveral European projects have promoted STEM education and careers in Europe. For instance, Scientix is a European cooperation of STEM teachers, education scientists, and policymakers. The SciChallenge project used a social media contest and the student-generated content to increase motivation of pre- university students for STEM education and careers.\n\nSTEM education has not been promoted among the local schools in Hong Kong until recent years. In November 2015, the Education Bureau of Hong Kong released a document entitled \"Promotion of STEM Education\", which proposes the strategies and recommendations on promoting STEM education.\n\nTurkish STEM Education Task Force (or FeTeMM—Fen Bilimleri, Teknoloji, Mühendislik ve Matematik) is a coalition of academicians and teachers who show an effort to increase the quality of education in STEM fields rather than focussing on increasing the number of STEM graduates.\n\nIn Qatar, AL-Bairaq is an outreach program to high-school students with a curriculum that focuses on STEM, run by the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Each year around 946 students, from about 40 high schools, participate in AL-Bairaq competitions. AL-Bairaq make use of project-based learning, encourages students to solve authentic problems, and inquires them to work with each other as a team to build real solutions. Research has so far shown positive results for the program.\n\nIn Vietnam, beginning in 2012 many private education organizations has STEM education initiatives.\n\nIn 2015, the Ministry of Science and Technology and Liên minh STEM organized the first National STEM day, followed by many similar events across the country.\n\nin 2015, Ministry of Education and Training included STEM as an area needed to be encouraged in national school year program.\n\nIn May 2017, Prime Minister signed a Directive no. 16 stating: \"Dramatically change the policies, contents, education and vocational training methods to create a human resource capable of receiving new production technology trends, with a focus on promoting training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), foreign languages, information technology in general education; \" and asking \"Ministry of Education and Training (to): Promote the deployment of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) education in general education program; Pilot organize in some high schools from 2017 to 2018.\n\nWomen constitute 47% of the U.S. workforce, and perform 24% of STEM-related jobs. In the UK women perform 13% of STEM-related jobs (2014). In the U.S. women with STEM degrees are more likely to work in education or healthcare rather than STEM fields compared with their male counterparts.\n\nThe gender ratio depends on field of study. For example, in the European Union in 2012 women made up 47.3% of the total, 51% of the social sciences, business and law, 42% of the science, mathematics and computing, 28% of engineering, manufacturing and construction, and 59% of PhD graduates in Health and Welfare.\n\nThe focus on increasing participation in STEM fields has attracted criticism. In the 2014 article \"The Myth of the Science and Engineering Shortage\" in \"The Atlantic\", demographer Michael S. Teitelbaum criticized the efforts of the U.S. government to increase the number of STEM graduates, saying that, among studies on the subject, \"No one has been able to find any evidence indicating current widespread labor market shortages or hiring difficulties in science and engineering occupations that require bachelor's degrees or higher\", and that \"Most studies report that real wages in many—but not all—science and engineering occupations have been flat or slow-growing, and unemployment as high or higher than in many comparably-skilled occupations.\" Teitelbaum also wrote that the then-current national fixation on increasing STEM participation paralleled previous U.S. government efforts since World War II to increase the number of scientists and engineers, all of which he stated ultimately ended up in \"mass layoffs, hiring freezes, and funding cuts\"; including one driven by the Space Race of the late 1950s and 1960s, which he wrote led to \"a bust of serious magnitude in the 1970s.\"\n\n\"IEEE Spectrum\" contributing editor Robert N. Charette echoed these sentiments in the 2013 article \"The STEM Crisis Is a Myth\", also noting that there was a \"mismatch between earning a STEM degree and having a STEM job\" in the United States, with only around ¼ of STEM graduates working in STEM fields, while less than half of workers in STEM fields have a STEM degree.\n\nEconomics writer Ben Casselman, in a 2014 study of post-graduation earnings for \"FiveThirtyEight\", wrote that, based on the data, science should not be grouped with the other three STEM categories, because, while the other three generally result in high-paying jobs, \"many sciences, particularly the life sciences, pay below the overall median for recent college graduates.\"\n\nEfforts to remedy the perceived domination of STEM subjects by men of Asian and non-Hispanic European backgrounds has led to intense efforts to diversify the STEM workforce. However, some critics feel that this practice in higher education, as opposed to a strict meritocracy, causes lower academic standards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4558361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4558361", "title": "Screening (economics)", "text": "Screening (economics)\n\nScreening in economics refers to a strategy of combating adverse selection, one of the potential decision-making complications in cases of asymmetric information, by the agent(s) with less information. The concept of screening was first developed by Michael Spence (1973), and should be distinguished from signalling, a strategy of combating adverse selection undertaken by the agent(s) with more information.\n\nFor purposes of screening, asymmetric information cases assume two economic agents—which we call, for example, Abel and Cain—where Abel knows more about himself than Cain knows about Abel. The agents are attempting to engage in some sort of transaction, often involving a long-term relationship, though that qualifier is not necessary. The \"screener\" (the one with less information, in this case, Cain) attempts to rectify this asymmetry by learning as much as he can about Abel.\n\nThe actual screening process depends on the nature of the scenario, but is usually closely connected with the future relationship.\n\nIn education economics, screening models are commonly contrasted with human capital theory. In a screening model used to determine an applicant's ability to learn, giving preference to applicants who have earned academic degrees reduces the employer's risk of hiring someone with a diminished capacity for learning.\n\n\nIn contract theory, the terms \"screening models\" and \"adverse selection models\" are often used interchangeably. An agent has private information about his type (e.g., his costs or his valuation of a good) \"before\" the principal makes a contract offer. The principal will then offer a \"menu\" of contracts in order to separate the different types. Typically, the best type will trade the same amount as in the first-best benchmark solution (which would be attained under complete information), a property known as \"no distortion at the top\". All other types typically trade less than in the first-best solution (i.e., there is a \"downward distortion\" of the trade level). Optimal auction design (more generally known as Bayesian mechanism design) can be seen as a multi-agent version of the basic screening model. Contract-theoretic screening models have been pioneered by Roger Myerson and Eric Maskin. They have been extended in various directions, e.g. it has been shown that in the context of patent licensing optimal screening contracts may actually yield too much trade compared to the first-best solution. Applications of screening models include regulation, public procurement, and monopolistic price discrimination. Contract-theoretic screening models have been successfully tested in laboratory experiments and using field data.\n\n"}
{"id": "48878990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48878990", "title": "SkELL", "text": "SkELL\n\nSkELL is an abbreviation of Sketch Engine for Language Learning. It is a web interface for language learning. The main purpose is to help students and teachers of languages. SkELL has its own corpus that was gathered so that contained texts covering everyday, standard, formal, and professional language. In the corpus, there are a total of more than 60 million sentences and more than one billion words.\n\nThe SkELL interface provides features such as simple search showing words in context, but the maximum of displayed lines (concordances, in fact) is 40. However, the frequency of searched query is located below the search box and expressed with the number \"hits per million\". The second function is word sketch which enables showing collocates for a given word or words. The last one is named as similar words. It visualises similar words to searched word in a word cloud.\n\nThe tool has been available also for the Russian language (since 2015) and the Czech language (since 2017). \n\nSkELL offers three types of searches.\n\n\nThe corpus for English SkELL consists of English Wikipedia (special sorted out 130,000 articles), English collection of Project Gutenberg, a subset from the web corpus enTenTen14, the whole British National Corpus, and free new sources.\n\nAfter gathering and pre-cleaning (all structures have removed except sentences) data has run through processing pipe: normalization, tokenization, TreeTagger for English, and deduplication. The further process was a compilation of the corpus using manatee indexing library. In the end, all sentences were scored with the GDEX tool.\n\n"}
{"id": "2297237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2297237", "title": "Small schools movement", "text": "Small schools movement\n\nThe small schools movement, also known as the Small Schools Initiative, in the United States of America holds that many high schools are too large and should be reorganized into smaller, autonomous schools of no more than 400 students, and optimally under 200. Many private schools of under 200 share design features which draw upon the benefits of organizations of less than 200 people. In the public school version of the Small Schools Movement, students may be given a choice of which small school they want to join. Each of the smaller schools would offer students a feeling of connectedness between students who share the same or similar interests with them. In many ways, the small schools in high schools would resemble the team system of many middle schools across the United States. Small schools allow students to have more individual attention from teachers than most average high schools. Many small schools are created by reforming a failed large school into several small ones in the same building, as is the case with the former Theodore Roosevelt High School in the Bronx in New York City.\n\nSupporters of small schools claim that \"in small schools, student achievement increases... Student attendance improves, graduation rates rise, and college going rates increase. Students are more engaged in their studies and are more likely to participate in extracurricular activities.\" This is due to the fact that students are more likely to be known by all of the adults and children in the school and are much less likely to \"fall through the cracks.\"\n\nDeborah Meier has argued that a small school allows all of the teachers to sit around a single table and to create a culture of shared decision-making. This should be a central component of a school that intends to teach children to become powerful members of a democracy--they should see their teachers acting democratically. Face-to-face democracy is much more likely and practical in a small school.\n\nPositive gains for student achievement within small schools can be seen in Oakland California. According to a study by the Annenberg Institute for School Reform at Brown University \"small schools in Oakland are outperforming the large schools from which they emerged. In particular, students are completing more rigorous coursework and dropping out at lower rates, compared to the large schools.\" \n\nAccording to \"The American Dream and the Public Schools\" by Jennifer L. Hochschild and Nathan Scovronick, smaller classes sizes contribute to students in \"early grades, and consistently challenging academic courses have been demonstrated to help disadvantaged\nchildren achieve, just as they enable middle-class children to achieve.\" \n\n\"Smaller, more intimate learning communities consistently deliver better results in academics and discipline when compared to their larger counterparts. Big schools offer few opportunities to participate.\" \"Students at large schools are more prone to be alienated from their peers or engage in risky behavior.\" \n\nOther benefits of small schools are noted in a study conducted by UCLA stating that \"at their best, small schools are seen as enhancing strong personal bonds, home and community involvement, improved instructional quality and accountability, and improved teacher working conditions and job satisfaction.\"\n\nLeading small schools proponent and founder of the Small Schools Coalition and the Grauer School Dr. Stuart Grauer notes, \"Research shows overwhelmingly that small schools lead to greater student academic gains and personal adjustment. In fact, data justifying this has been available for decades; it's just that policy makers have largely ignored it, no doubt due to the costs of such programs (and, of course, the politics). Right now, armed guards, metal detectors, and expulsions fail to get to the heart of the problem. (To a serious extent, they can actually create repressive conditions which make the problem worse.) Consequently, many people are looking for another way, and small schools can't be ignored much longer.\" Why do we keep building gigantic schools when we have such promising data? Dr. Grauer attributes this not only to economics, but to prevailing myths about American education: \"Our collective memory of high school includes nostalgia such as proms, football games, exciting social lives, romance, and first cars. No matter that such memories do not apply to most students. The average high school student does not attend sporting events; indeed the larger the school, the smaller the percentage of student participation in these activities. For most students, the social scene in large high schools is tough and unforgiving, with sharp distinctions made between the small group of social haves and the far larger masses of have-nots. And high school memories seldom include a significant academic component, let alone an intellectual one ( 2001). In other words, many high schools have activities that everyone speaks of with pride—sacred cows like the marching band, the lacrosse team, the boosters. These untouchable activities represent the school's image, and they can't be changed, even though they serve a very small percentage of students and rarely have any connection to the most basic thing of all: the focus on student learning.\"\n\nSmall schools are gaining popularity in the United States not only with students, but with donors as well. According to the Neal Peirce Column of the Washington Post Writers Group, \"far and away the biggest catalyst is the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. It has poured over $1 billion in five years into promoting smaller schools in Boston, Chicago, Milwaukee and other cities. Just this month New York City announced it was coming on board the small schools movement. It will open 60 schools with 500 students or less -- 41 high schools, four traditional middle schools and 15 based on an innovative sixth- or seventh-through-12th grade model.\" \n\nResearch and the growing data on small schools have provided some evidence regarding their better academic quality in comparison to their larger counterparts.\n\nAccording to Dr. Sharif Shakrani, the co-director of the Education Policy Center at Michigan State University, \"Recent studies suggest students in small public high schools perform better academically, have higher attendance rates, feel safer, experience fewer behavior problems and participate more frequently in extracurricular activities.\" \n\nShakrani also states that \"a number of empirical articles document that students in small public and private high schools have higher achievement levels than those in large schools. Studies found higher student gains in reading, mathematics, science and social studies at small high schools than at large schools. Moreover, small schools are more likely to have fewer incidents of violence and misbehavior and that, in turn, has been found to contribute to higher attendance and lower drop-out and truancy rates.\" \n\nSmall schools tend to emerge, particularly in urban areas, where there is a need for education reform due to failing school systems. High quality small public schools act as a remedy to large public schools that are falling behind in their ability to graduate students, achieve higher test scores and provide students with individual attention. The small school movement has modeled its efforts after small private schools which provide a similar learning environment which is based upon providing for the needs of their students.\n\nMany criticisms stem from the fact that the term \"small school\" is not uniform. For instance, schools of between 400 and 1200 students are often researched as small schools despite having few of the attributes of small schools (e.g., a community of 200 or less, class size of less than 15, and similar criteria often applied).\nHence, they point out that large schools tend to have a wider diversity of course offerings, as well as more clubs, arts programs, higher performing sports teams, and other extracurricular activities such as school newspapers and social events. Small schools advocates point out that in schools of less than 400 and especially less than 230, students have more access to enrichment and leadership programs. Some schools have abandoned the small school approach after failures to overcome these difficulties, even after being offered grants to continue these experiments. Other districts have expanded this movement by shutting down large schools and opening more smaller ones. The Gates Foundation, which supports and funds small schools, is beginning to change its focus to working directly on improving instruction, giving grants to improve math and science instruction, for example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4905963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4905963", "title": "Stanislav Shatsky", "text": "Stanislav Shatsky\n\nStanislav Shatskii (alternative spelling Shatsky) (1878–1934) was an important humanistic educator, writer, and educational administrator in the late Russian Empire and the early Soviet Union.\n\nShatskii established a number of experimental and progressive educational institutions between 1905 and 1934. A member of the Russian intelligentsia, Shatskii imported many of the values of late tsarist educational experimentation (many of which were based on the methods of American progressive education) into early Soviet approaches to creating a communist school and constructing 'a new Soviet person'.\n\nHis work as a communist educator complicates our understanding of communist education. Shatskii, unlike those who would follow him, denied the primacy of politics and class struggle in the creation of a new communist man. He also resisted indoctrinational techniques, instead preferring to demonstrate to pupils the relevance and importance of a reasoned approach to life. For Shatskii, true communist education was the release of the individual from the strictures of the capitalist system. The importance of his work is only recently being recognized as many of his publications were suppressed by Stalin and the Soviet educational orthodoxy that sought to ensure that all 'communist education' had a class-based element. He deserves a place in Russian pedagogy with Anton Makarenko and Lev Vygotsky.\n\nHe sought to build a liberal, child-centered version of communist education that drew on John Dewey's activity-based educational methods and Lev Tolstoi's focus on an aesthetically based, free education. Placing these ideas in a Marxist framework, Shatskii hoped that a communist education – founded on the principles of cooperation and self-motivation – would release the child's innate potential and help him develop into a well-rounded human being. His ideal student was a child that appreciated art, culture, and music, yet also knew the value of a hard day's work: \"A child of high culture with callused hands\".\n\nHis first major educational institution was The Settlement (Setlment) which was established in northern Moscow in 1905. This complex of institutions drew its ideological inspiration from the settlement movement. Specifically modelled on the Chicago-based Hull House, where Shatskii's collaborator, architect Alexander Zelenko had lived for a year, the Settlement was a complex of children's clubs and informal classes. At the center of the Settlement was the Zelenko-designed \"Communal Club for working children\", opened in 1907 in Moscow's blue-collar North End (Vadkovsky Lane, 5) and funded by industrialist Nikolay Vtorov. The Club was a part of a larger drive to set up a cultural and social center in remote working class district of Moscow (Miusskaya Square project).\n\nThe first of its kind in the Imperial Russia, the loose arrangement of institutions in the Settlement attracted intellectuals and businessmen who shared Shatskii's view that education was a non-violent path to healing the sores of a divided tsarist society. Due to police suspicion of seditious teaching and charges of communism, the Settlement was closed down by police in May, 1908 (Zelenko ended up in jail for a few months). Later, Shatskii established a rural summer colony called The Invigorating Life (Бодрая жизнь, Bodraia zhizn') in rural Kaluga region (near Obninsk), in which he stressed labor-based methods of education, creativity, and artistic expression.\n\nAfter the 1917 Russian Revolution, Shatskii's initial opposition to Soviet power faded as Soviet authorities adopted many of values and ideas of educational progressivism into their educational approach (see Declaration on the United Labor School in W. Rosenburg, Bolshevik Visions: First Phase of the Cultural Revolution, 1984). In 1919, he set up the First Experimental Station (Pervaia Opytnaia Stantsiia), which was a massive network of experimental institutions. Divided into Moscow and Kaluga sections, this organization was vast, employing hundreds of teachers, incorporating village and city schools, libraries, children's clubs, reading huts, and demanding a large amount of resources from the government. This school complex would become the envy of international progressive educators and represented the largest, most radical experimental educational institution in the world. As Stalin sought to impose ideological control over the Soviet state, the First Experimental Station was reorganized by Soviet authorities in 1932 and Shatskii was removed from his position. Shatskii died of natural causes in 1934.\n\nShatskii also became an important educational leader in the Soviet Union, developing programs for schools across Soviet Russia in his capacity as one of the leaders of the pedagogical section of the State Academic Council (\"Glavny Uchyony Sovet\"). His meteoric rise to power suggested the importance of the Russian educational intelligentsia to early Soviet governance. Shatskii eventually joined the Communist Party in 1928, but Joseph Stalin's 'Great Break' of 1928 removed Shatskii and other like-minded intellectuals from positions of power within the educational apparatus. Shatskii's First Experimental Station would be closed down by Soviet power in 1932 as part of the Stalinist shift to a more ideological approach to education. Shatskii himself died 30 October 1934, as rumors circulated that he was going to be sent to the gulag.\n\nMost of Shatskii's work was suppressed by Stalinist officials as the progressive approach of the Soviet Union in the 1920s was redrawn as heretical and bourgeois, but his emphasis on activity and the joy of learning could be found in later Soviet pedagogues, including Sukhomlinsky. Currently, many of Shatskii's ideas are being rehabilitated in Russia (most notably, Feliks Fradkin and Gennadii Malinin have published books and articles on Shatskii's hidden legacy - see below). Furthermore, an annual conference in Obninsk, Russia (not far from Shatskii's Kaluga-based schools of the First Experimental Station) is convened in his honor. Finally, in the west, Shatskii has been the subject of recent articles in the Slavonic and East European Review (October, 2004), the Journal of the Oxford University History Society (2005), and the History of Education (see below)\n\nShatskii drew a great deal on American Educational progressivism, particularly John Dewey. During the Soviet period, Shatskii would be influenced by Marxism, blending his own liberational, progressive educational ideas with Marx's materialist approach.\n\nBodraia Zhizn'. 1908.\n\nPedagogicheskie sochineniia, 4 vols. 1962-1965.\nA Teacher’s Experience: A Collection. Translated into English by Catherine Judelson. 1981.\n\nD. Bershadskaia. Pedagogicheskie vzgliady i deiatel’nost S. T. Shatskogo (Moscow, 1960)\n\nVladimir Beliaev. Stanovlenie i Razvitie Innovatsionnoi Kontseptsii S. T. Shatskogo. Moscow, 1999.\n\nKevin. J. Brehony Representations of Socialist educational experiments in the 1920s and 1930s: The place of the Sciences of Education in R. Hofstetter and B. Schneuwly (Eds). Passion, fusion, tension. New Education and Educational sciences - Education nouvelle et Sciences de l'éducation (end 19th-middle 20th century - fin 19e-milieu 20e siècle. Bern, Peter Lang: 2006. 271-304.\n\nFeliks Fradkin and Gennadii Malinin. Vospitatel'naia Sistema S. T. Shatskogo. Moscow, 1993.\n\nFeliks Fradkin. \"S. T. Shatskii’s Last Years\", in School and Society in Tsarist and Soviet Russia, B. Elkof (ed.) Basingstoke, 1993.\n\nWilliam Partlett. \"The Cultural Revolution in the Village School: S. T. Shatskii’s Kaluga School Complex, 1919-1932.\" Journal of the Oxford University History Society. No. 3, Michaelmas 2005. \nWilliam Partlett. \"Breaching Cultural Worlds with the Village School: Educational Visions, Local Initiative, and Rural Experience at S.T. Shatsky’s Kaluga School System, 1919-1931.\" Slavonic and East European Review, Vol 82, No. 4, October, 2004: 847-885.\n\nWilliam Partlett. \"Bourgeois Ideas in Communist Construction: The Development of Stanislav Shatskii's Teacher Training Methods.\" History of Education 35, 2006: 453-474.\n\nWilliam Partlett. Building Soviet Citizens with American Tools: Russian Revolutions and S. T. Shatskii's Rural Schools, 1905-1932. 2011. https://www.amazon.com/Building-Soviet-Citizens-American-Tools/dp/3846503622.\n\nYordanka Valkanova, and Kevin J. Brehony \"The 'Gifts' and 'Contributions'. Friedrich Froebel and Russian education from 1850 to 1920.\" History of Education 35(2) 2006: 189-207.\n"}
{"id": "34650652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34650652", "title": "Strahlendes Klima", "text": "Strahlendes Klima\n\nStrahlendes Klima e.V is a registered non-profit organization that produces films and media focusing on the issues of energy and resources for an environmentally friendly, more climate conscious world. Their main concept is to build a decentralised activist network in order to distribute topical content in terms of open licence publications. By offering free educational media they aim to raise awareness for environmental conservation.\n\nIn late 2006 political scientist Kerstin Schnatz and cinematographer Isabel Huber began to research on uranium. They intended to do a documentary film focussing on the origins of nuclear power, especially the nuclear cycle and uranium mining. After having gathered a film crew of volunteers, the film was shot in Australia, France and Germany. In 2009 the international version of the documentary \"Uranium - is it a country?\" (53 min.) was released and nominated for the newcomer's award \"Goldener Schlüssel\" at Kasseler Dokumentarfilm- und Videofest in Germany.\n\nThe film crew decided to distribute the documentary under an open licence model\nto spread the content. The film has been screened thousands of times all around the world due to its decentralised distribution coordinated by online networking activists.\nIt has been used heavily for political campaigning up to the German federal election in September 2009\nas the nuclear power phase-out decided during Gerhard Schröder's chancellorship, was announced to be taken back by the right-wing parties led by Angela Merkel.<ref name=\"SPIEGEL ONLINE - Nuclear Phase Out: Germany's New Government May Extend Reactor Lifetimes (09/29/2009)\">\n\nIn the summer of 2010 the film crew decided to found a non-profit organisation (Strahlendes Klima e.V.) to keep up the work on envirenmental issues.\n\nStrahlendes Klima e.V. helps activists to organize film screenings and debates on environmental issues.\nThey organise workshops for schools and non-profits and release educational films and media on a regular basis. In 2010 \"At Eyelevel\" their film about indigenous peoples facing the problems of uranium mining was released.\n\nIn 2011 Goethe Institut-Shanghai invited the organisation to visit China. A short film treating renewable energies in China is expected to be released in mid-2012.\nThey recently started the shooting of a new feature-length documentary on sustainable waste strategies, which will be available licensed under creative commons by 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31055387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31055387", "title": "Strength and conditioning coach", "text": "Strength and conditioning coach\n\nA strength and conditioning coach is a fitness and physical performance professional who uses exercise prescription specifically, but not limited, to improve the performance of competitive athletes. This is achieved through the combination of strength training and aerobic conditioning, alongside a variety of further methods. Strength and conditioning coaches also help athletes with injury prevention and proper mechanics within their sports performances.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches may work with sports teams, as well as individuals. Strength and conditioning coaches are often employed by higher education institutions and professional athletic teams.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches have the option to specialize in a particular sports team, type of performance, training type, training philosophy, or work in the collegiate level, where they are assigned a sport. The general description and duty of a strength and conditioning coach is to develop an exercise prescription plan that modulates aerobic, resistance, and/or flexibility training to suit the metabolic and physical demands of the sport in question. With aerobic exercise prescription, strength and conditioning coaches determine the type, duration, and frequency of each exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. They may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Nutrition and medical consultation are not within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nIn the US, The National Strength and Conditioning Association offers a Certified Strength and Conditioning Coach qualification that is required for positions in the field. In addition to the C.S.C.S. certification, it is encouraged to attain a bachelor's degree in majors that are related to exercise science due to the competitiveness of the field.\n\nThe Collegiate Strength & Conditioning Coaches association also offers certification exclusive to the collegiate and professional-level strength and conditioning coach. This certification is known as Strength & Conditioning Coach Certified (SCCC) and requires a bachelor's degree and a 640-hour internship in addition to passing the certification exam.\n\nStrength and conditioning in the UK is generally overseen by the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) and the Register of Exercise Professionals (REPS). Both organisations provide regulations and standards for employers and professionals. A UKSCA membership and Bachelor's degree in sport and exercise science are generally accepted by many professional sports clubs as prerequisites for strength and conditioning positions. As well as the UKSCA and REPS, 1st4sport Qualifications offer standardised training in accordance with other official National Governing Body qualifications.\n\nThe implementation of effective strength and conditioning programmes has led to an increase in speed and strength. Research has demonstrated that not only does training improve performance but incorrect training (distance running, a slow-twitch muscle fiber activity, in football athletes with fast-twitch characteristics) can cause decrements to performance. Using techniques such as plyometrics in some high-power athletes and sports-specific movements in others, strength coaches may improve physical function and athletic performance.\n\nCriticism has followed the increased use of strength and conditioning coaches in a variety of sports due to the shift in importance to the size and speed of the players. In rugby union, a game with heavy physical contact and minimal protection, players are being described as being \"too big\", creating collisions that are increasing the risk of short and long term injuries. Further, it has been proposed that the increased weight and speed of players and subsequent rise of collision force leads to more frequent and severe concussion injuries.\n\nHowever, there is as yet no research to suggest an increased use of strength and conditioning leading to an increased risk of injury.\n"}
{"id": "49551606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49551606", "title": "Student.com", "text": "Student.com\n\nStudent.com is the largest student accommodation marketplace that helps students find residential accommodation. The company differentiates itself from the other real estate marketplaces by focusing on the untapped student accommodation market, by connecting students to professional landlords; identifying and exploiting a niche in the property market. Student.com was founded by Luke Nolan in 2011 with Shakil Khan and John-Paul Jones joining in 2014. The company is headquartered in Dubai, with offices in the UK, China, Hong Kong, USA and Australia.\n\nThe company was initially founded in 2011 as Overseas Student Living by Luke Nolan. After working in China for several years, Nolan was regularly called upon by his Chinese friends to help recommend accommodation for students looking to study in the US, UK and Australia. Recognizing that many other individuals, especially students, were facing similar issues, Nolan realized that there was a potential market for an online student accommodation marketplace that could help in connecting students with trusted professional landlords for their accommodation needs. In 2014, he was joined by other co-founders Shakil Khan, who met Nolan 10-years earlier in Shanghai, and John-Paul Jones. The company rebranded itself as Student.com in 2015 to focus on expanding globally and hired a team of multilingual booking agents.\n\nIn 2015, the company saw $110 million in bookings, listed properties in 426 cities in proximity to 1,000 universities. The company raised combined Series B and C funding of $60 million in 2016 led by VY Capital, Horizons Ventures, Expa, Spotify founders Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon, and Hugo Barra of Xiaomi.\n\nThe listings on Student.com are displayed on an interactive map subdivided by different neighborhoods. The platform helps in the accommodation search for international students needing to secure a base for their studies from a distance. The website assigns the user to a personal booking consultant, who contacts the student to verify their details and needs, including choice of room, roommate, tenancy length, price and student status. The service is free for students and it takes its commission as a cut from bookings. In April 2016, Forbes revealed that billionaire investor, Jim Breyer invested an undisclosed amount in Student.com.\n"}
{"id": "89008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89008", "title": "Theory of multiple intelligences", "text": "Theory of multiple intelligences\n\nThe theory of multiple intelligences differentiates human intelligence into specific 'modalities', rather than seeing intelligence as dominated by a single general ability. Howard Gardner proposed this model in his 1983 book \"Frames of Mind: The Theory of Multiple Intelligences\". According to the theory, an intelligence 'modality' must fulfill eight criteria:\n\nGardner proposed seven abilities that he held to meet these criteria: \nHe later suggested that existential and moral intelligences may also be worthy of inclusion.\n\nAlthough the distinction between intelligences has been set out in great detail, Gardner opposes the idea of labeling learners to a specific intelligence. Gardner maintains that his theory should \"empower learners\", not restrict them to one modality of learning. According to Gardner, an intelligence is \"a biopsychological potential to process information that can be activated in a cultural setting to solve problems or create products that are of value in a culture.\" According to a 2006 study, each of the domains proposed by Gardner involves a blend of the general \"g\" factor, cognitive abilities other than \"g\", and, in some cases, non-cognitive abilities or personality characteristics.\n\nThis area has to do with sensitivity to sounds, rhythms, tones, and music. People with a high musical intelligence normally have good pitch and may even have absolute pitch, and are able to sing, play musical instruments, and compose music. They have sensitivity to rhythm, pitch, meter, tone, melody or timbre.\n\nThis area deals with spatial judgment and the ability to visualize with the mind's eye. Spatial ability is one of the three factors beneath \"g\" in the hierarchical model of intelligence.\n\nPeople with high verbal-linguistic intelligence display a facility with words and languages. They are typically good at reading, writing, telling stories and memorizing words along with dates. Verbal ability is one of the most \"g\"-loaded abilities.\nThis type of intelligence is measured with the Verbal IQ in WAIS-IV.\n\nThis area has to do with logic, abstractions, reasoning, numbers and critical thinking. This also has to do with having the capacity to understand the underlying principles of some kind of causal system. Logical reasoning is closely linked to fluid intelligence and to general intelligence (\"g\" factor).\n\nThe core elements of the bodily-kinesthetic intelligence are control of one's bodily motions and the capacity to handle objects skillfully. Gardner elaborates to say that this also includes a sense of timing, a clear sense of the goal of a physical action, along with the ability to train responses.\n\nPeople who have high bodily-kinesthetic intelligence should be generally good at physical activities such as sports, dance, acting, and making things.\n\nGardner believes that careers that suit those with high bodily-kinesthetic intelligence include: athletes, dancers, musicians, actors, builders, police officers, and soldiers. Although these careers can be duplicated through virtual simulation, they will not produce the actual physical learning that is needed in this intelligence.\n\nIn theory, individuals who have high interpersonal intelligence are characterized by their sensitivity to others' moods, feelings, temperaments, motivations, and their ability to cooperate in order to work as part of a group. According to Gardner in \"How Are Kids Smart: Multiple Intelligences in the Classroom\", \"Inter- and Intra- personal intelligence is often misunderstood with being extroverted or liking other people...\" Those with high interpersonal intelligence communicate effectively and empathize easily with others, and may be either leaders or followers. They often enjoy discussion and debate.\" Gardner has equated this with emotional intelligence of Goleman.\n\nGardner believes that careers that suit those with high interpersonal intelligence include sales persons, politicians, managers, teachers, lecturers, counselors and social workers.\n\nThis area has to do with introspective and self-reflective capacities. This refers to having a deep understanding of the self; what one's strengths or weaknesses are, what makes one unique, being able to predict one's own reactions or emotions.\n\nNot part of Gardner's original seven, naturalistic intelligence was proposed by him in 1995. \"If I were to rewrite Frames of Mind today, I would probably add an eighth intelligence – the intelligence of the naturalist. It seems to me that the individual who is readily able to recognize flora and fauna, to make other consequential distinctions in the natural world, and to use this ability productively (in hunting, in farming, in biological science) is exercising an important intelligence and one that is not adequately encompassed in the current list.\" This area has to do with nurturing and relating information to one's natural surroundings. Examples include classifying natural forms such as animal and plant species and rocks and mountain types. This ability was clearly of value in our evolutionary past as hunters, gatherers, and farmers; it continues to be central in such roles as botanist or chef.\n\nThis sort of ecological receptiveness is deeply rooted in a \"sensitive, ethical, and holistic understanding\" of the world and its complexities – including the role of humanity within the greater ecosphere.\n\nGardner did not want to commit to a spiritual intelligence, but suggested that an \"existential\" intelligence may be a useful construct, also proposed after the original 7 in his 1999 book. The hypothesis of an existential intelligence has been further explored by educational researchers.\n\nOn January 13, 2016, Gardner mentioned in an interview with BigThink that he is considering adding the teaching-pedagogical intelligence \"which allows us to be able to teach successfully to other people\". In the same interview, he explicitly refused some other suggested intelligences like humour, cooking and sexual intelligence.\n\nGardner argues that there is a wide range of cognitive abilities, but that there are only very weak correlations among them. For example, the theory postulates that a child who learns to multiply easily is not necessarily more intelligent than a child who has more difficulty on this task. The child who takes more time to master multiplication may best learn to multiply through a different approach, may excel in a field outside mathematics, or may be looking at and understanding the multiplication process at a fundamentally deeper level.\n\nIntelligence tests and psychometrics have generally found high correlations between different aspects of intelligence, rather than the low correlations which Gardner's theory predicts, supporting the prevailing theory of general intelligence rather than multiple intelligences (MI). The theory has been criticized by mainstream psychology for its lack of empirical evidence, and its dependence on subjective judgement. However research by Dweck (2006), referred to as Growth Mindset Theory, shows that individuals with low correlations can attain also high correlations through intelligence growth. This challenges the notion of fixed or static intelligence levels that general intelligence tests measure. More importantly, it challenges the notion that intelligence test scores are an accurate predictor for future ability.\n\nOne major criticism of the theory is that it is \"ad hoc\": that Gardner is not expanding the definition of the word \"intelligence\", but rather denies the existence of intelligence as traditionally understood, and instead uses the word \"intelligence\" where other people have traditionally used words like \"ability\" and \"aptitude\". This practice has been criticized by Robert J. Sternberg, Eysenck, and Scarr. White (2006) points out that Gardner's selection and application of criteria for his \"intelligences\" is subjective and arbitrary, and that a different researcher would likely have come up with different criteria.\n\nDefenders of MI theory argue that the traditional definition of intelligence is too narrow, and thus a broader definition more accurately reflects the differing ways in which humans think and learn.\n\nSome criticisms arise from the fact that Gardner has not provided a test of his multiple intelligences. He originally defined it as the ability to solve problems that have value in at least one culture, or as something that a student is interested in. He then added a disclaimer that he has no fixed definition, and his classification is more of an artistic judgment than fact:\n\nGenerally, linguistic and logical-mathematical abilities are called intelligences, but artistic, musical, athletic, etc. abilities are not. Gardner argues this causes the former to be needlessly aggrandized. Certain critics are wary of this widening of the definition, saying that it ignores \"the connotation of intelligence ... [which] has always connoted the kind of thinking skills that makes one successful in school.\"\n\nGardner writes \"I balk at the unwarranted assumption that certain human abilities can be arbitrarily singled out as intelligence while others cannot.\" Critics hold that given this statement, any interest or ability can be redefined as \"intelligence\". Thus, studying intelligence becomes difficult, because it diffuses into the broader concept of ability or talent. Gardner's addition of the naturalistic intelligence and conceptions of the existential and moral intelligences are seen as the fruits of this diffusion. Defenders of the MI theory would argue that this is simply a recognition of the broad scope of inherent mental abilities, and that such an exhaustive scope by nature defies a one-dimensional classification such as an IQ value.\n\nThe theory and definitions have been critiqued by Perry D. Klein as being so unclear as to be tautologous and thus unfalsifiable. Having a high musical ability means being good at music while at the same time being good at music is explained by having a high musical ability.\n\nHenri Wallon shows that « We can not distinguish intelligence from its operations ». Yves Richez discovers 10 Natural Operating Modes (Modes Opératoire Naturel - MoON). The Richez's studies show a gap between Chinese thought and Western thought. In China, notion of « Being » (Self) and notion of « intelligence » don't exist. Those are greek-Latin inventions (Platon). Instead of intelligence, Chinese speaks of « operating modes ». Thus, Yves Richez doesn't talk of « intelligence » but of « natural operating modes » (Mo.O.N.).\n\nAndreas Demetriou suggests that theories which overemphasize the autonomy of the domains are as simplistic as the theories that overemphasize the role of general intelligence and ignore the domains. He agrees with Gardner that there are indeed domains of intelligence that are relevantly autonomous of each other. Some of the domains, such as verbal, spatial, mathematical, and social intelligence are identified by most lines of research in psychology. In Demetriou's theory, one of the neo-Piagetian theories of cognitive development, Gardner is criticized for underestimating the effects exerted on the various domains of intelligences by the various subprocesses that define overall processing efficiency, such as speed of processing, executive functions, working memory, and meta-cognitive processes underlying self-awareness and self-regulation. All of these processes are integral components of general intelligence that regulate the functioning and development of different domains of intelligence.\n\nThe domains are to a large extent expressions of the condition of the general processes, and may vary because of their constitutional differences but also differences in individual preferences and inclinations. Their functioning both channels and influences the operation of the general processes. Thus, one cannot satisfactorily specify the intelligence of an individual or design effective intervention programs unless both the general processes and the domains of interest are evaluated.\n\nThe premise of the multiple intelligences hypothesis, that human intelligence is a collection of specialist abilities, have been criticized for not being able to explain human adaptation to most if not all environments in the world. In this context, humans are contrasted to social insects that indeed have a distributed \"intelligence\" of specialists, and such insects may spread to climates resembling that of their origin but the same species never adapt to a wide range of climates from tropical to temperate by building different types of nests and learning what is edible and what is poisonous. While some such as the leafcutter ant grow fungi on leaves, they do not cultivate different species in different environments with different farming techniques as human agriculture does. It is therefore argued that human adaptability stems from a general ability to falsify hypotheses and make more generally accurate predictions and adapt behavior thereafter, and not a set of specialized abilities which would only work under specific environmental conditions.\n\nGardner argues that IQ tests only measure linguistic and logical-mathematical abilities. He argues the importance of assessing in an \"intelligence-fair\" manner. While traditional paper-and-pen examinations favor linguistic and logical skills, there is a need for intelligence-fair measures that value the distinct modalities of thinking and learning that uniquely define each intelligence.\n\nPsychologist Alan S. Kaufman points out that IQ tests have measured spatial abilities for 70 years. Modern IQ tests are greatly influenced by the Cattell-Horn-Carroll theory which incorporates a general intelligence but also many more narrow abilities. While IQ tests do give an overall IQ score, they now also give scores for many more narrow abilities.\n\nAccording to a 2006 study many of Gardner's \"intelligences\" correlate with the \"g\" factor, supporting the idea of a single dominant type of intelligence. According to the study, each of the domains proposed by Gardner involved a blend of \"g\", of cognitive abilities other than \"g\", and, in some cases, of non-cognitive abilities or of personality characteristics.\n\nLinda Gottfredson (2006) has argued that thousands of studies support the importance of intelligence quotient (IQ) in predicting school and job performance, and numerous other life outcomes. In contrast, empirical support for non-\"g\" intelligences is either lacking or very poor. She argued that despite this the ideas of multiple non-\"g\" intelligences are very attractive to many due to the suggestion that everyone can be smart in some way.\n\nA critical review of MI theory argues that there is little empirical evidence to support it:\nThe same review presents evidence to demonstrate that cognitive neuroscience research does not support the theory of multiple intelligences:\nThe theory of multiple intelligences is sometimes cited as an example of pseudoscience because it lacks empirical evidence or falsifiability, though Gardner has argued otherwise.\n\nGardner defines an intelligence as \"bio-psychological potential to process information that can be activated in a cultural setting to solve problems or create products that are of value in a culture.\" According to Gardner, there are more ways to do this than just through logical and linguistic intelligence. Gardner believes that the purpose of schooling \"should be to develop intelligences and to help people reach vocational and avocational goals that are appropriate to their particular spectrum of intelligences. People who are helped to do so, [he] believe[s], feel more engaged and competent and therefore more inclined to serve society in a constructive way.\"\n\nGardner contends that IQ tests focus mostly on logical and linguistic intelligence. Upon doing well on these tests, the chances of attending a prestigious college or university increase, which in turn creates contributing members of society. While many students function well in this environment, there are those who do not. Gardner's theory argues that students will be better served by a broader vision of education, wherein teachers use different methodologies, exercises and activities to reach all students, not just those who excel at linguistic and logical intelligence. It challenges educators to find \"ways that will work for this student learning this topic\".\n\nJames Traub's article in \"The New Republic\" notes that Gardner's system has not been accepted by most academics in intelligence or teaching. Gardner states that \"while Multiple Intelligences theory is consistent with much\nempirical evidence, it has not been subjected to strong experimental tests ... Within the area of education, the applications of the theory are currently being examined in many projects. Our hunches will have to be revised many times in light of actual classroom experience.\"\n\nJerome Bruner agreed with Gardner that the intelligences were \"useful fictions,\" and went on to state that \"his approach is so far beyond the data-crunching of mental testers that it deserves to be cheered.\"\n\nGeorge Miller, a prominent cognitive psychologist, wrote in \"The New York Times Book Review\" that Gardner's argument consisted of \"hunch and opinion\" and Charles Murray and Richard J. Herrnstein in \"The Bell Curve\" (1994) called Gardner's theory \"uniquely devoid of psychometric or other quantitative evidence.\"\n\nIn spite of its lack of general acceptance in the psychological community, Gardner's theory has been adopted by many schools, where it is often conflated with learning styles, and hundreds of books have been written about its applications in education. Some of the applications of Gardner's theory have been described as \"simplistic\" and Gardner himself has said he is \"uneasy\" with the way his theory has been used in schools. Gardner has denied that multiple intelligences are learning styles and agrees that the idea of learning styles is incoherent and lacking in empirical evidence. Gardner summarizes his approach with three recommendations for educators: individualize the teaching style (to suit the most effective method for each student), pluralize the teaching (teach important materials in multiple ways), and avoid the term \"styles\" as being confusing.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13232954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13232954", "title": "Youth engagement", "text": "Youth engagement\n\nYouth engagement is the sentiment young people feel towards a particular person, activity, place or outcome. It has been a focus of youth development, public policy and social change movements for at least forty years.\n\nA study exploring foster youth and aging out defines youth engagement as, \"involving young people in the creation of their own destinies,\" and suggest that in social work that means \"genuinely involving them in case planning and encouraging them to advocate for themselves.\" This sentiment was best summarized by youth who said, \"Nothing about us without us. The concept of youth engagement has emerged in recent years as a leading-edge, broad-based approach and best practice to meet the needs of youth, including youth at risk. It is a process that offers meaningful participation for youth—that is, participation with passion—and opportunities for youth to take responsibility and leadership while working in partnership with caring adults who value, respect and share power with them.\nResearch suggests that a supportive family background, mentors or role models, involvement in cooperative activities, cultivation of intrinsic interest, awareness of moral and political issues, and traits such as moral sensitivity and optimism are among the central factors that support youth engagement. A separate study explores \"the roles of adult support, a youth-friendly environment, the completion of meaningful tasks, and the learning and utilization of new skills\" as key supports. Other studies suggest that youth councils, youth-led media, youth advisory boards, youth organizing and other self-advocacy and community youth development activities are the best avenues for achieving youth engagement. Traditional activities such as youth conferences have also been cited. Consulting on public policy, involvement in community coalitions, involving youth in organizational decision-making, and school-based service learning have all also been cited as effective venues.\nBoth the philosophy and activities within a program or activity need to be a \"good fit\" for the young people participating in them. In the United States, activities and campaigns including those by the National Commission on Resources for Youth and Youth Communications have been cited for their effectiveness in engaging young people.\n\nResearch has identified a spectrum of approaches to youth engagement, beginning with training for adults that work with youth. These range from traditional programs that treat youth as clients to organizations that are led by youth and for youth. There are also groups who foster engagement among traditionally non-involved youth by working to foster more significant youth participation outside of the program or organization itself. Other points in this spectrum can include:\n\nEach has value, and where a program or groups sits depends on the degree to which youth are engaged in the program with meaningful participation, and the degree to which the organization offering the program has policies and infrastructures to support youth involvement in a meaningful way.\n\nA number of foundations recognize youth engagement as a best practice in programs for young people. For example, the Paul Allen Foundation promotes youth engagement as an avenue to achieving early reading proficiency, expand opportunities for experiential learning, and involve young people in addressing community needs. The Walter and Duncan Gordon Foundation in Canada supports youth engagement because it believes young Canadians, \"already tend to think globally; take advantage of opportunities to expand their understanding of global challenges; want to contribute new ideas and perspectives to the discussion about Canadian international policy and; are creative in their use of new technologies to further their engagement in the world.\" The Ontario Trillium Foundation recognizes youth engagement as a best practice and has been developing a framework to support youth engagement in its grantmaking and encourage applications that include a youth engagement approach. Hands On Learning Australia implement youth engagement programs as an integral part of secondary education in Australian schools. These programs attempt to reengage school age youth through building strong relationships within the context of practical activities, and also address literacy and numeracy issues.\n\nYouth engagement has been identified as a key measure in promoting adolescent health programs. Increasing the likelihood of young people voting has also been an outcome of said programs. Engaging youth in pro-social opportunities is also a goal in the field of Positive Youth Development. \n\nIt is also seen as central to developing \"inclusive participation\" in civil society. Numerous national initiatives have utilized that belief to rationalize a variety of programs, including efforts focused on civic engagement, social justice and education reform. In the latter field, student engagement is used to specifically address this issues within school environments. Several researchers, such as Barry Checkoway, Peter Levine and Shawn Ginwright, as well as advocates including Karen Pittman and Adam Fletcher have been acknowledged for their efforts to promote youth engagement.\n\nYouth engagement faces a variety of obstacles. They include a \"disjunction in what adults believe is important to do with young people, and what they actually do,\" as well as social norms that encourage youth engagement, and the presence of strong norms the discourage youth/adult partnerships. A historical disconnect between Positive Youth Development and civic engagement has also been cited as a leading barrier.\n\nYouth engagement has taken a huge growth over the past six years with the advent of social networks. The activities that promote youth development and social change movements are now shifting to the World Wide Web, fostering online communities based on interests, causes, and purpose. Young people are promoting ideas, vocalizing their goals, organizing community groups, engaging in political discussions, reclaiming identities, creating identities, connecting with others, and taking over these networks full force as their own personal environments. The engagement over social networks “forms and maintains social capital, a dimension that assesses one’s ability to stay connected with members of a community.” This connection is stimulated by the activity characteristic of the particular virtual community. Social network sites engage activity such as individual presentation of oneself, articulating and building outside networks, creating work-related collaboration, building romantic relationships, provoking political debates, connecting college student populations and opportunities, sharing hobbies and interests, and essentially forming anything that meets the imagination, made possible through the innovative capacities of current technology. Today’s youth are able to “tie offline networks to online memberships” through current social network sites like Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, MySpace, Friendster, and Blogger. They support the “maintenance of existing social ties and the formation of new connections, connecting with others outside their pre-existing social group or location, liberating them to form communities around shared interests.” This increased social capital enhances youth engagement and manages interactions regarding current events around the world, major life changes, and relations as they move from one offline community to another such as changing schools or joining different civic and community groups. The intensity and usage over online communities are reliable indicators of current trends among youth and psychological well-being. The robust growth of this current technology is steadily growing and becoming a greater percentage of daily youth interactions.\n\n"}
