{"id": "22167556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22167556", "title": "Alice Salomon", "text": "Alice Salomon\n\nAlice Salomon (19 April 1872, Berlin – 30 August 1948, New York) was a German social reformer and pioneer of social work as an academic discipline. Her role was so important to German social work that a postage stamp (pictured) was issued 1989 by Deutsche Bundespost in her memory. A university, a park and a square in Berlin are all named after her.\n\nAlice Salomon was the third of eight children, and the second daughter, of Albert and Anna Salomon. Like many girls from affluent families in this period, she was denied further education, despite her ambition to become a teacher. This ended in 1893 when she was 21, and she recorded in her autobiography that this was \"when her life began\".\n\nIn 1900 she joined the \"Bund Deutscher Frauenvereine\" (\"Federation of German Women's Associations\" - BDF hereinafter). In due course she was elected deputy chairperson, and kept this role until 1920. (The Chairperson was Gertrud Bäumer). The organisation supported destitute, abandoned, or single mothers and aimed to prevent their children being neglected.\n\nFrom 1902 to 1906 she studied economics at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin, though she had no relevant qualification. Her publications were sufficient for university entrance. She earned her doctorate in 1908 with a dissertation entitled \"Die Ursachen der ungleichen Entlohnung von Männer- und Frauenarbeit\" (loosely, \"Causes of Pay Inequality Between Men and Women\"). Also in this year she founded a \"Soziale Frauenschule\" (\"Social Women's School\") in Berlin, which was renamed \"Alice Salomon School\" in 1932 and is now called \"Alice-Salomon-Fachhochschule für Sozialarbeit und Sozialpädagogik Berlin\" (\"Alice Salomon College of Further Education for Social Work and Social Sciences of Berlin\").\n\nIn 1909 she became secretary of the \"Internationalen Frauenbund\" (International Council of Women). She converted from Judaism to the Lutheran Church in 1914. In 1917 she was made chairperson of the \"Konferenz sozialer Frauenschulen Deutschlands\" (\"Conference of German Women's Social Schools\") that she herself had founded; by 1919 sixteen schools belonged to it.\n\nIn 1920 she resigned from the BDF from fear of antisemitic propaganda. Five years later, she founded the \"Deutsche Akademie für soziale und pädagogische Frauenarbeit\" (\"German Academy for Women's Social and Educational Work\") which was directed by Hilde Lion. Speakers at this institution included Albert Einstein, Carl Gustav Jung, Helene Weber and others of similar eminence.\n\nIn the late 1920s and early 1930s, this organisation published thirteen monographs on the social and economic conditions faced by the poor in Germany. For Alice Salomon's 60th birthday, she received an honorary doctorate from Berlin University and the Silver State Medal from the Prussian State Ministry.\n\nIn 1933 when they acceded to power, the Nazi party stripped her of all her offices and six years later, when she was 65, she faced interrogation by the Gestapo. The Nazis objected to Salomon's Jewish origins, her Christian humanist ideas, her pacifism and international reputation. She was expelled from Germany, where she had been running a relief committee for Jewish emigrants.\n\nShe went to New York, her German citizenship and her two doctorates having been taken from her. In 1944 she became an American citizen. A year later, she was honorary President of the International Women's Federation and the International Association of Schools of Social Work.\n\nShe died in New York.\n\n\n\"Translator's note: These are in German.\"\n\n\"Translator's note: These are in German.\"\nThis article was abridged and translated from in the German wikipedia on 28 March 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "42467643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42467643", "title": "Annette Beveridge", "text": "Annette Beveridge\n\nAnnette Susannah Beveridge (née Akroyd) (1842–1929) was a British Orientalist known for her translation of the \"Humayun-nama\" and the \"Babur-nama\".\n\nAnnette Akroyd's father William Akroyd was a Unitarian industrialist associated with the establishment of the Bedford College, London in 1849, where she completed her study in 1863.\n\nIn October 1872 she sailed for British India. Around 1875 she was involved in a public controversy with Keshub Chandra Sen, an Indian philosopher and social reformer who attempted to incorporate Christian theology within the framework of Hindu thought. Akroyd was shocked by her discussions with him and felt that Sen, who spoke up for women's education in England, was a typical Hindu obscurantist back home in India, trying to keep knowledge from the minds of women. This dispute spilled into the native press and had its impact on the Bethune School. Akroyd was also dismayed with Sen's associates such as Bijoy Krishna Goswami, Aghore Nath Gupta and Gour Govinda Ray, who were traditionally Hindu in educational background and resisted the education of women.\n\nAnnette Beveridge translated the diaries of the first Mughal Emperor Babur, the Baburnama, publishing it in four books from 1912 to 1922. She used both Persian and Turki sources.\n\nShe also translated the biography of the second Mughal Emperor, Humayun, from Persian into English. The memoir had been written by his sister Gulbadan Begum, whom Beveridge affectionately called \"Princess Rosebud\". Her other translated works include \"The key of the hearts of beginners\", 1908.\n\nShe married Henry Beveridge of the Indian Civil Service.\n\nThe couple had two children: a daughter, Annette Jeanie Beveridge (d. 1956), who married R. H. Tawney, and a son, William Beveridge (1879–1963), a noted economist who gave his name to the report associated with the foundation of the welfare state.\n\nThe Beveridges lived at Pitfold, Shottermill, Surrey, England.\n"}
{"id": "18218120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18218120", "title": "Australian National Centre for the Public Awareness of Science", "text": "Australian National Centre for the Public Awareness of Science\n\nThe Centre for the Public Awareness of Science is part of the Australian National University. In March 2000 it became an accredited Centre for the Australian National Commission for UNESCO.\n\nAs a UNESCO Centre, CPAS engages with science communication and communicators in the Pacific region and beyond. In partnership with the UNESCO Pacific Office in Apia, Samoa, CPAS has focused on science teaching training and communication in Pacific nations. As well as running a science journalism workshop for Pacific Island journalists in 2001, CPAS followed up in the same year with a science teacher workshop and the first Pacific Science Communication Forum. The UNESCO office in Jakarta invited CPAS to join a mission to Cambodia to conduct a survey to identify and assess the needs of the country with respect to science education in schools and universities. Other activities include joining with UNESCO (Apia) to help in its aims to raise social participation in science in and around the Pacific.\n\nCPAS also established, as a pilot project, the Register of Pacific Scientists, an online database for those involved with Pacific Science to record their details and/or search for other people with similar or complementary interests. \n\nOther activities of CPAS include the presentation of workshops for secondary school science teachers and others in Fiji, India, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Japan and New Zealand. A joint teaching program is being developed with the National University of Singapore. In South Africa, CPAS helped to develop a touring hands-on science exhibition and has been invited to work in and with various South African science centres.\n\nWith a flourishing graduate program, CPAS encourages research in all aspects of science communication. Degrees are offered at all tertiary levels. Outreach programs within Australia include workshops for research scientists, science teachers, science and engineering students and science centre personnel, as well as the ANU Shell Questacon Science Circus. \n\nCPAS has a wide research program dealing with issues at the interface of science and the public. Apart from a long-standing agenda of research in science centres, CPAS is concerned with current issues in science, with the communication agendas of scientists, and with effective communication of science concepts. The research program is interdisciplinary and contributes to the emerging framework of science communication theory.\n\nCPAS was launched by Professor Richard Dawkins in 1996. It owes it origin to the establishment, twenty years earlier, of a modest science centre in a vacant primary school in Canberra. This burgeoning science centre eventually grew into Questacon – The National Science and Technology Centre. Questacon was the brainchild of Michael Gore, a senior lecturer in Physics at the Australian National University, who became its first director. An important part of its activities was outreach, supported from the beginning by sponsorship from Shell Australia.\n\nDr Gore approached Professor Chris Bryant, then Dean of Science at the Australian National University, with a proposal to set up a science circus to travel Australia, to be staffed by graduate science students enrolled in a course of science communication. Thus was born the Graduate Certificate in Science Communication that rapidly metamorphosed into a Graduate Diploma. This initiative proved extremely popular and it became clear that there was a hitherto undetected demand for such a course. Over the next few years, Masters and PhD courses were offered and science communication became a full-fledged graduate program.\n\nBy 1994, the demand was so great that the Faculty of Science at the Australian National University agreed to fund a Lectureship in Science Communication. This was the first in Australia and, possibly, the world. Dr Susan Stocklmayer was appointed to the position and immediately announced her intention of establishing a university centre for science communication. The Centre was established in 1996, with Professor Bryant as its first, interim, Director. Dr Stocklmayer took over the position in 1998, where she remains today.\n\nIn subsequent years, the work of CPAS has been recognised by a number of awards and honours: In 1999, CPAS, Shell Australia and Questacon jointly won the Business/Higher Education Round Table Award. The citation commends CPAS as “a university centre whose brief is to empower Australians by encouraging in them the confidence of 'ownership' of modern science. It is intended to increase science awareness in the Australian community and to improve communication skills of scientists.” In 2000, its standing was such that it was designated as the first UNESCO Centre for Science Communication.\n\nIn 2004, the triple partnership was awarded the Financial Review National Award for long term sponsorship, and in 2006 it won the Special Award for Excellence in the Prime Ministers Community Business Partnerships. The individual contributions of members of CPAS have also been widely recognised and they have received many personal accolades.\n\n"}
{"id": "55206266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55206266", "title": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop", "text": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop (1847 – September 11, 1892) was an American social reformer and autobiographer. Her prominence came from her remarkable experience, being confined and unlawfully imprisoned in the Utica Lunatic Asylum for 26 months (October 1880 – December 1882), through a plot of a secret enemy to kill her. She eventually managed to communicate with James Bailey Silkman, a lawyer who, like herself, was confined in the same asylum under similar circumstances. He succeeded in obtaining a writ of \"habeas corpus\", and Judge George G. Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nAfter that time, she devoted her life to ameliorating the laws relating to lunacy. Lathrop felt she owed it to women to take her case before the New York State Legislature, and demand reform in this direction, but she was unsuccessful in two efforts and found herself penniless and facing the need to support herself. After several efforts, she became a court stenographer, and ten years after her release, wrote a book, the story of her own institutionalization, entitled \"A Secret Institution.\" Published at her own expense, this book led to the formation of the Lunacy Law Reform League, in 1889, a national organization with headquarters in New York City, of which Lathrop became the secretary and was the national organizer.\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop was born in Rochester, New York. She was a daughter of Gen. William E. Lathrop, a Brigadier General of the National Guard. Lathrop’s father had met and married Lathrop’s mother, Jemima, at the age of 42 – Jemima was only 19.  Lathrop had been one of five children, but had lost her eldest brother to disease in 1865 and her second eldest brother moved to the southern part of the country to look for work.  Lathrop’s father passed away in 1877 leaving his wife, and his three daughters to open their home to board strangers for income.\n\nShe graduated from the Rochester Academy.\n\nLathrop also often traveled significant distances and visited friends around Rochester.\n\nLathrop became a teacher, which, owing to her father's failure in business, became a means of support to her family as well as to herself. She continued to teach successfully until her unlawful imprisonment in the Utica State Hospital (formerly known as the New York State Lunatic Asylum at Utica).\n\nLathrop feared that Miss Hamlo, a boarder in her mother's house, was poisoning her. Lathrop was obsessed with a Mr. Zell, a former lover who married another woman after Lathrop rejected him. After repenting her decision to reject Zell, Lathrop became convinced that Hamlo was in alliance with Zell's wife. After Lathrop began seeing Zell eveywhere, she believed he had divorced, and would now marry her if Lathrop survived Hamlo's poisonings. When Lathrop's life was saved on two occasions by friends, she took some of the aconite-poisoned tea to a chemist for analysis, as she sought reliable proof before making open charges against any one. At the instigation of a doctor who was in sympathy with the plot to incarcerate Lathrop, she went to Utica to consult Dr. John P. Gray, Superintendent of the State Lunatic Asylum in Utica, New York. Instead of seeing Grey, upon her arrival, she was incarcerated with the insane, without the commitment papers required by law, and kept a prisoner at the asylum for 26 months.\n\nShe was sent to the asylum at the insistence of her mother and sisters, who lived in Rochester, and who asserted that Lathrop was suffering from the delusion that somebody was trying to poison her. Her answer was that it was not a delusion, that somebody was endeavoring to poison her. But she was willing to accept proof to the contrary, which was also evidence that there was no delusion. Nonetheless, her incarceration ensued. By the time Lathrop was admitted to the asylum, she was 32 years old and unmarried despite engagements to two different men.  Her first engagement was broken off by her fiancé due to cold feet and her second betrothed died from consumption.\n\nThe hospital, according to Lathrop was “a living tomb.”\n\nWithin a few weeks of her arrival at Utica, Lathrop had written letters to two of her physician friends only to find out later that her letters had never been mailed.  The attending physician claimed they were not sent because the asylum was not obliged to send her letters “all over the country.”  Lathrop was “amazed and dumbfounded” at the idea that not only would her letters be read by the asylum doctors, but that they would never reach their intended destination. Lathrop had easily made a friend who had revealed to her how she would be able to communicate to the outside world without getting caught by the authorities. She obtained paper through another patient who had hidden the contraband in her room. The woman would not out rightly give the paper to Lathrop for fear of punishment for aiding and abetting, but hinted that there was nothing she could do if Lathrop took a page or two while she was elsewhere. Lathrop also wrote on newspaper edges and scraps of wrapping paper which she also hid in her skirt.\n\nEventually, she managed to communicate with Silkman, a New York lawyer, who had been forcibly carried off and imprisoned in the same insane asylum. He obtained a writ of \"habeas corpus\" at once on behalf of Lathrop, and in December, 1882, Judge Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop to be sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nImmediately upon her release, Lathrop went before the New York State Legislature. She described her experience and the necessity for reform. After making another fruitless effort the succeeding year, she found herself homeless and penniless, and dependent upon a cousin's generosity for shelter and support, forced to begin her new life under the most difficult circumstances.\nLathrop collected money for a charitable society on a commission, spending her evenings studying stenography and typewriting. She soon started a business of her own and was successful as a court stenographer. Ten years after her release, she wrote her book, \"A Secret Institution\", which was a history of her own life, written in the style of a novel, and descriptive of what she experienced or witnessed while an inmate of the Utica asylum.\n\nKeeping true to her vow “to devote the rest of [her] life to the cause of the insane,” Lathrop formed the Lunacy Law Reform and the Anti-Kidnapping Leagues.  The Leagues provided legal services to asylum patients who felt they were victims of a corrupt legal system. The goal of the leagues was to “protect sane people from false imprisonment.”  Both groups had helped several individuals who had been unjustly incarcerated secure their freedom. The Lunacy Law Reform League in 1889, was a national organization having its headquarters in New York City, of which she was secretary and national organizer.\n\nLathrop died in Saratoga, New York, on September 11, 1892, and is buried at Mount Hope Cemetery, in Rochester.\n\nAlbert Bach, legal counsel to Lathrop, held that the interesting point in the case was the question of the deprivation of Lathrop's postal rights while in the asylum. She was not permitted to have writing materials, and even though she succeeded in obtaining them, the asylum authorities disposed of her letters as they pleased. The claim was asserted that asylum managers have no such control over inmates as have prison managers; that the former institutions have more of the character of hospitals. Bach found nothing in the by-laws of the Utica asylum giving the right to this close supervision. He said that there were many instances of wrongful incarceration, and that justice would seem to dictate that inmates of asylums should have access to the mails. Even though much of it would be trash, it would be well worth while to endure that if information could be obtained to the release of a person improperly detained.\n\nReports suggested that Lathrop would bring a suit of U$25,000 damages against the management of the Utica State Insane Asylum. The grounds alleged were the wrongful detention of herself, and the seizure of her letters written to friends asking them to help her to regain her liberty. Lathrop’s lawyer gave the following statement of the scope of the lawsuit: Of course the main point is in regard to the interception of letters that she wrote to friends asking for assistance. If the managers of the asylums have the right to intercept letters, they have the power to shut a person entirely from the world, whether the person be insane or not. This is a difference between a criminal and a lunatic. In the case of a criminal he is in his position through his own fault, but the insane person is a patient, and deserves all possible consideration. If they stop a person’s letters, they virtually remove from that person the possibility of obtaining release. The suit is brought not so much for the sake of damages, as to test the point whether or not the managers of asylums have a right to enforce such a rule. I have become interested in the matter, and intend to follow it up and test the question thoroughly. One of the things I will do will be to write to the Postmaster General, asking if it would not be advisable in case we can prove that the authorities are wrong in prohibiting the forwarding of letters, to place free delivery boxes in all asylums, that the patients may have a chance to correspond without difficulty with their friends. I believe such a system would do away with much of the abuse that without doubt exists in many asylums, and would greatly lessen the chance of sane persons being held in confinement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42498130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42498130", "title": "Climate Summit", "text": "Climate Summit\n\nThe Climate Summit 2014 (sometimes also referred to as the Leader's Climate Summit) was a meeting on climate change in New York on September 23, 2014. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon announced it in September 2013 and invited leaders of governments, the private sector, and civil society to unite in taking concrete action towards a low-carbon world.\n\nThe Summit's focus was on initiatives and actions rather than on negotiations between countries. It was seen as a milestone on the path towards closing the \"emissions gap\" between reduction pledges and the necessary emission cuts for the 2 °C scenario (with \"pursue efforts to\" limit the temperature increase to 1.5 °C), and to a new legal agreement on climate change, to be approved by the COP21 in Paris in December 2015. One product of the Summit was the New York Declaration on Forests.\n\nAfter the COP19 in Warsaw, the Climate Summit was the next high-level gathering on climate change. Since the Kyoto Protocol's second commitment period expires in 2020, the UNFCCC process attempts to establish a new worldwide contract about climate protection and emission reduction objectives, that is to be drafted in 2014 at the COP20 in Lima and adopted in 2015 at the COP21 in Paris. The Climate Summit in September 2014 is not part of this negotiating process, but is expected to serve as a kick-off for a year of intense activity in climate policy and an indicator on the countries' ambitions to reduce emissions and support climate protection. Having this in mind, UN Secretary-General Ban invited leaders of governments, the private sector and civil society from all over the world to unite in action:\n\nIn December 2013, Secretary-General Ban appointed the former President of Ghana, John Kufuor, and Jens Stoltenberg, former Prime Minister of Norway, as special envoys on climate change, to assist Ban in connection with the Climate Summit and provide strategic advice.\n\nIn preparation of the Climate Summit, on May 4 and 5 the \"Abu Dhabi Ascent\" was held in Abu Dhabi, UAE, as a meeting in order to cross-link initiatives between governments, the private sector and civil society and to \"generate momentum\" for the Climate Summit.\n\nIn July 2014, Ban Ki-moon appointed former President of Ireland, and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, a special envoy for climate change to interact with global leaders ahead of the Climate Summit, to forge political commitment towards finalizing an agreement in 2015.\n\nThe Climate Summit took place at UN Headquarters in New York City on September 23, 2014, one day ahead of the annual General Assembly Debate.\n\nA major protest against climate change took place outside the conference and on Sunday two days before the conference in other countries worldwide to encourage the leaders to take strong climate action.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25862206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862206", "title": "Crisis camp", "text": "Crisis camp\n\nA crisis camp is a BarCamp gathering of IT professionals, software developers, and computer programmers to aid in the relief efforts of a major crisis such as those caused by earthquakes, floods, or hurricanes. Projects that crisis camps often work on include setting up social networks for people to locate missing friends and relatives, creating maps of affected areas, and creating inventories of needed items such as food and clothing.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Haiti earthquake, many crisis camps were set up around the world, often under the name \"Crisis Camp Haiti\", to help with the relief effort. \nDue to the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the Crisis Commons volunteer community was mobilized and part of the effort is being coordinated by Japanese students at U.S. universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "56221934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221934", "title": "Dataism", "text": "Dataism\n\nDataism is a term that has been used to describe the mindset or philosophy created by the emerging significance of Big Data. It was first used by David Brooks in the New York Times in 2013. More recently, the term has been expanded to describe what social scientist Yuval Noah Harari has called an emerging ideology or even a new form of religion, in which 'information flow' is the 'supreme value'.\n\n\"If you asked me to describe the rising philosophy of the day, I'd say it is Data-ism\", wrote David Brooks in the New York Times in February 2013. Brooks argued that in a world of increasing complexity, relying on data can reduce cognitive biases and \"illuminate patterns of behavior we haven't yet noticed\".\n\nIn 2015, Steve Lohr's book 'Data-ism' looked at how Big Data is transforming society, using the term to describe the Big Data revolution.\n\nIn his 2016 book, , Yuval Noah Harari takes the idea of Dataism further, putting it into a historical context. He argues that all competing political or social structures can be seen as data processing systems: \"Dataism declares that the universe consists of data flows, and the value of any phenomenon or entity is determined by its contribution to data processing\".\n\nHarari posits that \"we may interpret the entire human species as a single data processing system, with individual humans serving as its chips.\" He then argues that the whole of human history can be read as a process of improving the efficiency of this system by increasing the number and variety of processors/chips (humans) in the system, increasing the number of connections between the processors and increasing the freedom of movement along existing connections. A condensed form of this argument can be read in Harari's Wired article from 2016.\n\nHarari goes on to argue that Dataism, like any other religion, has practical commandments. A Dataist should want to \"maximise dataflow by connecting to more and more media\", and believes that freedom of information is \"the greatest good of all\". Harari also argues that Aaron Swartz, who took his life in 2013 after being prosecuted for releasing hundreds of thousands of scientific papers from the JSTOR archive online for free, could be called the \"first martyr\" of Dataism.\n\nWriting in the Financial Times, Harari argued that Dataism presents an existential challenge to the dominant moral ideology of Humanism, which sees human feelings as the ultimate authority in the world: \"humanism is now facing an existential challenge and the idea of “free will” is under threat... Once Big Data systems know me better than I know myself, authority will shift from humans to algorithms.\" Harari predicts that the logical conclusion of this process is that eventually humans will give algorithms the authority to make the most important decisions in their lives, such as who to marry and which career to pursue.\n\nCommenting on Harari's characterisation of Dataism, security analyst Daniel Miessler believes that Dataism does not present the challenge to the ideology of liberal humanism that Harari claims, because humans will simultaneously be able to believe in their own importance and that of data.\n\nHarari himself raises some criticisms, such as the problem of consciousness, which Dataism is unlikely to illuminate. Humans may also find out that organisms are not algorithms, he suggests.\n\nOther analysts such as Terry Ortleib have looked at the extent to which Dataism poses a dystopian threat to humanity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20311344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311344", "title": "European social model", "text": "European social model\n\nThe European social model is a common vision many European states have for a society that combines economic growth with high living standards and good working conditions. Historian Tony Judt has argued that the European social model \"binds Europe together\" in contrast to the 'American way of life'.\n\nEuropean states do not all use a single social model, but welfare states in Europe do share several broad characteristics. These generally include a commitment to full employment, social protections for all citizens, social inclusion, and democracy. Examples common among European countries include universal health care, free higher education, strong labor protections and regulations, and generous welfare programs in areas such as unemployment insurance, retirement pensions, and public housing. The Treaty of the European Community set out several social objectives: \"promotion of employment, improved living and working conditions ... proper social protection, dialogue between management and labour, the development of human resources with a view to lasting high employment and the combating of exclusion.\" Because different European states focus on different aspects of the model, it has been argued that there are four distinct social models in Europe: the Nordic, British, Mediterranean and the Continental.\n\nThe general outlines of a European social model emerged during the post-war boom. Tony Judt lists a number of causes: the abandonment of protectionism, the baby boom, cheap energy, and a desire to catch up with living standards enjoyed in the United States. The European social model also enjoyed a low degree of external competition as the Soviet bloc, China and India were not yet integrated into the global economy. In recent years, it has become common to question whether the European social model is sustainable in the face of low birthrates, globalisation, Europeanisation and an ageing population.\n\nSome of the European welfare states have been described as the most well developed and extensive. A unique \"European social model\" is described in contrast with the social model existing in the US. Although each European country has its own singularities, four welfare or social models are identified in Europe:\n\nAs can be seen in the graph to the right, the Nordic model holds the highest level of social insurance. Its main characteristic is its universal provision nature which is based on the principle of \"citizenship\". Therefore, there exists a more generalised access, with lower conditionability, to the social provisions.\n\nAs regards labour market, these countries are characterised by important expenditures in active labour market policies whose aim is a rapid reinsertion of the unemployed into the labour market. These countries are also characterised by a high share of public employment. Trade unions have a high membership and an important decision-making power which induces a low wage dispersion or more equitable income distribution.\n\nThe Nordic model is also characterised by a high tax wedge.\n\nThe Continental model has some similarities with the Nordic model. Nevertheless, it has a higher share of its expenditures devoted to pensions. The model is based on the principle of \"security\" and a system of subsidies which are not conditioned to employability (for example in the case of France or Belgium, there exist subsidies whose only requirement is being older than 25).\n\nAs regards the labour market, active policies are less important than in the Nordic model and in spite of a low membership rate, trade-unions have important decision-making powers in collective agreements.\n\nAnother important aspect of the Continental model is the disability pensions.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon model features a lower level of expenditures than the previous ones. Its main particularity is its social assistance of last resort. Subsidies are directed to a higher extent to the working-age population and to a lower extent to pensions. Access to subsidies is (more) conditioned to employability (for instance, they are conditioned on having worked previously).\n\nActive labour market policies are important. Instead, trade unions have smaller decision-making powers than in the previous models, this is one of the reasons explaining their higher income dispersion and their higher number of low-wage employments.\n\nThe Mediterranean model corresponds to southern European countries who developed their welfare state later than the previous ones (during the 1970s and 1980s). It is the model with the lowest share of expenditures and is strongly based on pensions and a low level of social assistance. There exists in these countries a higher segmentation of rights and status of persons receiving subsidies which has as one of its consequences a strongly conditioned access to social provisions.\n\nThe main characteristic of labour market policies is a rigid employment protection legislation and a frequent resort to early retirement policies as a means to improve employment conditions. Trade unions tend to have an important membership which again is one of the explanations behind a lower income dispersion than in the Anglo-Saxon model.\n\nTo evaluate the different social models, we follow the criteria used in Boeri (2002) and Sapir (2005) which consider that a social model should satisfy the following:\n\nThe graph on the right shows the reduction in inequality (as measured by the Gini index) after taking account of taxes and transfers, that is, to which extent does each social model reduce poverty without taking into account the reduction in poverty provoqued by taxes and transfers. The level of social expenditures is an indicator of the capacity of each model to reduce poverty: a bigger share of expenditures is in general associated to a higher reduction in poverty. Nevertheless, another aspect that should be taken into account is the efficiency in this poverty reduction. By this is meant that with a lower share of expenditures a higher reduction in poverty may be obtained.\n\nIn this case, the graph on the right shows that the Anglosaxon and Nordic models are more efficient than the Continental or Mediterranean ones. The Continental model appears to be the least efficient. Given its high level of social expenditures, one would expect a higher poverty reduction than that attained by this model. Remark how the Anglosaxon model is found above the average line drawn whereas the Continental is found below that line.\n\nProtection against labour market risks is generally assured by two means: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, there is a clear trade-off between these two types of labour market instruments (remark the clear negative slope between both). Once again different European countries have chosen a different position in their use of these two mechanisms of labour market protection. These differences can be summarised as follows: \n\nEvaluating the different choices is a hard task. In general there exists consensus among economists on the fact that employment protection generates inefficiencies inside firms. Instead, there is no such consensus as regards the question of whether employment protection generates a higher level of unemployment.\n\nSapir (2005) and Boeri (2002) propose looking at the employment-to-population ratio as the best way to analyse the incentives and rewards for employment in each social model. The Lisbon Strategy initiated in 2001 established that the members of the EU should attain a 70% employment rate by 2010.\n\nIn this case, the graph shows that the countries in the Nordic and Anglosaxon model are the ones with the highest employment rate whereas the Continental and Mediterranean countries have not attained the Lisbon Strategy target.\n\nSapir (2005) proposes as a general mean to evaluate the different social models, the following two criteria: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, according to these two criteria, the best performance is achieved by the Nordic model. The Continental model should improve its efficiency whereas the Anglosaxon model its equity. The Mediterranean model under-performs in both criteria.\n\nSome economists consider that between the Continental model and the Anglo-Saxon, the latter should be preferred given its better results in employment, which make it more sustainable in the long term, whereas the equity level depends on the preferences of each country (Sapir, 2005). Other economists argue that the Continental model cannot be considered worse than the Anglosaxon given that it is also the result of the preferences of those countries that support it (Fitoussi et al., 2000; Blanchard, 2004). This last argument can be used to justify any policy.\n\n\nLocation-specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "48166783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48166783", "title": "French Tech", "text": "French Tech\n\nFrench Tech is an accreditation awarded to French cities recognized for their startup ecosystem. It is also a name used by technologically innovative French businesses throughout the world.\n\nConvinced by the necessity to promote the emergence of successful start-ups in France to generate economic value and jobs, the French Government created the French Tech Initiative at the end of 2013. Its philosophy: build on member initiatives of the French Tech themselves, highlight what already exists, and create a snowball effect. It is a shared ambition, propelled by the State but carried and built with all the actors of the French tech company and start-up scene.\n\nThe French Tech initiative also has a transversal objective: to enhance the coherence of public actions in favor of startups. It does not create a new organization or a new public tool, but is carried by a small team, Mission French Tech, which works closely with the French Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the General Commissariat for Investment. Its partners, the pillars of the initiative, are national operators, who, under the common banner \"French Tech\" coordinate their actions in favor of startups: Caisse des Dépôts, Bpifrance and Business France.\n\nFunding from the French Tech Initiative for accelerators (€ 200 million) and international attractiveness (€ 15 million) is part of the Investments for the Future program. In this context, the operator is Caisse des Dépôts, which relies on Bpifrance for investment in accelerators and on Business France for international investments.\n\nThe French Tech aims to provide a strong common visual identity to French startups as well as to promote entrepreneurial exchanges between them.\n\nNine French cities received French Tech accreditation in November 2014 during a first wave of certification.\n\nCities like Strasbourg, Mulhouse, Nice, Avignon, Angers, Brest and Saint-Étienne preferred to wait to register their candidacies later in 2015.\n\nIn January 2015, the French Minister for Digital Affairs Axelle Lemaire announced a budget of €15 million to enhance the attractiveness of the French Tech abroad.\n\nThe Banque Publique d'Investissement (Bpifrance) also announced it was investing €200 million in subsidies from 2015. In 2012 alone, Bpifrance invested €700 million.\n\nAxelle Lemaire also announced the establishment of 'French Tech Hubs' in major international cities like Montreal, New York City, London, Berlin, Barcelona, Stockholm, Tokyo, Singapore, Seoul, Shanghai, Taipei, Tel Aviv, São Paulo, Phnom Pen, Cape Town, Abidjan, Moscow and Santiago. Some of which (New York City, Boston, San Francisco, Tel Aviv, Tokyo, London) have already opened since February 2014.\n\nIn 2016, the movement continued to expand its international reach, notably in international shows and forums. In the United States of America, French startups were part of the largest foreign delegation at the 2016 Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas. 190 French Tech startups were enrolled this year, with a total of 210 French businesses on site. They were the largest European delegation at the 2015 Consumer Electronics Show.\nIn January 2017, the French delegation was the largest foreign delegation again at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas.\n\nIn June 2017, the French Tech national ecosystem has seen the inauguration of world's biggest business incubator, Station F, in Paris. It hosts 1,000 start-ups within 34,000 square meters in the heart of the city.\n\nIn November 2014, nine cities were accredited:\n\n\nIn June 2015, four new specialised areas were accredited:\n\nTo this list are added four thematic cities:\n\nOn October 21, 2015, eight major retailers signed a charter to highlight French Tech products on their shelves, at the French Ministry of Economy with Axelle Lemaire, Minister for Digital Affairs.\n\nAmong those who signed the charter are major players in the retail sector, including Auchan, Boulanger, Carrefour, Darty, Fnac, E.Leclerc, Lick and Orange S.A..\n\n\"This charter officially marks our commitment to support French technological innovation in the field of the Internet of things, on the long term\" said Daniel Broche, e-commerce director at Boulanger. The charter was signed during the national 'week of connected devices' which runs yearly until the 25th October and during which certain activities are planned in stores around France and on the internet with the hashtag #HappyFrenchTech.\n\nWithin the following weeks, only Boulanger had issued a clear statement on its application of the agreement. The brand has created a dedicated online marketplace and agrees to sell a number of products in stores, such as a virtual reality helmet, an 'intelligent' keyring or a connected lamp.\n\nFrench Tech cities and hubs :\n"}
{"id": "59085828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59085828", "title": "Georgiana Morson", "text": "Georgiana Morson\n\nGeorgiana Morson served as a matron for Urania Cottage, a house for fallen women founded by Charles Dickens and Angela Burdett-Coutts, as well as the Foundling Hospital during the mid-nineteenth century. \n\nGeorgiana Morson was born Georgiana Collin in Merton. She married James Morson, a doctor for St George's Hospital, in 1838. Shortly after their marriage, James Morson was appointed as Chief Medical Officer for the Brazilian National Mining Association. He died in 1848, leaving Georgiana with three children to provide for by her own efforts.\n\nIn 1854, Morson would resign from her post as matron of Urania Cottage in order to marry George Wade Harrison, a printer and bookseller, and they settled in Sevenoaks.\n\nOn 26 May 1846, Dickens wrote Burdett-Coutts a lengthy letter stating his desire to open an asylum for girls and women working in London's streets as prostitutes. The letter included planning for the asylum ranging from finding a property in London to a detailed process of rehabilitating fallen women. For example, Dickens suggests introducing a marks system and probationary period for asylum residents. He writes: It is explained to her that she is degraded and fallen, but not lost, having this shelter; and that the means of Return to Happiness are now about to be put into her own hands, and trusted to her own keeping. That with this view, she is, instead of being placed in this probationary class for a month, or two months, or three months, or any specified time whatever, required to earn there, a certain number of Marks (they are mere scratches in a book) so that she may make her probation a very short one, or a very long one, according to her own conduct. For so much work, she has so many Marks; for a day's good conduct, so many more. For every instance of ill-temper, disrespect, bad language, any outbreak of any sort or kind, so many - a very large number in proportion to her receipts - are deducted. A perfect Debtor and Creditor account is kept between her and the Superintendent, for every day; and the state of that account, it is in her own power and nobody else's, to adjust to her advantage. Dickens located a home for the asylum originally named Urania Cottage in Shepherds Bush, Middlesex in 1847. He worked closely with Burdett-Coutts in the asylum founding and administration, regularly attending meetings and writing about the home in his journal, \"All the Year Round\".\nOpening to residents in November 1847, the institution provided food, shelter, and a detailed daily routine for the residents. Residents learned to read and write, worked in the garden, completed all household tasks including needlework, attended singing lessons, and cooked food for local poor relief.\n\nGeorgiana Morson served as a dedicated matron of Urania Cottage from 1849 to 1854. In her book, \"Charles Dickens and the House of Fallen Women\" (2009), Jenny Hartley describes how, \"Georgiana Morson proved herself the best matron Urania ever had... she taught the girls to read and write, as well as all the household skills a servant needed. She presided over the dining table, and made mealtimes a social occasion the girls had not known before. They ate the good food she had taught them to cook and chattered about their future prospects.\" \n\nDickens praised Morson's oversight at Urania Cottage in a letter recommending her as matron for the Foundling Hospital in 1852. Writing to the governors of the hospital on 9 July 1852, Dickens describes her \"capacity for the administration of such an office.\" He goes on to explain that:She is a lady of great discretion, of remarkable sweetness of temper, and has a power of uniting firmness with conciliation in a very remarkable and uncommon manner. I have never known her to make a mistake even under circumstances of great difficulty, and I have invariably found that those under her care have become attached to her. She is accustomed to method, order, punctuality, and to a habit of sound and judicious observation. I would entrust her, myself, with the duties to which she now aspires, in preference to any lady I have ever seen in a similar capacity.\n"}
{"id": "3615000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3615000", "title": "Harry Cassidy", "text": "Harry Cassidy\n\nHarry Cassidy (1900–1951) was a Canadian academic, social reformer, civil servant and, briefly, a politician.\n\nCassidy was a pioneer in the field of social work. He was the founding dean of the School of Social Welfare at University of California, Berkeley in the early 1940s before resigning to work for the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. He subsequently became dean of the School of Social Work at the University of Toronto.\n\nIn the 1930s he was involved with the League for Social Reconstruction and was a founding member of the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, however, in 1950 he ran for the leadership of the Ontario Liberal Party coming in second in the party leadership convention.\n\nCassidy conducted studies of welfare services beginning in the 1930s and 1940s and influenced the creation of a Canadian welfare state and improved social services as a means of improving society and alleviating poverty. During the Great Depression he argued that the government of R.B. Bennett should create a broad system of social services such as Unemployment Insurance as a shock absorber against poverty. His research influenced Bennett's decision to try to emulate Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal and some of his ideas were ultimately taken up by the Liberal government of William Lyon Mackenzie King in the 1940s, particularly after Cassidy published his 1943 study \"Social Security and Reconstruction in Canada\". He continued to criticize Canada's social security system as inadequate, writing in 1947 that \"The provisions for general assistance are limited, restrictive, mean, and antiquated ... .[T]hey are literally disgraceful and unworthy of a nation of Canada's status\".\n\nHe also worked for a period in the civil service as deputy minister of welfare in British Columbia.\n\nCassidy's son, Michael Cassidy, was a New Democratic Party politician and leader in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894020", "title": "Heritage interpretation", "text": "Heritage interpretation\n\nHeritage interpretation refers to all the ways in which information is communicated to visitors to an educational, natural or recreational site, such as a museum, park or science centre. More specifically it is the communication of information about, or the explanation of, the nature, origin, and purpose of historical, natural, or cultural resources, objects, sites and phenomena using personal or non-personal methods. Some international authorities in museology prefer the term mediation for the same concept, following usage in other European languages.\n\nHeritage interpretation may be performed at dedicated interpretation centres or at museums, historic sites, parks, art galleries, nature centres, zoos, aquaria, botanical gardens, nature reserves and a host of other heritage sites. Its modalities can be extremely varied and may include guided walks, talks, drama, staffed stations, displays, signs, labels, artwork, brochures, interactives, audio-guides and audio-visual media. The process of developing a structured approach to interpreting these stories, messages and information is called interpretive planning. The thematic approach to heritage interpretation advocated by University of Idaho professor Sam Ham, the National Association for Interpretation, the US National Park Service, and others, is considered best practice.\n\nThose who practice this form of interpretation may include rangers, guides, naturalists, actors (who may wear period dress and do reenactments), museum curators, natural and cultural interpretive specialists, interpretation officers, heritage communicators, docents, educators, visitor services staff, interpreters or a host of other titles. The interpretive process is often assisted by new technologies such as visualizing techniques.\n\nThe goal of interpretation is to improve and enrich the visitor experience by helping site visitors understand the significance of the place they are visiting, and connecting those meanings to visitors' own personal lives. By weaving compelling, thematic stories about environmental phenomena and historical events, interpreters aim to provoke visitors to learn and think about their experiences.\nEffective interpretation enables the visitors to make associations between the information given and their previous perceptions. According to Moscardo interpretation can produce 'Mindful Visitors' who are carefully processing information and negotiating the meanings of the observed object or intangible element.\n\nInterpretation is often used by landowning government agencies and NGOs to promote environmental stewardship of the lands they manage.\n\nIn his 1957 book, \"Interpreting Our Heritage\", Freeman Tilden defined six principles of interpretation:\nFor the past 50 years, Tilden's principles have remained highly relevant to interpreters across the world. In 2002 Larry Beck and Ted Cable published \"Interpretation for the 21st Century - Fifteen Guiding Principles for Interpreting Nature and Culture\", which elaborated upon Tilden's original principles. In 2011, Beck and Cable released a new version of their principles in \"The Gift of Interpretation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21097678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21097678", "title": "Hybrid mail", "text": "Hybrid mail\n\nHybrid mail is mail that is delivered using a combination of electronic and physical delivery. Usually, it involves digital data being transformed into physical letter items at distributed print centres located as close as possible to the final delivery addresses. An e-mail letter (also L-mail and letter mail) is a letter which sent as an email using a computer then printed out and delivered as a traditional (physical) letter. It is a communication means between the virtual cyber- and the material real world. The printer or mail transfer agent prints the electronic mail on paper, the mail transport agent packs it into an envelope and the mail delivery agent or postman delivers it to the receiver's mailbox. Generally there is a fee for this service; however very small amounts and single email letters may be free of charge depending on the service provider and generally fees are much lower than directly sending mail or using a franking machine.\n\nThere are also reverse systems, where handwritten letters can be delivered as email. This mail scanning service, sometimes called letter email, is increasingly popular with businesses and individuals who wish to access their mail from another country. However, special care must be taken to inspect local laws and the service provider's scanning practices to ensure that they are not reading the mail or acting on behalf of the client from a legal standpoint.\n"}
{"id": "28256821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28256821", "title": "Internal Market Information System", "text": "Internal Market Information System\n\nThe Internal Market Information System (IMI) is an IT-based network that links public bodies in the European Economic Area. It was developed by the European Commission together with the Member States of the European Union to speed up cross-border administrative cooperation. IMI allows public administrations at national, regional and local level to identify their counterparts in other countries and to exchange information with them. Pre-translated questions and answers as well as machine translation make it possible for them to use their own language to communicate.\n\nInternal market legislation of the European Union (EU) makes it mandatory for competent authorities in Member States to assist their counterparts abroad by providing them with information. Some legislation also requires communication between Member States and the European Commission (for example for the notification of national implementing measures of European Union law). IMI has been developed in order to facilitate this day-to-day exchange of information.\n\nIMI was launched in February 2008. Development and maintenance has been funded by the programme Interoperability Solutions for European Public Administrations (ISA) since July 2010. ISA is the successor to the IDABC program, which initially funded IMI and came to an end on 31 December 2009. \n\nIMI is one of the governance tools of the Single Market. Other such tools are Your Europe, Your Europe Advice, Solvit and the Points of Single Contact. \nIMI applies a \"Privacy by Design\" approach – integrating privacy and data protection compliance in all stages of the design of IMI – which has been developed in consultation with the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS).\nAdministrative coordination is legally determinate and provided in a form of legal assistance between responsible institutions. In the case of the IMI system, administrative coordination encompasses some modes of administrative cooperation related to information provision (information exchange or data provision); shared administrative procedures execution (obligation to execute a single administrative decision/act by an institution from different Member States) and networking on a specific institutional structure (working of agencies or groups in formalised policy implementation processes)\n\nIMI has been rolled out in a decentralised way. Therefore, the practical implementation of IMI is the responsibility of the individual Member States. There are several actors that play a role in the IMI network.\n\nCompetent authorities are the end users of IMI. They are public bodies that have been given the responsibility to deal with certain elements of application of internal market legislation. They can function on national, regional or local level.\n\nThere is one national IMI coordinator (NIMIC) per Member State, often located in a national ministry. Their task is to ensure the smooth operation of IMI in their country. IMI coordinators may delegate some of their responsibilities to additional coordinators who are in charge of, for example, one legislative area or a geographical region, depending on each Member State’s administrative structures.\n\nThe European Commission is responsible for maintenance and development of the tool, helpdesk services and training. It also manages and supports the network of IMI coordinators, promotes further expansion of IMI and reports on the functioning of the system. \n\nIMI offers a number of workflows to its users in order to facilitate different types of administrative cooperation across the Member states of the European Economic Area. \n\nWhen a competent authority needs information from a counterpart abroad, it can send a request for information. This exchange mechanism uses lists of pre-translated questions and answers available in all EU languages. It is also possible to attach documents. Only the competent authorities that are directly involved in an information exchange have access to the content. A practical example of an information request is when a German teacher would like to continue his activities in Portugal. The Portuguese authority needs to verify the authenticity of his scanned diploma. It can then use IMI to send an information request to its partner authority in Germany. This authority can accept the request and send an answer back to the authority in Portugal. Due to the pre-translated question and answer sets, both authorities can communicate in their own language.\n\nNotifications are based on one-to-many information exchanges where authorities can alert or notify one or more competent authorities and/or the European Commission. For example, the Services Directive requires that Member States alert each other of possible dangers to the health and safety of people or to the environment caused in the provision of services.\n\nIMI information repositories are databases storing specific information for certain policy areas. An example of such a repository is the directory of registers maintained by competent authorities throughout the European Economic Area. This directory is equipped with multilingual search functions. The content of a repository can be accessed either by a restricted group of competent authorities or by all IMI users.\n\nIMI is used in all Member States of the European Economic Area for the administrative cooperation required by the Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications (2005/36/EC), by the Directive on services in the internal market (2006/123/EC) and, on a pilot basis, by the Posting of Workers Directive. Since November 2012, it provides a repository for information on licence holders for the cross-border road transport of Euro cash and an IT platform for the problem solving network Solvit. IMI is being expanded to cover further legislative areas. For example, the Directive on Patients' Rights in Cross-border Healthcare.\nIMI aims to \"become a flexible toolkit at the service of administrative cooperation, contributing to the improved governance of the Internal Market.\" \n\nThe IMI Regulation which came into force in December 2012 is an EU law establishing a comprehensive legal framework for IMI. It provides a complete set of rules for the processing of personal data in IMI and prescribes a method for future expansion of IMI to additional policy areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "39541812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39541812", "title": "International Whores' Day", "text": "International Whores' Day\n\nInternational Whores' Day or International Sex Workers Day is observed annually on June 2 of each year, honours sex workers and recognises their often exploited working conditions. The event commemorates the occupation of Église Saint-Nizier in Lyon by more than a hundred sex workers on 2 June 1975 to draw attention to their inhumane working conditions. It has been celebrated annually since 1976. In German, it is known as \"Hurentag\" (Whore's Day). In Spanish-speaking countries, it is the \"Día Internacional de la Trabajadora Sexual\", the International Day of the Sex Worker.\n\nIn the 1970s, French police kept sex workers under increasing pressure. The police reprisals forced sex workers to work increasingly in secret. As a result, protection of sex workers decreased and led to more violence against them. After two murders and the unwillingness of the government to improve the situation, sex workers in Lyon occupied the Saint-Nizier church in rue de Brest and went on strike. The striking workers sang political chants and demanded decent working conditions and an end to stigma.\n\nThe police cleared the church after eight days. The event marks the starting point of an international movement of sex workers for sex workers' rights.\n\nA reading entitled \"Women without rooms\" in Bochum, Germany on 29 May 2011 documented that the situation of sex workers has not improved since 1975. The reading was devoted to the sex workers of the neighbouring city of Dortmund, who are oppressed as the sex workers of Lyon were in 1975.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9108856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9108856", "title": "Interpreting notes", "text": "Interpreting notes\n\nInterpreting notes are used by some interpreters, who re-express oral communications (such as speeches) in whole or in part. Such notes may be used when the interpreter is working in \"consecutive mode.\"\n\nInterpreting notes are not part of any conventional graphic system, and practitioners are free to develop their own techniques. However, some basic rules facilitate the recording of details in order to aid the interpreter in coping with large amounts of information.\n\nThe purpose of interpreting notes is not to transcribe the speech verbatim. Interpreting notes are not a form of shorthand. Their purpose is to write minimal notes which will, at a quick glance, elicit in the interpreter's mind the intent of an oral communication so that it can be re-expressed in a different language.\n\nIt is not appropriate to document a speech in shorthand, as this would result in task duplication.\n\nThe interpreter should listen with utmost concentration to the speaker and write only the information which he judges sufficient to render the meaning. Numbers, names, and the titles of persons must be retained in the interpretation.\n\nInterpreting notes are typically written in a notebook with each note being separated from the others by a horizontal line. After interpreting a sentence with the aid of a note, some interpreters might make a slash over it, if they have the time. This has an important psychological effect — it is similar to erasing data on a computer. Others might consider it too time-consuming to do so when a fast pace of interpretation is required or they might think that it detracts from the pace of their delivery. \n\nThe interpreter is required to decipher his notes and to re-express their content in the target language. Following analysis of the speech, the interpreter may write the information in abstract form.\n\nIdeograms are an important tool used by interpreters. For example, the letter “E” laid on its side (like the Cyrillic letter \"sha\", Ш) may represent Europe. Then one can specify whether eastern, western, or central Europe is meant by slashing the relevant upward leg. A horizontal bar with two vertical bars beneath it might represent a table, which would indicate a meeting or a conference. A bracket before an action indicates that the action will take place in the future, and vice versa.\n\nThese ideograms are linked by a system of arrows and brackets that show the structure of a sentence that is to be interpreted. Using this system, one can note, for instance, that a sum has increased or decreased by a certain percentage (according to the arrow’s direction).\n\nFor example, the notes in the illustration might be interpreted to mean : \n\nWe are particularly glad to inform you about an important increase in our company’s revenues, which rose by 10 percent from 3.5 to 3.85 billion dollars.(*) This derives from huge sales of helicopters. The United States of America bought 50 and South Africa 20 of them. On the other hand, we must relocate parts of our production in these countries.   (A billion (bn) is called a milliard (mrd or Md) in most languages.)* \n\nSome interpreters have devised complete systems of abbreviations, which include all academic titles, administrative titles, military ranks, etc. Such a system has the drawback that, like shorthand, it may be useful only for a particular language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49403673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49403673", "title": "Isidore (platform)", "text": "Isidore (platform)\n\nISIDORE is an online platform that allows research and access to human and social sciences digital data.\n\nISIDORE was created in 2009 by the CNRS, using its \"'Adonis\" large equipment' facilities, with participation from companies Antidot, Sword and Mondeca. It is now fully integrated to the Huma-Num research infrastructure\n\nISIDORE harvests metadata and indexes them as digital data by enriching them with scientific terms and references. It is edited as a website, a mobile interface, modules dedicated to content management through WordPress, a programming interface and a SPARQL node that allows access to RDF.\n\nISIDORE is one of the digital platforms engaged in the sharing of scientific open data. For better accessibility, it is edited in 3 languages: French, English and Spanish\n\nIt currently contains over 4M items, dispatched in 96 collections from over 3550 sources, making it the largest open digital library in French, English and Spanish for human and social sciences.\n\nISIDORE associates a large panel of scientific platforms and 'data producers': \nelectronic edition platforms (Cairn.info, Persée, Revues.org, Erudit, etc.), \ndigital libraries: (Gallica of the BnF, Mazarinum of the bibliothèque Mazarine, bibliothèque Sainte-Geneviève, bibliothèque inter-universitaire de médecine, etc.)\nopen archives (HAL-SHS (\"Hyper Article en Ligne - Sciences de l'Homme et de la Société\"), theses.fr, Thèses en Ligne TEL, etc.) as well as a large number of other scientific databases maintained by French and foreign laboratories.\n"}
{"id": "53967812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53967812", "title": "John Hayward (British politician)", "text": "John Hayward (British politician)\n\nJohn Hayward is a social campaigner with a background in international development. He was the Conservative candidate in Cambridge for the 2017 United Kingdom general election.\n\nHayward grew up in Emsworth, Hampshire. Despite being born with just one arm and no legs, he earned the Queen's Scout Award after learning to ski and climb mountains. He was also awarded the Cornwell Scout Badge (“the Scout V.C.”) in honour of his “pre-eminently high character and devotion to duty”.\n\nHayward was an undergraduate at Christ's College, Cambridge, matriculating in 1989 and reading Natural Sciences; he went on to obtain a Ph.D. in genetics. He has had a career in international development, founding the “Society in Tajikistan for Assistance and Research,” an adult education institute, which he directed for seven years, and helping to empower disadvantaged communities in Zimbabwe. He also gained a Master's degree from Azusa Pacific University in California and worked as the Executive Director of a Cambridge-based social reform think tank, the Jubilee Centre, campaigning on issues such as workers’ rights, national wellbeing and human rights.\n\nIn May 2017 Hayward was selected as the Conservative Party’s candidate in Cambridge. At that time he was working as the professional manager of the Conservative Party's Policy Forum, the national body that enables members of the party to help shape government policy. Described during the campaign as an “impressive interlocutor,” Hayward took 9,133 votes, a slight increase on 2015, with his party taking 16.3% of the vote.\n\nAs part of his work through the Westminster Foundation for Democracy to promote greater inclusion and transparency in the political systems of newly-emerging and developing democracies, Hayward has represented the Conservative Party in countries such as Bosnia and Herzegovina and Ghana.\n\n"}
{"id": "50650367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50650367", "title": "Ken Murray (prison officer)", "text": "Ken Murray (prison officer)\n\nHe was educated at Inverness Technical High School. He worked as a Coachbuilder until his late twenties when he joined the Scottish Prison Service. His most notable achievement was the creation of the special unit of Barlinnie Prison which housed some of the most violent prisoners in the system, including Jimmy Boyle. The unit was based on treating both staff and prisoners as part of a community in which all had a voice in making decisions and setting programmes.\n"}
{"id": "5221143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5221143", "title": "Leave the gate as you found it", "text": "Leave the gate as you found it\n\nLeave the gate as you found it (or leave all gates as found) is an important rule of courtesy in rural areas throughout the world. If a gate is found open, it should be left open, and if it is closed, it should be left closed. If a closed gate absolutely must be traversed, it should be closed again afterwards. It applies to visitors travelling onto or across farms, ranches, and stations.\n\nIn low-rainfall areas, closing gates can cut livestock off from water supplies. For example, most of the land used for grazing in Australia has no natural water supplies, so drinking water for the stock must be supplied by the farmer or landowner, often by using a windmill to pump groundwater. Even visitors who know how a stock water system works may be unaware of breakdowns. During hot weather, cattle require large quantities of water to drink and can die in less than a day if they don't get it. Sheep need less water and can survive longer without it, but will die if cut off from water for several hot days.\n\nIn all agricultural areas, farmers need to keep groups of livestock separate, for reasons including breeding for disease resistance and increased production, pest control, and controlling when ewes deliver their lambs. Unwanted mingling of flocks or herds can deprive a farmer of significant income.\n\nThe original versions of the United Kingdom's Country Code advised visitors to always close gates. The revised Countryside Code now suggests that gates should be left as found.\n\n"}
{"id": "8834851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8834851", "title": "List of Japanese terms mistaken for gairaigo", "text": "List of Japanese terms mistaken for gairaigo\n\nThis is a selected list of Japanese words that are sometimes thought to be foreign borrowings (known as \"gairaigo\" in Japanese), but are in fact words with Japanese origins. This confusion can stem from a number of causes. Katakana are typically reserved for words of foreign origin, but are sometimes used for Japanese words of modern or irregular formation. In addition, some Japanese words bear coincidental similarities to words in other languages (known as false cognates).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360128", "title": "List of conspiracy theories", "text": "List of conspiracy theories\n\nMany unproven conspiracy theories exist with varying degrees of popularity, frequently related to clandestine government plans and elaborate murder plots. Conspiracy theories usually deny consensus or cannot be proven using the historical or scientific method and are not to be confused with research concerning verified conspiracies such as Germany's pretense for invading Poland in World War II.\n\nNumerous conspiracy theories pertain to air travel and aircraft. Incidents such as the 1955 bombing of the Kashmir Princess, the 1985 Arrow Air Flight 1285 crash, the 1986 Mozambican Tupolev Tu-134 crash, the 1987 Helderberg Disaster, the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 and the 1994 Mull of Kintyre helicopter crash as well as various aircraft technologies and alleged sightings, have all spawned theories of foul play which deviate from official verdicts.\n\nThis conspiracy theory emerged in the U.S. in the 1960s. The John Birch Society, who asserted that a United Nations force would soon arrive in black helicopters to bring the U.S. under UN control, originally promoted it. The theory re-emerged in the 1990s, under the presidency of Bill Clinton, and has been promoted by talk show host Glenn Beck. A similar theory concerning so-called \"phantom helicopters\" appeared in the UK in the 1970s.\n\nAlso known as SLAP (Secret Large-scale Atmospheric Program), this theory alleges that water condensation trails (\"contrails\") from aircraft consist of chemical or biological agents, or contain a supposedly toxic mix of aluminum, strontium and barium, under secret government policies. An estimated 17% of people globally believe the theory to be true or partly true. In 2016, the Carnegie Institution for Science published the first-ever peer-reviewed study of the chemtrail theory; 76 out of 77 participating atmospheric chemists and geochemists stated that they had seen no evidence to support the chemtrail theory, or stated that chemtrail theorists rely on poor sampling.\n\nThe destruction of Korean Air Lines Flight 007 by Soviet jets in 1983 has long drawn the interest of conspiracy theorists. The theories range from allegations of a planned espionage mission, to a US government cover-up, to the consumption of the passengers' remains by giant crabs.\n\nThe disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 in southeast Asia in March 2014 has prompted many theories. One theory suggests that this plane was hidden away and reintroduced as Flight MH17 later the same year in order to be shot down over Ukraine for political purposes. Prolific American conspiracy theorist James H. Fetzer has placed responsibility for the disappearance with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. Theories have also related to allegations that a certain autopilot technology was secretly fitted to the aircraft.\n\nMalaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over Ukraine by the Ukrainian military, Russia-backed rebels or by the Russian military in July 2014. This event has spawned numerous alternative theories. These variously include allegations that it was secretly Flight MH370, that it was part of a conspiracy to conceal the \"truth\" about HIV (seven disease specialists were on board), or that the Illuminati or Israel was responsible.\n\nMultiple conspiracy theories pertain to a fatal oil-rig industrial accident in 2010 in the Gulf of Mexico, alleging sabotage by those seeking to promote environmentalism, or a strike by North Korean or Russian submarines. Elements of such theories have been suggested or promoted by US radio host Rush Limbaugh.\n\nA theory claims that The Coca-Cola Company intentionally changed to an inferior formula with New Coke, with the intent either of driving up demand for the original product or permitting the reintroduction of the original with a new formula using cheaper ingredients. Coca-Cola president Donald Keough rebutted this charge: \"The truth is, we're not \"that\" dumb, and we're not that \"smart.\"\"\n\nConspiracy theories frequently emerge following the deaths of prominent leaders and public figures. In ancient times, widespread conspiracy theories were circulated pertaining to the death of the Roman emperor Nero, who committed suicide in 68 AD. Some of these theories claimed that Nero had actually faked his death and was secretly still alive, but in hiding, plotting to return and reestablish his reign. In most of these stories, he was said to have fled to the East, where he was still loved and admired. Other theories held that Nero really was dead, but that he would return from the dead to retake his throne. Many early Christians believed in these conspiracy theories and feared Nero's return because Nero had viciously persecuted them. The Book of Revelation alludes to the conspiracy theories surrounding Nero's alleged return in its description of the slaughtered head returned to life.\nToday, there are many conspiracy theories concerning the assassination of John F. Kennedy in 1963. Vincent Bugliosi estimates that over 1,000 books have been written about the Kennedy assassination, at least ninety percent of which are works supporting the view that there was a conspiracy. As a result of this, the Kennedy assassination has been described as \"the mother of all conspiracies\". The countless individuals and organizations that have been accused of involvement in the Kennedy assassination include the CIA, the Mafia, sitting Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson, Cuban Prime Minister Fidel Castro, the KGB, or even some combination thereof. It is also frequently asserted that the United States federal government intentionally covered up crucial information in the aftermath of the assassination to prevent the conspiracy from being discovered.\n\nThe deaths of prominent figures of all types attract conspiracy theorists, including, for example, the deaths of US President Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Jr., Eric V, Dmitry Ivanovich, Sheikh Rahman, Yitzhak Rabin, Zachary Taylor, George S. Patton, Diana, Princess of Wales, Dag Hammarskjöld, and David Kelly.\n\nAlso popular are theories about the deaths of celebrities, especially musicians. Notable among such theories has been the long-running \"Paul is dead\" theory, which alleges that Paul McCartney died in 1966 and was replaced by a look-alike.\n\nInverted theories concerning deaths are also popular, prominent among which are claims that Elvis Presley's death was faked, and that Adolf Hitler survived the Second World War and fled to the Americas, to Antarctica, or to the moon. Theories that Adolf Hitler had survived were deliberately promoted by the government of the Soviet Union under Joseph Stalin as part of a disinformation campaign.\n\nThe disappearance, and often presumed death, of an individual may also become a cause for conspiracy theorists. Theories of a cover-up surrounding the 1974 disappearance of Lord Lucan following the murder of his family's nanny include, for example, allegations of a suicide plot whereby his body was fed to tigers at Howletts Zoo.\n\nNumerous persistent conspiracy theories have also attended the 2007 disappearance of English girl Madeleine McCann.\n\nThe murder of Democratic National Committee employee Seth Rich spawned several right-wing conspiracy theories, including the claim that Rich had been involved with the leaked DNC emails in 2016, which runs contrary to the U.S. intelligence's conclusion the leaked DNC emails were part of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections. Law enforcement as well as fact-checking websites like PolitiFact.com, Snopes.com, and FactCheck.org stated that these theories were false and unfounded. \"The New York Times\", \"Los Angeles Times\", and \"The Washington Post\" called the fabrications fake news and falsehoods.\n\nThe New World Order theory states that a group of international elites controls governments, industry, and media organizations, with the goal of establishing global hegemony. They are alleged to be implicated in most of the major wars of the last two centuries, to carry out secretly staged events, and to deliberately manipulate economies. Organizations alleged to be part of the plot include the Federal Reserve System, the Council on Foreign Relations, Trilateral Commission, the Bilderberg Group, the European Union, the United Nations, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, Bohemian Grove, Le Cercle and Yale University society Skull and Bones.\n\nThe Discordian hoax has resulted in one of the world's foremost conspiracy theories, which claims that the \"Illuminati\" are secretly promoting the posited New World Order. Theorists believe that a wide range of musicians, including Beyoncé and Whitney Houston, have been associated with the \"group\". Prominent theorists include Mark Dice and David Icke.\n\nSome theorists believe that Denver International Airport stands above an underground city which serves as a headquarters of the New World Order. Theorists cite the airport's unusually large size, its distance from Denver city center, as well as assorted alleged Masonic or Satanic symbols, and a set of murals which include depictions of war and death.\n\nHungarian-American investor George Soros has been the subject of conspiracy theories since the 1990s. Soros has used his wealth to promote various political, social, educational and scientific causes, grants totaling an estimated $11 billion up to 2016. However, theories tend to assert that Soros is in control of a large portion of the world's wealth and governments, and that he secretly funds a large range of persons and organizations for nefarious purposes, such as Antifa, which the conspiracies allege to be a single far-left militant group. Such ideas have been promoted by Donald Trump,\nBill O'Reilly, Roy Moore, Alex Jones, Arizona Congressman Paul Gosar, Breitbart News and cartoonist Ben Garrison. Soros conspiracy theories are sometimes linked to antisemitic conspiracy theories.\n\nConspiracy theories concerning the Freemasons have proliferated since the 18th century. Theorists have alleged that Freemasons control large parts of the economies or judiciaries of a number of countries, and have alleged Masonic involvement in events surrounding the sinking of the \"Titanic\" and the crimes of Jack the Ripper. Notable among theorists has been American inventor Samuel Morse, who in 1835 published a book of his own conspiracy theories. Freemason conspiracy theories have also been linked to certain antisemitic conspiracy theories.\n\nConspiracy theories in Turkey started to dominate public discourse during the late reign of the Justice and Development Party and Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. In 2014, Erdoğan coined the term \"üst akıl\" (\"mastermind\") to denote the alleged command and control institution, somewhat ambiguously placed with the government of the United States, in a comprehensive conspiracy to weaken or even dismember Turkey, by orchestrating every political actor and action perceived hostile by Turkey. Erdoğan as well as the Daily Sabah have on multiple occasions alleged that very different non-state actors—like the Salafi jihadist Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), the libertarian socialist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and supporters of Fethullah Gülen—were attacking Turkey at the same time in a well-coordinated campaign.\n\nOne instance of promoting the \"mastermind\" conspiracy theory occurred in February 2017, when then-Ankara Mayor Melih Gökçek claimed that earthquakes in the western province of Çanakkale could have been organized by dark external powers aiming to destroy Turkey's economy with an \"artificial earthquake\" near Istanbul. In another example, in November 2017, the Islamist newspaper \"Yeni Akit\" claimed that the fashion trend of \"ripped denim\" jeans was in fact a means of communication, via specific forms of rips and holes, between agents of foreign states and their collaborators in Turkey.\n\nConspiracy theories exist alleging that Israel uses animals to conduct espionage or to attack people. These are often associated with conspiracy theories about Zionism. Matters of interest to theorists include a series of shark attacks in Egypt in 2010, Hezbollah's accusations of the use of \"spying\" eagles, and the 2011 capture of a griffon vulture carrying an Israeli-labeled satellite tracking device.\n\nNumerous persons, including former MI5 officer Peter Wright and Soviet defector Anatoliy Golitsyn, have alleged that British Prime Minister Harold Wilson was secretly a KGB spy. Historian Christopher Andrew has lamented that a number of people have been \"seduced by Golitsyn's fantasies\".\n\nConspiracy theories concerning Malala Yousafzai are widespread in Pakistan, elements of which originate from a 2013 satirical piece in \"Dawn\". These theories variously allege that she is a Western spy, or that her attempted murder by the Taliban in 2012 was a secret operation to further discredit the Taliban, and was organized by her father and the CIA and carried out by actor Robert de Niro disguised as an Uzbek homeopath.\n\nConspiracy theories have arisen in this case because of alleged inconsistencies in the evidence presented by the British government. One example is Craig Murray's blog.\n\nSince at least the Middle Ages, antisemitism has featured elements of conspiracy theory. In medieval Europe it was widely believed that Jews poisoned wells, had been responsible for the death of Jesus, and ritually consumed the blood of Christians. The second half of the 19th century saw the emergence of notions that Jews and/or Freemasons were plotting to establish control over the world. Forged evidence has been presented to spread the notion that Jews were responsible for the propagation of Communism, the most notorious example being \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" (1903). Such antisemitic conspiracy theories became central to the worldview of Adolf Hitler. Antisemitic theories persist today in notions concerning banking, Hollywood, the news media and a purported Zionist Occupation Government.\n\nHolocaust denial is also considered an antisemitic conspiracy theory because of its position that the Holocaust is a hoax designed to advance the interests of Jews and justify the creation of the State of Israel. Notable Holocaust deniers include former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad, the convicted chemist Germar Rudolf and the discredited author David Irving.\n\nConspiracy theories which allege that the Armenians wield secret political power are prevalent in Azerbaijan, and have been promoted by President Ilham Aliyev.\n\nTurkish Foreign Minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu has claimed that the Russian media is run by Armenians. American writer and disbarred lawyer Samuel Weems has claimed that the Armenian Genocide was a hoax designed to defraud Christian nations of billions of dollars, and that the Armenian Church instigates terrorist attacks. Filmmaker Davud Imanov has accused the Armenians of plotting against Azerbaijan and has claimed that the Karabakh movement was a plot by the CIA to destroy the Soviet Union.\n\nJournalist Arzu Geybulla has drawn attention to the way in which such theories are used to stifle political dissent.\n\nIran's Baha'i minority has been the target of conspiracy theories alleging involvement with hostile powers. Iranian government officials and others have claimed that Bahá'ís have been agents variously of Russian imperialism, British colonialism, American expansionism and Zionism. An apocryphal and historically-inaccurate book published in Iran, entitled \"The Memoirs of Count Dolgoruki\", details a theory that the Bahá'ís intend to destroy Islam. Such anti-Bahá'í accusations have been dismissed as having no factual foundation.\n\nAnti-Catholic paranoia has featured in the Protestant mind since the Reformation. Conspiracy theories have taken many forms, including the 17th-century Popish Plot allegations, claims by persons such as William Blackstone that Catholics posed a secret threat to Britain, and numerous writings by authors such as Samuel Morse, Rebecca Reed, Avro Manhattan, Jack Chick and Alberto Rivera. Theorists often claim that the pope is the Antichrist, or they accuse Catholics of suppressing evidence incompatible with Church teachings and engaging in secret evil rituals, crimes and other plots.\n\nIn 1853, the Scottish minister Alexander Hislop published his anti-Catholic pamphlet \"The Two Babylons\", in which he claims that the Catholic Church is secretly a continuation of the pagan religion of ancient Babylon, the product of a millennia-old conspiracy founded by the Biblical king Nimrod and the Assyrian queen Semiramis. It also claims that modern Catholic holidays, including Christmas and Easter, are actually pagan festivals established by Semiramis and that the customs associated with them are pagan rituals. Modern scholars have unanimously rejected the book's arguments as erroneous and based on a flawed understanding of Babylonian religion, but variations of them are still accepted among some groups of evangelical Protestants. Jehovah's Witnesses periodical \"The Watchtower\" frequently published excerpts from it until the 1980s. The book's thesis has also featured prominently in the conspiracy theories of racist groups, such as The Covenant, The Sword, and the Arm of the Lord.\n\nFears of a Catholic takeover of the US have been especially persistent, prompted by phenomena such as Catholic immigration in the 19th century, and Ku Klux Klan propaganda. Such fears have attached to Catholic political candidates such as Al Smith and John F. Kennedy.\n\nPope John Paul I died in September 1978, only a month after his election to the papacy. The timing of his death and the Vatican's alleged difficulties with ceremonial and legal death procedures has fostered several conspiracy theories.\n\nThe elderly Pope Benedict XVI's resignation in February 2013, for given reasons of a \"lack of strength of mind and body\", prompted theories in Italian publications such as \"La Repubblica\" and \"Panorama\" that he resigned in order to avoid an alleged scandal involving an underground gay Catholic network.\n\nApocalyptic prophecies, particularly Christian claims about the End Times, have inspired a range of conspiracy theories. Many of these cite the Antichrist, a leader who will supposedly create an oppressive world empire. Countless figures have been called Antichrist, including Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II, Russian emperor Peter the Great, Saladin, Pope John XXII, Benito Mussolini and Barack Obama.\n\nBible conspiracy theories posit that significant parts of the New Testament are false, or have been omitted. Various groups both real (such as the Vatican) and fake (such as the Priory of Sion) are said to suppress relevant information concerning, for example, the dating of the Turin Shroud.\n\nMuch of this line of conspiracy theory has been stimulated by a debunked book titled \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\" (1982), which claimed that Jesus and Mary Magdalene were lovers and that their offspring and descendants were secretly hidden in Europe following the death of Jesus, from whom the then-living French draughtsman Pierre Plantard claimed descent. Interest in this hoax saw a resurgence following the publication of Dan Brown's 2003 novel, \"The Da Vinci Code\".\n\n\"War against Islam\" is a conspiracy theory in Islamist discourse which describes an alleged plot to either harm or annihilate the social system within Islam. The perpetrators of this conspiracy are alleged to be non-Muslims and \"false Muslims\", allegedly in collusion with political actors in the Western world. The \"War against Islam\" theory is often used in order to refer to modern social problems and changes, but the Crusades are often seen as its starting point.\n\nLove Jihad, also called Romeo Jihad, refers to a conspiracy theory concerning Muslim males who are said to target non-Muslim girls for conversion to Islam by feigning love.\n\nIn the United States, black genocide conspiracy theory holds the view that African Americans are the victims of genocide instituted by white Americans. Lynchings and racial discrimination were formally described as genocide by the Civil Rights Congress in 1951. Malcolm X also talked about \"black genocide\" in the early 1960s. Public funding of the Pill was also described as \"black genocide\" at the first Black Power Conference, in 1967. In 1970, after abortion was more widely legalized, some black militants depicted abortion as being part of the conspiracy.\n\nIn some U.S. cities that are governed by African American majorities, such as Washington, D.C., a persistent conspiracy theory holds that white Americans are plotting to take over those cities.\n\nWhite genocide conspiracy theory is a white nationalist notion that immigration, integration, low fertility rates and abortion are being promoted in predominantly white countries in order to turn white people into a minority or cause their extinction. A 2017 study in France by IFOP, for example, found that 48% of participants believed without evidence that political and media elites are conspiring to replace white people with immigrants.\n\nSome Rastafari maintain the view that a white racist patriarchy (\"Babylon\") controls the world in order to oppress black people. They believe that Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia did not die in 1975, instead believing that the allegedly racist media propagated false reports of his death in order to quash the Rastafari movement.\n\nAmong the foremost concerns of conspiracy theorists are questions of alien life; for example, allegations of government cover-ups of the supposed Roswell UFO incident or activity at Area 51. Also popular are theories concerning so-called 'men in black', who allegedly silence witnesses.\nMany reports of dead cattle found with absent body parts and seemingly drained of blood have emerged worldwide since at least the 1960s. This phenomenon has spawned theories variously concerning aliens and secret government or military experiments. Prominent among such theorists is Linda Moulton Howe, author of \"Alien Harvest\" (1989).\n\nMany conspiracy theories have drawn inspiration from the writings of ancient astronaut proponent Zecharia Sitchin, who declared that the Anunnaki from Sumerian mythology were actually a race of extraterrestrial beings who came to Earth around 500,000 years ago in order to mine gold. In his 1994 book \"Humanity's Extraterrestrial Origins: ET Influences on Humankind's Biological and Cultural Evolution\", Arthur Horn proposed that the Anunnaki were a race of blood-drinking, shape-shifting alien reptiles. This theory was adapted and elaborated on by British conspiracy theorist David Icke, who maintains that the Bush family, Margaret Thatcher, Bob Hope, and the British Royal Family, among others, are or were such creatures, or have been under their control. Critics have suggested that 'reptilians' may be seen as an antisemitic code word; a charge denied by Icke.\n\nIn the modern era, political conspiracy theories are often spread using fake news on social media. A 2017 study of fake news published by the Shorenstein Center found that \"misinformation is currently predominantly a pathology of the right\".\n\nPolitical conspiracy theories may take generalized and wide-ranging forms concerning wars and international bodies, but may also be seen at a localized level, such as the conspiracy theory pertaining to the 118th Battalion, a British regiment stationed in Kitchener, Ontario during World War I, which is believed by some in Kitchener to still be present and controlling local politics.\n\nConspiracy theories concerning the Illuminati, a short-lived 18th-century Enlightenment society, appear to have originated in the late 19th century, when some conservatives in Europe came to believe that the group had been responsible for the French Revolution of 1789–1799. Hoaxes about the Illuminati were later spread in the 1960s by a group of American practical jokers known as the Discordians, who, for example, wrote a series of fake letters about the Illuminati to \"Playboy\".\n\nFalse flag operations are covert operations designed to appear as if they are being carried out by other entities. Some allegations of false flag operations have been verified or have been subjects of legitimate historical dispute (such as the 1933 Reichstag arson attack). Discussions of unsubstantiated allegations of such operations feature strongly in conspiracy theory discourse.\n\nOther allegations of similar operations have attached to the bombing of Pearl Harbor, the Oklahoma City bombing, the 2004 Madrid train bombings, and the 1964 Gulf of Tonkin incident.\n\nThe rise of ISIS gave rise to conspiracy theories that it had been created by the US, CIA, Mossad, or Hillary Clinton. The same happened after the rise of Boko Haram.\n\nThe multiple attacks made on the US by terrorists using hijacked aircraft on 11 September 2001 have proved especially attractive to conspiracy theorists. Theories may include reference to missile or hologram technology. By far, the most popular theory is that the attacks were in fact controlled demolitions, a theory which has been rejected by the engineering profession and the 9/11 Commission.\n\nA 2012 fatal mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, prompted numerous conspiracy theories, among which is the claim that it was a manufactured event with the aim of promoting gun control. Former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke has theorized that 'Zionists' were responsible. Theorists such as Alex Jones have suggested that the event was staged with actors. Harassment of the bereaved families by conspiracy theorists has resulted in a number of prosecutions. Rush Limbaugh also stated that the event happened because the Mayan Calendar phenomenon made shooter Adam Lanza do it.\n\nA discredited theory, parts of which have been advanced by Christopher Ruddy among others, asserts that former US President Bill Clinton and his wife Hillary Clinton have assassinated fifty or more of their associates. The \"Lakeland Ledger\", the \"Chicago Tribune\" and Snopes.com have debunked this theory, pointing to detailed death records, the unusually large circle of associates that a President is likely to have, and the facts that many of the people listed had no known link to the Clintons, or had been misidentified, or were still alive.\n\nThe unsolved 2016 murder of DNC staff member Seth Rich has prompted conspiracy theorists to claim that his killing was instigated by Hillary Clinton following alleged collaboration with WikiLeaks during the 2016 United States presidential campaign. Elements of this story have been promoted by figures including Alex Jones, Newt Gingrich, and Sean Hannity as an alternative theory to Russian interference in the election.\n\nPizzagate is a debunked conspiracy theory that emerged during the 2016 United States presidential election, connecting a pizza restaurant and members of the Democratic Party with a non-existent child-sex ring. It has been comprehensively discredited by numerous bodies including the District of Columbia Police Department, Snopes.com, \"The New York Times\", and Fox News.\n\nFormer US President Obama has been the subject of numerous conspiracy theories. His presidency was the subject of a 2009 film, \"The Obama Deception\", by Alex Jones, which alleged that Obama's administration was a puppet government for a wealthy elite. Another theory which came to prominence in 2009 (known as \"birtherism\") denies the legitimacy of Obama's presidency by claiming that he was not born in the US. This theory has persisted despite the evidence of his Hawaiian birth certificate and of contemporary birth announcements in two Hawaiian newspapers in 1961. Notable promoters of the theory are dentist-lawyer Orly Taitz and President Donald Trump, who has since publicly acknowledged its falsity but is said to continue to advocate for it privately. Other theories claim that Obama, a Protestant Christian, is secretly a Muslim.\n\nA pair of fatal attacks on US government facilities in Benghazi, Libya, by Islamist terrorists in 2012 has spawned numerous conspiracy theories, including allegations that Obama's administration arranged the attack for political reasons, and Senator Rand Paul's repeated assertion that the government's response to the incident was designed to distract from a secret CIA operation.\n\nThe United States' Federal Emergency Management Agency is the subject of many theories, including the allegation that the organization has been engaged in the building of concentration camps on US soil, in advance of the imposition of martial law and genocide.\n\nMembers of South Africa's African National Congress party have long propagated conspiracy theories, frequently concerning the CIA and alleged white supremacists. In 2014, Deputy Minister of Defence Kebby Maphatsoe joined others in accusing without evidence Public Protector Thuli Madonsela of being a US agent working to create a puppet government in South Africa.\n\nThe intellectual group known as the Frankfurt School which emerged in the 1930s has increasingly been the subject of conspiracy theories which have alleged the promotion of communism in capitalist societies. The term 'Cultural Marxism' has been notably employed by conservative American movements such as the Tea Party, and by Norwegian mass-murderer Anders Breivik.\n\nOccasionally used as a neutral term to denote a nation's bureaucracy, the conspiratorial notion of a \"deep state\" is a concept originating principally in Middle Eastern and North African politics with some basis in truth, and has been known in the US since the 1960s. It has since come to prominence under the Trump presidency. \"Deep state\" in the latter sense refers to an unidentified \"power elite\" who act in co-ordinated manipulation of a nation's politics and government. Proponents of such theories have included Canadian author Peter Dale Scott, who has promoted the idea in the US since at least the 1990s, as well as Breitbart News, Infowars and US President Donald Trump. A 2017 poll by ABC News and \"The Washington Post\" indicated that 48% of Americans believe in the existence of a conspiratorial \"deep state\" in the US.\n\nThe 2017 Sutherland Springs church shooting has also been the subject of multiple conspiracy theories. The shooter has been linked to multiple conspiracies, such as identifying him as a Democrat, Hillary Clinton supporter, Bernie Sanders supporter, \"alt-left\" supporter, Antifa member, or radical Muslim; or claiming that he carried an Antifa flag and told churchgoers: \"This is a communist revolution\". Some reports also falsely claimed that he targeted the church because they were \"white conservatives\".\n\nA 2013 study approved by the University of Chicago suggested that almost half of Americans believe at least one medical conspiracy theory, with 37% believing that the Food and Drug Administration deliberately suppresses 'natural' cures due to influence from the pharmaceutical industry. A prominent proponent of comparable conspiracy theories has been convicted fraudster Kevin Trudeau.\n\nScientists have found evidence that HIV was transferred from monkeys to humans in the 1930s. Evidence exists, however, that the KGB deliberately disseminated a notion in the 1980s that it was invented by the CIA. This idea, and similar ideas concerning Ebola, have since been promoted by persons such as actor Steven Seagal, Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan and former South Africa President Thabo Mbeki. Similar conspiracy theories allege that pharmaceutical companies assist in the creation of conditions and diseases including ADHD, HSV and HPV.\n\nWater fluoridation is the controlled addition of fluoride to a public water supply to reduce tooth decay. Although many dental-health organizations support such fluoridation, the practice is opposed by conspiracy theorists. Allegations may include claims that it has been a way to dispose of industrial waste, or that it exists to obscure a failure to provide dental care to the poor. A further theory promoted by the John Birch Society in the 1960s described fluoridation as a communist plot to weaken the American population.\n\nA popular conspiracy theory states that the pharmaceutical industry has mounted a cover-up of a causal link between vaccines and autism. The theory took hold with the publication in 1998 of a fraudulent paper by discredited former doctor Andrew Wakefield. The resulting anti-vaccine movement has been promoted by a number of prominent persons including Rob Schneider, Jim Carrey and President Donald Trump, and has led to increased rates of infection and death from diseases such as measles in many countries, including the US, Italy, Germany, Romania and the UK.\n\nVaccine conspiracy theories have been widespread in Nigeria since at least 2003, as well as in Pakistan. Such theories may feature claims that vaccines are part of a secret anti-Islam plot, and have been linked to fatal mass shootings and bombings at vaccine clinics in both countries.\n\nGlobal warming conspiracy theorists typically allege that the science behind global warming has been invented or distorted for ideological or financial reasons. Many have promoted such theories, including US President Donald Trump, US Senator James Inhofe, British journalist Christopher Booker, and Viscount Christopher Monckton.\n\nNumerous theories pertain to real or alleged weather-controlling projects. Theories include the debunked assertion that HAARP, a radio-technology research program funded by the US government, is a secret weather-controlling system. Some theorists have blamed 2005's Hurricane Katrina on HAARP. HAARP has also been suggested to have somehow caused earthquakes, such as the 2010 Haiti earthquake, the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami or the 2013 Saravan earthquake. Theories concerning HAARP may also refer to mind-control technology.\n\nAlso of interest to conspiracy theorists are cloud-seeding technologies. These include a debunked allegation that the British military's Project Cumulus caused the fatal 1952 Lynmouth Flood in Devon, England, and claims concerning a secret project said to have caused the 2010 Pakistan floods.\n\nGenuine American research in the 1950s and 1960s into chemical interrogation and mind-control techniques has prompted many subsequent conspiracy theories, especially following CIA Director Richard Helm's 1973 order to destroy all files related to the project. These theories include the allegation that the mass fatality at Jonestown in 1978 was connected to an MKUltra experiment.\n\nRadio frequency identification chips (RFID), such as are implanted into pets as a means of tracking, have drawn the interest of conspiracy theorists who posit that this technology is secretly in widespread use on humans. Former Whitby town councilor Simon Parkes has promoted this theory, which may be related to conspiracy theories concerning vaccination, electronic banking and the Antichrist.\n\nFlat Earth theory first emerged in 19th-century England, despite the Earth's spherical nature having been known since at least the time of Pythagoras. It has in recent years been promoted by American software consultant Mark Sargent through the use of YouTube videos. Flat-earther conspiracy theorists hold that planet Earth is not a sphere, and that evidence has been faked or suppressed to hide the fact that is instead a disc, or a single infinite plane. The conspiracy often implicates NASA. Other claims may include such allegations as that GPS devices are rigged to make aircraft pilots wrongly believe they are flying around a globe.\n\nNumerous theories pertain to the alleged suppression of certain technologies and energies. Such theories may focus on the Vril Society Conspiracy, allegations of the suppression of the electric car by fossil-fuel companies (as detailed in the 2006 documentary \"Who Killed the Electric Car?\"), and the Phoebus cartel, set up in 1924, which has been accused of suppressing longer-lasting light bulbs. Other long-standing allegations include the suppression of perpetual motion and cold fusion technology by government agencies, special interest groups, or fraudulent inventors.\n\nPromoters of alternative energy theories have included Thomas Henry Moray, Eugene Mallove, and convicted American fraudster Stanley Meyer.\n\nConspiracy theorists often attend to new military technologies, both real and imagined. Subjects of theories include: the alleged Philadelphia Experiment, a supposed attempt to turn a U.S. Navy warship invisible; the alleged Montauk Project, a supposed government program to learn about mind control and time travel; and the so-called Tsunami bomb which is alleged to have caused the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.\n\nOther theories include Peter Vogel's debunked claim that an accidental explosion of conventional munitions at Port Chicago was in fact a nuclear detonation, and a theory promoted by the Venezuelan state-run TV station ViVe that the 2010 Haiti earthquake was caused by a secret US \"earthquake weapon\".\n\nSome theories claim that the dates of historical events have been deliberately distorted. These include the phantom time hypothesis of German conspiracy theorist Heribert Illig, who in 1991 published an allegation that 297 years had been added to the calendar by establishment figures such as Pope Sylvester II in order to position themselves at the millennium.\n\nA comparable theory, known as the New Chronology, is most closely associated with Russian theorist Anatoly Fomenko. Fomenko holds that history is many centuries shorter than is widely believed and that numerous historical documents have been fabricated, and legitimate documents destroyed, for political ends. Adherents of such ideas have included chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov.\n\nScientific space programs are of particular interest to conspiracy theorists. The most prolific theories allege that the US moon landings were staged by NASA in a film studio, with some alleging the involvement of director Stanley Kubrick. The Soviet space program has also attracted theories that the government concealed evidence of failed flights. A more recent theory, emergent following the activities of hacker Gary McKinnon, suggests that a secret program of manned space fleets known as Solar Warden exists, supposedly acting under the United Nations.\n\nConspiracy theorists have long posited a plot by organizations such as NASA to conceal the existence of a large planet in the Solar System known as Nibiru or Planet X, which allegedly, will one day pass close enough to the Earth to destroy it. Predictions for the date of destruction have included 2003, 2012 and 2017. The theory began to develop following the publication of \"The 12th Planet\" (1976), by discredited Russian-American author Zecharia Sitchin, was given its full form by Nancy Lieder, and has since been promoted by American conspiracy theorist and End Times theorist David Meade. The notion has remained popular, and received renewed attention during the period prior to the solar eclipse of 21 August 2017. Other conspiracy theorists in 2017 also predicted Nibiru would appear, including Terral Croft and YouTube pastor Paul Begley.\n\nBoxing has featured in conspiracy theories, such as the claims that the second Ali-Liston fight and the first Bradley-Pacquiao fight were fixed.\n\nThe notorious theft and disappearance of the Irish-bred racehorse Shergar in 1983 has prompted many conspiracy theorists to speculate about involvement by the Mafia, the IRA and Colonel Gaddafi.\n\nThe \"frozen envelope theory\" suggests that the National Basketball Association rigged its 1985 draft Lottery so that Patrick Ewing would join the New York Knicks. Theorists claim that a lottery envelope was chilled so that it could be identified by touch. A similar \"hot balls theory\", promoted by Scottish football manager David Moyes, suggests that certain balls used in draws for UEFA competitions have been warmed to achieve specific outcomes.\n\nThe 1984 Pepsi 400 at Daytona, Florida, was the first NASCAR race to be attended by a sitting US President, Ronald Reagan, and was driver Richard Petty's 200th victory. Rival driver Cale Yarborough's premature retirement to the pit road has prompted conspiracy theorists to allege that organizers fixed the race in order to receive good publicity for the event.\n\nOn the day of the 1998 World Cup Final, Brazilian striker Ronaldo suffered a convulsive fit. Ronaldo was initially removed from the starting lineup 72 minutes before the match, with the teamsheet released to a stunned world media, before he was reinstated by the Brazil coach shortly before kick off. Ronaldo \"sleepwalked\" through the final, with France winning the game. The nature of the incident set off a trail of questions and allegations which persisted for years, with Alex Bellos writing in \"The Guardian\", \"When Ronaldo's health scare was revealed after the match, the situation's unique circumstances lent itself to fabulous conspiracy theories. Here was the world's most famous sportsman, about to take part in the most important match of his career, when he suddenly, inexplicably, fell ill. Was it stress, epilepsy, or had he been drugged?\". Questions also circulated into who made Ronaldo play the game. The Brazil coach insisted he had the final say, but much speculation focused on sportswear company Nike, Brazil's multimillion-dollar sponsor—whom many Brazilians thought had too much control—putting pressure on the striker to play against medical advice.\n\nThe New England Patriots have also been involved in numerous conspiracy theories. During their AFC Championship over the Jacksonville Jaguars, several conspiracy theories spread stating that the referees helped the Patriots advance to Super Bowl LII. However, sports analyst Stephen A. Smith stated the Jaguars were not robbed, but that they had no one to blame but themselves for the loss. There were also conspiracy theories regarding the Super Bowl LI matchup between the Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons stating that the game was rigged while others said the Falcons made questionable play-calls at the end of the game.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38077493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38077493", "title": "List of hunger strikes", "text": "List of hunger strikes\n\nThis is an incomplete list of hunger strikes and people who have conducted a hunger strike.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34009483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34009483", "title": "List of streets named after Adolf Hitler", "text": "List of streets named after Adolf Hitler\n\nThis is a partial list of streets and squares named after Adolf Hitler during the era of Nazi Germany.\n\nThe zeal with which German municipal authorities attempted, immediately after the seizure of power, to play their part in the \"National Rising\" () is shown by the practice of conferring honorary municipal citizenship on Hitler, and even more by naming a street (\"Straße\"), a square or place (\"Platz\"), a promenade (\"Anlage\"), an avenue (\"Damm\", \"Allee\"), a stadium (\"Kampfbahn\"), or a bridge (\"Brücke\") after the new chancellor. As early as March and April 1933, a wave of renamings swept through Germany's cities. Most of the examples in the list come from this period.\n\nBefore 1931, there are records of a street named Rua Adolpho Hitler in the Campo Belo district of Santo Amaro, Brazil. Its name was changed in 1931 to Rua Almirante Barroso, but when Santo Amaro was merged into São Paulo on the next year, the street was again renamed to Rua Gil Eanes, due to a homonym street in Brás. The street still retains Gil Eanes’s name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55107434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55107434", "title": "Lucinda Banister Chandler", "text": "Lucinda Banister Chandler\n\nLucinda Banister Chandler (April 1, 1828 - 1911) was an American social reformer and author. She was a leader in the social purity movement. She was affiliated with Elizabeth Boynton Harbert.\n\nLucinda Banister was born in Potsdam, New York, April 1, 1828. Her parents were Silas Banister and Eliza Smith, both of New England birth and ancestry. \n\nChandler suffered a spinal injury in early infancy from a fall, which caused a life of invalidism and extreme suffering. As a child, she was fond of books and study, and when she entered St. Lawrence Academy (now, State University of New York at Potsdam), at nine years of age, her teacher registered her as two years older, because of her advancement in studies and seeming maturity of years. At the age of 13, her first great disappointment came, when her school course was suspended, never to be resumed, by the severe development of her spinal malady. For several years, even reading was denied to her. \n\nIn the winter of 1870-71, she wrote \"Motherhood, Its Power Over Human Destiny,\" while recuperating from a long illness, and it was so warmly received in Vineland, New Jersey, that it was afterwards published in booklet form. That introduced her to many thinking women of Boston, where in 1871-72, she held parlor meetings and organized a body of women who were pledged to work for the promotion of enlightened parenthood as well as an equal and high standard of purity for both sexes: the Moral Education Society of Boston. Societies were formed in New York City, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., by the efforts of Chandler and with the cooperation of prominent women. That was the first work in this country in the line of educational standards for the elevation and purity of the relations of men and women, inside as well as outside of marriage. The publication of essays, \"A Mother's Aid, \"Children's Rights\" and the \"Divineness of Marriage,\" written by her, followed and furnished a literature for the agitation of questions that later were widely discussed. \n\nDuring one of the long periods of prostration and confinement to her room, to which Chandler was subject, she commenced study on the lines of political economy as a mental tonic and helpful agency to restoration. After her recovery, she wrote extensively for reform publications upon finance reform, the land question and industrial problems. In Chicago, in 1880, the Margaret Fuller Society was founded, especially to interest women in those subjects and the principles of Americanism. \n\nA lifelong advocate of the total abstinence principle, Chandler served as vice-president of the Woman's Christian Temperance Alliance of Illinois. She was the first president of the Chicago Moral Educational Society, formed in 1882. She was an advocate of Christian socialism, and a firm believer in the final triumph of the Christian idea of the brotherhood of man as a practical and controlling principle in commercial and industrial systems. \n\nAt the age of 20, she married John H. Chandler, who was born and raised in Potsdam. He was a carpenter and joiner by trade. He was also a music teacher and gave musicalconcerts and instruction in music. Their only child was John Nelson who drowned at the age of four years.\n\nChandler's marriage was a happy one. Her husband's care made it possible for her to enjoy a period of usefulness in later life. Chandler died in 1911.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23025574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23025574", "title": "Making Sense of Abstinence", "text": "Making Sense of Abstinence\n\nMaking Sense of Abstinence is a collection of 16 lessons for teaching about sexual abstinence in the context of comprehensive sexuality education. According to the Minnesota Organization on Adolescent Pregnancy, Prevention, and Parenting, it is \"a curriculum that takes abstinence beyond a one-dimensional scope of 'just say no,'...[utilizing] positive and engaging activities to help young people think about abstinence in a way that values their ability to make decisions.\"\n\nSample lessons include such titles as \"So What's An Abstinence Anyway?\" \"Hey, Mom? Hey, Dad? Hey...Gram? Can We Talk about Abstinence?\" \"Just Say Know,\" \"Masturbation: A Touchy Subject,\" \"Handling Horny,\" and \"Some Day: Making the Transition from Sexual Abstinence\".\n\nThe manual has received praise from sexuality educators for expanding the way sexuality education teaches about abstinence, and for teaching the subject in a positive way, unlike other fear-based approaches. For example, the online journal \"Sexual Intelligence\" praised \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" for \"not treating kids like robotic idiots.\"\n\nAbstinence-only advocates have criticized the manual for including such topics as outercourse and masturbation, behaviors they believe should not be acknowledged. Critics also claim that teenagers should not learn information to protect themselves when their abstinence decisions change.\n\nThe authors of \"Making Sense of Abstinence\" state that neither the \"Just say no\" approach, nor the \"Always say yes,\" is appropriate for abstinence education. Rather, they emphasize that teens need complete information to help them make the best decisions for themselves.\n"}
{"id": "33739475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33739475", "title": "Mobilities", "text": "Mobilities\n\nMobilities is a contemporary paradigm in the social sciences that explores the movement of people (Human migration, travel, transport), ideas (see e.g. meme) and things (transport), as well as the broader social implications of those movements.\n\nA mobility \"turn\" (or transformation) in the social sciences began in the 1990s in response to the increasing realization of the historic and contemporary importance of movement on individuals and society. This turn has been driven by generally increased levels of mobility and new forms of mobility where bodies combine with information and different patterns of mobility. The mobilities paradigm incorporates new ways of theorizing about how these mobilities lie \"at the center of constellations of power, the creation of identities and the microgeographies of everyday life.\" (Cresswell, 2011, 551)\n\nThe mobility turn arose as a response to the way in which the social sciences had traditionally been static, seeing movement as a black box and ignoring or trivializing \"the importance of the systematic movements of people for work and family life, for leisure and pleasure, and for politics and protest\" (Sheller and Urry, 2006, 208). Mobilities emerged as a critique of contradictory orientations toward both sedentarism and deterritorialisation in social science. People had often been seen as static entities tied to specific places, or as nomadic and placeless in a frenetic and globalized existence. Mobilities looks at movements and the forces that drive, constrain and are produced by those movements.\n\nSeveral typologies have been formulated to clarify the wide variety of mobilities. Most notably, John Urry divides mobilities into five types: mobility of objects, corporeal mobility, imaginative mobility, virtual mobility and communicative mobility. Later, Leopoldina Fortunati and Sakari Taipale proposed an alternative typology taking the individual and the human body as a point of reference. They differentiate between ‘macro-mobilities’ (consistent physical displacements), ‘micro-mobilities’ (small-scale displacements), ‘media mobility’ (mobility added to the traditionally fixed forms of media) and ‘disembodied mobility’ (the transformation in the social order). The categories are typically considered interrelated, and therefore they are not exclusive.\n\nWhile mobilities is commonly associated with sociology, contributions to the mobilities literature have come from scholars in anthropology, cultural studies, economics, geography, migration studies, science and technology studies, and tourism and transport studies. (Sheller and Urry, 2006, 207)\n\nMobilities as a specific body of research remains associated with a small group of largely British researchers, notably John Urry, Mimi Sheller, Peter Adey, Tim Edensor, David Bissell, and Tim Cresswell. However, Cresswell (2011, 555) notes that \"many people involved in research on mobility topics do not see themselves as part of a new paradigm or turn\" (e.g. Noel B. Salazar). The community of mobilities researchers, as well as the areas they research, have expanded across the globe.\n\nThe eponymous journal \"Mobilities\" provides a list of typical subjects which have been explored in the mobilities paradigm (Taylor and Francis, 2011):\n\nSheller and Urry (2006, 215) place mobilities in the sociological tradition by defining the primordial theorist of mobilities as Georg Simmel (1858–1918). Simmel's essays, \"Bridge and Door\" (Simmel, 1909 / 1994) and \"The Metropolis and Mental Life\" (Simmel, 1903 / 2001) identify a uniquely human will to connection, as well as the urban demands of tempo and precision that are satisfied with mobility.\n\nThe more immediate precursors of contemporary mobilities research emerged in the 1990s (Cresswell 2011, 551). Historian James Clifford (1997) advocated for a shift from deep analysis of particular places to the routes connecting them. Marc Augé (1995) considered the philosophical potential of an anthropology of \"non-places\" like airports and motorways that are characterized by constant transition and temporality. Sociologist Manuel Castells outlined a \"network society\" and suggested that the \"space of places\" is being surpassed by a \"space of flows.\" Feminist scholar Caren Kaplan (1996) explored questions about the gendering of metaphors of travel in social and cultural theory.\n\nThe contemporary paradigm under the moniker \"mobilities\" appears to originate with the work of sociologist John Urry. In his book, \"Sociology Beyond Societies: Mobilities for the Twenty-First Century\", Urry (2000, 1) presents a \"manifesto for a sociology that examines the diverse mobilities of peoples, objects, images, information and wastes; and of the complex interdependencies between, and social consequences of, these diverse mobilities.\"\n\nThis is consistent with the aims and scope of the eponymous journal \"Mobilities\", which \"examines both the large-scale movements of people, objects, capital, and information across the world, as well as more local processes of daily transportation, movement through public and private spaces, and the travel of material things in everyday life\" (Taylor and Francis, 2011).\n\nIn 2006, Mimi Sheller and John Urry published an oft-cited paper that examined the mobilities paradigm as it was just emerging, exploring its motivations, theoretical underpinnings, and methodologies. Sheller and Urry specifically focused on automobility as a powerful socio-technical system that \"impacts not only on local public spaces and opportunities for coming together, but also on the formation of gendered subjectivities, familial and social networks, spatially segregated urban neighborhoods, national images and aspirations to modernity, and global relations ranging from transnational migration to terrorism and oil wars\" (Sheller and Urry, 2006, 209).\n\nMobilities can be viewed as an extension of the \"spatial turn\" in the arts and sciences in the 1980s, in which scholars began \"to interpret space and the spatiality of human life with the same critical insight and interpretive power as have traditionally been given to time and history (the historicality of human life) on one hand, and to social relations and society (the sociality of human life) on the other\" (Sheller and Urry, 2006, 216; Engel and Nugent, 2010, 1; Soja, 1999 / 2005, 261).\n\nEngel and Nugent (2010) trace the conceptual roots of the spatial turn to Ernst Cassirer and Henri Lefebvre (1974), although Fredric Jameson appears to have coined the epochal usage of the term for the 1980s paradigm shift. Jameson (1988 / 2003, 154) notes that the concept of the spatial turn \"has often seemed to offer one of the more productive ways of distinguishing postmodernism from modernism proper, whose experience of temporality -- existential time, along with deep memory -- it is henceforth conventional to see as dominant of the high modern.\"\n\nFor Oswin & Yeoh (2010) mobility seems to be inextricably intertwined with late-modernity and the end of the nation-state. The sense of mobility makes us to think in migratory and tourist fluxes as well as the necessary infrastructure for that displacement takes place. R. Tzanelli (2014) explains that modernity has recycled the human emotions, particularly trauma, whatever their cause may be, to generate a logic of spectacle. Any mediated and consumed event not only destroys the previous states of conflicts and cleavages, but provides a one-sided ideological message to visitors. Tourism is for Tzanelli more than a mechanism to control, it is an instrument of ideology. The efficacy for state to reduce the discrepancy and discontent of citizenry consists in commoditizing the human suffering into affordable products.\n\nP. Vannini (2012) opted to see mobility as a projection of existent cultural values, expectances and structures that denotes styles of life. Mobility after all would not only generate effects on people's behaviour but also specific styles of life. Vannini explains convincingly that on Canada's coast, the values of islanders defy the hierarchal order in populated cities from many perspectives. Islanders prioritize the social cohesion and trust of their communities before the alienation of mega-cities. There is a clear physical isolation that marks the boundaries between urbanity and rurality. From another view, nonetheless, this ideological dichotomy between authenticity and alienation leads residents to commercialize their spaces to outsiders. Although the tourism industry is adopted in these communities as a form of activity, many locals have historically migrated from urban populated cities.\n\nThe intellectual roots of mobilities in sociology distinguish it from traditional transportation studies and transportation geography, which have firmer roots in mid 20th century positivist spatial science.\n\nCresswell (2011, 551) presents six characteristics distinguishing mobilities from prior approaches to the study of migration or transport:\n\n\nMobilities can be seen as a postmodern descendant of modernist transportation studies, with the influence of the spatial turn corresponding to a \"post-structuralist agnosticism about both naturalistic and universal explanations and about single-voiced historical narratives, and to the concomitant recognition that position and context are centrally and inescapably implicated in all constructions of knowledge\" (Cosgrove, 1999, 7; Warf and Arias, 2009).\n\nDespite these ontological and epistemological differences, Shaw and Hesse (2010, 207) have argued that mobilities and transport geography represent points on a continuum rather than incompatible extremes. Indeed, traditional transport geography has not been wholly quantitative any more than mobilities is wholly qualitative. Sociological explorations of mobility can incorporate empirical techniques, while model-based inquiries can be tempered with richer understandings of the meanings, representations and assumptions inherently embedded in models.\n\nShaw and Sidaway (2010, 505) argue that even as research in the mobilities paradigm has attempted to reengage transportation and the social sciences, mobilities shares a fate similar to traditional transportation geography in still remaining outside the mainstream of the broader academic geographic community.\n\nSheller and Urry (2006, 215-217) presented six bodies of theory underpinning the mobilities paradigm:\n\nThe prime theoretical foundation of mobilities is the work of early 20th-century sociologist Georg Simmel, who identified a uniquely human \"will to connection,\" and provided a theoretical connection between mobility and materiality. Simmel focused on the increased tempo of urban life, that \"drives not only its social, economic, and infrastructural formations, but also the psychic forms of the urban dweller.\" Along with this tempo comes a need for precision in timing and location in order to prevent chaos, which results in complex and novel systems of relationships.\n\nA second body of theory comes from the science and technology studies which look at mobile sociotechnical systems that incorporate hybrid geographies of human and nonhuman components. Automobile, rail or air transport systems involve complex transport networks that affect society and are affected by society. These networks can have dynamic and enduring parts. Non-transport information networks can also have unpredictable effects on encouraging or suppressing physical mobility (Pellegrino 2012).\n\nA third body of theory comes from the postmodern conception of spatiality, with the substance of places being constantly in motion and subject to constant reassembly and reconfiguration (Thrift 1996).\n\nA fourth body of theory is a \"recentring of the corporeal body as an affective vehicle through which we sense place and movement, and construct emotional geographies\". For example, the car is \"experienced through a combination of senses and sensed through multiple registers of motion and emotion″ (Sheller and Urry 2006, 216).\n\nA fifth body of theory incorporates how topologies of social networks relate to how complex patterns form and change. Contemporary information technologies and ways of life often create broad but weak social ties across time and space, with social life incorporating fewer chance meetings and more networked connections.\n\nFinally, the last body of theory is the analysis of complex transportation systems that are \"neither perfectly ordered nor anarchic.\" For example, the rigid spatial coupling, operational timings, and historical bindings of rail contrast with unpredictable environmental conditions and ever-shifting political winds. And, yet, \"change through the accumulation of small repetitions...could conceivably tip the car system into the postcar system.\"\n\nMimi Sheller and John Urry (2006, 217-219) presented seven methodological areas often covered in mobilities research:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48648507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648507", "title": "Networked individualism", "text": "Networked individualism\n\nNetworked individualism represents the shift of the classical model of social arrangements formed around hierarchical bureaucracies or social groups that are tightly-knit, like households and work groups, to connected \"individuals\", using the means provided by the evolution of Information and communications technology. Although the turn to networked individualism started before the advent of the internet, it has been fostered by the development of social media networks.\n\nThe term was coined by Barry Wellman in 2000, and first published by Manuel Castells and Barry Wellman in 2001. It was elaborated on by Lee Rainie and Barry Wellman in their 2012 book \"Networked: The New Social Operating System\" (MIT Press).\n\nThe networked individuals are members of diverse groups in which they seek different things; for instance, the same set of individuals could be in a group used to seek emotional support while another group might be used to get good addresses in a city. Those groups can be dispersed around the globe, and the combination of those networks make for a highly individualized, and well-networked, person.\n\nThis new world of networked individualism is oriented around looser, more fragmented networks that provide on-demand succor. Such networks had already formed before the coming of the internet. In incorporating the internet and mobile phones into their lives, people have changed the ways they interact with each other. They have become increasingly networked as individuals, rather than embedded in groups. In the world of networked individuals, it is the person who is the focus; more than the family, the work unit, the neighborhood, and the social group.\n\nSocial relationships are changing, and technology is a driving force in many of these changes. There are some fears that the digital technologies are killing society, but studies by the Pew Internet Project show that these technologies are not isolated — or isolating — systems. They are being incorporated into people’s social lives much like their predecessors were.\n\nBarry Wellman questioned the future of networked individualism after the event of the September 11 attacks in his short essay,\"The Rise (and Possible Fall) of Networked Individualism\".\n"}
{"id": "11324648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324648", "title": "Open house (school)", "text": "Open house (school)\n\nAn open house (also known as open day and at-home day) is an event held at an institution where its doors are open to the general public to allow people to look around the institution and learn about it. These are often held at schools and universities to attract prospective students, familiarize them (and their parents) with the facilities, allow new students to become familiar with facilities and meet others, or to open informal communication channels between school staff and the students and their parents.\n\nSchool open houses are about two hours long, the length of a good movie or show . . . a well-executed event sets the stage for a successful school year. The face-to-face meetings with families help build relationships, increase the visibility of the parent group, and develop a sense of community at school.\nContrary to what its name might seem to imply, an open house at the average school is not intended for general members of the public, but rather, specifically, for the parents and family members of the students who either attend or are considering attending a school. In the overwhelming majority of schools in the United States, open house is held once a year, typically in the first month or first quarter of the school year. It is common for open houses to be held in the evenings or weekends, to allow for parents who work during the standard the work-week hours to attend, but holding open house in the daytime is not unusual, especially at elementary schools.\n\nIn elementary schools, open houses often have no schedule; parents come and go during the scheduled hours as they please, and some teachers may be willing to discuss individual students' progress with their parents. Some schools may schedule displays of school activities, such as a performance by a student choir.\n\nIn secondary schools—divided into middle schools (also called junior high schools) and high schools (also called senior high schools)—the single most important purpose of the open house is to allow parents and teachers meet each other face-to-face. In many middle schools and high schools, parents are given a schedule, often the same schedule their child follows during the school day. The parents go from one class to another, in the sequence that their child attends them, usually in the very same classrooms. Typically in such open houses the parents have only 5–15 minutes with their child's teacher, which provides time for the teacher to explain their class expectations, but not enough time to discuss individual children.\n\n\nFor examples of open houses as informative events, see the following:\n"}
{"id": "3352973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3352973", "title": "Pederasty in ancient Greece", "text": "Pederasty in ancient Greece\n\nPederasty in ancient Greece was a socially acknowledged romantic relationship between an adult male (the \"erastes\") and a younger male (the \"eromenos\") usually in his teens. It was characteristic of the Archaic and Classical periods. The influence of pederasty on Greek culture of these periods was so pervasive that it has been called \"the principal cultural model for free relationships between citizens.\"\n\nSome scholars locate its origin in initiation ritual, particularly rites of passage on Crete, where it was associated with entrance into military life and the religion of Zeus. It has no formal existence in the Homeric epics, and seems to have developed in the late 7th century BC as an aspect of Greek homosocial culture, which was characterized also by athletic and artistic nudity, delayed marriage for aristocrats, symposia, and the social seclusion of women.\nPederasty was both idealized and criticized in ancient literature and philosophy. The argument has recently been made that idealization was universal in the Archaic period; criticism began in Athens as part of the general Classical Athenian reassessment of Archaic culture.\n\nScholars have debated the role or extent of pederasty, which is likely to have varied according to local custom and individual inclination. The English word \"pederasty\" in present-day usage might imply the abuse of minors in certain jurisdictions, but Athenian law, for instance, recognized consent but not age as a factor in regulating sexual behavior.\n\nThe Greek word \"paiderastia\" () is an abstract noun. It is formed from \"paiderastês\", which in turn is a compound of \"pais\" (\"child\", plural \"paides\") and \"erastês\" (see below). Although the word \"pais\" can refer to a child of either sex, \"paiderastia\" is defined by Liddell and Scott's \"Greek-English Lexicon\" as \"the love of boys\", and the verb \"paiderasteuein\" as \"to be a lover of boys\".\n\nSince the publication of Kenneth Dover's work \"Greek Homosexuality\", the terms \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" have been standard for the two pederastic roles. Both words derive from the Greek verb \"erô\", \"erân\", \"to love\"; see also eros. In Dover's strict dichotomy, the \"erastês\" (, plural \"erastai\") is the older lover, seen as the active or dominant partner, with the suffix \"-tês\" (-) denoting agency. \"Erastês\" should be distinguished from Greek \"paiderastês\", which meant \"lover of boys\" usually with a negative connotation. The \"erastês\" himself might only be in his early twenties, and thus the age difference between the two lovers might be negligible.\n\nThe word \"erômenos\", or \"beloved\" (ἐρώμενος, plural \"eromenoi\"), is the masculine form of the present passive participle from \"erô\", viewed by Dover as the passive or subordinate partner. An \"erômenos\" can also be called \"pais\", \"child\". The \"pais\" was regarded as a future citizen, not an \"inferior object of sexual gratification\", and was portrayed with respect in art. The word can be understood as an endearment such as a parent might use, found also in the poetry of Sappho and a designation of only relative age. Both art and other literary references show that the \"erômenos\" was at least a teen, with modern age estimates ranging from 13 to 20, or in some cases up to 30. Most evidence indicates that to be an eligible \"erômenos\", a youth would be of an age when an aristocrat began his formal military training, that is, from fifteen to seventeen. As an indication of physical maturity, the \"erômenos\" was sometimes as tall as or taller than the older \"erastês\", and may have his first facial hair. Another word used by the Greeks for the younger partner was \"paidika\", a neuter plural adjective (\"things having to do with children\") treated syntactically as masculine singular.\n\nIn poetry and philosophical literature, the \"erômenos\" is often an embodiment of idealized youth; a related ideal depiction of youth in Archaic culture was the \"kouros\", the long-haired male statuary nude. In \"The Fragility of Goodness\", Martha Nussbaum, following Dover, defines the ideal \"erômenos\" as\na beautiful creature without pressing needs of his own. He is aware of his attractiveness, but self-absorbed in his relationship with those who desire him. He will smile sweetly at the admiring lover; he will show appreciation for the other's friendship, advice, and assistance. He will allow the lover to greet him by touching, affectionately, his genitals and his face, while he looks, himself, demurely at the ground. … The inner experience of an \"erômenos\" would be characterized, we may imagine, by a feeling of proud self-sufficiency. Though the object of importunate solicitation, he is himself not in need of anything beyond himself. He is unwilling to let himself be explored by the other's needy curiosity, and he has, himself, little curiosity about the other. He is something like a god, or the statue of a god.\nDover insisted that the active role of the \"erastês\" and the passivity of the \"erômenos\" is a distinction \"of the highest importance\", but subsequent scholars have tried to present a more varied picture of the behaviors and values associated with \"paiderastia\". Although ancient Greek writers use \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" in a pederastic context, the words are not technical terms for social roles, and can refer to the \"lover\" and \"beloved\" in other hetero- and homosexual couples.\n\nThe Greek practice of pederasty came suddenly into prominence at the end of the Archaic period of Greek history; there is a brass plaque from Crete, about 650-625 BC, which is the oldest surviving representation of pederastic custom. Such representations appear from all over Greece in the next century; literary sources show it as being established custom in many cities by the 5th century BC.\n\nCretan pederasty as a social institution seems to have been grounded in an initiation which involved abduction. A man ( – \"philetor\", \"lover\") selected a youth, enlisted the chosen one's friends to help him, and carried off the object of his affections to his \"andreion\", a sort of men's club or meeting hall. The youth received gifts, and the \"philetor\" along with the friends went away with him for two months into the countryside, where they hunted and feasted. At the end of this time, the \"philetor\" presented the youth with three contractually required gifts: military attire, an ox, and a drinking cup. Other costly gifts followed. Upon their return to the city, the youth sacrificed the ox to Zeus, and his friends joined him at the feast. He received special clothing that in adult life marked him as \"kleinos\", \"famous, renowned\". The initiate was called a \"parastatheis\", \"he who stands beside\", perhaps because, like Ganymede the cup-bearer of Zeus, he stood at the side of the \"philetor\" during meals in the \"andreion\" and served him from the cup that had been ceremonially presented. In this interpretation, the formal custom reflects myth and ritual.\n\nThe erastes-eromenos relationship played a role in the Classical Greek social and educational system, had its own complex social-sexual etiquette and was an important social institution among the upper classes. Pederasty has been understood as educative, and Greek authors from Aristophanes to Pindar felt it naturally present in the context of aristocratic education (\"paideia\"). In general, pederasty as described in the Greek literary sources is an institution reserved for free citizens, perhaps to be regarded as a dyadic mentorship: \"pederasty was widely accepted in Greece as part of a male's coming-of-age, even if its function is still widely debated.\"\n\nIn Crete, in order for the suitor to carry out the ritual abduction, the father had to approve him as worthy of the honor. Among the Athenians, as Socrates claims in Xenophon's \"Symposium,\" \"Nothing [of what concerns the boy] is kept hidden from the father, by an ideal lover.\" In order to protect their sons from inappropriate attempts at seduction, fathers appointed slaves called \"pedagogues\" to watch over their sons. However, according to Aeschines, Athenian fathers would pray that their sons would be handsome and attractive, with the full knowledge that they would then attract the attention of men and \"be the objects of fights because of erotic passions\".\n\nThe age-range when boys entered into such relationships was consonant with that of Greek girls given in marriage, often to adult husbands many years their senior. Boys, however, usually had to be courted and were free to choose their mate, while marriages for girls were arranged for economic and political advantage at the discretion of father and suitor. These connections were also an advantage for a youth and his family, as the relationship with an influential older man resulted in an expanded social network. Thus, some considered it desirable to have had many admirers or mentors, if not necessarily lovers per se, in one’s younger years. Typically, after their sexual relationship had ended and the young man had married, the older man and his protégé would remain on close terms throughout their life. For those lovers who continued their lovemaking after their beloveds had matured, the Greeks made allowances, saying, \"You can lift up a bull, if you carried the calf.\"\n\nIn parts of Greece, pederasty was an acceptable form of homoeroticism that had other, less socially accepted manifestations, such as the sexual use of slaves or being a \"pornos\" (prostitute) or \"hetairos\" (the male equivalent of a hetaira). Male prostitution was treated as a perfectly routine matter and visiting prostitutes of either sex was considered completely acceptable for a male citizen. However, adolescent citizens of free status who prostituted themselves were sometimes ridiculed, and were permanently prohibited by Attic law from performing some seven official functions because it was believed that since they had sold their own body \"for the pleasure of others\" ( \"eph’ hybrei\"), they would not hesitate to sell the interests of the community as a whole. If they, or an adult citizen of free status who had prostituted himself, performed any of the official functions prohibited to them by law (in later life), they were liable to prosecution and punishment. However, if they did not perform those specific functions, did not present themselves for the allocation of those functions and declared themselves ineligible if they were somehow mistakenly elected to perform those specific functions, they were safe from prosecution and punishment. As non-citizens visiting or residing in a city-state could not perform official functions in any case whatsoever, they could prostitute themselves as much as they wanted.\n\nTransgressions of the customs pertaining to the proper expression of homosexuality within the bounds of \"pederaistia\" could be used to damage the reputation of a public figure. In his speech \"Against Timarchus\" in 346 BC, the Athenian politician Aeschines argues against further allowing Timarchus, an experienced middle-aged politician, certain political rights as Attic law prohibited anyone who had prostituted himself from exercising those rights and Timarchus was known to have spent his adolescence as the sexual partner of a series of wealthy men in order to obtain money. Such a law existed because it was believed that anyone who had sold their own body would not hesitate to sell the interests of the city-state. Aeschines won his case, and Timarchus was sentenced to \"atimia\" (disenfranchisement and civic disempowerment). Aeschines acknowledges his own dalliances with beautiful boys, the erotic poems he dedicated to these youths, and the scrapes he has gotten into as a result of his affairs, but emphasizes that none of these were mediated by money. A financial motive thus was viewed as threatening a man's status as free.\n\nBy contrast, as expressed in Pausanias' speech in Plato's \"Symposium,\" pederastic love was said to be favorable to democracy and feared by tyrants, because the bond between the \"erastes\" and \"eromenos\" was stronger than that of obedience to a despotic ruler. Athenaeus states that \"Hieronymus the Aristotelian says that love with boys was fashionable because several tyrannies had been overturned by young men in their prime, joined together as comrades in mutual sympathy.\" He gives as examples of such pederastic couples the Athenians Harmodius and Aristogeiton, who were credited (perhaps symbolically) with the overthrow of the tyrant Hippias and the establishment of the democracy, and also Chariton and Melanippus. Others, such as Aristotle, claimed that the Cretan lawgivers encouraged pederasty as a means of population control, by directing love and sexual desire into non-procreative channels:\n\nand the lawgiver has devised many wise measures to secure the benefit of moderation at table, and the segregation of the women in order that they may not bear many children, for which purpose he instituted association with the male sex.\n\nSocrates' love of Alcibiades, which was more than reciprocated, is held as an example of chaste pederasty.. Socrates remarks in the dialogue Phaedrus that sexual pederasty is driven by the appetital part of the soul, but can be balanced by self-control and reason. He likens wanton lust for a boy to allowing a disobedient horse to control a chariot, but remarks that sexual desire for a boy if combined with a love for their other qualities is acceptable.\n\nPhaedrus in Plato's Symposium remarks:\nFor I know not any greater blessing to a young man who is beginning in life than a virtuous lover, or to a lover than a beloved youth. For the principle, I say, neither kindred, nor honor, nor wealth, nor any motive is able to implant so well as love. Of what am I speaking? Of the sense of honor and dishonor, without which neither states nor individuals ever do any good or great work… And if there were only some way of contriving that a state or an army should be made up of lovers and their loves, they would be the very best governors of their own city, abstaining from all dishonor and emulating one another in honor; and it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that when fighting at each other’s side, although a mere handful, they would overcome the world.\nIn Laws, Plato takes a much more austere stance to homosexuality than in previous works, stating:\n\nPlato states here that \"we all\", possibly referring to society as a whole or simply his social group, believe the story of Ganymede's homosexuality to have been fabricated by the Cretans to justify immoral behaviours. \n\nThe Athenian stranger in Plato's \"Laws\" blames pederasty for promoting civil strife and driving many to their wits' end, and recommends the prohibition of sexual intercourse with youths, laying out a path whereby this may be accomplished.\n\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction by Zeus was invoked as a precedent for the pederastic relationship, as Theognis asserts to a friend:\nThere is some pleasure in loving a boy \"(paidophilein)\", since once in fact even the son of Cronus \"(that is, Zeus)\", king of immortals, fell in love with Ganymede, seized him, carried him off to Olympus, and made him divine, keeping the lovely bloom of boyhood \"(paideia)\". So, don't be astonished, Simonides, that I too have been revealed as captivated by love for a handsome boy.\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction, however, was not taken seriously by some in Athenian society, and deemed to be a Cretan fabrication designed to justify their homoeroticism.\n\nThe scholar Joseph Pequigney states:\n\nThe 5th century BC poet Pindar constructed the story of a sexual pederastic relationship between Poseidon and Pelops, this was intended to replace an earlier story of cannibalism that Pindar deemed an unsavoury representation of the Gods. The story tells of Poseidon's love for a mortal boy, Pelops, who wins a chariot race with help from his admirer Poseidon. \n\nThough examples of such a custom exist in earlier Greek works, myths providing examples of young men who were the lovers of gods began to emerge in classical literature, around the 6th century BC. In these later tales, pederastic love is ascribed to Zeus (with Ganymede), Poseidon (with Pelops), Apollo (with Cyparissus, Hyacinthus and Adnetus), Orpheus, Heracles, Dionysus, Hermes, and Pan. All the Olympian gods except Ares are purported to have had these relationships, which some scholars argue demonstrates that the specific customs of \"paiderastia\" originated in initiatory rituals.\n\nMyths attributed to the homosexuality of Dionysus are very late and often post-pagan additions. The tale of Dionyssus and Ampelos was written by the Egyptian poet Nonnus some time between the 4th and 5th centuries AD, making it unreliable. Likewise, the tale of Dionysus and Polymnus, which tells that the former anally masturbated with a fig branch over the latter's grave, was written by Christians, whose aim was to discredit pagan mythology.\n\nDover, however, believed that these myths are only literary versions expressing or explaining the \"overt\" homosexuality of Greek archaic culture, the distinctiveness of which he contrasted to attitudes in other ancient societies such as Egypt and Israel.\n\nGreek vase painting is a major source for scholars seeking to understand attitudes and practices associated with \"paiderastia\". Hundreds of pederastic scenes are depicted on Attic black-figure vases. In the early 20th century, John Beazley classified pederastic vases into three types:\n\nCertain gifts traditionally given by the \"eromenos\" become symbols that contribute to interpreting a given scene as pederastic. Animal gifts—most commonly hares and roosters, but also deer and felines—point toward hunting as an aristocratic pastime and as a metaphor for sexual pursuit.\n\nThe explicit nature of some images has led in particular to discussions of whether the \"eromenos\" took active pleasure in the sex act. The youthful beloved is never pictured with an erection; his penis \"remains flaccid even in circumstances to which one would expect the penis of any healthy adolescent to respond willy-nilly\". Fondling the youth's genitals was one of the most common images of pederastic courtship on vases, a gesture indicated also in Aristophanes' comedy \"Birds\" (line 142). Some vases do show the younger partner as sexually responsive, prompting one scholar to wonder, \"What can the point of this act have been unless lovers in fact derived some pleasure from feeling and watching the boy's developing organ wake up and respond to their manual stimulation?\"\n\nChronological study of the vase paintings also reveals a changing aesthetic in the depiction of the \"erômenos\". In the 6th century BC, he is a young beardless man with long hair, of adult height and physique, usually nude. As the 5th century begins, he has become smaller and slighter, \"barely pubescent\", and often draped as a girl would be. No inferences about social customs should be based on this element of the courtship scene alone.\n\nThere are many pederastic references among the works of the Megaran poet Theognis addressed to Cyrnus (Greek \"Kyrnos\"). Some portions of the Theognidean corpus are probably not by the individual from Megara, but rather represent \"several generations of wisdom poetry\". The poems are \"social, political, or ethical precepts transmitted to Cyrnus as part of his formation into an adult Megarian aristocrat in Theognis' own image\".\n\nThe relationship between Theognis and Kyrnos eludes categorization. Although it was assumed in antiquity that Kyrnos was the poet's \"eromenos\", the poems that are most explicitly erotic are not addressed to him; the poetry on \"the joys and sorrows\" of pederasty seem more apt for sharing with a fellow \"erastes\", perhaps in the setting of the symposium: \"the relationship, in any case, is left vague.\" In general, Theognis (and the tradition that appears under his name) treats the pederastic relationship as heavily pedagogical.\n\nThe poetic traditions of Ionia and Aeolia featured poets such as Anacreon, Mimnermus and Alcaeus, who composed many of the sympotic skolia that were to become later part of the mainland tradition. Ibycus came from Rhegium in the Greek west and entertained the court of Polycrates in Samos with pederastic verses. By contrast with Theognis, these poets portray a version of pederasty that is non-pedagogical, focused exclusively on love and seduction. Theocritus, a Hellenistic poet, describes a kissing contest for youths that took place at the tomb of a certain Diocles, renowned for friendship; he notes that invoking Ganymede was proper to the occasion.\n\nVase paintings and references to the eromenos's thighs in poetry indicate that when the pederastic couple engaged in sex acts, the preferred form was intercrural. To preserve his dignity and honor, the \"erômenos\" limits the man who desires him to penetration between closed thighs.\n\nThere are no known visual depictions of Anal sex between pederastic couples, though this does not prove the behavior did not occur. Some vase paintings, which Percy considers a fourth type of pederastic scene in addition to Beazley's three, show the \"erastês\" seated with an erection and the \"erômenos\" either approaching or climbing into his lap. The composition of these scenes is the same as that for depictions of women mounting men who are seated and aroused for intercourse. As a cultural norm considered apart from personal preference, anal penetration was most often seen as dishonorable to the one penetrated, or shameful, because of \"its potential appearance of being turned into a woman\" and because it was feared that it may distract the \"erômenos\" from playing the active, penetrative role later in life. A fable attributed to Aesop tells how Aeschyne (Shame) consented to enter the human body from behind only as long as Eros did not follow the same path, and would fly away at once if he did. A man who acted as the receiver during anal intercourse may have been the recipient of the insult \"kinaidos\", meaning effeminate. No shame was associated with intercrural penetration or any other act that did not involve anal penetration. Oral sex is likewise not depicted, or directly suggested, anal or oral penetration seems to have been reserved for prostitutes or slaves.\n\nDover maintained that the erômenos was ideally not supposed to feel \"unmanly\" desire for the erastês. Nussbaum argues that the depiction of the erômenos as deriving no sexual pleasure from sex with the erastês \"may well be a cultural norm that conceals a more complicated reality\", as the erômenos is known to have frequently felt intense affection for his erastês and there is evidence that he experienced sexual arousal with him as well. In Plato's \"Phaedrus\", it is related that, with time, the erômenos develops a \"passionate longing\" for his erastês and a \"reciprocal love\" (\"anteros\") for him that is a replica of the erastês' love. The eromenos is also said to have a desire \"similar to the erastes', albeit weaker, to see, to touch, to kiss and to lie with him\".\n\nUnlike the Dorians, where a lover would usually have only one eromenos, in the east a man might have several eromenoi over the course of his life. From the poems of Alcaeus we learn that the lover would customarily invite his eromenos to dine with him.\n\nThe nature of this relationship is in dispute among ancient sources, and modern historians. \n\nSpartan views on pederasty and homoeroticism were much more austere than those of other parts of Greece.\n\nXenophon says in Constitution of the Lacaedemonians that Spartan customs were unsuited to pederasty: a man might aim for idealized friendship with a boy but a sexual relationship was considered \"an abomination\" tantamount to incest. Aelian's Historical Miscellany talks about the responsibilities of an older Spartan citizen to younger inexperienced male lovers. Thomas F. Scanlon believes Sparta, during its Dorian polis time, is thought to be the first city to practice athletic nudity, and one of the first to formalize pederasty.\n\nMegara cultivated good relations with Sparta, and may have been culturally attracted to emulate Spartan practices in the 7th century, when pederasty is postulated to have first been formalized in Dorian cities. One of the first cities after Sparta to be associated with the custom of athletic nudity, Megara was home to the runner Orsippus who was famed as the first to run the footrace naked at the Olympic Games and \"first of all Greeks to be crowned victor naked\". In one poem, the Megaran poet Theognis saw athletic nudity as a prelude to pederasty: \"Happy is the lover who works out naked / And then goes home to sleep all day with a beautiful boy.\"\n\nIn Athens, as elsewhere, \"pederastia\" appears to have been a characteristic of the aristocracy. Attic pottery is a major source for modern scholars attempting to understand the institution of pederasty. The age of youth depicted has been estimated variously from 12 to 18. A number of Athenian laws addressed the pederastic relationship.\n\nIn Thebes, the main polis in Boeotia, renowned for its practice of pederasty, the tradition was enshrined in the founding myth of the city. In this instance the story was meant to teach by counterexample: it depicts Laius, one of the mythical ancestors of the Thebans, in the role of a lover who betrays the father and rapes the son. Another Boeotian pederastic myth is the story of Narcissus.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Theban pederasty was instituted as an educational device for boys in order to \"soften, while they were young, their natural fierceness, and to \"temper the manners and characters of the youth\". According to a tradition, The Sacred Band of Thebes comprised pederastic couples.\n\nBoeotian pottery, in contrast to that of Athens, does not exhibit the three types of pederastic scenes identified by Beazley. The limited survival and cataloguing of pottery that can be proven to have been made in Boeotia diminishes the value of this evidence in distinguishing a specifically local tradition of \"paiderastia\".\n\nThe ethical views held in ancient societies, such as Athens, Thebes, Crete, Sparta, Elis and others, on the practice of pederasty have been explored by scholars only since the end of the 19th century. One of the first to do so was John Addington Symonds, who wrote his seminal work \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\" in 1873, but after a private edition of 10 copies (1883) only in 1901 could the work really be published, in revised form. Edward Carpenter expanded the scope of the study, with his 1914 work, \"Intermediate Types among Primitive Folk\". The text examines homoerotic practices of all types, not only pederastic ones, and ranges over cultures spanning the whole globe. In Germany the work was continued by classicist Paul Brandt writing under the pseudonym Hans Licht, who published his \"Sexual Life in Ancient Greece\" in 1932.\n\nMainstream Ancient Greek studies however had historically omitted references of the widespread practice of homosexuality. E. M. Forster's 1914 novel \"Maurice\" makes reference to modern European ambivalence toward this aspect of ancient Greek culture in a scene where a Cambridge professor, leading a group of students in translating an ancient Greek text says, \"Omit the reference to the unspeakable vice of the Greeks.\" Later in the 1940s H. Mitchell wrote: \"This aspect of Greek morals is an extraordinary one, into which, for the sake of our equanimity, it is unprofitable to pry too closely\". It would not be until 1978 and K. J. Dover's book \"Greek Homosexuality,\" that the topic would be widely and frankly discussed.\n\nDover's work triggered a number of debates which still continue. Sociologist of the 20th century Michel Foucault declared that pederasty was \"problematized\" in Greek culture, that it was \"the object of a special—and especially intense—moral preoccupation\", which was \"subjected to an interplay of positive and negative interplays so complex as to make the ethics that governed it difficult to decipher\", focusing on concern with the chastity/moderation of the \"erōmenos\" (the term used for the \"beloved\" youth). A modern line of thought leading from Dover to Foucault to Halperin holds that the erōmenos did not reciprocate the love and desire of the erastes, and that the relationship was factored on a sexual domination of the younger by the older, a politics of penetration held to be true of all adult male Athenians' relations with their social inferiors—boys, women and slaves—a theory propounded also by Eva Keuls. From this perspective, the relationships are characterized and factored on a power differential between the participants, and as essentially asymmetrical.\n\nOther scholars point to artwork on vases, poetry and philosophical works such as the Platonic discussion of anteros, \"love returned\", all of which show tenderness and desire and love on the part of the eromenos matching and responding to that of the erastes. Critics of Dover and his followers also point out that they ignore all material which argued against their \"overly theoretical\" interpretation of a human and emotional relationship and counter that \"Clearly, a mutual, consensual bond was formed\", and that it is \"a modern fairy tale that the younger eromenos was never aroused\".\n\nHalperin's position has been criticized as a \"persistently negative and judgmental rhetoric implying exploitation and domination as the fundamental characteristics of pre-modern sexual models\" and challenged as a polemic of \"mainstream assimilationist gay apologists\" and an attempt to \"demonize and purge from the movement\" all non-orthodox male sexualities, especially that involving adults and adolescents.\n\nAs classical historian Robin Osborne has pointed out, historical discussion of \"paiderastia\" is complicated by 21st-century moral standards:\nIt is the historian's job to draw attention to the personal, social, political and indeed moral issues behind the literary and artistic representations of the Greek world. The historian's job is to present pederasty and all, to make sure that … we come face to face with the way the glory that was Greece was part of a world in which many of our own core values find themselves challenged rather than reinforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23853148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23853148", "title": "People skills", "text": "People skills\n\nPeople skills are patterns of behavior and behavioral interactions. Among people, it is an umbrella term for skills under three related set of abilities: personal effectiveness, interaction skills, and intercession skills. This is an area of exploration about how a person behaves and how they are perceived irrespective of their thinking and feeling. It is further elaborated as dynamics between personal ecology (cognitive, affective, physical and spiritual dimensions) and its function with other people's personality styles in numerous environments (life event's, institution's, life challenges...etc.). British dictionary definition is \"the ability to communicate effectively with people in a friendly way, especially in business\" or personal effectiveness skills. In business it is a connection among people in a humane level to achieve productivity.\n\nPortland Business Journal describes people skills as:\n\n\nRecords of guidelines related to \"people skills\" have been found as early as the New Testament. Five examples of early human guidelines appear in the Bible. 1 Peter 4:8-9 advises: \"Above all, maintain constant love for one another, for love covers a multitude of sins. Be hospitable to one another without complaining.\"; and Solomon's wisdom in Proverbs 15:1 includes: \"A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.\", along similar lines in Proverbs 16:21 includes: \"The wise of heart is called perceptive, and pleasant speech increases persuasiveness.\"; 1 Thessalonians 5:14 dictates: \"And we urge you, beloved, to discourage the idlers, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with all of them.\"; Titus 3:2 advises: \" To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle, and to show every courtesy to everyone.\"; and in Galatians 6:2 encourages: \"Bear one another's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ.\"\n\nHuman-relations studies emerged in the 1920s when companies became more interested in \"soft skills\" and interpersonal skills of employees. In organizations, improving people skills became a specialized role of the corporate trainer. By the mid-1930s, Dale Carnegie popularized people skills in \"How to Win Friends and Influence People\" and \"How to Stop Worrying and Start Living\" worldwide.\n\nIn the 1960s, US schools introduced people-skills topics and methods—often as a way to promote better self-esteem, communication and social interaction. These encompassed psychologist Thomas Gordon's \"Effectiveness Training\" variations as well as many other training programs.\n\nThe first documented use of the phrase \"people skills\" was around 1970.\n\nThe SCANS report states that business, labor and government authorities agree that having a wide range of people skills are necessary for 20th-century work success. Skills like customer service, building effective relationships, and teamwork are among the abilities most requested by employers in job postings. Lack of these skills is considered a serious psychological handicap. Constructive leadership based companies engage in helping individuals to grow, and through that growth employees take more responsibility and discharge it effectively. This in-turn will enhance the basic attitude of the individual; and that will reflect the general level of performance in workplace. Studies indicate that many people who have difficulty in obtaining or holding a job possess the needed technical competence but lack interpersonal competence.\n\nLawrence A. Appley of American Management Association, reflected on these trainings as a responsibility to \"increase the knowledge, sharpen and add to the skills, improve the habits, and change the attitudes of many of those for whose development we are responsible.\" Lack of people skills among upper echelons (top management) can result in bullying and/or harassment, which is not uncommon in the modern workplace due to changing values. The causes that are most identified with the situation are lack of necessary motivation, communication, influencing skills and empathy gap among upper echelons (Gilbert and Thompson, 2002). Training company staff in people skills and interpersonal skills increases the morale and dignity at work (Best, 2010). Employers that do not take steps to prevent harassment can face major costs in decreased productivity, low morale, increased absenteeism and health care costs, and potential legal expenses.\n\nThe Collaborative for Academic Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL) has identified 22 programs in the US that are especially comprehensive in social-emotional learning coverage and effective in documented impacts. UNESCO research found that young people who develop speaking/listening skills and who get to know others without WIIFM attitude have improved self-awareness, social-emotional adjustment and classroom behavior; in addition, self-destructive and violent behavior also decreased. People skills are also important for teachers in effective classroom management. Educators have found that more is needed than a degree in the field they are teaching. Knowing how to communicate and teach people instead of simply teaching their subject will help make a difference in the classroom. It is identified that 50 percent of classroom success lies in effective interpersonal relationships while the other 50 percent lies within academic skills. Requirement of people skills education is greatly emphasized within higher education and recruiters stress the required focus on this skills for securing entry level jobs right off from campus placements.\n\n"}
{"id": "236268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236268", "title": "Pioneer plaque", "text": "Pioneer plaque\n\nThe Pioneer plaques are a pair of gold-anodized aluminium plaques which were placed on board the 1972 \"Pioneer 10\" and 1973 \"Pioneer 11\" spacecraft, featuring a pictorial message, in case either \"Pioneer 10\" or \"11\" is intercepted by extraterrestrial life. The plaques show the nude figures of a human male and female along with several symbols that are designed to provide information about the origin of the spacecraft.\n\nThe \"Pioneer 10\" and \"11\" spacecraft were the first human-built objects to achieve escape velocity from the Solar System. The plaques were attached to the spacecraft's antenna support struts in a position that would shield them from erosion by interstellar dust.\n\nThe original idea, that the Pioneer spacecraft should carry a message from mankind, was first mentioned by Eric Burgess when he visited the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, during the Mariner 9 mission. He approached Carl Sagan, who had lectured about communication with intelligent extraterrestrials at a conference in Crimea.\n\nSagan was enthusiastic about the idea of sending a message with the Pioneer spacecraft. NASA agreed to the plan and gave him three weeks to prepare a message. Together with Frank Drake he designed the plaque, and the artwork was prepared by Linda Salzman Sagan, who was Sagan's wife at the time.\n\nBoth plaques were manufactured at Precision Engravers, San Carlos, California.\n\nThe first plaque was launched with \"Pioneer 10\" on March 2, 1972, and the second followed with \"Pioneer 11\" on April 5, 1973.\n\nIn May 2017 a limited edition of 200 replicas engraved from the original master design at Precision Engravers was made available in a Kickstarter Campaign, which also offered laser-engraved replicas.\n\n\nAt the top left of the plate is a schematic representation of the hyperfine transition of hydrogen, which is the most abundant element in the universe. The spin-flip transition of a hydrogen atom’s electron has a frequency of about 1420.405 MHz, which corresponds to a period of 0.704 ns. Light at this frequency has a vacuum wavelength of 21.106 cm (which is also the distance the light travels in that time period). Below the symbol, the small vertical line—representing the binary digit 1—specifies a unit of length (21 cm) as well as a unit of time (0.7 ns). Both units are used as measurements in the other symbols.\n\nOn the right side of the plaque, a man and a woman are shown in front of the spacecraft. Between the brackets that indicate the height of the woman, the binary representation of the number 8 can be seen (1000, with a small defect in the first zero). In units of the wavelength of the hyperfine transition of hydrogen this means 8 × 21 cm = 168 cm.\n\nThe right hand of the man is raised as a sign of good will. Although this gesture may not be understood, it offers a way to show the opposable thumb and how the limbs can be moved.\n\nOriginally Sagan intended the humans to be shown holding hands, but soon realized that an extraterrestrial might perceive them as a single creature rather than two organisms.\n\nThe original drawings of the figures were based on drawings by Leonardo da Vinci and Greek sculptures.\n\nThe woman's genitals are not depicted in detail; only the \"Mons pubis\" is shown. It has been claimed that Sagan, having little time to complete the plaque, suspected that NASA would have rejected a more intricate drawing and therefore made a compromise just to be safe. Carl Sagan said that the decision to not include the vertical line on the woman's genitalia (pudendal cleft) which would be caused by the intersection of the labia majora was due to two reasons. First, Greek sculptures of women do not include that line. Second, Carl Sagan believed that a design with such an explicit depiction of a woman's genitalia would be considered too obscene to be approved by NASA. According to the memoirs of Robert S. Kraemer, however, the original design that was presented to NASA headquarters included a line which indicated the woman's vulva, and this line was erased as a condition for approval of the design by John Naugle, former head of NASA's Office of Space Science and the agency's former chief scientist.\n\nThe radial pattern on the left of the plaque shows 15 lines emanating from the same origin. Fourteen of the lines have corresponding long binary numbers, which stand for the periods of pulsars, using the hydrogen spin-flip transition frequency as the unit. Since these periods will change over time, the epoch of the launch can be calculated from these values.\n\nThe lengths of the lines show the relative distances of the pulsars to the Sun. A tick mark at the end of each line gives the Z coordinate perpendicular to the galactic plane.\n\nIf the plaque is found, only some of the pulsars may be visible from the location of its discovery. Showing the location with as many as 14 pulsars provides redundancy so that the location of the origin can be triangulated even if only some of the pulsars are recognized.\n\nThe data for one of the pulsars is misleading. When the plaque was designed, the frequency of pulsar \"1240\" (now known as J1243-6423) was known to only three significant decimal digits: 0.388 second. The map lists the period of this pulsar in binary to much greater precision: 100000110110010110001001111000. Rounding this off at about 10 significant bits (100000110100000000000000000000) would have provided a hint of this uncertainty. This pulsar is represented by the long line pointing down and to the right.\n\nThe fifteenth line on the plaque extends to the far right, behind the human figures. This line indicates the Sun's relative distance to the center of the galaxy.\n\nThe pulsar map and hydrogen atom diagram are shared in common with the Voyager Golden Record.\n\nAt the bottom of the plaque is a schematic diagram of the Solar System. A small picture of the spacecraft is shown, and the trajectory shows its way past Jupiter and out of the Solar System. Both \"Pioneers 10\" and \"11\" have identical plaques; however, after launch, Pioneer 11 was redirected toward Saturn and from there it exited the Solar System. In this regard the \"Pioneer 11\" plaque is somewhat inaccurate.\nThe Saturn flyby of \"Pioneer 11\" would also greatly influence its future direction and destination as compared to \"Pioneer 10\", but this fact is not depicted in the plaques.\n\nSaturn's rings could give a further hint to identifying the Solar System. Rings around the planets Jupiter, Uranus, and Neptune were unknown when the plaque was designed; however, unlike Saturn, the ring systems on these planets are not so easily visible and apparent as Saturn's. Pluto was considered to be a planet when the plaque was designed; in 2006 the IAU reclassified Pluto as a dwarf planet and then in 2008 as a plutoid. Other large bodies classed as dwarf planets, such as Eris, are not depicted, as they were unknown at the time the plaque was made.\n\nThe binary numbers above and below the planets show the relative distance to the Sun. The unit is 1/10 of Mercury's orbit. Rather than the familiar \"1\" and \"0\", \"I\" and \"-\" are used.\n\nBehind the figures of the human beings, the silhouette of the Pioneer spacecraft is shown in the same scale so that the size of the human beings can be deduced by measuring the spacecraft.\n\nOne of the parts of the diagram that is among the easiest for humans to understand may be among the hardest for the extraterrestrial finders to understand: the arrow showing the trajectory of Pioneer. An article in \"Scientific American\" criticized the use of an arrow because arrows are an artifact of hunter-gatherer societies like those on Earth; finders with a different cultural heritage may find the arrow symbol meaningless.\n\nArt critic and activist Craig Owens said that sexual bias is exhibited by the choice to make the man in the diagram perform the wave gesture to greet the extraterrestrials while the woman in the diagram has her hands at her sides. Feminists also took issue with this choice for the same reason.\n\nCarl Sagan regretted that the figures in the finished engraving failed to look panracial. Although this was the intent, the final figures appeared Caucasian. In the original drawing, the man was drawn with an \"Afro\" haircut, so an additional African physical trait would be included in the man to make the figures look more panracial, but that detail was changed to a \"non-African Mediterranean-curly haircut\" in the finished engraving. Furthermore, Carl Sagan said that Linda Sagan intended to portray both the man and woman as having brown hair, but the hair being only outlined rather than being both outlined and shaded made the hair appear blonde instead. Other people had different interpretations of the race of people depicted by the figures. Whites, blacks and Asians each tended to think that the figures resembled their own racial group, so, although some people were proud that their race appeared to have been selected to represent all of humankind, others viewed the figures as \"terribly racist\" for \"the apparently blatant exclusion\" of other races.\n\nLinda Sagan decided to make the figures nude to address the problem of the type of clothes they should wear to represent all of humanity and to make the figures more anatomically educational for extraterrestrials, but their nudity was viewed as pornographic by the American media. According to astronomer Frank Drake, there were many negative reactions to the plaque because the human beings were displayed naked. When images of the final design were published in American newspapers, one newspaper published the image with the man's genitalia removed and another newspaper published the image with both the man's genitalia and the woman's nipples removed. In one letter to a newspaper, a person angrily wrote that they felt that the nudity of the images made the images obscene. In contrast, in another letter to the same newspaper, a person was critical of the prudishness of the people who found depictions of nudity to be obscene.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17144579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17144579", "title": "Print Matthews", "text": "Print Matthews\n\nJohn Prentiss \"Print\" Matthews (August 27, 1840 – November 6, 1883) was an American sheriff and social reformer of the Reconstruction era. An advocate for African American rights in Copiah County, Mississippi, he was murdered while voting in 1883 after defying the orders of local white supremacist Democrats, who told him not to vote.\n\nMatthews, best known by the nickname \"Print\", was born on August 27, 1840,near Hazlehurst, Mississippi, the Copiah County seat.\n\nAlthough his parents were wealthy and owned 35 slaves. Matthews supported the Union. During the American Civil War, most local whites supported the Confederacy.\n\nAfter the war, Matthews ran a store and was elected the county sheriff. When Democrats regained power in the state government in 1875, Matthews helped organize the Independent Party in Copiah County, consisting of black and white farmers. However, in 1881, Democrats began night riding to intimidate African Americans and attempt to suppress their voting, and Matthews lost his bid for re-election by 84 votes, as Democrats claimed a mule had reached through a window and eaten all the ballots from Mt. Hope precinct, primarily African American and supportive of Matthews (although 2 blacks remained on the county council).\n\nIn 1883, the night rides grew worse, although the Independent Party slate only included one black. Ablack church was burned and a husband and wife murdered on October 26. The riders ordered voters not to vote for the Independent Party in the upcoming 1883 elections; and blacks and some whites even spent the night before the election in the woods for fear of further intimidation tactics.\n\nThe white Democratic leaders of Hazlehurst delivered a written ultimatum to Matthews, ordering him not to vote. When he persisted, the precinct captain, a white farmer and doctor named Erastus Benjamin Wheeler (1840-1900, nicknamed \"Ras\") who had an account at Matthews' store, reached inside a wooden box for a double-barreled shotgun and shot and killed Matthews at the polls.\n\nThe evening after his murder, Matthews' political enemies, organized in a local group known as the \"Trail-Hold Club\", gathered in the yard of his residence. They mocked and celebrated the killing. A mass meeting \"resolved\" that the Matthews family \"shall keep out of politics in Copiah county\" and some talked of having Wheeler run for governor. Wheeler was elected marshal of Hazlehurst, Meanwhile, the gravedigger who had helped bury Matthews on his own property was threatened and left town, as did the Matthews family (though some members including his then-15 year old son later returned).\n\nAfter a special investigation, Wheeler was tried in May 1884. The \"New York Times\" covered the trial. The carefully chosen, all-white jury quickly returned a verdict of not guilty, much to the pleasure and expectation of the judge and the community. The jury posted a statement noting that if an \"error\" occurred, it was \"one of the head, and not of the heart.\"\n\nJ.T. Dameron, a merchant, testified that he saw Ras Wheeler in a street car in the capital of Jackson on the 13th or 14th of February. He said that Wheeler was talking in a low tone. He said; \"Yes, old Hoar is coming down here on an investigation committee. If I get a crack at him I will kill him, too. I killed Print Matthews, or rather it was the Democratic party that did it. If it had not been for politics, I would not have done it; but it was politics that did it.\"\n\nRas Wheeler went on to have a successful political career in the state.\n\nMatthews was survived by his wife Mary \"Tine\" Barlow, whom he had married on June 6, 1862. Their son John Prentiss Matthews, Jr. carried on his father's principles and became a leader in Republican politics. President Benjamin Harrison made him postmaster of a town 130 miles away, Carrollton, Mississippi. On Christmas Day, 1890, local Democrats shot the 22 year old dead. Another son, Simon Matthews, became an activist in the People's Party during the 1890s, when a biracial coalition temporarily elected some positions, defeating the Democrats.\n"}
{"id": "46649163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46649163", "title": "Privileged positions of business and science", "text": "Privileged positions of business and science\n\nThe privileged positions of business and science refer to the unique authority that persons in these areas hold in economic, political, and technosocial affairs. Businesses have strong decision-making abilities in the function of society, essentially choosing what technological innovations to develop. Scientists and technologists have valuable knowledge and the ability to pursue the technological innovations they want. They proceed largely without public scrutiny and as if they had the consent of those potentially affected by their discoveries and creations.\n\nBusinesses have considerable power in decision-making processes in business-oriented societies. High level executives make discrete decisions about technological innovation without regard to consequences. Political scientist Edward Woodhouse states that businesses make key economic decisions that include creating jobs, choosing industrial plant and equipment, and deciding which new products to develop and market. Additionally, businesses hold a privileged position related to politics in the sense that they are capable of considerable influence over key public choices. The leadership role that business has in the economy gives executives of large corporations an unusual kind of degree of influence over governmental policy making.\n\nGovernment officials have incentives to carry out businesses' demands. They know that failure of businesses to maintain high employment will upset voters more quickly than anything else. Our economy functions as a chain effect. Businesses that get what they want provide plentiful jobs and stimulate cash flow in the economy. As a result, citizens are happy, and this happiness translates to more trust and faith in the government party. Government officials thus have a higher chance of reelection.\n\nIt is clear that the businesses have the most influence in this chain effect. If a business fails, jobs are lost, citizens are unhappy, and the government party loses trust and their chance of reelection. One example of this was President Bush’s plummeting popularity and resulting defeat by Bill Clinton. Therefore, it would make sense for government officials to reach out to these executives and provide valuable resources to benefit both parties. Power is shifted from government officials to business executives, because these executives have the ability to influence government officials to meet their demands. As a result, a large category of decisions is turned over to businessmen, and taken off the agenda of government. In a way, business managers become the public officials they represent.\n\nThis privilege of power is unique to corporations only. If workers want reform on unfair working conditions or pay, they must form a worker’s union. However, a worker’s union has considerably less influence than a corporation. As opposed to workers’ unions, businesses exercise more control on governmental policy making because workers are expendable – workers need money more urgently than society needs their services, so a business can operate for a lot longer than workers can afford to stay off the job.\n\nWithout the knowledge of scientists and technologists, there would be no possibility of producing new technology and progress in a positive manner. Those who have these types of knowledge and abilities are essentially the \"seed\" of technological innovation. They have the following three privileges:\n\n\nBased on previous scientific knowledge, one or several are able to use it and/or build on it to innovate. Kleinman and Vallas, point out that scientists control the modification, mediation and contest of emerging knowledge. Those with this knowledge can also teach future generations the same to keep this process moving forward. Woodhouse that states that engineers are among the top professionals that promote the new innovations without consequences. This is the foundation of the privileged position of science, that only a select have scientific and/or technological knowledge and capable of substantial feats, good or bad. Engineers and scientists have the powerful position of being able to choose the path of innovation for emerging technology. Technologists and scientists hold a privileged position additionally in that their innovations often have political implications. Woodhouse makes the comparison of innovation to legislative acts, stating that they both establish a framework that will follow for many generations.\n\nBusiness and science are part of an important societal circle specifically relating to the production and implementation of technology. In simple terms, scientists and technologists design and create, while businesses provide the means to create, produce and implement. As Woodhouse claims, it would be a mistake to overlook business executives' and elected officials' dependence on the technologists because innovation is so highly regarded.\n\nBusinesses that rely on scientists and technologists cannot function without them, but have authority over them. Woodhouse claims that the one reason green technology has not emerged faster and stronger is because the brown chemistry formula fulfilled many of the needs of scientists and businessmen. In other words, since brown chemistry was innovated over less toxic and recyclable green technologies, it is shown that business has more authority over that of technologists and scientists. Woodhouse points out that there has been considerable delay on a promising area of green chemistry: supercritical fluids. The opinions range from targeting the culprit as the complexity of the equipment, to maintenance difficulties, to the equipment costs. This is an example of the interconnection of business and science, and how technology can be slowed by technology and/or business (and vice versa). Woodhouse also states that twentieth-century chemists, chemical engineers, and chemical industry executives made central decisions which considerably modeled society's experiences with chemicals. The chemical industry, which includes scientists, technologists, and businessmen, uniquely controls what happens or what can happen to large number of people who are exposed to chemicals.\n\nBusiness and science are considered of utmost importance in current developed countries. However, one working without the other has the potential to cause major issues. Woodhouse points out what the vice president of Shaw Carpets explained at a congressional hearing: that the V.P. is the person whose job it is to tell the chemists and chemical engineers that it is possible to produce carpets using \"green\" processes, because the students had not learned this from their respective university curricula. There can be many positive outcomes of the unison operation of business and science, and it is vital that this does occur in order to prevent major problems and unintended consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "544223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=544223", "title": "Public humiliation", "text": "Public humiliation\n\nPublic humiliation or public shaming is a form of punishment whose main feature is dishonoring or disgracing a person, usually an offender or a prisoner, especially in a public place. It was regularly used as a form of judicially sanctioned punishment in previous centuries, and is still practiced by different means in the modern era.\n\nIn the United States, it was a common punishment from the beginning of European colonization through the 19th century. It fell out of common use in the 20th century, though it has seen a revival starting in the 1990s.\n\nPublic humiliation exists in many forms. Most often a criminal was placed in the center of town and having the local populace enact a form of \"mob justice\" on the individual. \n\nThe punishment of public humiliation could be, amongst other things, an offender being forced to relate his crime, such as by exaggerated physical parody: a 'shame flute' for a bad musician or wearing a giant rosary (, \"stones of shame\") for someone late to church. The offender could alternatively be sentenced to remain exposed in a specific public place, in a restraining device.\n\nIn the Low Countries, the (\"Chair of shame\"), the or (\"pole of shame\", a simple type of pillory), the were customary for adulteresses, and the , a scaffolding from which one is kicked off to land in mud and dirt.\n\nIn the more extreme cases being subjected to verbal and physical abuse from the crowd, which could have serious consequences especially when the hands are not free to protect himself. Some sentences actually prescribe additional humiliation, such as shaving, or combine it with painful corporal punishments, see below.\n\nIn Colonial America, common forms of public humiliation were the stocks and pillory, imported from Europe. Nearly every sizable town had such instruments of public humiliation, usually at the town square. Historic public humiliation displays can still be seen in the historic Virginia town of Colonial Williamsburg.In pre–World War Japan, adulterers were publicly exposed purely to shame them.\n\nIn post-Colonial times, judicial use of public humiliation punishment has largely fallen out of favor since the practice is now considered cruel and unusual punishment, which is outlawed in the United States Constitution.\n\nIn Siam, an adulteress was paraded with a hibiscus behind the ear. Thieves were tattooed on their faces. Other criminals were paraded with a device made of woven cane on the forehead, or lengths of bamboo hung around the neck. Errant Brahmans had to wear a string of oversize beads.\n\nJust like painful forms of corporal punishment, it has parallels in educational and other rather private punishments (but with some audience), in school or domestic disciplinary context, and as a rite of passage. Physical forms include being forced to wear some sign such as \"donkey ears\" (simulated in paper, as a sign one is—or at least behaved—proverbially stupid), wearing a dunce cap, having to stand, kneel or bend over in a corner, or repeatedly write something on a blackboard (\"I will not spread rumors\", for example). Here different levels of physical discomfort can be added, such as having to hold heavy objects, go barefoot (see below) or kneel on an uneven surface. Like physical punishment and harsh hazing, these have become controversial in most modern societies, in many cases leading to legal restrictions and/or (sometimes voluntary) abolishment.Having the head shaved can be a humiliating punishment prescribed in law, but also something done as \"mob justice\" - a stark example of which was the thousands of European women who had their heads shaved in front of cheering crowds in the wake of World War II, as punishment for associating with occupying Nazis during the war.Forcing people to go barefoot has been used as a relatively effortless and more subtle form of humiliation in most past and present civilized cultures, primarily using the visual contrast to the standard form of appearance while also creating some level of physical discomfort. The exposure of bare feet often served as an indicator for imprisonment and slavery throughout ancient as well as modern history. Even today prisoners officially have to go barefoot in many countries of the world and are also presented in court and showcased to the public unshod. As shoes are commonly worn by all social classes since antiquity in most civilized societies, showcasing a captive to the public in bare feet traditionally symbolizes the person's loss of social standing and personal autonomy. It usually also causes a considerable degree of humiliation, as this noticeable detail typically sets the prisoner apart from spectators visually and demonstrates the person's vulnerability and general powerlessness.\n\nFurther means of public humiliation and degradation consist in forcing people to wear typifying clothes, which can be penitential garbs or prison uniforms.\n\nPresenting arrestees or prisoners to the public in restraints (such as handcuffs, shackles or similar devices) also serves as a convenient method of public humiliation besides the primary security aspects. The effect is complemented by presenting the person in a prison uniform or similar clothing.\n\nApart from specific methods essentially aiming at humiliation, several methods combine pain and humiliation or even death and humiliation. In some cases, pain or at least discomfort is insignificant or rather secondary to the humiliation.\n\nThe simplest is to administer painful corporal punishment in public - the major aim may be deterrence of potential offenders - so the public will witness the perpetrator's fear and agony. This can either take place in a town square or other public gathering location such as a school, or take the form of a procession through the streets. This was not uncommon in the sentences to \"Staupenschlag\" (whipping or birching, generally on the bare buttocks) in various German-speaking states, till the 19th century. A naval equivalent was Flogging round the fleet on a raft taken from ship to ship for consecutive installments of a great total of lashes, that could even be lethal. In some countries the punishment of foot whipping is executed in public to this day.\n\nThe humiliation can be extended; intentionally or not; by leaving visible marks, such as scars, notably on body parts that are normally left visible. This also serves as a virtually indelible criminal record. This can even be the main intention of the punishment, as in the case of scarifications, such as branding. It invariably is essential in forms of mutilation, such as ear cropping, though the functional loss is even greater; pain may even be intentionally minimized as in the case of surgical amputation, eliminating the risk of accidental death. Tarring and feathering also serves as means of extended humiliation.\n\nPublic shaming can result in negative psychological effects and devastating consequences, regardless of the punishment being justifiable or not. It could cause depression, suicidal thoughts and other severe mental problems. The humiliated individuals may develop a variety of symptoms including apathy, paranoia, anxiety, PTSD, etc. The rage and fury may arise in the persecuted individual, themselves lashing out against innocent victims, as they seek revenge or as a means of release.\n\n"}
{"id": "20334071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334071", "title": "Public water system", "text": "Public water system\n\nPublic water system is a regulatory term used in the United States and Canada, referring to certain utilities and organizations providing drinking water.\n\nThe US Safe Drinking Water Act and derivative legislation define \"public water system\" as an entity that provides \"water for human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances to at least 15 service connections or serves an average of at least 25 people for at least 60 days a year.\" The term \"public\" in \"public water system\" refers to the people drinking the water, not to the ownership of the system.\n\nSome US states (e.g. New York) have varying definitions.\nOver 286 million Americans get their tap water from a community water system. Eight percent of the community water systems—large municipal water systems—provide water to 82 percent of the US population.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has defined three types of public water systems:\n\nThere are over 150,000 public water systems.\n\nEPA also classifies water systems according to the number of people they serve:\n\nWater systems may be categorized by their source of water:\n\nSources of drinking water are subject to contamination and require appropriate treatment to remove disease-causing contaminants. Contamination of drinking water supplies can occur in the source water as well as in the distribution system after water treatment has already occurred. There are many sources of water contamination, including naturally occurring chemicals and minerals (for example, arsenic, radon, uranium), local land use practices (application of fertilizers and pesticides; concentrated animal feeding operations), manufacturing processes, and sewer overflows or wastewater releases.\n\nThe presence of contaminants in water can lead to adverse health effects, including gastrointestinal illness, reproductive problems, and neurological disorders. Infants, young children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people whose immune systems are compromised because of AIDS, chemotherapy, or transplant medications, may be especially susceptible to illness from some contaminants.\n\nThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention publishes a list of the leading causes of waterborne outbreaks in public water systems.\n\nThe Canadian provinces of Manitoba and Nova Scotia also use this definition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2634236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634236", "title": "Racial fetishism", "text": "Racial fetishism\n\nRacial fetishism involves fetishizing a person or culture belonging to a race or ethnic group. This can include having strong racial preferences in dating. For example, an Asian fetish focusing on East Asian, Southeast Asian and to some extent South Asian women is quite prevalent in Australasia, North America and Scandinavia. There is also a subsection of BDSM, which involves fetishizing race called \"raceplay\".\n\nHomi K. Bhabha explains racial fetishism as a version of racist stereotyping, which is woven into colonial discourse and based on multiple/contradictory and splitting beliefs, similar to the disavowal which Freud discusses. Bhabha defines colonial discourse as that which activates the simultaneous \"recognition and disavowal of racial/cultural/historical differences\" and whose goal is to define the colonized as 'other,' but also as fixed and knowable stereotypes. Racial fetishism involves contradictory belief systems where the 'other' is both demonized and idolized.\n\nFeminist writer Anne McClintock is interested in opening up the discourse of fetishism to stray away from the phallus and the scene of castration. One of her central arguments is that although race, class, and gender are all different and articulated categories of being, they always exist \"\"in and through\" relation to each other,\" and therefore discussions of racial fetishism also always have to do with class and gender as well. McClintock does\n\nnot see racial fetishism as stemming from an overdetermined relation to the castration scene. Reducing racial fetishism to the phallic drama runs the risk of flattening out the hierarchies of social difference, thereby relegating race and class to secondary status along a primarily sexual signifying chain\".\n\nFetishism can take multiple forms and has branched off to incorporate different races. English naturalist and geologist, Charles Darwin, can offer some observations in regards to why some people might find other races more attractive than their own. Attraction can be viewed as a mechanism for choosing a healthy mate. People's minds have evolved to recognize aspects of other peoples' biology that makes them an appropriate or good mate. This area of theory is called optimal outbreeding hypothesis.\n\nFollowing the globalization of China, the perception of Westerners changed drastically. As China opened up to the outside world, representations of Westerners shifted from enemies of China to individuals of great power, money and pleasure. The white woman, according to Slavoj Žižek, Slovenian psychoanalytic philosopher and researcher at the University of Ljubljana, has become fetishized in modern Chinese society as a result of her perceived role in the globalized commodity culture. In a study of Chinese advertisements from 1990 to 1995, marketed solely to the Chinese people, it was concluded that in China, white women are symbols of strength and sexuality. The body language expressed by Chinese models demonstrate subordination, defined by the covering of faces and the tilting of heads. On the contrary, Chinese advertisements depict white women as powerful and uninhibited. They stare straight into the camera, do not cover their mouths while laughing, and hold their heads high.\n\nAccording to Rey Chow, cultural critic and professor at Duke University, the fetishism of white women in Chinese media does not have to do with sex; instead Chow describes it as a type of commodity fetishism. White women are seen as a representation of what China does not have: an image of a woman as something more than the heterosexual opposite to man. On the contrary, Perry Johansson, author of the \"Postcolonial Studies Journal\" article, \"Consuming the other: The fetish of the western woman in Chinese advertising and popular culture,\" argues that the racial fetish of white women in Chinese culture does have something to do with sex. White women represent a shift in the power dynamics between women and men. As a result, white women are a source of fear.\n\nAccording to an article from the \"Washington and Lee Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice\", the \"Asian fetish\" syndrome is born out of the male desire for dominance and the stereotype of Asian women as individuals open to domination. For example, following the 1970s and a peak in the American feminist movement, many white men turned to mail-order bride companies in search of a loyal, understanding, and subservient partner. They saw women of their own race as too career-oriented and strong-willed. Asian women were the antithesis to their perception of white women. While white women resisted powerlessness and subjugation to the white man, Asian women were seen as open to the subjugation, even depicted as enjoying it.\n\nThe song \"Yellow Fever\" by The Bloodhound Gang includes lyrics such as, \"She's an oriental rug cause I lay her where I please,\" and \"Then I blindfold her with dental floss and get down on her knees.\" Both of these instances exemplify the stereotype of Asians as submissive. Margaret Cho has labeled Gwen Stefani's Harajuku Girls as a \"minstrel show\" because they represent fetishized East Asian stereotypes. The girls follow Stefani around on tour and are contractually obligated not to speak English in public. The performer had \"renamed\" them corresponding to her album title and clothing brand, L.A.M.B.: Love, Angel, Music, and Baby.\n\nFurthermore, there have been many cases of Asian fetishism leading to criminal activity. In one case in 2000, two men, David Dailey and Edmund Ball, abducted and blindfolded two Japanese girls in Washington, one who was eighteen and the other who was nineteen. Ball specifically targeted these Asian students because he thought that they were submissive and were less likely to report sexual abuse. In another case, in 2005, Michael Lohman, a doctoral student at Princeton University, was charged by the state of New Jersey for reckless endangerment, theft, harassment as well as tampering with a food product. Michael had cut locks of hair off at least nine Asian women. He also poured his semen and urine into the drinks of Asian Princeton students more than fifty times. In his apartment, Michael also had mittens filled with hairs of Asian women.\n\nAfter the Civil War, black men were more commonly falsely accused for the rape of white women compared to white men. Sexual relationships between black men and white women were frowned upon. \n\nIn 1986, Robert Mapplethorpe had a photographic art show titled Black Males, showing photographs of naked black men exclusively. This work has been highly criticized for fetishizing the black male body, notably by Kobena Mercer in his aforementioned essay. Though it was not necessarily the artist's intention to portray these men as fetishized objects, they have been perceived that way by many audiences, especially in relation to some of his other works concerning gay male BDSM practices. The latter works examine an actual subculture of sexuality that is enacted by the photographic subjects: the men in the photos are wearing/using their own gear and clothing, putting their fetish(es) on display. However, in Mapplethorpe's photos of black men, the subjects are not doing anything but existing as nude bodies, they are hyper-sexualized by the camera, therefore they become the fetish objects.\n\nThe fetishization of black women expanded during the Colonial Era, as some white male slave owners raped their black, female slaves. They justified their actions by labeling the women as hyper-sexual property. These labels solidified into what is commonly referred to as the \"Jezebel\" stereotype.\n\nCharmaine Nelson discusses the way black females are presented in paintings, with an emphasis on nude paintings. Nelson argues that every nude painting feeds into the voyeuristic male gaze, but the way black women are painted has even more undertones.\" The black female body defies the white male subject's desire for a single subject of 'pure' origin in two ways: firstly, through a sexual 'otherness' as woman, and secondly through a racial and colour 'otherness' as black. It is the combined power of these two markers of social location which has enabled western artists to represent black women at the margins of societal boundaries of propriety.\" The black woman is considered a fetish in these paintings and she is only viewed in a sexual lens.\n\nOne of the more recent popular discourses around the fetishization of black women surrounds the release of Nicki Minaj's popular song, \"Anaconda\" in 2014. The entire song and music video revolves around the largeness of black women's bottoms. While some praise Minaj's work for its embrace of female sexuality, many believe that this song continues to reduce black women to be the focus of the male gaze.\n\nMestizo Latina women face racial fetishism much more than their male counterparts. They are seen as something that is tropical. Through media they are portrayed to always be in bright colors, having long brown hair, red lips, curvaceous figure, and revealing clothing. Unlike Latino/Chicano men, Latina/Chicana women have hypersexualized bodies.  A perfect example of how Latina women are depicted is Jennifer Lopez. When she is on a magazine cover or in a photo shoot, her butt is what is emphasized in the picture. Her butt is seemingly abnormal, because it exceeds the standards for a \"normal\" white butt. This hyper-buttocks places Jennifer Lopez in the category of the other. It is interesting though, because the fact that Latina/Chicanas are in the category of the other, it makes them more desirable. They are perceived as an exotic race that is hypersexual. This tradition excludes Latina/Chicanas from being a part of the norm and they are forever to be viewed as foreigners and a threat to \"true\" American culture.\n\nAccording to work of George Gerbner, through extended exposure to the very consistent and persistent ideas expressed on television, people tend to view what is being broadcast as a reality with no regard for it veracity. Supposedly the more television someone watches, the more likely they are to see the world in the same lens as the televised world. This means that any ideals in regards to certain races, can influence the way people perceive said races. The way that Latino/a men and women have been portrayed in the media has created a racial fetish on their bodies and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "2796342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796342", "title": "Renaissance Weekend", "text": "Renaissance Weekend\n\nRenaissance Weekend is an American retreat for leaders in business and finance, government, the media, religion, medicine, science, technology and the arts. Conversations are off the record and subject matter ranges widely, tending to focus heavily on policy and business issues.\n\nFounded in 1980 on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina by Linda LeSourd Lader and her husband Philip Lader, the former U.S. Ambassador to the Court of St. James's, Renaissance Weekends, now held in several locations each year, are structured to encourage the transcendence of political, economic, and religious differences by bringing together distinguished participants from a wide range of fields, including CEOs, venture capitalists and entrepreneurs, Nobel Laureates and Pulitzer Prize-winners, artists and scientists, astronauts and Olympians, judges, diplomats and Presidents, Prime Ministers, professors and priests, Republicans, Democrats and Independents. The Weekends are geared towards the establishment of an environment free of partisanship and commercialism, where \"civility prevails.\" Membership is by invitation only.\n\nSixty families pioneered the Lader's 1980 New Year's house party. The result has been a cross-generational \"continuing conversation\" of individuals with broadly divergent perspectives, no political agenda, but a legacy of ideas and friendships.\n\nThe mission is \"To build bridges among innovative leaders with exceptionally diverse perspectives.\" Each Renaissance Weekend seeks to build bridges across traditional divides of professions, politics, geography, age, religions, philosophies, religion, and race. For over 25 years, these family retreats' objective has been to encourage personal and national renewal.\n\nThrough hundreds of panels, seminars and workshops each Weekend, participants themselves address such public policy and personal concerns as \"America's Responsibility to the World,\" \"Investment Perspectives,\" \"How the Media has Covered the War Against Terrorism,\" \"Corporate Governance After Enron,\" \"Beating Cancer,\" \"My Family's Legacies for Life,\" and \"Christianity, Judaism & Islam - Eternal Truths & Current Myths.\"\n\n\"More than 1,000 participants will take part in 500 lectures, seminars, discussions and performances during the four-day event.\" The Clinton family attended Renaissance Weekend for 13 years. Some former attendees of Renaissance Weekend, listed by the year(s) of attendance have included;\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "181885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181885", "title": "Ribaldry", "text": "Ribaldry\n\nRibaldry, or blue comedy, is humorous entertainment that ranges from bordering on indelicacy to gross indecency. It is also referred to as \"bawdiness\", \"gaminess\" or \"bawdy\".\n\nSex is presented in ribald material more for the purpose of poking fun at the foibles and weaknesses that manifest themselves in human sexuality, rather than to present sexual stimulation either excitingly or artistically. Also, ribaldry may use sex as a metaphor to illustrate some non-sexual concern, in which case ribaldry may verge on the territory of satire.\n\nLike any humour, ribaldry may be read as conventional or subversive. Ribaldry typically depends on a shared background of sexual conventions and values, and its comedy generally depends on seeing those conventions broken.\n\nThe ritual taboo-breaking that is a usual counterpart of ribaldry underlies its controversial nature and explains why ribaldry is sometimes a subject of censorship. Ribaldry, whose usual aim is \"not\" \"merely\" to be sexually stimulating, often does address larger concerns than mere sexual appetite. However, being presented in the form of comedy, these larger concerns may be overlooked by censors.\n\nRibaldry differs from black comedy (or gallows humor) in that black comedy deals with topics which would normally considered painful or frightening whereas ribaldry deals with topics that would only be considered offensive.\n\nRibaldry is present to some degree in every culture and has likely been around for all of human history. Works like \"Lysistrata\" by Aristophanes, \"Menaechmi\" by Plautus, \"Cena Trimalchionis\" by Petronius, and \"The Golden Ass\" of Apuleius are ribald classics from ancient Greece and Rome. Geoffrey Chaucer's \"The Miller's Tale\" from his \"Canterbury Tales\" and \"The Crabfish\", one of the oldest English traditional ballads, are classic examples. The Frenchman François Rabelais showed himself to be a master of ribaldry (technically called grotesque body) in his \"Gargantua\" and other works. \"The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman\" by Laurence Sterne and \"The Lady's Dressing Room\" by Jonathan Swift are also in this genre; as is Mark Twain's long-suppressed \"1601\".\n\nAnother example of ribaldry is \"De Brevitate Vitae\", a song which in many European-influenced universities is both a student beer-drinking song and an anthem sung by official university choirs at public graduation ceremonies. The private and public versions of the song contain vastly different words. More recent works like \"Candy\", \"Barbarella\", \"L'Infermiera\", the comedic works of Russ Meyer, \"Little Annie Fanny\" and John Barth's \"The Sot-Weed Factor\" are probably better classified as ribaldry than as either pornography or erotica.\n\nA bawdy song is a humorous song that emphasises sexual themes and is often rich with innuendo. Historically these songs tend to be confined to groups of young males, either as students or in an environment where alcohol is flowing freely. An early collection was \"Wit and Mirth, or Pills to Purge Melancholy\", edited by Thomas D'Urfey and published between 1698 and 1720. Selected songs from \"Wit and Mirth\" have been recorded by the City Waites and other singers. Sailor's songs tend to be quite frank about the exploitative nature of the relationship between men and women. There are many examples of folk songs in which a man encounters a woman in the countryside. This is followed by a short conversation, and then sexual intercourse, e.g. \"The Game of All Fours\". Neither side demonstrates any shame or regret. If the woman becomes pregnant, the man will not be there anyway. Rugby songs are often bawdy. Examples of bawdy folk songs are: \"Seventeen Come Sunday\" and \"The Ballad of Eskimo Nell\". Robert Burns compiled \"The Merry Muses of Caledonia\" (the title is not Burns's), a collection of bawdy lyrics that were popular in the music halls of Scotland as late as the 20th century. In modern times Hash House Harriers have taken on the role of tradition-bearers for this kind of song. \"The Unexpurgated Folk Songs of Men\" (Arhoolie 4006) is a gramophone record containing a collection of American bawdy songs recorded in 1959.\n\nBlue comedy is comedy that is off-color, risqué, indecent or profane, largely about sex. It often contains profanity or sexual imagery that may shock and offend some audience members.\n\n\"Working blue\" refers to the act of using curse words and discussing things that people do not discuss in \"polite society\". A \"blue comedian\" or \"blue comic\" is a comedian who usually performs risqué routines layered with curse words. \n\nThere is a common belief that comedian Max Miller (1894–1963) coined the phrase, after his stage act which involved telling jokes from either a white book or a blue book, chosen by audience preference (the blue book contained ribald jokes). This is not so, as the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" contains earlier references to the use of blue to mean ribald: 1890 \"Sporting Times\" 25 Jan. 1/1 \"\"Shifter wondered whether the damsel knew any novel blue stories.\" and 1900 \"Bulletin\" (Sydney) 20 Oct. 12/4 \"Let someone propose to celebrate Chaucer by publicly reading some of his bluest productions unexpurgated. The reader would probably be locked up.\"\"\n\nPrivate events at show business clubs such as the Bob Saget Club and The Masquers often showed this blue side of otherwise cleancut Bob Saget; a recording survives of one Masquers roast from the 1950s with Jack Benny, George Jessel, George Burns, and Art Linkletter all using highly risqué material and obscenities. Many comedians who are normally family-friendly might choose to work blue when off-camera or in an adult-oriented environment; Bob Saget exemplifies this dichotomy. Bill Cosby's 1969 record album records both his family-friendly evening standup comedy show, and his blue midnight show, which included a joke about impregnating his wife \"right through the old midnight trampoline\" (her diaphragm) and other sexual references.\n\nSome comedians build their careers on blue comedy. Among the best known of these are Redd Foxx, Lawanda Page, and the team of Leroy and Skillet, all of whom later performed on the family-friendly television show Sanford and Son. Page, Leroy, and Skillet specialized in a particular African American form of blue spoken word recitation called signifying or toasting. Dave Attell has also been described by his peers as one of the greatest modern-day blue comics. \n\nOn talk radio in the United States, many commentators use blue comedy in their political programs. Examples include Neal Boortz, Eric Von Haessler, Phil Hendrie and Steve Morrison.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10532971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10532971", "title": "Science outreach", "text": "Science outreach\n\nScience outreach, also called Education and Public Outreach (EPO or E/PO) or simply public outreach, is an umbrella term for a variety of activities by research institutes, universities, and institutions such as science museums, aimed at promoting public awareness (and understanding) of science and making informal contributions to science education.\n\nWhile there have always been individual scientists interested in educating the public, science outreach has recently become more organized. For example, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) now requires all of its projects to organize suitable outreach activities. Also working to inform the public are organizations such as Communicating Astronomy to the Public and the Washington Declaration on Communicating Astronomy to the Public that organize conferences for the public on science issues and make efforts to put outreach on a more general institutional footing.\n\nRecently, an increasing number of projects have hired designated outreach scientists (part-time or full-time) that handle public relations for their project. There are also specialized outreach providers such as the Education branch of the Space Science Institute in Boulder, Colorado and the Education and Public Outreach Group at Sonoma State University which offer to organize a project's outreach activities on a contractual basis.\n\nIn addition to outreach by research institutions, an important part of informal science education are outreach programs such as science museums and science festivals.\n\nScience outreach can take on a variety of forms.\n\nLectures are probably the oldest form of science outreach, dating back to the 1820s when Michael Faraday organized the first of the Royal Institution's Christmas Lectures.\n\nPublic talks can be part of a lecture series, given at a science festival or in cooperation with a special interest group such as a local astronomy club. Public presentations can have a variety of formats, including straightforward lecture formats with or without experimental demonstrations, guided live interviews, and discussions with several participants and a moderator. There are also less formal initiatives such as Café Scientifique, in which a café or bar is the venue for regular meetings involving guest scientists that come to talk about their work or take part in discussions with members of the public.\n\nSchool students and teachers are an important target group for science outreach. Outreach activities can include scientists visiting schools, giving talks at assemblies, discussions with students, or participation in events such as career fairs and science and technology camps. One organization that focuses on this kind of science outreach is Robogals. Many universities also have science outreach programs that are dedicated to building relationships between high school students, university scientists, and K-12 teachers. A few of the most prominent university science outreach programs include Carolina Science Outreach, the Vanderbilt Student Volunteers for Science, the Rockefeller University Science Outreach Program, the Present Your Ph.D. Thesis to a 12-Year Old Outreach Project at University of Texas in Austin, and the Stanford University Office of Science Outreach. Using Canada as an example, it has been estimated that with sufficient organization, every classroom from kindergarten through graduation could in practice receive a visit from one or more scientists annually with participation from only 10-15% of the scientific enterprise. Some examples of science outreach programs in Canada include: Let's Talk Science, Actua, The Chemical Institute of Canada, and Science Rendezvous. \n\nInviting groups of school students to a research institution for a workshop is another popular form of outreach. Formats range from a one-day visit to more involved week-long events such as Perimeter Institute's International Summer School for Young Physicists, a two-week-long programs for a total of a hundred Canadian and international students from grade 11.\n\nAnother method of science outreach invites school teachers to participate in workshops where they are able to learn effective strategies to engage students in science. This approach was especially embraced by the Canadian Space Agency which held an annual \"Space Educators\" conference up until 2012 to provides teachers with access to resources to educate their students in space-related science.\n\nBesides organizing independent events, many outreach organizations sponsor existing events that promote sciences awareness. A notable examples are science fairs, public science events in which working scientists can participate both as judges and as sponsors of student projects.\n\nThe internet is a rich source of science activities, resources, and programs. For example, research laboratories often maintain educational outreach projects aimed at translating their science into something meaningful for the general public, often K-12 students, as an effort to increase research broader impacts required by funding agencies such as the NSF. These may include activities using fast-growing plants that exhibit distinctive mutants with unique phenotypes useful to teach K-12 students about both Mendelian and molecular genetics. Some institutions and organizations maintain large or small aggregations of their activity resources, outreach programs, upcoming events calendars, and partnering programs.\n\nA number of awards honor commitment to science outreach. Examples include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51125237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125237", "title": "September 11 National Day of Service", "text": "September 11 National Day of Service\n\nThe September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance or 9/11 Day is a federally-recognized day of unity and charitable service, annually observed throughout the United States and in other countries around the world on the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks. It has grown to become the largest annual day of charitable service in the United States.\n\nAccording to the nonprofit MyGoodDeed, which founded the September 11 National Day of Service and Remembrance (\"9/11 Day\") in 2002, the goal of \"9/11 Day\" is \"to keep alive the spirit of unity and compassion that arose in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks in tribute to the individuals lost and injured in the attacks, and the many who rose in service in response.\" The idea of making September 11 an annual day of service was first conceived in the winter of 2001 by David Paine, a former marketing executive from New York City. In the Spring of 2002 David was joined by his friend Jay Winuk, who had lost his brother Glenn Winuk in the attacks at the World Trade Center, and together they formed the nonprofit group called One Day's Pay. In 2007, the name of the organization was officially changed to MyGoodDeed. In 2009, MyGoodDeed successfully led an effort to designate September 11 under federal law as a National Day of Service and Remembrance, which occurred as part of passage of the bipartisan Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act by the United States Congress, and later, by an amendment to the Patriot Day Presidential Proclamation by President Barack Obama, which formally recognized and established September 11 as a National Day of Service and Remembrance. The Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act authorized the Corporation for National and Community Service (CNCS), a federal agency, to assist the 9/11 community in building awareness of and support for \"9/11 Day\" through its national service programs. In 2011, on the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks, MyGoodDeed, CNCS and the Points of Light Institute/HandsOn Network joined together to organize the largest day of charitable service in U.S. history, with more than 32 million Americans participating, according to research conducted by Horizon Consumer Science on behalf of MyGoodDeed. Today, 9/11 Day continues to engage nearly 30 million Americans annually in various forms of charitable service, including volunteering, donations to charities, and simple good deeds.\n\nActivities by volunteers on this federally-recognized National Day of Service and Remembrance happen all across the nation, and include lesson plans that engage tens of thousands of students of all ages in service activities; coast-to-coast blood drives; meal packing projects; painting and refurbishing homes; food drives; reclaiming neighborhoods; helping communities prepare for disasters; and countless other activities that support and honor those lost and injured on 9/11; veterans, soldiers, military families, and rescue and recovery workers, including first responders. Among the largest projects held annually are two large-scale hunger relief projects, one in New York City and another at the National Mall in Washington, DC, which mobilize a total of more than 7,000 volunteers who together pack over two million meals for individuals at risk of hunger. In Boston, thousands join together on 9/11 at the Rose Kennedy Greenway to assemble care packages for military personnel. Participants are encouraged to use the hashtag #911Day when posting online about the day.\n\n\nOfficial web site, http://911day.org\n"}
{"id": "28130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130", "title": "Sign", "text": "Sign\n\nA sign is an object, quality, event, or entity whose presence or occurrence indicates the probable presence or occurrence of something else. A natural sign bears a causal relation to its object—for instance, thunder is a sign of storm, or medical symptoms signify a disease. A conventional sign signifies by agreement, as a full stop signifies the end of a sentence; similarly the words and expressions of a language, as well as bodily gestures, can be regarded as signs, expressing particular meanings. The physical objects most commonly referred to as signs (notices, road signs, etc., collectively known as signage) generally inform or instruct using written text, symbols, pictures or a combination of these.\n\nThe philosophical study of signs and symbols is called semiotics; this includes the study of semiosis, which is the way in which signs (in the semiotic sense) operate.\n\nSemiotics, epistemology, logic, and philosophy of language are concerned about the nature of signs, what they are and how they signify. The nature of signs and symbols and significations, their definition, elements, and types, is mainly established by Aristotle, Augustine, and Aquinas. According to these classic sources, significance is a relationship between two sorts of things: signs and the kinds of things they signify (intend, express or mean), where one term necessarily causes something else to come to the mind. Distinguishing natural signs and conventional signs, the traditional theory of signs (Augustine) sets the following threefold partition of things:\nall sorts of indications, evidences, symptoms, and physical signals, there are signs which are \"always\" signs (the entities of the mind as ideas and images, thoughts and feelings, constructs and intentions); and there are signs that \"have\" to get their signification (as linguistic entities and cultural symbols). So, while natural signs serve as the source of signification, the human mind is the agency through which signs signify naturally occurring things, such as objects, states, qualities, quantities, events, processes, or relationships. Human language and discourse, communication, philosophy, science, logic, mathematics, poetry, theology, and religion are only some of fields of human study and activity where grasping the nature of signs and symbols and patterns of signification may have a decisive value. Communication takes place without words but via the mind as a result of signs and symbols; They communicate/pass across/ messages to the human mind through their pictorial representation.\n\nThe word \"sign\" has a variety of meanings in English, including:\n\nSt. Augustine was the first man who synthesized the classical and Hellenistic theories of signs. For him a sign is a thing which is used to signify other things and to make them come to mind (\"De Doctrina Christiana\" (hereafter DDC) 1.2.2; 2.1.1). The most common signs are spoken and written words (DDC 1.2.2; 2.3.4-2.4.5). Although God cannot be fully expressible, Augustine gave emphasis to the possibility of God’s communication with humans by signs in Scripture (DDC 1.6.6). Augustine endorsed and developed the classical and Hellenistic theories of signs. Among the mainstream in the theories of signs, i.e., that of Aristotle and that of Stoics, the former theory filtered into the works of Cicero (106-43 BC, \"De inventione rhetorica\" 1.30.47-48) and Quintilian (circa 35-100, \"Institutio Oratoria\" 5.9.9-10), which regarded the sign as an instrument of inference. In his commentary on Aristotle’s \"De Interpretatione\", Ammonius said, \"according to the division of the philosopher Theophrastus, the relation of speech is twofold, first in regard to the audience, to which speech signifies something, and secondly in regard to the things about which the speaker intends to persuade the audience.\" If we match DDC with this division, the first part belongs to DDC Book IV and the second part to DDC Books I-III. Augustine, although influenced by these theories, advanced his own theological theory of signs, with whose help one can infer the mind of God from the events and words of Scripture.\n\nBooks II and III of DDC enumerate all kinds of signs and explain how to interpret them. Signs are divided into natural (\"naturalia\") and conventional (\"data\"); the latter is divided into animal (\"bestiae\") and human (\"homines\"); the latter is divided into non-words (\"cetera\") and words (\"verba\"); the latter is divided into spoken words (\"voces\") and written words (\"litterae\"); the latter is divided into unknown signs (\"signa ignota\") and ambiguous signs (\"signa ambigua\"); both the former and the latter are divided respectively into particular signs (\"signa propria\") and figurative signs (\"signa translata\"), among which the unknown figurative signs belong to the pagans.\nIn addition to exegetical knowledge (Quintilian, \"Institutio Oratoria\" 1.4.1-3 and 1.8.1-21) which follows the order of reading (\"lectio\"), textual criticism (\"emendatio\"), explanation (\"enarratio\"), and judgment (\"iudicium\"), one needs to know the original language (Hebrew and Greek) and broad background information on Scripture (DDC 2.9.14-2.40.60).\n\nAugustine’s understanding of signs includes several hermeneutical presuppositions as important factors. First, the interpreter should proceed with humility, because only a humble person can grasp the truth of Scripture (DDC 2.41.62). Second, the interpreter must have a spirit of active inquiry and should not hesitate to learn and use pagan education for the purpose of leading to Christian learning, because all truth is God’s truth (DDC 2.40.60-2.42.63). Third, the heart of interpreter should be founded, rooted, and built up in love which is the final goal of the entire Scriptures (DDC 2.42.63).\n\nThe sign does not function as its own goal, but its purpose lies in its role as a signification (\"res significans\", DDC 3.9.13). God gave signs as a means to reveal himself; Christians need to exercise hermeneutical principles in order to understand that divine revelation. Even if the Scriptural text is obscure, it has meaningful benefits. For the obscure text prevents us from falling into pride, triggers our intelligence (DDC 2.6.7), tempers our faith in the history of revelation (DDC 3.8.12), and refines our mind to be suitable to the holy mysteries (DDC 4.8.22). When interpreting signs, the literal meaning should first be sought, and then the figurative meaning (DDC 3.10.14-3.23.33). Augustine suggests the hermeneutical principle that the obscure Scriptural verse is interpreted with the help of plain and simple verses, which formed the doctrine of \"scriptura scripturae interpres\" (Scripture is the Interpreter of Scripture) in the Reformation Era. Moreover, he introduces the seven rules of Tyconius the Donatist to interpret the obscure meaning of the Bible, which demonstrates his understanding that all truth belongs to God (DDC 3.3.42-3.37.56). In order to apply Augustine's hermeneutics of the sign appropriately in modern times, every division of theology must be involved and interdisciplinary approaches must be taken.\n"}
{"id": "14615711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14615711", "title": "Social impact of thong underwear", "text": "Social impact of thong underwear\n\nThe social impact of thong underwear has been covered extensively in the media, ranging from a ban on wearing thongs to thongs for the underaged. The rise of thong usage has been asserted by Christian minister Oneil McQuick to be linked to a rise of sexualization in society, and by Christian writer Philo Thelos to be linked to a rise in a desire to go unclothed.\n\nWhen discussing the trend of wearing thongs, Christian writer Sharon Daugherty comments in her book \"What Guys See That Girls Don't: Or Do They?\" that the fashion industry \"may have changed the mindset of our society\", which was followed by the observation that \"the whole idea of wearing so that no panty line or bumps can show isn't substantiated\" and that \"the thong was created by fashion designers to arouse sexual thoughts\".\n\nMonica Lewinsky gave evidence during the Lewinsky scandal that she was flirting with Bill Clinton in Leon Panetta's office, and that she lifted her jacket to show him the straps of her thong underwear above her pants. Some of the news media in America used thong underwear as a metonym for smut in the Starr Report. According to feminist commentator Carrie Lukas, Lewinsky \"with her thong-snapping seduction, forever changed the image of the D.C. junior staffer from aspiring policy wonk to sexual temptress.\"\n\nMarketing analysts Marian L. Salzman, Ira Matathia and Ann O'Reilly observed in the book \"Buzz: Harness the Power of Influence and Create Demand\" that thong brands are riding on the wide media coverage of thongs to create buzz. Photographer Lauren Greenfield wrote in her book \"Girl Culture\", \"Understanding the dialectic between the extreme and the mainstream – the anorexic and the dieter, the stripper and the teenager who bares her midriff or wears a thong – is essential to understanding contemporary feminine identity.\"\n\nIn 2004, political commentator Cedric Muhammad wrote in essay \"The Thong versus the Veil\", \"We wondered at the end of the day, of the two groups of women most prominently featured on American TV these days, who gains more respect for their intellect and spirit – the Afghan woman who is so totally veiled that you can't even see her eyes or the Black woman in the R&B and Hip-Hop video who dances while wearing a bikini and thong?\"\n\nThe dress code for St. Ambrose Academy, a Roman Catholic middle school and high school in Madison, Wisconsin, specifically addresses swimsuits with \"thong-cut legs\" as inappropriate. At Dixon High School in Dixon, California, the dress code specifies that all undergarments – specifically listing thongs, along with bras and briefs – must be covered. University of Victoria Law School briefly put the school logo on thongs, but quickly pulled them from sale after controversy sprung up.\n\nIn 1999 a Miami University male professor was banned from using the school's recreation center because he refused to stop wearing thong swimwear. The professor challenged the school in court. In 2000 a Salinas High School principal was in the center of a variety of controversies including bans on clothing to the extent that \"thong panties were unofficially banned.\" One student alleged that she was given a dress-code violation note for wearing a thong. This story made national headlines in the United States.\n\nIn 2002, a female high school vice principal in San Diego physically checked up to 100 female students' underwear as they entered the school for a dance, with or without student permission, causing an uproar among students and some parents and eliciting an investigation by the school into the vice principal's conduct. In her defense, the vice principal said the checks were for student safety and not specifically because of the wearing of thongs. In 2003, the head teacher of a British primary school voiced her concern after learning that female students as young as 10 were wearing thong underwear to school. This incident led to a media debate about the appropriateness of thong underwear marketed to young girls.\n\nThe University of California 4-H program specifically forbids \"string, thong or crochet\" swimsuits for women. For men, the dress code specifies \"swim trunks only (no shorts, cut-off pants, or Speedos).\" A similar policy by Virginia FCCLA bans \"skimpy bikini or thong type suits\" for women and specifies \"swim trunks\" for men (\"no speedos\").\n\nIn 2001, Vicky Botwright, then 16th seeded in women's squash circuit and dubbed the \"Lancashire Hot Bot\", was prohibited by the Women's International Squash Players Association (WISPA) from wearing a thong and a sports bra in the British Open Championships.\n\nIn 2004, Alexander Putnam competed in the London Marathon in a green thong and painted as a tropical tree to protest against logging in Congo.\n\nFemale bodybuilders in America are prohibited from wearing thong or T-back swimsuits if contests are being filmed for television, otherwise they are allowed to do so by certain fitness organizations.\n\nIn October 2002, Florida officials banned thongs from Daytona Beach and other public beaches.\n\nThe 2000s saw a rise in the popularity of thongs among younger girls, who have been dubbed \"thong feminists\" by comedian Janeane Garofalo. The trend has been attributed to pop idols like Britney Spears and Jennifer Lopez. In 2002 Abercrombie & Fitch released a line of thong underwear targeted for girls ages 10–16, though critics pointed out that children as young as seven could fit one of the thongs. A spokesman for A&F, Hampton Carney, stated that he could list \"at least 100 reasons why a young girl would want thong underwear.\" This controversy spawned a great deal of free publicity for Abercrombie, including a chain letter that received wide circulation. British retailer Argos produced child-size thongs and padded bras for girls as young as nine, eliciting a similar response from the public. Etam, another British retailer, produced sheer tops and thong underwear for girls of similar age. In Japan, photobooks and DVDs of underaged girls in T-back thongs has become popular as \"T-back Junior Idols\", which has come under scorn as a new form of child pornography.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24352014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24352014", "title": "Social protection", "text": "Social protection\n\nSocial protection, as defined by the United Nations Research Institute For Social Development, is concerned with preventing, managing, and overcoming situations that adversely affect people’s well being. Social protection consists of policies and programs designed to reduce poverty and vulnerability by promoting efficient labour markets, diminishing people's exposure to risks, and enhancing their capacity to manage economic and social risks, such as unemployment, exclusion, sickness, disability and old age.\n\nThe most common types of social protection:\n\n\nTraditionally, social protection has been used in the European welfare state and other parts of the developed world to maintain a certain living standard, and address transient poverty. One of the first examples of state-provided social protection can be tracked to the Roman Emperor Trajan, who expanded a program for free grain to include more poor citizens of the empire. In addition, he instituted public funds to support poor children. Organized welfare was not common until the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It was during this period that in both Germany and Great Britain, welfare systems were established to target the working classes (see National Insurance). The United States followed several years later, during the Great Depression, with emergency relief for those struck the hardest. However, modern social protection has grown to envelop a much broader range of issues and purposes; it is now being used as a policy approach in developing nations, to address issues of persistent poverty and target structural causes. Moreover, it is designed to lift recipients out of poverty, rather than exclusively providing passive protection against contingencies . social protection has rapidly been used in trying to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty and suffering in developing countries (mostly in Africa), so to enhance and promote economic and social growth.\n\nLabor market interventions, consisting of both active and passive policies, provide protection for the poor who are capable of gaining employment. Passive programs, such as unemployment insurance, income support and changes in labor legislation, allieviate the financial needs of the unemployed but are not designed to improve their employability. A European Union-funded research as part of the DRIVERS project revealed a linear\nrelationship between investments in national active labour market policies (specifically those directed towards integrating vulnerable groups into employment) and quality of work. It found that European countries with more active labour market policies seem to have healthier, less stressed workplaces.\n\nOn the other hand, active programs focus on directly increasing the access of unemployed workers. Active labour market policies (ALMPs) are used to reduce the risk of unemployment and to increase the earnings capacity of workers. ALMPs have two basic objectives: (1) economic, by increasing the ability of the unemployed to find jobs, and increase productivity and earnings; and (2) social, by improving the inclusion and participation of productive employment. These programs have the ability to increase employment opportunities and address the social problems that often accompany high unemployment. Active policies are a way of reversing the negative effects of industrial restructuring in transition economies and to help integrate vulnerable people furthest from the labor markets. ALMPs are often targeted to the long-term unemployed, workers in poor families, and particular groups with labor market disadvantages. These programs have important social, as well as economic, objectives. Active labor market programs include a wide range of activities to stimulate employment and productivity such as:\nA common issue in implementing successful labor market interventions is how to incorporate the informal economy, which comprises a significant portion of the workforce in developing countries. Informal employment comprises between half and three quarters of non-agricultural employment in the majority of these countries. The proportion of informal employment increases when agriculture is taken into account. Most informal workers are not covered by social security schemes, occupational safety and health measures, working conditions regulations and have limited access to health services and work-related measures of social protection. Labor market interventions work to integrate the different strategies to prevent and compensate occupational and social risks in the informal economy. The strategies that include measures to prevent and mitigate the impact of risks are the most effective.\n\nIn general, public expenditure on labor market policy (LMP) interventions falls within three main categories:\ntraining (2),\njob rotation & job sharing (3),\nemployment incentives (4),\nsupported employment & rehabilitation (5),\ndirect job creation (6),\nstart-up incentives (7),\n\nout-of-work income maintenance and support (8),\nearly retirement (9)\n\nSocial insurance schemes are contributory programs that protect beneficiaries from catastrophic expenses in exchange for regular payments of premiums. Health costs can be very high, so health insurance schemes are a popular way reducing risk in the event of shock. However, an individual with low income may not be able to afford insurance. Some argue that insurance schemes should be complemented with social assistance. Community-based health insurance allows pooling in settings where institutional capacity is too weak to organize nationwide risk-pooling, especially in low-income countries, making insurance more affordable. In risk-sharing schemes, the insurance premium is unrelated to the likelihood that the beneficiary will fall ill and benefits are provided on the basis of need.\n\nSocial assistance schemes comprise programs designed to help the most vulnerable individuals ( i.e., those with no other means of support such as single parent households, victims of natural disasters or civil conflict, handicapped people, or the destitute poor), households and communities to meet a Social floor and improve living standards. These programs consist of all forms of public action, government and non-government, that are designed to transfer resources, either cash or in-kind (e.g. food transfers), to eligible vulnerable and deprived persons. Social assistance interventions may include:\n\nThere are two main schools of thought concerning scope of social protection. Universalism argues that each person, by merit of simply being a citizen should be entitled to benefits from social protection programs. Such a policy would avoid means-testing and any conditionalities such as work requirements. One of the greatest benefits to this policy perspective is social solidarity, since everyone contributes collaboratively to a system that everyone also benefits from. Social security is one such example. Moreover, economists have argued that universalism is an investment in human capital that aids the development of a nation as a whole. The World Bank's 2019 World Development Report \"The Changing Nature of Work\" considers social protection from this perspective, describing existing schemes around the world and presenting simulation data on the potential costs.\nOpponents would argue that universalism is cost-ineffective and unfairly distorts individual efforts. Such an argument points toward targeting as a better solution. In such a case, the question arises of who should be the target population that receives benefits from social programs.\n\nNet income is the simplest method of determining a needy population. Some states use a Guaranteed Minimum Income system, in which all members of a state receive sufficient income to live on, so long as they meet certain conditions. However, proponents of the capabilities approach argue that income is easier to misrepresent, and moreover, fails to target the root causal factors of poverty. Hence, they recommend targeting a minimum level of basic capabilities that will impact quality of life, such as institutional improvements like health and education. Policy examples might include a social floor.\n\nSocial protection is an expensive and difficult endeavor, by any means; the question remains how best to implement programs that effectively aid the people who need it the most. Currently, there are a number of mechanisms that provide social protection in various nations. These policies and instruments vary according to country context. In some nations, governments are strongly involved in the provision of social protection, following a developmentalism model, in which social protection is seen as a tool to promote economic growth. There are also nations which are characterized by dualism, in which there is state-provided protection for those who work in the formal sector, but little to no protection for those who work in the informal sector. Finally, there are nations in which the economy is largely agrarian, and a great majority of the population works in the informal economy. In those countries that have only residual social protection coverage and weak state capacity,social protection is mainly provided by non-governmental means such as kin, NGOs, and individual philanthropic donations.\n\nIn South Korea and Taiwan, the government provides extensive support for public programs, following the developmentalism model, in which social protection is seen as a tool to promote economic growth.\n\nIn Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa, there is a dualist structure of protected formal sector workers and marginalized informal sector workers.,\n\nIn nations such as India and Tanzania, governments struggle to provide adequate social protection, and citizens must instead depend on non-state actors and informal provisioning.\n\nInternational donors and organizations have influenced social protection approaches both at the level of policy discourse and program design and implementation. Even though The World Bank and International Labour Organization (ILO) are the major donors and the lead organizations in the field, other organizations are also concerned with social protection.\n\nThe World Bank is a source of financial and technical assistance for developing countries. In order to identify social risks and potential responses, The World Bank developed a tool called “Social Risk Management” (SRM). The SRM framework includes interventions that focus on managing risks before shocks occur. It is based on two assessments: (1) the poor are most exposed to diverse risks, and (2) the poor have the fewest tools to deal with these risks. The main elements of the SRM framework are:\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) brings 30 democratic countries together to seek answers to common problems and coordinate domestic and international policies. The Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD is responsible for the Poverty Network (POVNET) that has become very influential on policy development. The DAC-POVNET focuses on the following areas:\n\nThe International Labour Organization, which covers both issues of social security and labor protection, has been the United Nations agency responsible for setting norms and standards at work. Currently the ILO focuses, amongst others, on the following strategies: \n\n\nsocialprotection.org\n"}
{"id": "53423325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53423325", "title": "Sophy Sanger", "text": "Sophy Sanger\n\nSophy Sanger (1881–1950) was an internationalist and labour law reformer.\n\nSophy Sanger was born on 3 January 1881 in Westcott, Surrey. She was the youngest daughter of the wealthy London businessman Charles Sanger and Jessie Alice Pulford. At the age of 15, she was sent to Dr. Elizabeth Dawes' school in Weybridge, where she was the only pupil to be taught mathematics. She went up to Newnham College, Cambridge in autumn 1899. Sophy began by studying the Mathematical Tripos from 1899 to 1902 and went on to read moral sciences in 1903. It was in Cambridge at a debate in the Newnham Parliament that Sophy first became interested in politics; listening to a speech by the Quaker Hilda Clark sparked in her a commitment to pacifism.\n\nSophy Sanger worked for the Women's Trade Union League from 1903 to 1909, setting up its legal advice bureau whilst learning labour law at University College London. Her work on insurance regulations for workplace compensation meant she was called to give evidence before a parliamentary commission in the House of Lords and she helped Labour MPs prepare their case for the Shops Bill.\n\nIn 1905, Sanger founded a British section of the International Association for Labour Legislation, publishing an English version of its French and German \"Bulletins\".\n\nBetween 1909 and 1919, she wrote for and edited \"World's Labour Laws\", a quarterly publication which campaigned on issues such as the abolition of child labour, the prohibition of the use of white phosphorus and lead and the prevention of anthrax. She believed that international cooperation and action on specific, practical reforms could effectively combat many worker's rights issues, for example: sweated labour, occupational disease and workplace injury.\n\nSophy Sanger was appointed chief of the International Labour Organization's legislative section, a post she held from its formation in 1919 until 1924. She returned to Britain in 1924 and read for the bar at Gray's Inn, publishing an authoritative article on labour law for the \"Encyclopaedia Britannica\"\n\nSanger died of illness on 7 December 1950 in Cambridge.\n"}
{"id": "1684824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684824", "title": "Spectacle", "text": "Spectacle\n\nIn general, spectacle refers to an event that is memorable for the appearance it creates. Derived in Middle English from c. 1340 as \"specially prepared or arranged display\" it was borrowed from Old French \"spectacle\", itself a reflection of the Latin \"spectaculum\" \"a show\" from \"spectare\" \"to view, watch\" frequentative form of \"specere\" \"to look at.\" The word \"spectacle\" has also been a term of art in theater dating from the 17th century in English drama.\nCourt masques and masques of the nobility were most popular in the Jacobean and Caroline era. Such masques, as their name implies, relied heavily upon a non-verbal theater. The character lists for masques would be quite small, in keeping with the ability of a small family of patrons to act, but the costumes and theatrical effects would be lavish. Reading the text of masques, such as \"The Masque at Ludlow\" (most often referred to as \"Comus\"), the writing is spare, philosophical, and grandiose, with very few marks of traditional dramatic structure. This is partially due to the purpose of the masque being family entertainment and spectacle. Unlike \"The Masque at Ludlow\", most masques were recreations of well-known mythological or religious scenes. Some masques would derive from tableau. For example, Edmund Spenser (\"Fairie Queene\" I, iv) describes a masque of \"The Seven Deadly Sins\". \n\nMasques were multimedia, for they almost always involved costuming and music as a method of conveying the story or narrative. Ben Jonson, for example, wrote masques with the architect Inigo Jones. William Davenant, who would become one of the major impresarios of the English Restoration, also wrote pre-Revolutionary masques with Inigo Jones. The role of the architect was that of designer of the staging, which would be elaborate and often culminate in a fireworks show.\n\nWhen the zoetrope and nickelodeon technology first appeared, the earliest films were spectacles. They caught the attention of common people. They showed things people would rarely see, and they showed it to the wide audience.\n\nWithin industrial and post-industrial cultural and state formations, spectacle has been appropriated to describe appearances that are purported to be simultaneously enticing, deceptive, distracting and superficial. (Jonathan Crary: 2005) Current academic theories of spectacle \"highlight how the productive forces of marketing, often associated with media and Internet proliferation, create symbolic forms of practice that are emblematic of everyday situations\".\n\nSpectacle can also refer to a society that critics describe as dominated by electronic media, consumption, and surveillance, reducing citizens to spectators by political neutralization. Recently the word has been associated with the many ways in which a capitalist structure is purported to create play-like celebrations of its products and leisure time consumption. The work of French Marxist thinker Guy Debord is perhaps the best-known example of this critical analysis; see his \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9298332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9298332", "title": "The Automated Society", "text": "The Automated Society\n\nIn a diagram from the book \"The Automated Society\", Bloomfield defines the history of humanity beginning over two million years ago and ending over a hundred thousand years in the future. The diagram is base on biological punctuated equilibrium and a parallel cultural evolution. The predictions of the future follow what has happened in the past.\n\nThe diagram of history shows humanity having long periods of stability interrupted with short periods of transition. Humanity is currently experiencing one of those short periods of transition, from a stable agricultural period going through a transitional industrial society leading to a stable automated period. Productivity is the key to the transition; when it is impossible to increase productivity, humanity will have arrived at the automated society.\n\nBefore humanity enters the automated society, we will suffer from two near term trends. One trend is the relentlessly increasing number of human beings. The second is the relentlessly decreasing number of jobs. Jobs will be eliminated by substituting men with machines. An example of this is agriculture where once in the peasant society there were ninety percent of the people working as farmers. With the introduction of tractors, only three percent of Americans work on the farm.\n\nOnce the problems of the lack of jobs, increased pollution and fewer natural resources are solved and the food factory put in operation, there should be a reconciliation of man to automation. In the automated society, men will live in affluence along with a total control of population. The one place where man will have an unlimited future will be in space. Space can provide for an unlimited increase in population and potentially the introduction of new human biological species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23606990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23606990", "title": "Thevar Jayanthi", "text": "Thevar Jayanthi\n\nThevar Jayanthi, celebrated on 30 October, is an annual commemoration of the birthday of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar. It is celebrated in a grand way by the Thevar community in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. Although not an official public holiday, many schools and businesses in the area remain closed on the day.\n\nWhilst having been active in politics, it is mainly the spiritual discourse of Thevar that explains his following after his death. Also, the fact that his date of birth and death lie some close to each other has been interpreted as a sign of supernatural powers.\n\nOne of the main events on Thevar Jayanthi takes place at the \"samadhi\" (burial place) of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar, located at some 50 miles distance from Madurai. Pilgrims gather to take part in the ceremonies at the \"samadhi\" on 30 October. In later years the ceremony at the \"samadhi\" has begun to attract prominent politicians.\n\nThe All India Forward Bloc, the political party to which Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar belonged, has demanded that Thevar Jayanthi be declared a public holiday in Tamil Nadu.\n\nThe event is not entirely uncontroversial. The CPI(ML) Liberation has charged that the Tamil Nadu government should stop sponsoring Thevar Jayanthi celebrations, claiming that the event is utilised by casteist forces.\n\nOn 30 October 2007, the birth centenary of Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar was celebrated. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi took part in the celebrations in Pasumpon village. This was the first time in two decades that Karunanidhi participated in Thevar Jayanthi. At the celebrations, Karunanidhi suggested that Madurai Airport be renamed after Pasumpon Muthuramalingam Thevar. These moves were seen as an attempt by Karunanidhi's Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party to challenge the supremacy of the rival All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) over the Thevar community. The AIADMK leader J. Jayalalitha criticised Karunanidhi's participation in the Thevar Jayanthi centenary programme, stating that he did not believe in Thevar's ideas. Moreover, she claimed that her previous government had allocated 30 million rupees for the Thevar Jayanthi centenary, but that Karunanidhi's government had spent only five million rupees.\n"}
{"id": "14199230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14199230", "title": "USPID", "text": "USPID\n\nUSPID (\"Unione Scienziati per il Disarmo\" in Italian) is the Italian Union of Scientists for Disarmament, an association established in 1982 with the purpose of providing information about and analysis of arms control and disarmament.\n\nMembers of USPID believe that this task is part of the social responsibility of scientists.\n\nThe issues addressed by USPID include nuclear arms-control and disarmament, nuclear proliferation, consequences of nuclear explosions, control of fissile material, developments of military technology, conventional disarmament, chemical and biological disarmament, problems of conflicts and conflict resolution.\n\nMembers of USPID, both individually and collectively, share their views with Italian policy-makers and opinion-makers.\n\nUSPID organizes conferences and meetings, including the biennial Castiglioncello conference (now at its 11th edition), courses and seminars in Italian Universities, courses for high-school teachers.\n\nUSPID promotes the establishment of inter-departmental Centers affiliated to Italian Universities, and has actively collaborated for many years with the CIRP-UniBa (Centro Interdipartimentale di Ricerche sulla Pace, University of Bari).\n\nUSPID collaborates with international organizations of scientists and other Italian institutions, such as Archivio Disarmo (Roma), Forum per i Problemi della Pace e della Guerra (Firenze). Members of USPID participate in Pugwash and ISODARCO meetings.\n\nIn 1995 USPID began a standing collaboration with Landau Network-Centro Volta, Como (Italy). This institution organizes, together with UNESCO and under the sponsorship of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, conferences and research projects on different topics, including disarmament, non-proliferation and scientific-technological aspects of International Security.\n\n"}
