{"id": "32480611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32480611", "title": "Association of Art Historians", "text": "Association of Art Historians\n\nThe Association of Art Historians (AAH) promotes the professional practice and public understanding of art history. It was formed in 1974, is based in London, England, and is a registered charity (No. 1154066).\n\nIndividual membership is open to anyone with a professional commitment to and interest in art history and visual culture. Institutional membership is also available.\n\nMembers can get involved in the following interest groups:\n\n\nThe Association is governed by a Board of Trustees. For the year ended 31 December 2010, the AAH had a gross income of £396,818 and expenditure of £359,507 according to accounts filed with the Charity Commission.\n\nThere is a quarterly newsletter, the \"Bulletin\", and a scholarly journal \"Art History\" published five times a year in association with Wiley-Blackwell, which is peer-reviewed.\n\nRegular events take place, often organised by volunteers from the various member interest groups, together with an annual conference.\n\nThe AAH is affiliated with the US College Art Association (CAA) and supports the Comité International d'Histoire de l'Art (CIHA).\n\n"}
{"id": "23463062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23463062", "title": "Australian Teachers of Media", "text": "Australian Teachers of Media\n\nThe Australian Teachers Of Media or ATOM is an independent, not-for-profit, professional association that promotes the study of media and screen literacy. The membership of ATOM includes a collective of educators from across all subject disciplines at all levels of education, the screen media industry and, increasingly, the general public interested in the media. \n\nThe national organisation is responsible for the ATOM Awards that have been presented annually since 1982. The awards celebrate the best of Australian screen content from the education sector and screen industry professionals, and now feature the 1 Minute Film Competition and ATOM Photo Comp.\n\nATOM publishes Australia's longest running film publication, Metro Magazine and Screen Education; creates and distributes education resources including study guides; and hosts professional development for teachers and screenings.\n\nATOM aims to foster and encourage a generation of students who are both multi-literate and technologically savvy.\n\nThrough the publishing of both Metro Magazine and Screen Education and through convening the ATOM Awards and the ATOM Australian International Multimedia Awards, ATOM actively promotes media literacy in Australia and internationally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34416580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34416580", "title": "Backchannel (linguistics)", "text": "Backchannel (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, backchannels are listener responses at a point in time of a conversation where another person is the primary speaker. Backchannels can be both verbal and non-verbal in nature, and are frequently phatic expressions, primarily serving a social or meta-conversational purpose, rather than involving substantial two-way communication.\n\nThe term was coined by Victor Yngve in 1970, in the following passage: \"In fact, both the person who has the turn and his partner are simultaneously engaged in both speaking and listening. This is because of the existence of what I call the back channel, over which the person who has the turn receives short messages such as 'yes' and 'uh-huh' without relinquishing the turn.\"\n\nThe term \"backchannel\" was designed to imply that there are two channels of communication operating simultaneously during a conversation. The predominant channel is that of the speaker who directs primary speech flow. The secondary channel of communication (or backchannel) is that of the listener which functions to provide \"continuers\" or \"assessments\", defining a listener's comprehension and/or interest. Recent research, which can be seen below, has also suggested new terms for these two functions. They have proposed the term \"generic\" in place of \"continuers\" and \"specific\" in place of \"assessments\".\n\nBackchannel communication is present in all cultures and languages, though frequency and use may vary. Confusion or distraction can occur during an intercultural encounter if participants from both parties are not accustomed to the same backchannel norms.\n\nDue to research development in recent years, backchannel responses have been expanded to include sentence completions, requests for clarification, brief statements, and non-verbal responses and now fall into three categories: non-lexical, phrasal, and substantive. \n\nA non-lexical backchannel is a vocalized sound that has little or no referential meaning but still verbalizes the listener's attention, and that frequently co-occurs with gestures. In English, sounds like \"uh-huh\" and \"hmm\" serve this role. Non-lexical backchannels generally come from a limited set of sounds not otherwise widely used in contentful conversational speech; as a result, they can be used to express support, surprise, or a need for clarification at the same time as someone else's conversational turn without causing confusion or interference.\n\nEnglish allows for the reduplication, or repetition, of syllables within a non-lexical backchannel, such as in responses like \"uh-huh\", \"mm-hm\", or \"um-hm\", as well as for single-syllable backchanneling. In a study examining the use of two-syllable backchannels that focused on \"mm\" and \"mm-hm\", Gardner found that the two tokens are generally not identical in function, with \"mm\" being used more productively as a continuer, a weak acknowledgment token, and a weak assessment marker. In contrast, \"mm-hm\" is generally used as a backchannel to signal that the speaker is yielding their conversational turn and allowing the other speaker to maintain control of the conversational floor.\n\nPhrasal backchannels most commonly assess or acknowledge a speaker's communication with simple words or phrases (for example, \"Really?\" or \"Wow!\" in English). Substantive backchannels consist of more substantial turn-taking by the listener and usually manifest as asking for clarification or repetitions.\n\nOne of the conversational functions of phrasal backchannels is to assess or appraise a previous utterance. Goodwin argues that this is the case for the phrasal backchannel \"oh wow\", where use of the backchannel requires a specific conversational context where something unexpected or surprising was said. Similarly, more substantive backchannels such as \"oh come on, are you serious?\" require a context where the speaker is responding to something exasperating or frustrating. In both of these cases, Goodwin argues that the backchannels focus only on addressing some aspect of the immediately proceeding utterance rather than the larger conversation itself. As a result, they have a broad conversational distribution, appearing both in the middle of extended talk as well as at the end of longer conversational turns.\n\nMore recent research has pushed back on the notion of backchannels, in which the listener's role is merely to receive information provided by the speaker. Bavelas, Coates, and Johnson put forth evidence that listeners' responses help shape the content of the speaker. They grouped acknowledgment tokens into two categories: generic and specific. Generic responses could be considered back channels and would include \"mm hm\" and \"yeah\", while specific responses would involve a reaction to the given context. Examples might include \"Oh!\" or a facial display of concern.\n\nThey transcribed students telling a fellow participant about a close call experience that they had had. With one group of participants, they had the listener perform another task to distract them from the story being told. The researchers asked independent reviewers to code the verbal and visual responses of the narration events as generic or specific. They also asked other independent reviewers to gauge the quality of the narration in each case.\n\nThey concluded that the responses from the distracted listeners included significantly fewer specific responses than from the undistracted listeners. In addition, they found that the quality of the narration was dramatically lower when the listener was distracted. Their basic contention was that listeners are co-narrators and help the storyteller in his or her narration. In other words, a storyteller tells a better story with an audience that is engaged than one that is not.\n\nTolins and Foxtree have also published research demonstrating how backchannel communication influences speakers. Their research was specifically looking at how speakers respond to generic responses compared to specific responses.\n"}
{"id": "30801947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30801947", "title": "Best Enemies", "text": "Best Enemies\n\nBest Enemies is an education resource and film created by Ross and Darren Bark that discusses the cyber bullying problem in Australian schools, and explores how to tackle it and help students become pro-active in reporting and stopping it.\n\nBest Enemies has also been used as a community-based education program that illustrates the issue of cyber bullying through a film based on a true story of a 15-year-old girl whose best friend betrayed her in a bullying campaign conducted via SMS and online messaging.\n\nThe program targets schools and youth organisations to address the causes and consequences of the serious social problem of cyber bullying and cyber safety. The program is supported by Youth Interagency Groups, the Department of Education and Training and various agencies of the NSW Government.\n\nThe Best Enemies study guide and cybersafety resource was produced by The Australian Teachers of Media and is also distributed by The Education Shop.\n\nThe program is supported by Hoyts, Girlfriend Magazine, Mentos Cube, Myspace and Point Zero Youth Services.\n\nIn March 2013, Best Enemies and The Bully Free Australia Foundation signed a partnership agreement with a vision to \"protect and empower Australian children and adolescents to live a fulfilling life free from all forms of bullying\".\n\nOn 16 March 2013, the Prime Minister, Julia Gillard formally opened The Bully Free Australia Foundation at Essendon Airport to a crowd of more than 400 people.\n\n"}
{"id": "4459843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4459843", "title": "Chironomia", "text": "Chironomia\n\nChironomia is the art of using gesticulations or hand gestures to good effect in traditional rhetoric or oratory. Effective use of the hands, with or without the use of the voice, is a practice of great antiquity, which was developed and systematized by the Greeks and the Romans. Various gestures had conventionalized meanings which were commonly understood, either within certain class or professional groups, or broadly among dramatic and oratorical audiences.\n\nGilbert Austin was a well-known author on chironomia. The article about him contains a summary of theories in chironomia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50706211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50706211", "title": "Cléopâtre captive", "text": "Cléopâtre captive\n\nCléopâtre captive is a five-act tragedy by Étienne Jodelle, presented on 9 February 1553, first before the King Henri II of France in the Hôtel de Reims, then at the Collège de Boncourt. The play is part of the posthumous collection \"Les Œuvres et meslanges poetiques d'Estienne Jodelle Sieur du Lymodin\" (1574). Remy Belleau played the role of Cleopatra, Jean Bastier de La Péruse, that of Octavian. It was the first \"\", and Jodelle composed it in parallel with the first \"humanist comedy\", \"\".\n\nThe performance was a success, and was followed by a celebration in the antique manner in Arcueil, bringing together all participants and friends for a party known as the .\n\n\nJodelle was the first to use alexandrines in a tragedy (acts I and IV), but he also resorted to decasyllables (acts II, III, V). In the choirs, he resorted to various meters: some verse have only three syllables.\n\nThe subject is taken from Plutarch (\"Life of Antony\"). The action is reduced: the play tells the decision to die taken by Cleopatra and its implementation.\n\n"}
{"id": "440049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440049", "title": "Council for the Development of French in Louisiana", "text": "Council for the Development of French in Louisiana\n\nThe Council for the Development of French in Louisiana (CODOFIL; ) is Louisiana's Office of Francophone Affairs (). It is a state agency whose multiple legislative mandates include developing opportunities to use the French language in tourism, economic development, culture, education and international relations. CODOFIL is governed by a board of 23 members and administratively placed within the Louisiana Office of Cultural Development's Department of Culture, Recreation and Tourism, overseen by the Lieutenant Governor. CODOFIL is the only state agency in the United States whose purpose is to serve a linguistic population.\n\nToday, CODOFIL's role is to promote and support French immersion and French as a second language in education; it acts as a partner to the Louisiana Department of Education (LDOE), whose role is to manage Louisiana's school districts. CODOFIL continues to recruit and sponsor French, Belgian and Canadian associate teachers as per its accords with those countries, who are placed alongside local teachers upon LDOE's recommendation. CODOFIL encourages Louisiana Francophones to continue transmission of the state's heritage language via its scholarship program (providing opportunities for pedagogical advancement) and the Escadrille Louisiane program (which allows non-native speakers to perfect French at the Université de Rennes in exchange for a minimum 3-year teaching commitment of French in Louisiana).\n\nCODOFIL has also worked to instill pride all Louisiana Francophones in their linguistic identity rather than to uphold one variety of French language or another.\n\nCODOFIL's mission is to \"work toward the creation of an eco-system that permits the development of French in the economic, educational, cultural and professional sectors and in which Louisiana's French and Creole speakers are valorized in their cultural and linguistic identity.\" It seeks to \"provide access to economic, educational, cultural and professional opportunities in French to all Louisianians.\"\n\nCODOFIL originally consisted of a chairman and an advisory committee, all appointed by the governor of Louisiana. Today it is administered by a president, an executive director, and a board of as many as 23 non-paid directors. In addition to the governor, various Louisiana organizations nominate and select board members, who serve for a term of 4 years.\n\nJames R. Domengeaux, a former state legislator and former United States Congressman of ethnic French descent, was the driving force behind CODOFIL's creation. A semi-retired attorney at the time, Domengeaux began his crusade for restoring French in Louisiana after Senator Edgar G. \"Sonny\" Mouton, Jr., of Lafayette obtained passage of an \"urge-and-request\" resolution for Louisiana school boards to help reverse the decline of the use of the French language within the state. Domengeaux traveled around Louisiana to gain support for his campaign to make Louisiana a bilingual state through French language education. By the spring of 1968, Domengeaux had gained enough interest from the public and support from officials, to present his plan to the legislature. Legislators, such as J. Burton Angelle of Breaux Bridge \nvoted to create CODOFIL, and the measure was signed into law in July 1968 by Governor John McKeithen. The law empowered CODOFIL to \"do any and all things necessary to accomplish the development, utilization, and preservation of the French language ... for the cultural, economic, and tourist[ic] benefit of the State.\"\n\nCODOFIL's early efforts to introduce French language education in public classrooms were criticized by many observers. They criticized its emphasis on international French instead of that common to Louisiana, and its use of Francophone teachers from France, Switzerland, Belgium, and Canada, rather than local teachers. Administrators were said to be deprecating toward the Cajun culture it claimed to be saving.\n\n"}
{"id": "101140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=101140", "title": "Cultural resources management", "text": "Cultural resources management\n\nIn the broadest sense, cultural resources management (CRM) is the vocation and practice of managing cultural resources, such as the arts and heritage. It incorporates Cultural Heritage Management which is concerned with traditional and historic culture. It also delves into the material culture of archaeology. Cultural resources management encompasses current culture, including progressive and innovative culture, such as urban culture, rather than simply preserving and presenting traditional forms of culture.\n\nHowever, the broad usage of the term is relatively recent and as a result it is most often used as synonymous with heritage management. In the United States, cultural resources management is not usually divorced from the heritage context. The term is, \"used mostly by archaeologists and much more occasionally by architectural historians and historical architects, to refer to managing historic places of archaeological, architectural, and historical interests and considering such places in compliance with environmental and historic preservation laws.\" \n\nCultural resources include both physical assets such as archaeology, architecture, paintings and sculptures and also intangible culture such as folklore and interpretative arts, such as storytelling and drama. Cultural resource managers are typically in charge of museums, galleries, theatres etc., especially those that emphasize culture specific to the local region or ethnic group. Cultural tourism is a significant sector of the tourism industry.\n\nAt a national and international level, cultural resource management may be concerned with larger themes, such as languages in danger of extinction, public education, the ethos or operation of multiculturalism, and promoting access to cultural resources. The Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity is an attempt by the United Nations to identify exemplars of intangible culture.\n\nCultural resource management can trace its beginning to the environment/conservational movement in the 1960s and 1970s. During this time, there was growth in legislation concerning the protection of cultural resources. The Archaeological and Historic Preservation Act of 1974, commonly known as the Moss-Bennett Act, helped to fuel the creation of CRM, while creating “growth in archaeological jobs in the federal government, academia, and private sector.” Federal legislation had passed earlier in 1906 under the Antiquities Act, but it was not until the 1970s when the term “cultural resources” was coined by the National Park Service. This term came into more popular usage after two meetings in 1974: the Cultural Resource Management conference and the Airlie House conference. Following these conferences, the National Park Service (NPS) defined cultural resources in the Cultural Resource Management Guidelines as being:\n\n“Those tangible and intangible aspects of cultural systems, both living and dead, that are valued by or representative of a given culture or that contain information about a culture…[They] include but are not limited to sites, structures, districts, objects, and historic documents associated with or representative of peoples, cultures, and human activities and events, either in the present or in the past. Cultural resources also can include primary written and verbal data for interpretation and understanding of those tangible resources.” \n\nCultural resources management in the heritage context is mainly concerned with the investigation of sites with archaeological potential, the preservation and interpretation of historic sites and artifacts, and the culture of indigenous people. The subject developed from initiatives in rescue archaeology, sensitivities to the treatment of indigenous people, and subsequent legislation to protect cultural heritage.\n\nIn the 1970s, archaeologists created the term \"cultural resource management\" as a parallel to natural resource management to address the following resources:\n\nA significant proportion of the archaeological investigation in countries that have heritage management legislation including the United States and United Kingdom is conducted on sites under threat of development. In the US, such investigations are now done by private companies on a consulting basis, and a national organization exists to support the practice of CRM. Museums, besides being popular tourist attractions, often play roles in conservation of, and research on, threatened sites, including as repositories for collections from sites slated for destruction.\n\nIn the United States, a common Cultural Resource Management task is the implementation of a Section 106 review: CRM archaeologists determine whether federally funded projects are likely to damage or destroy archaeological sites that may be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places. This process commonly entails one or more archaeological field surveys.\n\nCultural resource management features people from a wide array of disciplines. The general education of most involved in CRM includes, but is not limited to, sociology, archaeology, architectural history, cultural anthropology, social and cultural geography, and other fields in the social sciences.\n\nIn the field of cultural resource management there are many career choices. One could obtain a career with an action agency that works directly with the NEPA or even more specifically, Native American resources. There are also careers that can be found in review agencies like the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP), or the state historic preservation office (SHPO) Beyond these choices, one could also obtain a career as part of the local government and work with planning agencies, housing agencies, social service agencies, local museums, libraries, or educational institutions. Jobs at private cultural resource management companies can range from field technicians (see shovelbum) to principal investigators, project archaeologists, historic preservationists, and laboratory work. One could also become a part of an advocacy organization, such as the National Trust for Historic Preservation.\n\nIt is commonly debated in cultural resource management how to determine whether cultural or archaeological sites should be considered significant or not. The criteria that is stated by the National Register of Historic Places is said to be able to be “interpreted in different ways so that the significance… may be subjectively argued for many cultural resources.” Another issue that arises among scholars is that “protection does not necessarily mean preservation.” Any public projects occurring near the cultural resource can have adverse effects. Development plans for a proposed project may not be able to be changed to limit impact and to avoid damage to the resource.\n\nThe vocation of management in cultural and creative sectors is the subject of research and improvement initiatives, by organizations such as Arts and Business which take a partnership approach to involving professional business people in running and mentoring arts organizations. Some universities now offer vocational degrees.\n\nThe management of cultural heritage is underpinned by academic research in archaeology, ethnography and history. The broader subject is also underpinned by research in sociology and culture studies.\n\nUnderstanding the traditional cultures of all peoples (Indigenous or not) is essential in mitigating the adverse impact of development and ensuring that intervention by more developed nations is not prejudicial to the interests of local people or results in the extinction of cultural resources.\n\nCultural resources policies have developed over time with the recognition of the economic and social importance of heritage and other cultural assets.\n\nThe exploitation of cultural resources can be controversial, particularly where the finite cultural heritage resources of developing countries are exported to satisfy the demand for antiquities market in the developed world. The exploitation of the potential intellectual property of traditional remedies in identifying candidates for new drugs has also been controversial. On the other hand, traditional crafts can be important elements of income from tourism, performance of traditional dances, and music that is popular with tourists and traditional designs can be exploited in the fashion industry. Popular culture can also be an important economic asset.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1663283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1663283", "title": "Dialogus de oratoribus", "text": "Dialogus de oratoribus\n\nThe Dialogus de oratoribus is a short work attributed to Tacitus, in dialogue form, on the art of rhetoric. Its date of composition is unknown, though its dedication to Lucius Fabius Justus places its publication around 102 AD.\n\nThe dialogue itself, set in the 70s AD, follows the tradition of Cicero's speeches on philosophical and rhetorical arguments. It is set in the home of Curiatius Maternus, one of the speakers, to whom two leading lawyers of the day, Marcus Aper and Julius Secundus, have come to discuss a recent event; the fourth speaker, Gaius Vipstanus Messalla Gallus, arrives later. All four men are attested historical personages. The beginning of the work is a speech in defence of eloquence and poetry. It then deals with the decadence of oratory, for which the cause is said to be the decline of the education, both in the family and in the school, of the future orator. The education is not as accurate as it once was; the teachers are not prepared and a useless rhetoric often takes the place of the general culture.\n\nAfter a lacuna, the \"Dialogus\" ends with a speech delivered by Maternus reporting what some believe is Tacitus's opinion. Maternus thinks that great oratory was possible with the freedom from any power, more precisely in the anarchy, that characterized the Roman Republic during the civil wars. It became anachronistic and impracticable in the quiet and ordered society that resulted from the institution of the Roman Empire. The peace, warranted by the Empire, should be accepted without regret for a previous age that was more favorable to the wide spread of literacy and the growth of great personality.\n\nSome believe that at the base of all of Tacitus's work is the acceptance of the Empire as the only power able to save the state from the chaos of the civil wars. The Empire reduced the space of the orators and of the political men, but there is no viable alternative to it. Nevertheless, Tacitus does not accept the imperial government apathetically, and he shows, as in the \"Agricola\" the remaining possibility of making choices that are dignified and useful to the state.\n\nThe date of publication of the \"Dialogus\" is uncertain, but it was probably written after the \"Agricola\" and the \"Germania\". Many characteristics set it apart from the other works of Tacitus, so much so that the its authenticity may be questioned, even if it is always grouped with the \"Agricola\" and the \"Germania\" in the manuscript tradition. The way of speaking in the \"Dialogus\" seems closer to the model of Cicero, refined but not prolix, which inspired the teaching of Quintilian; it lacks the incongruities that are typical of Tacitus's major historical works. It may have been written when Tacitus was young; its dedication to Fabius Iustus would thus give the date of publication, but not the date of writing. More probably, the unusually classical style may be explained by the fact that the \"Dialogus\" is a work of rhetoric. For this genre the structure, the language, and the style of Cicero were the usual models.\n\n"}
{"id": "3782069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3782069", "title": "Digital rhetoric", "text": "Digital rhetoric\n\nDigital rhetoric is a way of informing, persuading, and inspiring action in an audience through digital media. It is an advancing form of communication composed, created, and distributed through multimedia platforms. Rhetoric combines multiple methods such as persuasion, effective writing, and effective speaking to present information in inventive ways. The meaning of rhetoric has changed over time, developing with changes in technologies. Online media are increasingly used as communication and information platforms, and since more text is placed online, there is more opportunity for persuasion through innovative and creative means. Because of this shift in rhetoric, the relationship between writers and readers has changed in form, communication style, and effectiveness. Digital rhetoric is advancing and changing how people choose to communicate their ideas with broader audiences. Both rhetoric and digital rhetoric hold various meanings and definitions depending upon who is looking at it; for example, the online journal \"Harlot of the Arts\" holds a competition through Twitter for people to define rhetoric, and the submissions are extremely varied.\n\nThe term digital rhetoric was coined by rhetorician Richard A. Lanham in his 1993 essay collection, \"The Electronic Word: Democracy, Technology, and the Arts\". In 2009, rhetorician Elizabeth Losh offered this four-part definition of digital rhetoric in her book, \"Virtualpolitik\":\n\n\nLosh's definition demonstrates that digital rhetoric is a heterodoxical field, one that relies on different methods to study various permutations of information: as code, as text, as visuals, as videos, and so on.\n\nThough influenced by Lanham and Losh, Douglas Eyman also offers a definition of digital rhetoric in his 2015 book \"Digital Rhetoric: Theory, Method, Practice\": “... the application of rhetorical theory (as analytic method or heuristic for production) to digital texts and performances”. Eyman’s definition demonstrates that digital rhetoric can be applied in two ways: 1) as an analytic method, digital rhetoric can be used to analyze a digital text, and 2) as a heuristic for production. It offers rhetorical questions that a composer can use to create digital texts.\n\nEyman locates the emerging field of digital rhetoric as interdisciplinary in nature, enriched by related fields such as, but not limited to: digital literacy, visual rhetoric, new media, human-computer interaction and critical code studies.\n\nAs the power of technology grows, so too do the uses and scope of digital rhetoric. This includes schools offering online classes and test-taking, online news sources including scholarly journals and online editions of newspapers, and people searching for information online rather than consult a more traditional means such as an encyclopedia. Teachers can use podcasts, YouTube videos, and social media sites like Facebook and LinkedIn to facilitate discussions and increase students' interest in a topic. In addition, they can make use of distance learning modules, as a form of online teaching. In academia, online journals allow for information to be more accessible due to the use of digital rhetoric. Writers also have more opportunities to write in various formats instead of a traditional linear format. In social media, people come into contact with digital rhetoric on a daily basis whether it be an updated Facebook status, a 140 character tweet, or even the use of visual rhetoric on websites such as Instagram. Social media is being used universally to allow for people to connect from all places. The choice of one's rhetoric can influence and alter other peoples opinions and thoughts on certain subjects impacting the ideology of collective identity vs. individual identities. This scope of influence that digital rhetoric obtains can also be seen in commercial branding and politics.\n\nThe urge for digital rhetoric to be introduced to classrooms is the fact that in the era of Web 2.0, quite a proportion of school managements and instructors stick to the traditional rhetoric and resist the pervasiveness of technology. For the first time, the knowledge taught at and the methods employed by the academia are far behind the social and cultural advancement, rather than leading it. As Clark (2010) argues, \"...the traditional essayistic literacy ... needs to be replaced by an intentional pedagogy of digital rhetoric that emphasizes the civic importance of education...\".\n\nIn universities, courses on digital rhetoric are taught at the graduate and undergraduate level as courses in English, Communication, and Media Studies departments. Courses in digital rhetoric study the interactions between users and digital texts, as well as how different backgrounds such as age, ethnicity, gender and more can affect these interactions. By studying digital rhetoric in this way, students are able to better understand the uses and purpose of digital rhetoric in the modern world.\n\nScholars like Jeff Grabill contribute to the use of digital rhetoric by pushing for its use in the classroom. Grabill embraces the age of technology and encourages his contemporaries to do so as well. His backgrounds in English, education, and technology and work in those fields make him a gateway between the scholarly field of digital rhetoric and its implementation. Another scholar, Cheryl Ball, specializes in areas that consist of multimodal composition and editing practices, digital media scholarship, and digital publishing. She also focuses on university writing pedagogy. Ball teaches people to write and compose multimodal texts by analyzing rhetorical options and choosing the most appropriate genres, technologies, media, and modes for a particular situation. During her own education, Ball made significant advances in the digital rhetoric field by completing her school's first electronic and interactive thesis. She also received tenure at another university using the first all-digital tenure portfolio. For her undergraduate course, Clark created and employed a set of practices, including ePortfolios, digital stories, online games, \"Second Life,\" and blogs. In doing so, she managed to \"engage(s) students in the interactivity, collaboration, ownership, authority, and malleability of texts\". In another approach, Douglas Eyman recommends a course in web authoring and design that provides undergraduates more practical instruction in the production and rhetorical understanding of digital texts. Moreover, he explains that web authoring and design for digital rhetoric instruction provides opportunities for students to learn fundamentals of web writing and design conventions, rules and procedures. Attention to multimodality has  also influenced \"Understanding Rhetoric: A Graphic Guide to Writing\" by Elizabeth Losh and Alexander Jonathan, which emphasized engaging the comic form of literacy.\n\nDigital rhetoric pedagogy has been further developed in the secondary level of education due to support at the university level. This allows for students to create and edit projects simultaneously through the internet. Collaboration is seen as one of the biggest advantages to digital rhetoric, as it gives students and teachers the ability to collaborate and critique anywhere anytime. By being educated in various forms of technology, students are exposed to a more multimodal world and teachers foster a more well-rounded learning environment. Through digital writing, students have a broader choice of composing to fit their needs. Students can have people see their work anywhere, which reflects the accessibility of social media that students are used to in their everyday lives.\n\nThe increase in digitalization of media has amplified the importance of digital rhetoric in politics as it has introduced a new relationship between politicians and the citizenry. Digital communication platforms and social networking sites (SNS) are means of allowing citizens to share information and engage in debate with other people of similar or distinct political ideologies. The topics and ideas communicated through digital rhetoric have been shown to influence and predict the political behavior of individuals outside the digital world. Politicians have been known to use digital rhetoric as a tool to communicate information to the citizens. Likewise, digital rhetoric has enabled increasing political participation. Theoretical political research on digital rhetoric has attributed to the increase of political participation to three models; these include the motivation model, learning model, and attitude model. In 2008, the first wide scale political campaign through Twitter was utilized by President Obama. This success is measured in the over half a billion dollars raised through the internet. This use of social media has become a large asset for all political candidates and is currently utilized by all. The 2016 elections brought social media to the forefront and all presidential candidates utilized different forms of persuasion in their 140 character tweets.\n\n\nSocial media incorporates numerous characteristics of interactions between people in the public sphere. Social media is not characterized as an ideal public sphere because it fails to provide equitable access to information and participation for women and minority groups. Nevertheless, social media has shown to be useful in the propagation of digital rhetoric for political campaigns as shown in Obama's 2008 and 2012 presidential campaigns in which digital rhetoric made its first successful appearance at a U.S presidential election — which marked a guideline for future elections. The presence of digital media companies such as Facebook, Microsoft, Google, and Twitter has been well established in the promotion of digital rhetoric for political purposes. These firms have influenced the political process by providing strategic information about people demographics, behaviors, attitudes, and interests, all of which have increased the efficiency of political discourse — especially for political campaigns. In 2013, Twitter released a manual targeted towards politicians that outlined the main features of their platform and how they can be used to increase political communications. In 2018, Facebook devoted $62,500 dollars to create a space for politicians to learn ways in which they can use digital rhetoric in Facebook to increase the impact of there campaigns. Steir conducted a study to analyze the different types of rhetoric that took place in social media platforms, such as Facebook and Twitter; during the 2013 election campaign for the German Bundestag, he found that the types of information that politicians share on both platforms varied — Facebook was found to be the preferred medium for campaign rhetoric while Twitter was mostly utilized for rhetoric regarding political debates, infrastructure discussions, and law and order.\n\nDonald Trump often lacks factual references and has bombastic language that leads to a heavy emphasis on emotional rhetoric. Majority of his tweets lack factual basis that can withstand empirical verification. If taken a position the language used is vague and abstract. Nearly a quarter of Trump's tweets are Ad Hominem. Mostly, utilizing pathos Trump's twitter is now a major play in the world of politics.\n\nBernie Sanders uses Twitter in response to political events, issues, or fact. 82% of Sanders tweets state a position. Through these position-based tweets he also makes claim of \"values\" of himself, his political party, or Americans. While values are not a truth, they are considered a pseudo-truth. These blend together the strong uses of logos as well as pathos.\n\nHillary Clinton's tweets are mainly driven by facts, logos. This increases the validation through empirical means. Her tweets are written with direct reference to evidence or concrete situation. However, can contain ambiguous language that makes the merit of degree of truth less clear. Clinton also lacks emotive language in her messages, sticking only to the facts.\n\nJeb Bush employs rhetoric that is mainly fact oriented, with occasional ambiguity. Bush mostly Tweets with ethos through pseudo-concepts. Unlike other candidates, he makes moral statements. Bush's rhetoric mixes logos, pathos, and ethos.\n\nDigital media has increased its domination of the political sphere, especially with social media. Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram have become a significant part of the political engagement process with regard to elections, campaigns, or elected officials trying to connect with their constituencies. Social media globalizes communication. Especially political communication, fostering discussions and connecting communities as it reaches a significant amount of people. Amidst all of these outlets, Twitter is the form of social media that’s primarily used by candidates running for public office, elected officials, and government agencies.\n\n\nMembers of Congress use Twitter, and other forms of social media, to connect with their constituency. Members use social media to convey their stances on important issues, bills they have sponsored or have positions on. They use it to post about events they are hosting and the work they do in Congress. This includes meetings with constituents in Washington and back in their districts. According to former Congressman George Miller, Twitter is a mechanism to answer questions from people in his district. Conversely, Representative John Culberson said he uses Twitter to assist people in engaging themselves in their government. Many of these sites provide features for people to connect with their elected officials. For example, on Facebook the Town Hall feature connects users with their federal, and state officials. According to PEW Research center 20% of people who use social media have taken advantage of the fact that they can connect very easily with their officials by a simple “like” or “follow.”\n\n\nSocial media has a significant influence on political campaigns. The use of social media helps both candidates and constituents connect with one another. During the 2016 election cycle, candidates would post 5-7 times and would tweet 11-12 times a day.\n\nFor candidates, Facebook brings publicity and enables them to communicate effectively to the voters. This information has become very valuable for candidates. One super Political Action Committee that was anti-Trump, spent $9.9 million dollars in digital media. For candidates, social media provides them with a platform to highlight their ideas, and curate what they would like voters to see. According to the PEW research center, 35% of users of social media have taken advantage of sites like Facebook, in getting out to vote. Therefore, it has become a valuable tool for candidates. In the 2012 reelection campaign for President Obama, the campaign used over 15 different methods of social media. This was to reach out to a broader audience. Social media provides a mechanism for candidates to directly engage with society and potential voters. In Romania, during the elections for Mayor in a town called Bacau only 3/10 candidates used Facebook in 2012. In 2016 all of the candidates engaged in the use of social media and Facebook.\n\nSocial media also provided candidates with an insight into predicting the outcome of votes, which are more accurate than normal polling methods. Social media is a tool for campaigns as it provides an analysis as to the political climate, as well as the levels of engagement.\n\nFor potential voters, social media is a way to get information. According to the PEW research center, 44% of the voting population surveyed used social media as a way to get information about the 2016 election. This was significantly more than print newspapers at the local and national level. Furthermore, 24% of those surveyed claimed that they directly got information about the election at the national level from the two candidates; Donald Trump, and Hillary Clinton.\n\nRhetoric is defined as the art of discourse, and is the root of digital rhetoric. As technology has changed, so have rhetorical situations. While the five canons of rhetoric developed for oratory print still apply, they are reconfigured to work in new contextual forms like the database, the hypertext, the cybertext, and other born-digital texts. Invention, arrangement, and style take on new meanings while delivery is elevated to new importance, and memory comes to refer to textual forms like search engines, archives, and tags. Although the rhetorical canon of delivery once referred to the oral/aural and bodily aspects of delivery, in the age of digital rhetoric, it refers to \"Internet-based communication\", and the mediums that are used. While the study of digital rhetoric is not specific to any one technology or era of technology, ideas in digital rhetoric do evolve alongside new technologies such as smartphones, new and easy to use composing platforms like Storify, Pixorial and WeVideo, and techniques such as Ajax. Ideas evolve as technology evolves, because one way of studying digital rhetoric is to trace the ways that the affordances and constraints of technology \"support and enable the transformation of the old rhetoric of persuasion into a new digital rhetoric that encourages self-expression, participation, and creative collaboration\". Many trace the transformation of old rhetoric into digital rhetoric through the classical rhetorical canons.\n\nDennis Baron states, \"The first writing technology was writing itself.\" While previous writing technologies involved pencils and hieroglyphics, the evolution of communication technology now allows for online and immediate rhetorical conversations. The evolution of communicative technologies started with the chisel, then the book, the quill, the Greek alphabet, and the pencil, onto more modern technology such as the computer. The origins of modern computing are to be found in the techno-military context of World War II. Just as the pencil was originally intended as a marking utensil for builders and is now used for writing, the computer was originally intended to compute advanced math problems, but is now used for word-processing and a myriad of other tasks. Technology continues to modify itself to meet the needs of people; in the case of digital rhetoric, technology has become more prevalent to match people's usage of the Internet and computers, which creates a technoculture. \nAnother scholar who highlights the changing landscape from print to digital is Jay Bolter. He argues that the computer is the most significant development since the start of the alphabetic/print tradition and that digital texts will continue to move print to the \"margins of literate culture.\"\n\nIn the digital age most everything is considered appropriation. Scholars pull their information from a myriad of sources and are constantly redefining terms in order to apply them to the digital world. Appropriation carries both positive and negative connotations. In some ways appropriation is a tool that can be used for the reapplication of outdated ideas to make them better. In other ways appropriation is seen as a threat to creative and cultural identities. Social media receives the bulk of this scrutiny due to the lack of education of its users. Most \"contributors are often unaware of what they are contributing. which perpetuates the negative connotation. Many scholars in digital rhetoric explore this topic and its effects on society such as Jessica Reyman, Amy Hea, and Johndan Johnson-Eilola.\n\nJames E. Porter defines avatar as a \"virtual body\". With developments in technology, there are new ways to present oneself online. This online presentation of one's own identity is an avatar. While scholars such as Beth Kolko hoped for an online world without physical barriers, making it a \"realm of ideas\", there are still social issues, such as gender discrimination and racism. Beth E. Kolko believes that an idealistic online world would be a \"realm of ideas\", without definitive factors such as gender, race, or age. Kolko argues that a non-gendered online world would not garner enough attention, because individuals could not relate to each other without gender identity. Victoria Woolums found in a study of the video game World of Warcraft that the gender identity of the avatar affected behaviors of other characters, showing a bias even in a realm where gender identity of an avatar may not be physically accurate to its user.\n\nCirculation theorizes the ways that texts and discourses move through time and space. Any kind of media can be circulated. Henry Jenkins \"sticky vs. spreadable media\" applies to circulation. Essentially, \"sticky\" media is media that can be spread. \nA new form of communication is composed, created, and distributed through digital technologies. Explained by Henry Jenkins, there is a shift from distribution to circulation which signals a move toward an increasingly participatory model of culture in which people shape, share, reframe and remix media content in ways not previously possible within the traditional rhetorical elements like print.\n\n\"A number of scholars have seen delivery in networked systems as circulation of digital texts, following John Trimbur's (2000) argument that circulation should be re-introduced in writing instruction; however, his definition of circulation is as an element or result of delivery. Trimbur suggests that neglecting delivery has led writing teachers to equate the activity of composing with writing itself and to miss altogether the complex delivery systems through which writing circulates. By privileging composing as the main site of instruction, the teaching of writing has taken up what Karl Marx calls a \"one-sided\" view of production and thereby has largely erased the cycle that links the production, distribution, exchange, and consumption of writing. This cycle of interlocked moments is what Marx calls circulation. (190)\"\n\nCollaboration in digital rhetoric does not mean a co-authorship directly, even though this could be constituted as that as well, but collaboration looks more like an outlet that scholars can share their work and receive feedback as well. Instead of using solely the individual and their work, scholars use each other to spur on each other's ideas and build their concepts upon another. Collaboration takes on a much more broad meaning in terms of content on the internet. Not only does it offer the opportunity for scholars to collaborate with each other, but it also gives readers the chance to share their reactions with creators of content on the internet. In this way, digital rhetoric allows the audience to interact and work with creators of content. In Braun's book \"Cultivating Ecologies for Digital Media Work: The case of English studies\", she suggests a collaborative work by interdisciplinary scholars. \"This is scholarship\", a digital article published in Kairos 12.3, is the example of collaborative multimedia text by Catherine Braun as a rhetorician and compositionist, and Kenneth Gilbert as an audio-technician. The shared authorship from this work is shown in the editorial process including writing, digital production, display, and design to produce a final piece of a scholarly article in the form of webtext.\n\nDaren Brabham defines Crowdsourcing as, \"using an online, ... model to leverage the collective intelligence of online communities to serve specific organizational goals.\" As a concept within digital rhetoric, it is a utilization of modern technology to collaborate and create collectively. Companies and organizations use crowdsourcing to build creativity, by acquiring information other than what their immediate employees know. However, there are several concerns that come up when crowdsourcing tactics are used. Issues relating to Intellectual Property and Copyright are some of the foremost problems when crowdsourced ideas are used for commercial problems. Because the business did not conceive the idea, terms of use must be clearly set while fielding responses. Ethical concerns have been raised as well when engaging in crowdsourcing without a clear set of compensation practices or protections in place to secure personal information.\n\nFor the general scholar, the term delivery means the way in which a form of information is conveyed to a particular audience or group of people. These ideas of delivery could mean hearing information spoken at a conference or reading the newspaper. The forms can range from podcasts to videos, pictures to text, or even songs and newspapers. Delivery is the modem in which information is given in order for the topic to be best understood and related to. The term \"delivery\" is often aligned with the term \"performance\". The Forest of Rhetoric states that delivery is not only the fifth canon of rhetoric, but it is also a translation of the word \"hypokrisis\", or \"acting\". This Greek word was translated into delivery in the standpoint of spoken or recited information rather than newspapers or essays. Performance of plays, speeches, skits, etc. turns into the delivery of information in the piece being performed or spoken. This is the same as a piece of literature or rhetoric delivering its information through word choice, layout, and structure.\n\nElectracy is a term developed by Gregory Ulmer describing the emerging digital age. Electracy is often discussed as being in transition, advancing along with digital rhetoric. Electracy explains the full communicative potentials of new electronic media. Electracy is embedded in the approach of digital rhetoric and covers a large paradigm of literacy which is enhanced through Ulmer's idea of 'electracy'. The recent decades observes a sound effect of 'electracy' in the field of digital media. According to Arrayo, \"Participatory Compositions begins by exploring the apparatus of electracy in many of its manifestation while focus on the participatory practices found in online video culture. As research suggests the concept of 'electracy' has changed through the very idea of Ulmer who once articulated in the orientation of analogue video that serves rhetorical dimension of  'Teletheory'. But his vision of 'electracy' changed by bringing in a more broader literary concept that enterprise writing—coding, hypertext etc.\n\n\"Kairos,\" in the traditional rhetorical canon, is defined as catching the opportune moment. Traditionally, Kairos relates to rhetorical time (versus Kronos, or chronological time). It relates to the occasion and context when a text is written or a speech is given. In other words, Kairos refers to the elements of a speech that acknowledge and draw support from the particular setting, time, and place when and where a speech occurs. It is imperative that the speaker knows when and where to place the argument and, if it is appropriate. However, in the digital age, this is changing. Although Aristotle considers Kairos as related to ethos, pathos, and logos, a more modern definition expands that view to include multimodal texts. Sheridan, Ridolfo, and Michel offer an expanded definition of Kairos that asks rhetors to consider the ramifications of circulation, production and re-production, and distribution of compositions. Kairos has been put on the rhetorical back burner, but has become more theorized in the digital age to discuss the ecology of multimodal texts. Digital scholars like Douglas Eyman, Jim Ridolfo, David Sheridan, Anthony Michel, Ellen Cushman, and Isabel Pedersen are on the forefront of reviving the concept of Kairos and applying its use in the classroom.\n\n\"At first, Memory seemed to have to do solely with mnemonics (memory aids) that would assist a budding orator in retaining his speech. However, it clearly had to do with more than simply learning how to memorize an already composed speech for re-presentation. The practice of storing up information or other material arrived at through the topics of invention can be called for in a given occasion in order to redistribute information that is already known or given. The canon of Memory also suggests that scholars consider the psychological aspects of preparing to communicate and the performance of communicating itself, especially in an oral or impromptu setting. Typically Memory has to do only with the orator, but invites consideration of how the audience will retain things in mind.\"\n\nMind sharing is a way to get collective intelligence—crowd wisdom that is comparable to expert wisdom. The methodology for this is simple. One would look for a consensus from the crowd—the answer that most minds are suggesting is the best answer. If it's a numeric question (like guessing the weight of an ox), it's a calculated average or median. If it's an open question (like \"what car should I buy?\"), it's the most common answer.\n\nMultimodality means having several modes, modalities, or maxima—in simpler terms, it is a form of communication that uses multiple methods (or modes) to inform audiences of an idea. It can involve a mix of written text, pictures, audio, or videos. Online journals often embrace multimodality in their issues and articles by publishing works that use more than just written text to communicate the message. While the digital turn in rhetoric and composition has encouraged more discussion, theorization, and pedagogical application of multimodality and multimodal texts, the history of the field demonstrates a continuous concern with multimodal communication beginning with classical rhetoric's concern with delivery, gesture, and memory. All writing and all communication is, theoretically, multimodal.\n\nRemix is a method of digital rhetoric that manipulates and transforms an original work to convey a new message. The usage of remix can help the creator make an argument by connecting seemingly unrelated ideas into a convincing whole. As modern technology develops, self-publication sites like YouTube, SoundCloud, and WordPress have stimulated remix culture, allowing for easier creation and dissemination of reworked content. Unlike appropriation, which is the use and potential recontextualization of existing material without significant modification, remix is defined in \"Kairos\" as \"the process of taking old pieces of text, images, sounds, and video and stitching them together to form a new product.\" A popular example of remixing is the creation and sharing of memes.\n\nRhetorical velocity is the concept of authors writing in a way in which they are able to predict how their work might be recomposed. With the advancement of technology, there is no limit to the speed and distance at which an author's work is able to travel. Therefore, it is important for them to be able to predict how their audience will recompose their works. Jim Ridolfo and Danielle DeVoss first coined this idea in 2009 when they describe rhetorical velocity as \"a conscious rhetorical concern for distance, travel, speed, and time, pertaining specifically to theorizing instances of strategic appropriation by a third party\".\n\nVisual rhetoric relates to digital rhetoric because they can act together to communicate ideas in a way that is not bound by a linear format. Mary Hocks, a visual rhetoric scholar, states \"the screen itself is a tablet that combines words, interfaces, icons, and pictures that invoke other modalities like touch and sound\". By manipulating the tools described by Hocks, a writer in the digital world has access to influence a broader audience, and an influx of modes to communicate their ideas. This in turn creates a way for writers to communicate The use of visual images in rhetoric allows for a writer to convey an idea that may be so abstract that the written linear word will not suffice. Abstract ideas in rhetorical images, as Charles Hill states, that not only are abstract ideas represented in images acceptable but they are prominent, images \"do not necessarily have to portray an object, or even a class of objects, that exists or ever did exist\". Images allow for the writer to depict the closest representation of their thought possible since they can blend abstract and tangible thoughts. Hill uses the peace sign, swastika, and the confederate flags as examples of abstract ideas represented by images. Ironically the image of a peace sign, which seems to be universally accepted as a call from the 1970s 'hippie' movement, originated as an anti-Christian symbol. The original graphic was used to show an upside down broken cross symbolizing the despair of man and the crucifixion of the Apostle Peter. This shows how visual images can change over time and be adapted in such powerful ways that it actually changes the meaning completely. Images are versatile, and coupled with the motive of the author can provide key components to an argument. By being informed on how visual rhetoric interacts with its different components a reader/viewer can reduce abstract ideas to a more tangible state.\n\nReferred to as the digital divide, issues of economic access and user-level access are recurring issues in digital rhetoric. These issues show up most prevalent in computers and writing circles. Access can refer to inequality in the access of information, access to a reading public, and access to means of communicating. For those that teach digital rhetoric in schools and universities, student access to technologies at home and in school is an operative concern. There is some debate about whether mobile computing devices like smartphones make technology access more equitable.\n\nCopyright controversies in online and digital texts affect the way digital rhetoric is utilized. Many of these arguments deal with the problem of cost for the publishers and consumers of scholarly text. Copyrighting materials is an expensive task, especially when the materials can be translated into many other forms of digital sources that are freely found by the public. Because of this ease of transformation, copyright laws are undermined as scholars lose predication in their online materials through maneuvers as simple as copy and paste or translating hyperlinks. In James P. Zappen's piece \"Digital Rhetoric: Toward an Integrated Theory\", he refers to transferring material in ways that create misapplication of a work that a scholar has written. \"A media database, for example, can produce an almost infinite variety of end-user objects, which can be customized for different users, manipulated through hyperlinks, periodically updated, and scaled upon demand.\" Zappen's statement of \"infinite\" is in no way subjective or an over statement. Many digital pieces are infringed upon, stolen, or misused by the avoidance of copyright. These many forms of copyright avoidance lend to the controversy of digital rhetoric and media as a whole. \n\nOne controversy that has been steady on the rise since the transition of utilizing digital rhetoric in social media is Cyberbullying. An example can be seen in the TLC television series, Here Comes Honey Boo Boo. Viewers have the opportunity to post their opinions and responses on sites such as Twitter and Instagram. The trend that people posting about the characters and their lifestyles, it reinforces the iconography of stereotypes (such as \"hillbillies\") is successful because of the way in which the rhetoric of difference is a naturalized component of the ethnic and racial identity. The challenge with social media is that since there is a limited amount of characters to convey the message the digital rhetoric tends to be oversimplified and stereotypes flourish. Erika Sparby evaluated that due to the increase of social media users people have found this stronger sense of confidence from the ability from being anonymous and using pseudonymous in digital social media for them to address either someone or something in a negative light.\n\nThere is controversy regarding the innovative nature of digital rhetoric. Arguments opposed to legitimizing webtext are Platonically-based in that they reject the new form of scholarship, web text, and praise the old form, print, in the same way that oral communication was originally favored over written communication. Originally some traditionalists didn't regard online open-access journals with the same legitimacy as print journals for this reason; however, digital arenas have become the primary place for disseminating academic information in many areas of scholarship. Modern scholars struggle to \"claim academic legitimacy\" in these new media forms, as the tendency of pedagogy is to write about a subject rather than actively work in it. Within the past decade, more scholarly texts have been openly accessible, which provides an innovative way for students to gain access to textual materials online for free, in the way that many scholarly journals like \"Kairos\", \"Harlot of the Arts\", and \"Enculturation\" are already available through open access.\n\nOpen access has removed the barriers of fees associated with accessing a work and restrictions of copyright and licensing. The matter of eliminating fees is most prevalent to digital rhetoric, because it allows for more access to works. Open access and digital rhetoric do not eliminate copyright, but eliminates restrictions by giving authors the choice to maintain their right to copy and distribute their materials however they choose, or they may turn the rights over to a specific journal. Digital rhetoric involves works that are found online and open access is allowing more people to be able to reach these works.\n\n"}
{"id": "21046621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21046621", "title": "Display case", "text": "Display case\n\nA display case (showcase, display cabinet, or vitrine) is a cabinet with one or often more transparent glass (or plastic, normally acrylic for strength) surfaces, used to display objects for viewing. A display case may appear in an exhibition, museum, retail store, restaurant, or house. Often, labels are included with the displayed objects, providing information such as description or prices. In a museum, the displayed cultural artifacts are normally part of the museum's collection, or are part of a temporary exhibition. In retail or a restaurant, the items are normally being offered for sale. A trophy case is used to display sports trophies or other awards.\n\nA display case may be freestanding on the floor, or built-in (usually a custom installation). Built-in displays may be mounted on the wall, may act as room partitions, or may be hung from the ceiling. On occasion, display cases are built into the floor, such as at the Museum of Sydney (in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia), where the remains of drains and privies are shown in their original context, along with other archeological artifacts.\n\nThere are three types of freestanding showcases: counter, middle floor (mid-floor), and wall. Counter showcases are designed to display objects through one side (the \"customer side\") and have them accessible through the other (the \"clerk side\"). For this reason, the counter displays are most relevant for retail stores. The middle floor cases are built to display objects from all sides, and are meant to be placed in the middle of the room. Wall showcases are meant to be placed against a wall, where the products are displayed and accessed from the same side. These last two types are used heavily – not only by stores – but also by museums, schools, and especially in homes to showcase valuable items or collections. \n\nDisplay cases are typically made by specialist companies with a background in woodworking or welding, and come in standard sizes or often are custom order. Display cases are often designed with security in mind and are normally lockable. They also are made in variety of styles, shapes, and materials as available at a store fixture supplier. They can ship pre-assembled or knockdown (in pieces to be assembled by the customer). Pre-assembled showcases are assembled (and usually tested) by the manufacturer, and are shipped ready-to-use. Knockdown showcases are usually lower in price and cheaper to ship, but may be of poorer quality than pre-assembled, and may arrive missing pieces.\n\n"}
{"id": "1538554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1538554", "title": "Dispositio", "text": "Dispositio\n\nDispositio is the system used for the organization of arguments in Western classical rhetoric. The word is Latin, and can be translated as \"organization\" or \"arrangement\".\n\nIt is the second of five canons of classical rhetoric (the first being inventio, and the remaining being elocutio, memoria, and pronuntiatio) that concern the crafting and delivery of speeches and writing.\n\nThe first part of any rhetorical exercise was to discover the proper arguments to use, which was done under the formalized methods of \"inventio\". The next problem facing the orator or writer was to select various arguments and organize them into an effective discourse.\n\nAristotle defined two essential parts of a discourse: the statement of the case and the proof of the case. For example, in a legal argument, a prosecutor must first declare the charges against the defendant and provide the relevant facts; then he must present the evidence that proves guilt. Aristotle allowed that in practice most discourse also requires an introduction and a conclusion.\n\nLater writers on rhetoric, such as Cicero and Quintilian refined this organizational scheme even further, so that there were eventually six parts:\n\nWhile this structure might appear to be highly rigid (and certainly some writers on the subject were overly pedantic), it was in practice a flexible model. Cicero and Quintilian, for example, encouraged writers to rearrange the structure when it strengthened their case: for instance, if the opposing arguments were known to be powerful, it might be better to place the refutation before the proof.\n\nWithin each major part, there were additional tactics that might be employed. For instance, a prosecutor might sum up his case with forceful repetition of his main points using a technique known as \"accumulatio\". The defense attorney in the same case might use a different approach in his summation.\n\nFinally, \"dispositio\" was also seen as an iterative process, particularly in conjunction with \"inventio\". The very process of organizing arguments might lead to the need to discover and research new ones. An orator would refine his arguments and their organization until they were properly arranged. He would then proceed to those areas that we generally associate with rhetoric today—the development of the style and delivery of the arguments.\n\nThe \"exordium\" (; meaning \"beginning\" in Latin; from \"exordiri\", meaning \"to begin\") was the introductory portion of an oration. The term is Latin and the Greek equivalent was called the \"proem\" or \"prooimion\". \n\nIn the \"exordium\", the orator lays out the purpose of the discourse. In doing this, they need to consider several things:\n\n\nIn short, the \"exordium\" was the portion of the discourse in which the orator would prepare the audience to hear his arguments in a favorable frame of mind. \"An exordium can serve different kinds of functions in the differing species of rhetoric, but in all of them some of the major themes of the coming discourse will be announced in advance\".\n\nThe \"peroratio\" (\"peroration\"), as the final part of a speech, had two main purposes in classical rhetoric: to remind the audience of the main points of the speech (\"recapitulatio\") and to influence their emotions (\"affectus\"). The role of the peroration was defined by Greek writers on rhetoric, who called it \"epilogos\"; but it is most often associated with Roman orators, who made frequent use of emotional appeals. A famous example was the speech of Marcus Antonius in defence of Aquillius, during which Antonius tore open the tunic of Aquillius to reveal his battle scars.\n\nIn the first century B.C. it was common for two or more speakers to appear on each side in major court cases. In such cases it was considered a mark of honour to be asked to deliver the peroration.\n\n"}
{"id": "400514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400514", "title": "Doctor of Musical Arts", "text": "Doctor of Musical Arts\n\nThe Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.) is a doctoral academic degree in music. The D.M.A. combines advanced studies in an applied area of specialization (usually music performance, music composition, or conducting) with graduate-level academic study in subjects such as music history, music theory, or music pedagogy. The D.M.A. degree usually takes about three to four years of full-time study to complete (in addition to the master's and bachelor's degrees), preparing students to be professional performers, conductors, and composers. As a terminal degree, the D.M.A. qualifies its recipient to work in university, college, and conservatory teaching/research positions. Students seeking doctoral training in musicology or music theory typically enter a Ph.D. program, rather than a D.M.A. program.\n\nThe degree is also abbreviated as DMA (without periods), D.Mus.A. or A.Mus.D.. For the related degree Doctor of Music, the abbreviation is D.M. or D.Mus. For the related degree Doctor of Arts, the abbreviation D.A. is used.\n\nThe D.M.A. is widely available in the concentrations of performance (sometimes with a specialization in instrumental or voice pedagogy and/or music literature), composition, conducting, and music education. Some universities awarding doctoral degrees in these areas use the title Doctor of Music (D.M. or D.Mus.) or Doctor of Arts (D.A.) or Doctor in Musical Studies (Ph.D.) instead of D.M.A. The D.M.A. degree was pioneered by Howard Hanson and the National Association of Schools of Music, who approved the first D.M.A. programs in 1952. Northwestern University, the University of Michigan, and the Eastman School of Music became the first to offer the D.M.A. Boston University offered its first D.M.A. program in 1955. In 2005, Boston University also expanded into online music education by launching the first online doctoral degree in music, a D.M.A. program (along with a Master of Music program) in music education.\n\nA large number of U.S. institutions offer the D.M.A. degree in the 2010s. The Ph.D. is generally considered to be more research oriented, while other doctorates may place more emphasis on practical applications and/or include a performance component. Such distinctions among degree types are not always so clear-cut, however. For instance, most programs include traditional research training and culminate in a written dissertation, regardless of degree designation. The music education degree can be a D.M.A. or Ph.D. Also, music education Ph.D. programs may include performance-oriented tracks. In composition, one may study for either the D.M.A. or the Ph.D., depending on the institution. The Ph.D. is the standard doctorate in music theory, musicology, music therapy, and ethnomusicology.\nA related program is the Doctor of Sacred Music (D.S.M.), also \"Sacrae Musica Doctor\" (S.M.D.), which tends to be awarded by seminaries or university music schools that focus on church music, choral conducting and organ performance. In the past, some seminaries titled the degree Doctor of Church Music (D.C.M.). Only one U.S. institution, Claremont Graduate University still offers the D.C.M. degree, in addition to the more typical D.M.A. The vast majority of U.S. seminaries have closed their music doctorate programs, but some still offer a Master of Arts or Master of Sacred Music degree. A new program offered at Perkins School of Theology is the Doctor of Pastoral Music (D.P.M.). While more theology-based and housed within the Doctor of Ministry (D.Min.) program, admission to the degree requires applicants to hold a Master of Music (M.Mus.), Master of Sacred Music (M.S.M.), Master of Church Music (M.C.M.), M.A. in Church Music or equivalent 48 semester hour degree recognized by the National Association of Schools of Music.\n\nD.M.A. students typically complete applied studies, such as lessons or mentoring with a professor or instructor, and take courses within their area of specialization. In many D.M.A. programs, all of the different D.M.A. streams (e.g., performance, composition, conducting) take a common core of music theory and music history courses. Many D.M.A. programs require students to pass a comprehensive exam on their area of specialization and on subjects such as music history and music theory. The last stage of the D.M.A. degree is usually the completion of a thesis, dissertation, or research project and the performance of recitals, usually including at least one lecture-recital.\n\nSome programs additionally require a sub-specialization in a cognate area within music, such as music history or performance practice, which contributes to their area of specialization. For example, a student doing a D.M.A. in Baroque violin might do a sub-specialization in Baroque music history or Baroque-era dance.\n\nSome institutions permit D.M.A. students to do a sub-specialization in a field \"outside\" music that contributes to their professional and academic goals. For example, a student completing a D.M.A. in piano pedagogy may be able to do a sub-specialization in the university's department of psychology (e.g., on the psychology of learning and memory); a student completing a D.M.A. in electronic composition may be permitted to do a sub-specialization in the department of computer engineering (e.g., in computer programming).\n\nWhile teaching experience is not an official part of most D.M.A. programs, most D.M.A. candidates will have the opportunity to work as a teaching assistant or lecturer for undergraduate students during their degree, either as a requirement of their scholarship/assistantship package or as a part-time employee of the university. D.M.A. students can teach in an area related to their D.M.A. program, or, if they have multiple skill areas (e.g., a person with an M.Mus. in piano performance who is doing a D.M.A. in composition), they may teach in another area.\n\nTo be admitted to a D.M.A. degree program, most institutions require a master's degree, such as a M.Mus. degree or an M.A. degree in music or an equivalent course of study, usually with a grade average of \"B+\" or higher. D.M.A. programs in performance usually require applicants to prepare solo literature that is the equivalent of a graduate recital—i.e. several advanced pieces from a wide range of styles—in addition to orchestral excerpts. Admission to doctoral programs in conducting often require a video recording of live rehearsals and performances as a pre-screening element. Composition programs usually require the submission of a portfolio of compositions, including scores and recordings of live performances. Programs in music education generally require two or more years of public school (or similar) teaching experience, and may further require an example of scholarly writing.\n\nNewly admitted D.M.A. students are usually required to pass a series of diagnostic tests in music history, theory, and sometimes ear-training to confirm thorough command of essential musical principles gained in prior study. Advanced courses in these areas are not permitted until the tests are passed and/or remedial coursework in deficient area(s) is completed. Often, the knowledge of a second language – one of languages of major influence in music history (such as German, French, Italian, Spanish, or Russian) – is required to complete the degree. The graduate admissions branch of many US universities require applicants to complete the Graduate Record Examination (GRE), a standardized test of abstract thinking skills in the areas of math, vocabulary, and analytical writing. While the outcome of the GRE test may affect an applicant's eligibility for some university-wide scholarships, it does not always affect admission to the music program of the university.\n\nAfter World War II, there had been a sharp rise in music education at the university level. As was the case with many occupations, the music world was experiencing an unprecedented number of discharged musicians from the U.S. Armed Forces. The G.I. Bill was an impetus for many opting for college, causing a spike in demand for college professors, across all disciplines, and a spike in enrollment. In music education, universities had an opportunity to employ formidable musicians, but many, including those of international rank, lacked a terminal academic degree that would put them on equal footing with professors. Post World War II also a period of rise the quality of comprehensive music education at universities. The Nation's renowned conservatories, such as Juilliard and Curtis, at the time, saw no need for the degree – yet many alumni of those institutions, and many top musicians with no degree were the very people being sought by universities offering degrees in music and music education.\n\nIn 1952, after six years of deliberation, the National Association of Schools of Music (NASM) approved thirty-two schools for graduate degrees for graduate work \"in one or more of the fields into which graduate music study has been divided.\" The NASM was, and still is, the only accrediting agency for music schools recognized by the American Council on Education. In 1952, 143 music schools had already established standards for undergraduate degrees. The national launch of DMA by institutions meeting criteria was 1953.\n\n\nThe Dean of the University of Rochester Eastman School of Music, Howard Harold Hanson (1896–1981), who had been awarded an honorary doctorate in 1925, was one of several high-profile advocates of creating a performance oriented doctors degree.\n\nIn 1953, he published a proposal for a Doctor of Musical Arts degree, which was roundly criticized by Paul Henry Lang, PhD, professor of musicology at Columbia University.\n\nEarly Doctor of Musical Arts conferred\n\nNon-NASM institutions\n\nThe alumni of Music conservatories in the United States also seek positions at universities. The conservatories that are not affiliated with the National Association of Schools of Music began offering DMAs in the late 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "11226549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11226549", "title": "Domestic drama", "text": "Domestic drama\n\nDomestic drama expresses and focuses on the realistic everyday lives of middle or lower classes in a certain society, generally referring to the post-Renaissance eras. According to the \"English Communications Syllabus\", domestic drama refers to a dramatic story containing an emphasis on its “characters' intimate relationships and their responses to [the] unfolding events in their lives.” The characters, their lives, and the events that occur within the show are usually classified as 'ordinary' events, lives, and characters, but this does not limit the extent of what domestic drama can represent. Domestic drama does, however, take the approach in which it “concerns people much like ourselves, taken from the lower and middle classes of society, who struggle with everyday problems such as poverty, sickness, crime, and family strife.” \n\nDomestic is derived from the Latin domus, or home. The word domestic is defined as “of or relating to the household.” Drama receives the definition of “A prose or verse composition, especially one telling a serious story, that is intended for representation by actors impersonating the characters and performing the dialogue and action,” and it is derived from the Greek word drao, to act or to take action. The combination of both domestic and drama provides a literal translation of “a serious story relating to the household,” clearly a synonymous definition to the given definition provided by the English Communications Syllab\n\nDramatic works have nearly always contained a sense of domestic drama within its fundamental plot line. Even in the early ages of Greek drama, there has been a sense of ordinary people's struggles with their lives (though this cannot be classified as domestic drama due to the incorporation of the Greek gods interfering with the common people and the enabling of the common people to have “godlike” attributes). Medieval theatre tended to express religious themes within their shows with miracles and the creation of morality plays, in which the shows were used as religious allegories. Though not yet emphasizing the ordinary lives, the development of dramatic works is slowly working towards more realistic plot lines, one of the essential elements in domestic drama.\nRenaissance theatre marks the arrival of pastoral drama, drama referring to the relationships of the rustics. Though this describes the events of 'ordinary people', the shows tended to stretch realism, focussed mainly on the romantic relationships of the rustics, and were decorated with an emphasis on the comedic aspect of theater. Pastoral drama was considered to be more successful than the traditional comedies and tragedies, enforcing the further development into domestic drama.\n\nDrama in the late seventeenth century consisted of neoclassical comedies focusing on the comedic relationships within the upper classes. This era also consisted of the Restoration drama and placed an emphasis on the usage of poetic language, “sensational incidents, and epic personages” within the show. These styles of shows are not considered domestic dramas because they focus on the relationships of the higher classes, as opposed to the middle or lower classes. This further develops into domestic drama as the plot lines become more realistic and centered around characters' relationships and their actions towards each other.\n\nThe eighteenth century marks the arrival of domestic drama as the shows start focusing on the problems of the ordinary people. The early eighteenth century playwrights used domestic drama to express the “trend toward sentimental bourgeois realism.” These new domestic dramas also incorporated realistic comedies of fairly sophisticated characterizations [with] middle-class morality. These early domestic dramas are classified as part of the Romantic era of all types of arts.\n\nNineteenth century drama took the complete step in incorporating realism into drama, thus resulting in more serious and philosophical drama. Characters and settings gradually developed into the realistic truths of the current society. Along with realism was naturalism: “selective realism emphasizing the more sordid and pessimistic aspects of life.” This movement of combined realism and naturalism gave way to the “slice-of-life” shows commonly synonymous with domestic drama. One outstanding playwright of this era was Henrik Ibsen of Norway. His frequent usage of realism within his shows “brought to a climax the realistic movement of the nineteenth century and also served as a bridge to twentieth century symbolism.” Ibsen used middle-class characters dealing with his complex plots and “surpassed other such works” of his time. Playwrights such as Ibsen have drawn much attention to domestic drama and have brought this method to its high significant stature in modern theatrical works.\n\nThe twentieth century introduced symbolism into the makings of domestic dramas, ultimately causing variations within domestic drama. Early twentieth century shows incorporated such psychological devices as “minimal scenery, telegraphic dialogue, talking machines, and characters portrayed as types rather than individuals.” Domestic drama suddenly became a combination of naturalism, expressionism, symbolism, and commonly used psychological affairs. The classification of domestic dramas became unclear as shows challenged new ideas and created a difficulty in determining the illusions and realism of a show.\n\nModern dramas usually revolve around psychological, social, and political affairs, all of which seem to have their roots in domestic drama. Modern works also use interpretive ideas, such as “distinctive voice and vision, stark settings, austere language in spare dialog, meaningful silences, the projection of a powerful streak of menace, and outbursts of real or implied violence.” The utensils of dramatic works have greatly expanded, but all still carry the roots of domestic drama. Domestic drama also carries the implications of current affairs with society: such as civil rights, feminism, and current political and sociological disputes. Current domestic drama itself tends to express the “war-at-home” style of theater, whereas twentieth century domestic drama could be classified as experimental theater or symbolic theater.\n\nDomestic drama tends to appeal to the audience because most of the audience can relate to the events within a domestic drama. The audience is appealed to this style of drama in four ways: empathy, humor, suspense, and resolution of the issues. This group of spectators can empathize with the domestic drama at hand because the domestic drama touches incidents that are common to the 'ordinary' people. Many playwright use the audience's empathy to manipulate the proposed expression of the show. David Williamson's “Brilliant Lies” uses “domestic unit battling” to create sympathy from the audience as they are confronted with the issue.\nHumor provides the entertainment value within a domestic drama as these usually touch base with serious matters. The entertainment value of a show keeps the people engaged without having to continually use serious turns of events in order to maintain an audience's interest.\nSuspense provides “dramatic irony” as the audience indulges itself within the characters' situation and privacy of their backgrounds. Suspense is used in a domestic drama in order for the audience to react with the characters of the show. This “[positions] the audience to feel privileged and therefore involved with the unfolding drama.”\nAs in all shows, an audience expects a resolution to the conflict within a show. Domestic dramas drive the show to its resolution to keep the audience desiring to reach the climax. Domestic dramas use such a technique that is very similar to the style of modern soap operas.\n\nThe text of a domestic drama follows a specific guideline in order to stay within this genre: subject, structure, and language. By deviating from this guideline too excessively, the classification as a domestic drama becomes problematic.\nThe subject of a domestic drama must be that of the 'ordinary' people. The audience (generally 'ordinary') needs to connect with the characters of the domestic drama, and the plot must the following the “domestic sphere” of “traditional families, urban family units, or domestic households.” The subject of the domestic drama could also imply to relationships at a workplace as this does relate to the 'ordinary' events of 'ordinary' people. The subjects of concern could vastly range from poverty to family strife, from civil rights to economic injustices. Due to the audience relationship with the material of the domestic drama, most domestic dramas are most successful in the society in which the plot is direct towards because the audience is most familiar with the culture of the show.\nDomestic dramas follow a fairly linear structure and generally have a sort of patriarchal figure as a representative of the family. This patriarchal figure provides the guidelines of the everyday nature of the subjects of the show. Confrontations with the patriarchal figure are also a common structure within domestic dramas.\nThe language used in a domestic drama generally relates with the 'ordinary' subjects of a show to reinforce the “realistic impression” of the show onto and audience. The usage of a specific language enables a specific audience to further connect with the subjects of the domestic drama as language is an “intimate personal way of communicating.”\n\nTheater has been commonly used as a public expression of the humanitarian affairs of a certain era. From the seventeenth to the nineteenth era, drama expressed the ideals of the caste and court system, with nobility on high and rustics down low. This expression gave way to the public in order to see and understand how this system was to work within their society. Some might say that theater has played a very important role in the shaping of societies when used in this way. Nineteenth century induced the importance of the middle-class within drama and introduced the role of the bourgeois and the usage of aristocratic entertainment. The political aspects of a certain era were inevitably present within these shows, especially shows leading towards domestic drama. Theater was considered to have “good [socially] position” characters against the immoral acts of society, usually a sort of infringement against a certain code of behavior. Theater was the way to explain the rights and wrongs of a certain lifestyle in a society, especially if the characters were of the 'ordinary' people so that the audience could relate with the characters. Modern drama changed this aspect of theater as it was not directed towards any one class in society, but rather the collaboration of the artistic aspects within these classes. Such a combination created much difficulty in domestic drama as domestic drama appeals to a specific class.\n\n"}
{"id": "21314066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21314066", "title": "Dominant culture", "text": "Dominant culture\n\nA dominant culture is a cultural practice that is dominant within a particular political, social or economic entity, in which multiple cultures are present. It may refer to a language, religion/ritual, social value and/or social custom. These features are often a norm for an entire society. It achieves dominance by being perceived as pertaining to a majority of the population and having a significant presence in institutions relating to communication, education, artistic expression, law, government and business. The concept of \"dominant culture\" is generally used in academic discourse in fields such as sociology, anthropology and cultural studies.\n\nThe culture that is dominant within a particular geopolitical entity can change over time in response to internal or external factors, but one is usually very resilient and able to reproduce itself effectively from generation to generation. In a multicultural society, various cultures are celebrated and respected equally. A dominant culture can be promoted deliberately and by the suppression of minority cultures or subcultures.\n\nIn the United States, a distinction is often made between the indigenous culture of Native Americans, and a dominant culture that may be described as \"Anglo\", \"white\", \"middle class\", and so on. Some Native Americans are seen as being part of the culture of their own tribe, community, or family, while simultaneously participating in the dominant culture of America as a whole.\n\nEthnic groups are said to exist in the United States in relation to a dominant culture, generally seen as English-speaking, of European ancestry, and Protestant Christian faith. Asian Americans, Jews, African Americans, Latinos, and Deaf people, among others, are seen as facing a choice to oppose, be opposed by, assimilate into, acculturate (i.e. exist alongside), or otherwise react to the dominant culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "39432198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39432198", "title": "Drama teaching techniques", "text": "Drama teaching techniques\n\nThere are many methods for teaching Drama. Each strategy involves varying levels of student participation.\n\nDrama games, activities and exercises are often used to introduce students to drama. These activities tend to be less intrusive and are highly participatory (e.g. Bang).\n\nThere are several books that have been written on using drama games that can serve as excellent resources for anyone wanting to incorporate drama games into their work. Games for Actors and Non-Actors by Augusto Boal is perhaps the best known internationally and includes writings on his life work as well as hundreds of games. There are also smaller books however, which serve as excellent practical guides. For example, Drama Games by Bernie Warren is an excellent pocket book for someone looking to try drama games for the first time.\n\nChoral dramatization involves students reading aloud by assigning parts to each group member. Choral dramatization can use texts such as rhymes, poetry, and picture books. Students can experiment with voice, sound gesture and movement (Swartz, 1995).\n\nTableaux involve students creating visual pictures with their bodies, emphasizing key details and relationships (Wilheim, 2002). Tableaux are frozen scenes and usually involve at least three levels. Students focus on a focal point, facial expressions, and body language. This technique is useful for maturing participants' presentational skills as well as audience skills.\n\nImprovisation is the practice of acting and reacting, of making and creating, in the moment and in response to the stimulus of one’s immediate environment; see Wikipedia: Improvisation. Improvisation can be a great introduction to role playing. Students focus on position, expression and creativity in their impromptu skits.\n\nRole playing allows students to play a character in a real or imaginary situation. One of the simplest forms is where “the student plays himself faced with an imaginary situation.” (Wilheim, 2002, p. 62) Other strategies have students playing real-life or imaginary characters in a variety of contexts. Role play can be used throughout many areas of the curriculum, especially history and language arts to support and strengthen understanding of content. Below is a list of some common role-play strategies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11169494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11169494", "title": "Dream world (plot device)", "text": "Dream world (plot device)\n\nDream world (also called dream realm or illusory realm) is a commonly used plot device in fictional works, most notably in science fiction and fantasy fiction. The use of a dream world creates a situation whereby a character (or group of characters) is placed in a marvellous and unpredictable environment and must overcome several personal problems to leave it. The dream world also commonly serves to teach some moral or religious lessons to the character experiencing it – a lesson that the other characters will be unaware of, but one that will influence decisions made regarding them. When the character is reintroduced into the real world (usually when they wake up), the question arises as to what exactly constitutes reality due to the vivid recollection and experiences of the dream world.\n\nAccording to J.R.R. Tolkien, dream worlds contrast with fantasy worlds, in which the world has existence independent of the characters in it. However, other authors have used the dreaming process as a way of accessing a world which, within the context of the fiction, holds as much consistency and continuity as physical reality. The use of \"dream frames\" to contain a fantasy world, and so explain away its marvels, has been criticized and has become much less prevalent.\n\nA similar motif, Locus amoenus, is popular in medieval literature (esp. allegory and romance). A dream world is sometimes invoked in dream visions such as \"The Book of the Duchess\" and \"Piers Plowman\".\nOne of the best-known dream worlds is Wonderland from Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\", as well as Looking-Glass Land from its sequel, \"Through the Looking-Glass\". Unlike many dream worlds, Carroll's logic is like that of actual dreams, with transitions and causality flexible. James Branch Cabell's \"Smirt\" and its two sequels taken together form an extended dream and most of their action takes place in a dream world.\n\nThe action of \"The Bridge\" by Iain M. Banks and \"The Chronicles of Thomas Covenant, the Unbeliever\" by Stephen R. Donaldson take place in dream worlds. Other fictional dream worlds include the Dreamlands of H. P. Lovecraft's \"Dream Cycle\" and \"The Neverending Story\"s world of Fantasia, which includes places like the Desert of Lost Dreams, the Sea of Possibilities and the Swamps of Sadness. Dreamworlds, shared hallucinations and other alternate realities feature in a number of works by Philip K. Dick, such as \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" and \"Ubik\". Similar themes were explored by Jorge Luis Borges, for instance in \"The Circular Ruins\".\n\nIn \"The Wheel of Time\" book series, Tel'aran'rhiod is a dream world that exists in close proximity to the real world. Objects and physical locations that do not frequently change in the real world have parallels in Tel'aran'rhiod. Ordinary people can occasionally slip into Tel'aran'rhiod, and events that occur within this dream world have physical consequences. A person that dies in Tel'aran'rhiod will never wake up again, and in several cases it is shown that physical injuries gained there persist to the waking world. Tel'aran'rhiod can be controlled similar to a lucid dream, and several characters in the series can enter and manipulate Tel'aran'rhiod at will.\n\n\"Paprika\" (1993) by Yasutaka Tsutsui is a science fiction novel that involves entering dream worlds using technology. In the book, dream monitoring and intervention as a means of treating mental disorders is a developing new form of psychotherapy in the near future. Unrest ensues when a new psychotherapy dream-analysis device is stolen, allowing the assailant to enter and manipulate people's dreams.\n\nIn the feminist science fiction novel \"The Kin of Ata Are Waiting for You\", the Kin of Ata maintain the real world through their dreaming, making the real world a form of dream.\n\nIn the 1939 movie, Oz from \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\" was altered from a fantasy world (in the novel) to a dream world of Dorothy's; characters who were independent inhabitants of Oz were transformed into dream parallels of introduced Kansas characters.\n\nIn \"The Matrix\", Neo and the rest of the humans live inside a dream world. Their brains are hooked up to a computer network that creates this dream world. However, some may argue that this is not a dream world, as it seems completely normal and indistinguishable from reality (aside from time differences). In the 1980s, the \"Nightmare on Elm Street\" series of horror films introduced a dark dream realm inhabited by the supernatural serial killer Freddy Krueger.\n\nIn the movie \"Sharkboy and Lavagirl\" the main characters enter a world dreamt up by a small boy in order to save the real world.\nDown Town is the land of nightmares where all people who are in comas go in the movie \"Monkeybone\". Dreamworlds also appear in \"Total Recall\" and \"Vanilla Sky\".\n\n\"Paprika\" (2006) is an anime film adaptation of the 1993 novel of the same name, which involves entering and manipulating dream worlds using dream-analysis devices.\n\nThe film \"Waking Life\" takes place almost entirely in a dream realm. In the 2010 film \"Inception\", main characters create artificial, vivid dream worlds and bring others into the dream worlds and perform various things with their brains, without them knowing. This may involve 'Extraction' (stealing memories and secrets), 'Inception' (planting an idea into the mind) and others.\n\nOne of the earliest newspaper comic strips, recounting Little Nemo's adventures in , had a dream world theme.\n\nWriter Neil Gaiman was tasked with re-imagining a Golden Age character, \"The Sandman\". In his version, the Sandman becomes Dream, the Lord of Dreams (also known, to various characters throughout the series, as Morpheus, Oneiros, the Shaper, the Shaper of Form, Lord of the Dreaming, the Dream King, Dream-Sneak, Dream Cat, Murphy, Kai'ckul, and Lord L'Zoril), who is essentially the anthropomorphic personification of dreams. At the start of the series, Morpheus is captured by an occult ritual and held prisoner for 70 years. Morpheus escapes in the modern day and, after avenging himself upon his captors, sets about rebuilding his kingdom, which has fallen into disrepair in his absence.\n\nDream worlds also appear in \"Rozen Maiden\", in the Outback(s) of \"The Maxx\"; in Dream Land, the main setting of many \"Kirby\" games, in the webcomic \"The Dreamland Chronicles\", and the movie \"Sailor Moon Super S the Movie: Black Dream Hole\" also have dream realms in their universes.\n\nThe \"American Dragon Jake Long\" episode \"Dreamscape\" takes place mainly in a dream realm. Similarly, the \"Xiaolin Showdown\" episode of the same title also uses the dream world in its plotline.\n\nIn \"Clamp\" manga series such as \"X/1999\", \"\" and \"xxxHolic\", the dream world is very important to the events that occur within each story. It is later revealed in \"xxxHolic\" that the dream world itself is its own world, as part of the Clamp multiverse. Similarly, in the \"Bone\" graphic novel series by Jeff Smith, the primary plot device is a dream world called \"The Dreaming.\" It exists independently from the real world, and it is described similarly to a river, being said to \"flow\" through people in \"currents.\"\n\nIn \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\" part 3 \"Stardust Crusaders,\" Jotaro and his friends and grandpa are put in a dream world which takes the form of an amusement park by Mannish Boy and his Death 13 stand.\n\nIn the \"Jay Jay the Jet Plane\" cartoon series, adventures where air-breathing jet planes cannot go (underwater and in space) happen as dreams.\n\nThe \"\" episode \"Waking Moments\" uses several dream realms and false awakenings. In the \"UFO\" episode \"Ordeal,\" Foster's abduction and rescue is explained away as a dream. The whole of season 8 of \"Dallas\" was retroactively explained, at the start of Season 9, as a dream had by Bobby Ewing. In the episode, \"Dreamworker\", Morpheus, god of dreams, abducts Gabrielle to take as his bride. But Xena follows them into his realm, the DreamScape, where she battles to stop the impending forced marriage. The \"Doctor Who\" episode, \"Amy's Choice\" also depicts multiple dream worlds, which were found out to have been induced by a parasitic seed. Dreamworlds are revisited in the \"Doctor Who\" Christmas special, \"Last Christmas,\" which depicts dreams within dreams caused by mind-leeching aliens.\n\nThe video games \"Link's Awakening\" and \"Super Mario Bros. 2\" take place in a dream of the Wind Fish's (whom Link must wake up) and Mario's respectively.\n\n\"Alundra\" revolves around a dreamwalker who can enter people's dreams. It takes place on an island, where a village has locals suffering from recurring nightmares that sometimes cause death. With his dreamwalking ability, the titular protagonist Alundra attempts to help the locals by entering their dreams.\n\nIn the first two games of the \"EarthBound\" series, the protagonist (Ninten in \"EarthBound Zero\" and Ness in \"EarthBound\") must travel to a dream world named Magicant. However, the two Magicants are different from each other. Ninten visits his Magicant, which is light pink and has seashell spires and clouds, multiple times during the story, until it is revealed to not be his own Magicant but instead just a collection of the memories of his great-grandmother, Maria. Ness's Magicant is a surreal, spacelike land in a purple sea that Ness only gains access to once he records the eight melodies into his Sound Stone, which he then must travel to the center of in order to overcome his weaknesses, characterized by a boss battle against his 'Nightmare' (with an appearance similar to the 'Mani-Mani Statue', a mysterious object encountered in another dreamworld called Moonside), and absorb the power of the Earth into his heart.\n\nAbout a half of \"\" takes place in the Dream World, home to the Staff of Dreams, which was later split by Pins and Needles, where Tak has a half of the staff and Pins and Needles have the Staff of Nightmares half. By the end of the game, Tak restored the staff.\n\nIn \"\", the game is split between two worlds initially known as the Real World and the Phantom World, named such because any being from the Real World is rendered unseen by the inhabitants of the Phantom World, like a phantom, and are only capable of becoming visible after drinking a special elixir. After a time, it is revealed that the Phantom World is in fact the true Real World, while the former Real World is called the Dream World, created from the dreams of the people of the Real World, in which each inhabitant has a Dream World counterpart. In addition, the main antagonist of the game, Deathtamoor, plots to try to merge both the Real World and Dream World with his own \"Dark World\" in an attempt for world domination.\n\nIn \"\" and \"Dreamfall Chapters\" the protagonist Zoë Castillo can travel to Marcuria by dreaming. There's a third world called 'Storytime' inspired by the Australian \"Dreamtime\" myths which is the place of the creation and where every story begins and ends. Also, the protagonist must stop a corporation called WATI-Corp which want to steal dreams and memories from people through their new entertainment device: the Dreamachine which allows people to make lucid dreams.\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy VIII\", the main group of protagonists sometimes experience the lives of three soldiers, Laguna, Kiros, and Ward in what they call \"the dream world\" (which is actually the past) through a mysterious and gifted woman who is acquainted with both parties. The whole of Zanarkand in \"Final Fantasy X\" and its HD remake was a dream, along with the main character, Tidus.\n\nIn the video game \"\", there is a short quest which takes place in a dream world. In the video game, \"Fallout 3\", a main storyline quest involves the main character going into a virtual reality simulator, referred to as \"Tranquility Lane,\" a dream world simulation of a 1950s suburban neighborhood. \n\nOther dreamworlds are the Maginaryworld from \"Sonic Shuffle\", Dream Depot from \"Mario Party 5\", and in Nightopia and Nightmare (collectively known in a place called the \"Night Dimension\") from \"Nights into Dreams...\" and its sequel for the Wii, \"\".\n\nIn the video game \"\", main character John Tanner suffers a car accident that leaves him in a coma. The game take places in his dream, but the character himself doesn't realize he's dreaming. Instead, he thinks he had a lucky escape and with this, thinks that he got an ability to possess other people. During the game, many billboards will turn black and show \"wake up\" messages.\n\nIn \"Pokémon Black\" and \"White\" and its following sequel, players can tuck in one of their Pokémon via a system known as Game Sync. As the tucked in Pokémon falls asleep, it will then be sent to special website, where the player can play with his/her Pokémon in an alternate world called the \"Dream World\".\n\nIn \"\", the seventh installment in the game series \"Kingdom Hearts\", the two main protagonists are sent to worlds that are in slumber and that are dreaming in order to pass the Mark of mastery exam.\n\nThe Dream World is the main focus of \"\" where Mario and Luigi travel through a world full of Luigi's dreams.\n\n\"\" takes place in Lunatea, a dream world.\n\n"}
{"id": "27050403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27050403", "title": "Environmental anthropology", "text": "Environmental anthropology\n\nEnvironmental anthropology is a sub-specialty within the field of anthropology that takes an active role in examining the relationships between humans and their environment across space and time.\n\nThe sixties was a breakthrough decade for environmental anthropology, with functionalism and system theories prevalent throughout. The rudiments of the system theories can be seen in Marcel Mauss' \"Seasonal Variation of Eskimo\", echoed later in Julian Steward's work. Although later, system theories were later harshly criticized for narrowly assuming the state of societies as static.\n\nThe main focus of system theories in the sixties, as conveyed by Julian Steward, was acknowledgment of recurrence, cultural patterns or \"laws.\" Steward's ecological anthropology was based on topography, climate, and resources and their accessibility to define culture. While Marvin Harris' cultural materialism observed and gauged social units by means of material production. Both focused on culture as a malleable contingent to the environment; a social unit's characteristics (technology, politics, modes of subsistence, to name a few) have adaptive limitations. Importantly, those limitations are not considered determinants.\n\nThe new focus of environmental anthropology was cultural variation and diversity. Such factors like environmental disasters (floods, earthquakes, frost), migrations, cost & benefit ratio, contact/ associations, external ideas (trade/ latent capitalism boom), along with internal, independent logic and inter-connectivity's impact now were observed. Roy A. Rappaport and Hawkes, Hill, and O'Connell's use of Pyke's optimal foraging theory for the latter's work are some examples of this new focus.\n\nThis perspective was based on general equilibriums and criticized for not addressing the variety of responses an organisms can have, such as \"loyalty, solidarity, friendliness, and sanctity\" and possible \"incentives or inhibitors\" in relations to behavior. Rappaport, often referred to as a reductionist in his cultural studies methods, acknowledges, \"The social unit is not always well defined\" exhibiting another flaw in this perspective, obfuscation of aspects of analyze and designated terms.\n\nThe contemporary perspective of environmental anthropology, and arguably at least the backdrop, if not the focus of most of the ethnographies and cultural fieldworks of today, is political ecology. Many characterize this new perspective as more informed with culture, politics and power, globalization, localized issues, and more. The focus and data interpretation is often used for arguments for/against or creation of policy, and to prevent corporate exploitation and damage of land. Often, the observer has become an active part of the struggle either directly (organizing, participation) or indirectly (articles, documentaries, books, ethnographies). Such is the case with environmental justice advocate Melissa Checker and her relationship with the people of Hyde Park.\n\nCritiques on this modern perspective and non-governmental organizations' (NGOs) influences and effects on social groups is usually that they \"generalize\" and \"obscure\" local discourse and message. Often resulting in environmentalism by bureaucrats, PR firms, governments, and industry. An example of negative effects can be ascertained in the Malaysian Rainforest, in which NGOs and other outsider activist deflected the issue, ignoring the locality of the problem.\n\nEnvironmental anthropology enters the field as an applied dimension built on the primary approaches within contemporary ecological anthropology.\nIt focuses on how culture promotes connections between humans and their occupied ecosystems. American anthropologist Julian Steward (1902–1972), is the anthropological originator of cultural ecology. A troubled childhood led to Steward's fascination of the natural world. In 1918 Steward attended a California College, found inspiration from the natural environment and gained insight which promoted a future passion toward ecological studies.\nSteward contributions to theories of cultural ecology and cultural evolution are renowned.\n\nSteward officially formulated the basic theoretical and methodological framework for cultural ecology in the 1950s–60s. The transformation of cultural ecology into ecological anthropology took place in the 1960s through the 1980s by anthropologists John Bennett, Roy A. Rappaport, Andrew P. Vayda, and others. Two additional theoretical and methodological frameworks surfaced in the 1980s and 90s which attempted to cast ecological anthropology in a more scientific light. The first of which, was when Marvin Harris actively and systematically worked to develop \"cultural materialism\" as an approach to research. Harris's intention was to expose and analyze the ecological logic underlying multiple facets of culture. The cultural system was split into three parts by Harris; infrastructure, structure and superstructure. Eric Alden Smith and Bruce Winterhalder laid the blueprints for the second groundbreaking structure of evolutionary ecology. This would shift attention to the individual as the origin of adaptation, stressing choice when utilizing natural resources. A further expansion of ecological anthropology occurred in the 1990s when historical, political, and spiritual focused areas of research were incorporated into facets of human ecology and adaptation.\n\nAnthropology is a field concerned specifically with the human condition and its relation to the natural world (i.e. the capacity of a human to manipulate the world around them). This can be seen through human interactions between each other as well as the flora and fauna present in a person's particular region and how they can be utilized. Humans everywhere have changed their environment and for better or for worse, taking a step back to the previous state of things would be a long arduous process. So how can people erase the mistakes of the past? How can they bring old, outdated things new life through innovation? These questions can provide insight into the development of a subfield of anthropology called environmental anthropology.\n\nEnvironmental anthropology is a subfield of anthropology with roots in activism. The main focus of this particular perspective focuses on a discourse of activism. Agents operating within this sphere of thought have noticed aversive effects from human related manipulation, and are driven to try and force changes in the system which can eventually lead to replenishment of the region in question. The discipline itself if ever-changing because it must evolve to satiate the needs and appropriately address issues from the state and region level all the way down to complex communities, hence must uses a multitude of different approaches when considering a problem. According to the Society for Applied Anthropology (SfAA),\n\n\"Environmental anthropology is particularly effective in relating to and gaining understanding of cultural diversity in community settings, and intercultural/intersect oral conflict, thus lending itself to applied endeavors that involve collaboration among diverse interest groups for the common good.\"\n\nThis means that a problem up stream of two separate cultural groups that affects them both can be resolved through a discourse of environmental anthropology, and although the two groups may not speak the same language, they can both activate to prompt change. Necessity can potentially quell conflict between two cultural groups if they must work together to combat an even bigger enemy (environmental injustice). Applied anthropology utilizes these understandings to work with people on a local basis as well as trying to satisfy share holders working to gain a resolution for problems related to health, education, social welfare, development and environmental protection.\n\nEnvironmental anthropologists use a multitude of tools and orientations to best address the variance in different problems. According to SfAA,\n\n\"Important among them are observation techniques, qualitative and survey interviews, systematic data collection techniques for accessing core values or areas of cultural consensus, ways of identifying and interpreting social networks and a variety of participatory cultural, social and environmental assessment techniques designed to improve intersect oral understanding of demographic composition, social/political dynamics, cultural and other forms of diversity, and capacity for planning and development.\"\n\nEnvironmental anthropologists aim to utilize their understanding of the culture at hand in order to gain as emic (an insider's understanding of the culture in question) a perspective as possible when dealing with these situations. These type of situations are ideal within the field and sheds positive light on a field that is criticized for refusing to accept this perspective.\n\n"}
{"id": "4202524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4202524", "title": "Epideictic", "text": "Epideictic\n\nThe epideictic oratory, also called ceremonial oratory, or praise-and-blame rhetoric, is one of the three branches, or \"species\" (eidē), of rhetoric as outlined in Aristotle's \"Rhetoric\", to be used to praise or blame during ceremonies.\n\nThe term's root has to do with display or show (\"deixis\"). It is a literary or rhetorical term from the Greek (ἐπιδεικτικός). It is generally pronounced or . Another English form, now less common, is \"epidictic\" .\n\nThis is rhetoric of ceremony, commemoration, declamation, demonstration, on the one hand, and of play, entertainment, display, including self-display. It is also the rhetoric used at festivals, the Olympic games, state visits and other formal events like openings, closings, anniversaries as well as at births, deaths, or marriages. Its major subject is praise and blame, according to Aristotle in the limited space he provides for it in the \"Art of Rhetoric\" (Freese translation). \n\nThis rhetoric deals with goodness, excellence, nobility, shame, honor, dishonor, beauty, and matters of virtue and vice. The virtues or the \"components\" of virtue according to Aristotle, were \"justice, courage, self-control, magnificence, magnanimity, liberality, gentleness, practical and speculative wisdom\" or \"reason\". Vice was the \"contrary\" of virtue. \n\nIn his book \"Rhetoric and Poetics in Antiquity\", Jeffrey Walker claims that epideictic rhetoric predates the rhetoric of courts and politics, the study of which began in the 5th or 4th century BC with the Sophists. The other two kinds of public speech were deliberative or political speech, and forensic, judicial, or legal speech. Epideictic rhetoric or style is according to Aristotle most appropriate for material that is written or read. In the \"Art of Rhetoric\", Aristotle stated that \"The epideictic style is especially suited to written compositions; for its function is reading.\" (423)\n\nAristotle instructs that in creating a speech of praise or blame, the author should consider the attitude of his audience: Will they be moved to see his object of praise (be it a person or a thing) in a new light, or will he be wasting everyone's time by \"preaching to the choir\"? What values and behavior does this particular audience find praiseworthy? Whether the audience is sympathetic, hostile, or indifferent to his object of praise or blame determines how difficult the task is that lies before him. As Aristotle reminds the reader, \"[F]or as Socrates used to say, it is not difficult to praise Athenians in Athens\" (\"Rhetoric\",1367b). \n\nAccording to Aristotle’s conception of epideixis, “the present is the most important; for all speakers praise or blame in regard to existing qualities, but they often make use of other things, both reminding [the audience] of the past and projecting the course of the future” (\"Rhet.\" 1358b). Epideixis is Aristotle’s least favored and clearly defined topic. Now considered to be the stuff of ceremonies with its exhortations, panegyrics, encomia, funeral orations and displays of oratorical prowess, epideictic rhetoric appears to most to be discourse less about depth and more attuned to style without substance. Still, the \"Art of Rhetoric\" is cited as an example of epideictic work (Lockwood, 1996).\n\nEpideixis may not deserve the charge of lacking depth. The charge that this branch of rhetoric lacks depth can be countered by the recognition that it systematizes the successful attribution of value (to things, people, or concepts). Attributing value (whether in terms of \"the good\" and \"the bad\" or of \"virtue\" and \"vice\") to 1) perception, 2) emotions, 3) thought, 4) action, and 5) goals is the fundamental basis of relativistic conceptions of 1) aesthetics, 2) human character, 3) intelligence, 4) ethics, and 5) wisdom. For instance, applying epideixis to 'human perceptions' yields aesthetics, and its application to 'human action' yields fundamental relativistic ethics. Nevertheless, epideixis can always be reduced to simply the study of how best to preach the positive or negative characteristics of creatures, contraptions, concepts (etc.) to an audience. Epideictic rhetoric appeals to - and serves to sway - personal and cultural values, whereas pure deliberative and judicial rhetoric appeal to reason alone.\n\nAnd, Lockwood, also in \"Reader's Figure\", describes how readers are figured by their readings, and how readers figure their readings, and that readers can accept the readers' account, and forget their own account of their present and past, and that the rhetor's account is produced by language.\n\nFor centuries, epideictic oratory was a contested term, for it is clearly present in both forensic and deliberative forms, but it is difficult to clarify when it appears as a dominant discursive form. According to Chaïm Perelman and Lucy Olbrechts-Tyteca, “The speaker engaged in epidictic discourse is very close to being an educator. Since what he is going to say does not arouse controversy, since no immediate practical interest is ever involved, and there is no question of attacking or defending, but simply of promoting values that are shared in the community . . .” (52). \nSome of the defining terms for epideictic discourse include declamation, demonstration, praise or blame of the personal, and pleasing or inspiring to an audience. \n\nLawrence W. Rosenfield contends that epideictic practice surpasses mere praise and blame, and it is more than a showy display of rhetorical skill: “Epideictic’s understanding calls upon us to join with our community in giving thought to what we witness, and such thoughtful beholding in commemoration constitutes memorializing” (133). Epideictic rhetoric also calls for witnessing events, acknowledging temporality and contingency (140). However, as Rosenfield suspects, it is an uncommon form of discourse because of the rarity of “its necessary constituents — openness of mind, felt reverence for reality, enthusiasm for life, the ability to congeal significant experiences in memorable language . . .” (150).\n\nThe philologist Ernst Curtius provides an account of its history, and many examples, in \"European Literature and the Latin Middle Ages\". Praise and blame were \"reduced\" to praise by Aristotle, he wrote; and recently another author called it a \"blameless genre\". He and Lockwood seem to say that what was in the past called rhetoric was later called literature. Curtius believed that misinterpretations of medieval literature occur because so much of it is epideictic, and the epideictic is so alien to us today. During the Middle Ages it became a \"school subject\" as the sites for political activity diminished in the West, and as the centuries went on the word \"praise\" came to mean that which was written. During this period literature (more specifically histories, biographies, autobiographies, geographies) were called praise(s).\n\nBen Witherington III, writing from a biblical perspective on sacred exhortation, noted that \"in general, epideictic rhetoric is highly emotional and meant to inspire the audience to appreciate something or someone, or at the other end of the spectrum, despise something or someone. Epideictic rhetoric seeks to charm or, to cast odium.\" - I & II Thessalonians: A Socio-Rhetorical Commentary \n\nEpideictic writing in poetry is often associated with the \"fu\" rhapsody that developed in the early Han Dynasty. This highly ornamented style was used for almost any subject imaginable, and often incorporated obscure language with extensive cataloguing of rare items, all in verse of varying rhyme and line length.\n\nCommendatory verse is a genre of epideictic writing. In the Renaissance and Early Modern European tradition, it was taken to glorify both its author and the person to whom it was addressed. Prefatory verses of this kind—i.e. those printed as preface to a book—became a recognised type of advertising in the book trade.\n"}
{"id": "53112023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53112023", "title": "Every Second Counts (video contest)", "text": "Every Second Counts (video contest)\n\nEvery Second Counts is the name under which a parody video contest amongst European satirical late-night talk shows was launched by German comedian Jan Böhmermann's \"Neo Magazin Royale\" on 2 February 2017. The goal is to ridicule U.S. President Donald Trump, especially his inaugural statement that \"From this day forward, it's gonna be only America \"first\"! America \"first\"!\" by introducing one's own country with a dose of self-deprecating humour and requesting to become 'second' after America.\n\nThe contest was inspired by Dutch comedian Arjen Lubach's show \"Zondag met Lubach\", which broadcast the parody video \"The Netherlands welcomes Trump in his own words\" on 22 January 2017. In the video, Trump's speeches and actions –mostly from his election campaign– are imitated and mocked by voice actor Greg Shapiro, who gives a short description of the Netherlands using some self-mockery as well, finishing with the request that the Netherlands may come 'second' if America is to be 'first'. A semi-serious undertone is formed by fears that Trump's announced \"America First\" policy signifies isolationism, including withdrawing U.S. support for NATO: \"If you screw NATO, you're gonna make our problems great again.\" The video went viral, being discussed by multiple international newsmedia and reaching over 73 million views worldwide by 3 February.\n\nOn 2 February during \"Neo Magazin Royale\", Böhmermann challenged the Dutch's second place, broadcasting a rival video that claimed 'Germany second' whilst making fun of the Netherlands and Germany itself as well. Then, he encouraged other satirical talkshow producers in all European countries to make similar videos parodying Trump, themselves and challenging the Netherlands' second place behind America. Production teams in at least eleven other countries committed to making their own parody videos, and by 3 February, versions for Belgium (by \"De Ideale Wereld\"), Switzerland (by \"Deville Late Night\"), Denmark (by \"Natholdet\"), Portugal (by \"5 Para A Meia-Noite\") and Lithuania (by \"Laikykitės ten\") had been released; these would all be gathered on the website everysecondcounts.eu. Many of the videos are narrated by voice actor Shaun Streeter, with the exception of the Chinese and Japanese versions.\n\nBy 6 February, Italy (by \"Casa Surace\"), Luxembourg (by \"Studio Ben\"), and Morocco (a non-European country, expanding the contest further) had joined the fray. On 8 February, the website of Every Second Counts changed the original layout from a virtual 360° NATO council room with national flags of all European countries plus Morocco and Namibia next to each seat, to a clickable world map divided into the continents of \"Europe\", \"Middle East\", \"Africa\", \"Oceania\", \"North Asia\", \"South Asia\", \"North America\" and \"South America\", with \"North Asia\" and \"North America\" currently being unavailable.\n\nThough widely varying in contents specific to each country's presentation, and the way in which they criticise and/or ridicule President Trump and his ideas and actions, the videos often share common elements. Many revolve around (sarcastically) taking pride in or mocking their own country's history, and comparing it to Trump's actions or American history in general, and how the latter is better, equal or worse.\n\nThis list only includes those parody videos mentioned on everysecondcounts.eu. Several unofficial videos have also been made by individuals or groups not connected to \"Neo Magazin Royale\". These often feature non-European countries or subnational regions within European countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44605927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44605927", "title": "Evrydiki BA 2O37", "text": "Evrydiki BA 2O37\n\nEvrydiki BA 2O37 () is a 1975 Greek-West German co-production black and white dramatic experimental independent surrealist underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis, his debut feature film.\n\nDespite a lukewarm reaction by viewers, critics appreciated the innovative perspective on the classic Greek tragedy of Orpheus and Eurydice and noted the originality of Nikolaidis' artistic techniques. It is characteristic that Nikolaidis himself believed \"Evrydiki BA 2O37\" to be his best film.\n\nAndré Z. Labarrére and Olivier Labarrére, authors of \"Atlas du cinéma\", wrote that the film was one of the \"New Greek Cinema\" films that \"radically transformed the panorama.\"\n\nFor this film, Nikolaidis won the Best Director Award, the Greek National Ministry of Culture Award, as well as the Athens Film Critics Association Best Picture Award at the Thessaloniki Festival of Greek Cinema in September 1975, where Marie-Louise Bartholomew, who was involved in the production of the film, also won the Best Set Designer Award, and Andreas Andreadakis, who was involved in the editing of the film, also won the Best Editor Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2529054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2529054", "title": "Family entertainment center", "text": "Family entertainment center\n\nA family entertainment center (or centre), often abbreviated FEC in the entertainment industry (also known as an indoor amusement park or indoor theme park), is a small amusement park marketed towards families with small children to teenagers, and often entirely indoors or associated with a larger operation such as a theme park. They usually cater to \"sub-regional markets of larger metropolitan areas.\" FECs are generally small compared to full-scale amusement parks, with fewer attractions, a lower per-person per-hour cost to consumers than a traditional amusement park, and not usually major tourist attractions, but sustained by an area customer base. Many are locally owned and operated, although there are a number of chains and franchises in the field. FECs are sometimes called family amusement centers, play zones, family fun centers, or simply fun centers. Some non-traditional FECs, called urban entertainment centers (UECs), with more customized and branded attractions and retail outlets, are associated with major entertainment companies and may be tourist destinations. Others, sometimes operated by Non-Profit organizations as Children's Museums or Science Centers, tend to be geared toward edutainment experiences rather than simply amusement. FECs may also be adjuncts to full-scale amusement parks.\n\nFECs are essentially a converged outgrowth of theme restaurants that increasingly developed their in-house amusement features, small-scale amusement parks needing more offerings than just a few rides and midway games, and diversifying formerly one-attraction venues (water parks, skate parks, billiard halls, bowling alleys, and so on). All three categories have moved over several decades continually toward stock, popular entertainment solutions supplied by third-party vendors. Among the earliest of the themed restaurants to become known more for family entertainment than food was Chuck E. Cheese's, a pizza restaurant founded in 1977 in San Jose, California.\n\nMost FECs have at least five common major or \"anchor\" attractions, to provide diverse patrons (often in large parties) at least one to two hours of entertainment, to encourage repeat visits, and to reduce time spent waiting for any given attraction. Some of the more usual attractions include (depending upon size, climate, etc.):\n\nThe most common anchor activities are miniature golf, kart racing, arcade and redemption games, and food & beverage, according to industry specialists StoneCreek Partners. FECs rarely use custom-built attractions, because of the costs involved, and instead install off-the-shelf systems provided and maintained by industry equipment vendors.\n\nAny given FEC may lean more towards outdoor activities, arcade gaming, or passive entertainment and dining. Each may cater to different age ranges, all the time, or during certain hours, e.g. children and entire families in the daytime, and teens to young adults in the evening, with specific promotional programs to attract different market segments at different times.\n\nFECs tend to serve \"sub-regional markets\", such as small cities, quadrants or boroughs of larger cities, and a large suburban area outside such a city. Their busiest times are weekend afternoons and Thursday through Saturday evenings.\n\nBecause most of the attractions are essentially the same from FEC to FEC, two of the most important factors in a particular center distinguishing itself to potential customers are a highly visible location (hard to obtain because other uses for the land are often more competitive), and a consistently developed and promoted theme that appeals to the target market segments, \"the fun factor in the overall decor\".\n\nParental concerns are also important. While children themselves rarely think of it, a major factor in the attractiveness of an FEC to parents is on-site safety and security, as adults may drop off older children at such an establishment to entertain themselves. An increasingly important factor for success is high-quality food and drink to attract parental spending as well as whole-family dining.\n\nVarious major media and entertainment brands, including Disney, Lego, NASCAR, Sega, Sony, United Artists/Regal and Viacom, have been attached to family entertainment centers, often much less \"traditional\" than local and chain FECs, with custom-built, unique attractions, usually heavily branded, and most often located in major metropolitan areas. The first such urban entertainment center (UEC) was the Universal CityWalk in Los Angeles, California, which opened in 1993, linking several Universal properties. Including various retail outlets, restaurants, and attractions, the CityWalk created a great deal of \"sustained buzz\" in the retail real estate industry, which began \"embracing the notion that Universal Studios, Sony, Disney, and other entertainment companies could create new anchors and entertainment programs for shopping centers\". Another significant UEC was the Sony Metreon in San Francisco, California (1999–2006).\n\nSome nonprofit, educational installations, such as the Exploratorium in San Francisco, also have aspects of FECs in format and atmosphere, but with activities geared toward learning and experiencing rather than simple entertainment. Some for-profit enterprises also use this model, or mix edutainment with simpler amusement attractions.\n\nThe major international industry association that supports FECs is the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA), which merged with and absorbed the membership of the International Association for the Leisure and Entertainment Industry (IALEI) in October 2009. IAAPA maintains addresses in the Virginia, Hong Kong, Brussels, Belgium and Mexico City. The International Laser Tag Association (ILTA) also remains active (and more broadly than its name suggests). ILTA is based in Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S. For many smaller, community centric FEC's and owner/operators who can't always make the IAAPA tradeshow, IAAO the International Association of Amusement Operators is an online resource for family entertainment center operators and startups.\n\nCanadian FECs are called \"family entertainment centres\" or \"fun centres\", due to British-style spelling conventions in Canadian English.\n\n\nThe main national industry group in the U.S. is the National Association of Family Entertainment Centers (NAFEC), which is perhaps incongruously a division of the International Laser Tag Association (ILTA).\n\nSome U.S.-based companies also have venues in Canada (noted above), but this is rare due to the legal/political difficulties involved in cross-border corporations.\n\nAmerican FECs vary wildly in themes, size and features. Some of the larger businesses in this category have included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27900272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27900272", "title": "Health humanities", "text": "Health humanities\n\nHealth humanities refers to the application of the creative or fine arts (including visual arts, music, performing arts) and humanities disciplines (including literary studies, languages, law, history, philosophy, religion, etc.) to discourse about, express, and/or promote dimensions of human health and well being. This applied capacity of the humanities is not itself a novel idea; however, the construct of the health humanities has only recently begun to emerge over the first decade of the 21st Century. Historically, the roots informing the health humanities can be traced back to, and can now be considered to include, such multidisciplinary areas as the medical humanities and the expressive therapies/creative arts therapies.\n\nIn the health humanities, health (and the promotion of health) is understood according to the constructivist (and other non-positivist) principles indigenous to the humanities, as opposed to the positivism of science. The health humanities are rooted in dialogical (negotiated, intersubjective voices of multiple truths), versus monological (a singular, authoritative voice of \"the\" truth) perspectives on health. As such, evidence upon which health practices are based is generally considered axiological (based in meanings, values, and aesthetics), versus epistemological (based in factual knowledge), in orientation. The health humanities are not an alternative to the health sciences, but rather offer a contrasting paradigm and pragmatic approach with respect to health and its promotion, and can function in a manner that is complementary and simultaneous relative to the health sciences. \n\nThe health humanities are a growing movement internationally. A conference on the health humanities was held October 13–15, 2006, at Green College, University of British Columbia. The conference was co-organized by Judy Segal (UBC English) and Alan Richardson (UBC Philosophy) and featured presentations by Jacalyn Duffin, Carl Elliott, Nicholas King, Lorelei Lingard, Robert Proctor, Susan Squier, Andrea Tone, and Kathleen Woodward. In January 2009, Paul Crawford became the world's first Professor of Health Humanities at The University of Nottingham, and with Dr Victoria Tischler, Charley Baker, Dr Brian Brown, Dr Lisa Mooney-Smith and Professor Ronald Carter created an international health humanities initiative that included the AHRC-funded International Health Humanities Conference (IHHC). The first field description for Health Humanities was presented in the key article \"Health Humanities: The future of Medical Humanities\" (Crawford, Brown, Tischler, & Baker, 2010), published in the Mental Health Review Journal.\n\nThe 1st International Health Humanities Conference was held 6–8 August 2010, at The University of Nottingham, United Kingdom. The conference opened with Professor Crawford's address entitled ‘Health humanities: Literature and Madness’ and included keynote lectures by Professor Kay Redfield Jamison and Professor Elaine Showalter. Mark A. Radcliffe, who also spoke at the conference, reported on 'health humanities' in his weekly column for the Nursing Times. The conference was also reported in the Bethlem Blog. The 2nd International Health Humanities Conference was hosted in the USA, 9–11 August 2012, at Montclair State University in New Jersey, with the theme of \"Music, Health, and Humanity.\" The 3rd International Health Humanities Conference was held 5-7 September 2014, once again at the University of Nottingham, and featured the theme of \"Traumatextualities: Trauma in the Clinical, Arts and Humanities Contexts.\" The 4th International Health Humanities Conference was held 30 April and 1-2 May 2015, at the Center for Bioethics and Humanities, Anschutz Medical Campus, University of Colorado, Denver, featuring the theme of \"Health Humanities: The Next Decade (Pedagogies, Practices, Politics).\" The 5th International Health Humanities Conference will be held 15-17 September 2016, at the University of Seville, Seville, Spain, featuring the theme of \"Arts and Humanities for Improving Social Inclusion, Education, and Health: Creative Practice and Mutuality.\" \n\nTextbooks on the health humanities include \"Health Humanities Reader\" and \"Health Humanities\".\n\nIn 2015 a Health Humanities Centre was established at University College London, dedicated to research and teaching in the Health Humanities, including an MA in Health Humanities.\n\n\nJones T, Blackie M, Garden R, and Wear D. (2016) The Almost Right Word: The Move From Medical to Health Humanities. Academic Medicine http://journals.lww.com/academicmedicine/Abstract/publishahead/The_Almost_Right_Word___The_Move_From_Medical_to.98313.aspx\n\nSCOPE: The Health Humanities Learning Lab\n\nhttp://sites.fhi.duke.edu/healthhumanitieslab/\n"}
{"id": "2247943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247943", "title": "Home theater in a box", "text": "Home theater in a box\n\nA \"home theater in a box\" (HTIB) is an integrated home theater package which \"bundles\" together a combination DVD or Blu-ray player, a multi-channel amplifier (which includes a surround sound decoder, a radio tuner, and other features), speaker wires, connection cables, a remote control, a set of five or more surround sound speakers (or more rarely, just left and right speakers, a lower-price option known as \"2.1\") and a low-frequency subwoofer cabinet.\nIn 2016,\nthey are manufactured by most makers of consumer electronics. Budget HTIB's with generic or lower-price \"house\" brands (e.g., Best Buy's \"Insignia\" line) may be a \"2.1\" system. Many, however, are a full \"5.1\" system and some higher-end packages even have a 7.1 system. Some popular manufacturers of HTIB's are RCA, Philips, Panasonic, Sony, Yamaha, LG and Samsung, all of which make a variety of mid-price range packages. Bose and Onkyo make higher-end, higher-priced HTIB packages.\n\nHTIBs are marketed as an \"all-in-one\" way for consumers to enjoy the surround sound experience of home cinema, even if they do not want to-or do not have the electronics \"know-how\" to pick out all of the components one-by-one and connect the cables. If a consumer were to buy all of the items individually, they would have to have a basic knowledge of electronics, so they could, for example, ensure that the speakers were of compatible impedance and power-handling for the amplifier. As well, the consumer would have to ensure that they purchased all of the different connection cables, which could include HDMI cables, optical connectors, speaker wire, and RCA connectors.\n\nOn the downside, most HTIBs lack the features and \"tweakability\" of home theater components which are sold separately. For example, while a standalone home theater amplifier may offer extensive equalization options, a HTIB amplifier may simply provide a few factory-set EQ presets. As well, while a standalone home theatre subwoofer may contain a range of sound-shaping circuitry, such as a crossover control, a phase inversion switch, and a parametric equalizer, a HTIB subwoofer system usually has its crossover point set at the factory, which means that the user cannot change it. In some cases, the factory preset crossover point on an HTIB subwoofer may cause it to sound too \"boomy\" in a room.\n\nA typical HTIB generally consists of a central receiver unit which usually contains a DVD player (some systems separate the DVD player into a separate unit), a multi-channel power amplifier and a series of speakers for surround sound use, generally including a subwoofer. Some HTIB systems also have a radio tuner or an Internet-based streaming audio platform (e.g. Spotify). The least expensive systems usually have a passive subwoofer, which is amplified by the receiver unit. HTIB systems do not include a television set or monitor with which to display the visual material or a stand to place the receiver unit on. Beside auxiliary inputs, many of them are equipped today with HDMI with ARC, optical and SPDIF inputs. Some HTIB systems are also equipped with a phono input, to allow the connection of a turntable with magnetic cartridge. However such systems are not suitable for vinyl playing as they are mainly focussed on movies and rarely for high fidelity. Some home theaters are just stereo or 2.1, but even so, they are not intended as hi fi, this is just a marketing strategy.\n\nThere are systems in this class that are sold without a DVD player and are designed to integrate with existing video setups where there is already one, such as a DVD recorder or a DVD/VCR combo unit. The speaker cabinets supplied with most systems in this class are generally fairly small compared to typical stereo speakers, and are meant for wall- or shelf-mounting in tight spaces. There are some systems in this class that are supplied with slim freestanding speakers that stand on the floor. This may be typical of higher-priced systems that are equipped with more powerful amplifiers or most of the \"receiver-only\" packages that do not come with a DVD player.\n\nSome HTIBs use proprietary connectors between components, sometimes even combining several different wires into one connector, to reduce cable clutter and increase the ease of installation. However, this can impede interoperability between different audio/visual devices and makes upgrading certain parts impossible. This may also be used by manufacturers to limit what a consumer can do with a low-end model and encourage them to upgrade should they want more autonomy.\n\nA few manufacturers, notably Sony and Panasonic, have implemented wireless connection technology for the surround speakers in this class of equipment. This technology may be available as standard with some of the high-priced models or may be supplied as an aftermarket kit that only works with selected models in the manufacturer's range. It usually uses a line-level feed over a proprietary wireless link to a separate power amplifier used for the surround-sound channels. This link-receiver and power amplifier can be built into one of the surround speakers or housed in a black box that the surround speakers are connected to. Some higher-end HTIB models offer additional features such as 1080i or 4K ( mainly versions with Blu-ray) video resolution upscaling, a 5-disc platter, HDMI inputs, USB connectivity, Bluetooth support, Wi-fi support, Internet apps, DAB and DAB+, mirroring possibility, iPod dock and a hard disk for recording TV shows.\n\nSome older HTIBs from the 1990s had a built-in VCR, besides a DVD, along with a TV tuner, and a hard disk for recording TV shows.\n"}
{"id": "14802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14802", "title": "Iconology", "text": "Iconology\n\nIconology is a method of interpretation in cultural history and the history of art used by Aby Warburg, Erwin Panofsky and their followers that uncovers the cultural, social, and historical background of themes and subjects in the visual arts. \n\nIt is derived from synthesis rather than scattered analysis and examines symbolic meaning on more than its face value by reconciling it with its historical context and with the artist's body of work – in contrast to the widely descriptive iconography, which, as described by Panofsky, is an approach to studying the content and meaning of works of art that is primarily focused on classifying, establishing dates, provenance and other necessary fundamental knowledge concerning the subject matter of an artwork that is needed for further interpretation.\n\nThough Panofsky strongly differentiated between iconology and iconography, the distinction is not very widely followed, \"and they have never been given definitions accepted by all iconographers and iconologists\". Few 21st-century authors continue to use the term consistently.\n\nIt should also be noted that Panofsky's \"use of iconology as the principle tool of art analysis brought him critics.\" For instance, in 1946, Jan Gerrit Van Gelder \"criticized Panofsky's iconology as putting too much emphasis on the symbolic content of the work of art, neglecting its formal aspects and the work as a unity of form and content.\" Furthermore, iconology is mostly avoided by social historians who do not accept the theoretical dogmaticism in the work of Panofsky.\n\nErwin Panofsky defines iconography as \"a known principle in the known world\", while iconology is \"an iconography turned interpretive\". According to his view, iconology tries to reveal the underlying principles that form the basic attitude of a nation, a period, a class, a religious or philosophical perspective, which is modulated by one personality and condensed into one work. According to Roelof van Straten, iconology \"can explain why an artist or patron chose a particular subject at a specific location and time and represented it in a certain way. An iconological investigation should concentrate on the social-historical, not art-historical, influences and values that the artist might not have consciously brought into play but are nevertheless present. The artwork is primarily seen as a document of its time.\"\n\nWarburg used the term \"iconography\" in his early research, replacing it in 1908 with \"iconology\" in his particular method of visual interpretation called \"critical iconology\", which focused on the tracing of motifs through different cultures and visual forms. In 1932, Panofsky published a seminal article, introducing a three-step method of visual interpretation dealing with (1) primary or natural subject matter; (2) secondary or conventional subject matter, i.e. iconography; (3) tertiary or intrinsic meaning or content, i.e. iconology. Whereas iconography analyses the world of images, stories and allegories and requires knowledge of literary sources, an understanding of the history of types and how themes and concepts were expressed by objects and events under different historical conditions, iconology interprets intrinsic meaning or content and the world of symbolical values by using \"synthetic intuition\". The interpreter is aware of the essential tendencies of the human mind as conditioned by psychology and world view; he analyses the history of cultural symptoms or symbols, or how tendencies of the human mind were expressed by specific themes due to different historical conditions. Moreover, when understanding the work of art as a document of a specific civilization, or of a certain religious attitude therein, the work of art becomes a symptom of something else, which expresses itself in a variety of other symptoms. Interpreting these symbolical values, which can be unknown to, or different from, the artist's intention, is the object of iconology. Panofsky emphasized that \"iconology can be done when there are no originals to look at and nothing but artificial light to work in.\"\n\nAccording to Ernst Gombrich, \"the emerging discipline of iconology ... must ultimately do for the image what linguistics has done for the word.\" However, Michael Camille is of the opinion that \"though Panofsky's concept of iconology has been very influential in the humanities and is quite effective when applied to Renaissance art, it is still problematic when applied to art from periods before and after.\"\n\nIn 1952, Creighton Gilbert added another opinion about the meaning of the word \"iconology\". According to his view, iconology was not the actual investigation of the work of art but rather the result of this investigation. The Austrian art historian Hans Sedlmayr differentiated between \"sachliche\" and \"methodische\" iconology. \"Sachliche\" iconology refers to the \"general meaning of an individual painting or of an artistic complex (church, palace, monument) as seen and explained with reference to the ideas which take shape in them.\" In contrast, \"methodische\" iconology is the \"integral iconography which accounts for the changes and development in the representations\". In \"Iconology: Images, Text, Ideology\" (1986), W.J.T. Mitchell writes that iconology is a study of \"what to say about images\", concerned with the description and interpretation of visual art, and also a study of \"what images say\" – the ways in which they seem to speak for themselves by persuading, telling stories, or describing. He pleads for a postlinguistic, postsemiotic \"iconic turn\", emphasizing the role of \"non-linguistic symbol systems\". Instead of just pointing out the difference between the material (pictorial or artistic) images, \"he pays attention to the dialectic relationship between material images and mental images\". According to Dennise Bartelo and Robert Morton, the term \"iconology\" can also be used for characterizing \"a movement toward seeing connections across all the language processes\" and the idea about \"multiple levels and forms used to communicate meaning\" in order to get \"the total picture” of learning. \"Being both literate in the traditional sense and visually literate are the true mark of a well-educated human.\"\n\nFor several years, new approaches to iconology have developed in the theory of images. This is the case of what Jean-Michel Durafour, French philosopher and theorist of cinema, proposed to call \"econology\", a biological approach to images as forms of life, crossing iconology, ecology and sciences of nature. In an econological regime, the image (\"eikon\") self-speciates, that is to say, it self-iconicizes with others and eco-iconicizes with them its iconic habitat (\"oikos\"). The iconology, mainly Warburghian iconology, is thus merged with a conception of the relations between the beings of the nature inherited, among others (Arne Næss, etc.) from the writings of Kinji Imanishi. For Imanishi, living beings are subjects. Or, more precisely, the environment and the living being are juste one. One of the main consequences is that the \"specity\", the living individual, \"self-eco-speciates its place of life\" (\"Freedom in Evolution\"). As far as the images are concerned: \"If the living species self-specify, the images self-iconicize. This is not a tautology. The images update some of their iconic virtualities. They live in the midst of other images, past or present, but also future (those are only human classifications), which they have relations with. They self-iconicize in an iconic environment which they interact with, and which in particular makes them the images they are. Or more precisely, insofar as images have an active part: \"the images self-eco-iconicize their iconic environment\".\"\n\n\"Studies in Iconology\" is the title of a book by Erwin Panofsky on humanistic themes in the art of the Renaissance, which was first published in 1939. It is also the name of a peer-reviewed series of books started in 2014 under the editorship of Barbara Baert and published by Peeters international academic publishers, Leuven, Belgium, addressing the deeper meaning of the visual medium throughout human history in the fields of philosophy, art history, theology and cultural anthropology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25432546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25432546", "title": "Institute for Media and Communication Policy", "text": "Institute for Media and Communication Policy\n\nThe Institute for Media and Communication Policy (IfM) was founded in 2005 as an independent research institution that is exclusively dedicated to issues surrounding media and communication policies. It was established in February 2006 in Berlin-Charlottenburg, in November 2014 it moved to Cologne. The institute is funded by leading German public and private media organizations.\n\nThe institute is financially supported by various media organizations including ARD, ZDF, RTL, Sky Germany, Axel Springer AG, the publishing groups Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck, Der Spiegel and the Medienboard Berlin-Brandenburg (the regional Berlin Media and Film funding organization) among others.\nThe Institute’s scientific advisory council consists of 25 reputable scholars, all of whom gained recognition in the field through media and communication policy-related publications. \nLutz Hachmeister, a journalist and media scholar, is the founding director of the Institute. The institute has been established as a non-profit, limited liability company (gGmbH) operates independently, and has no political, party, or economic ties.\n\nAccording to its mission statement the IfM is “a forum for the media industry, research into communication and current politics”. It aims to offer “concrete models and options for the solution of mediapolitical challenges” as well as a framework for discussing these with representatives from the political sphere. Its aim is to gain recognition for the economic and public relevance as well as the strategic significance of media policies in modern politics.\nThe principal task of the Institute is the continuous maintenance of an online media industry database (print-, radio-, TV- and online-media) compiling, amongst other, an annual ranking of the world’s most influential and successful media companies. \nFurther research tasks include:\n- Establishing the theoretical and empirical foundation for a basic understanding of mediapolitical ideas and positions, as well as its specific terminologies\n- Research into the shifting correlation of print- and online media \n- Publication and editorial supervision of the “Jahrbuch Fernsehen” (German television yearbook).\n\nThe institute established its good reputation by hosting high ranking colloquiums on media policy. Among the speakers were guests such as: Greg Dyke (British Film Institute), Alan Rusbridger (Chief Editor of The Guardian), Norman Pearlstine (chief content officer of Bloomberg L.P.), Tyler Brûlé (founder of the Wallpaper* magazine), Mathias Müller von Blumencron and Georg Mascolo (Chief Editors of Der Spiegel), Ernst Uhrlau (President of the German Intelligence Service), Viviane Reding (EU-commissioner for information society and media), David Weinberger (fellow at the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School), and technology scholars Evgeny Morozov and Geert Lovink.\nThe IfM was elected one of the most important non-university institutes of media research within the framework of the programme “Germany thinks”, an initiative of the Goethe-Institut.\n\nSince 2012 the Institute annually organizes the Cologne Futures, until 2015 by the name Cologne Conference Futures. The conference discusses changes within the media-system - described as Media-evolution - and deals with Technology assessment in theory and practice. Richard Barbrook, Nick Bostrom, George Dyson, Kevin Kelly, Kathrin Passig and Tim Wu and other experts in the field gave talks on these topics. Since 2015 the conference is hosted in cooperation with the Academy of Media Arts Cologne. Main sponsor is the Deutsche Telekom. The talks are published and documented by the journal Medienkorrespondenz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1949935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1949935", "title": "Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas", "text": "Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas\n\nThe Institute of Aesthetic Research (Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas) of the National Autonomous University of Mexico, since its foundation in 1936, research has been carried out in its installations into the different forms of artistic expression in Mexico; the diversity of studies undertaken by the body of researchers in the fields of criticism, theory and history of art across a horizon that reaches other latitudes. It has thus become a space in which the plastic arts converge with dance, literature, photography, cinema and music.\n\nEvery year, through its International Colloquium on Art History, the Institute opens its doors to academic reflection on the history of art. Since 1975, this space has been a meeting point for the voices of both Mexican and foreign researchers.\n\nTo perform its tasks of study and dissemination, both of Mexican art and that of other countries, the Institute harbors a number of different areas, each of which has its particular sphere of interest:\n\nThe distribution of the Institute’s publications is not limited to the UNAM’s system of libraries, but extends to other sales outlets. The electronic shop, still under construction, is also oriented towards the same /will also make a contribution to this effort, bringing the Institute’s work to a broader public.\n\nThe journal Imágenes is an electronic publication which offers various articles publicizing the Institute’s academic activities and other news items to do with the history of art. Its contents and characteristics have made it the most visited section of the Institute’s electronic portal.\n\nIn August, 2007, work started at the new branch headquarters of the Instituto de Investigaciones Estéticas in the City of Oaxaca, which are lodged in an old domestic building in the Alameda de León, which dates from the eighteenth century and was received by the UNAM in commodatum in 2005.\n\nThis branch is home to a library—comprising over six thousand volumes—which belonged to Dr. Beatriz de la Fuente, among which are some facsimiles of pre-Hispanic codices. The library is endowed with the necessary features for operating as a videoconference room. The equipment installed is similar to that in the Francisco de la Maza room in the Institute’s headquarters on the University campus in Mexico City, thus facilitating constant communication between both. It is to be hoped that this study center will become a point of reference for the south of the country and for the whole of Central America.\n\n"}
{"id": "29460546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29460546", "title": "Interlocutor (linguistics)", "text": "Interlocutor (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, discourse analysis, and related fields, an interlocutor is a person involved in a conversation or dialogue. Two or more people speaking to one another are each other's interlocutors. The terms \"conversation partner\", \"hearer\", or \"addressee\" are oftentimes used interchangeably with \"interlocutor\".\n\n"}
{"id": "17169853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17169853", "title": "Inventory (museum)", "text": "Inventory (museum)\n\nAn inventory is an itemized list of objects that the museum has accessioned or received via loan(s) and must be physically located by an examiner. A complete, one-hundred percent inventory, or a random inventory of the collection must be carried out periodically to ensure the museum is operating under best practices and for security purposes. The museum is legally responsible and ethically obligated for the maintenance of up-to-date information detailing the location of all objects within the collection, including loaned items and objects that have yet to be accessioned; this is stipulated by many museum associations, including the American Association of Museums.\n\nAlthough inventories require a large amount of work and are not part of the more glitzy side of museum work, their value is nonetheless extremely important. The upkeep of the collections’ inventory record is needed for minimum collections accountability. Inventories provide the collections manager and or the registrar with information for insurance purposes, security, and alerts staff to possible conservation or preservation needs of the collection.\n\nThe completion and upkeep of and an inventory system helps to deter and aid in the early detection of theft of the collection. The International Council of Museums (ICOM) urges museums to complete and maintain their inventory systems because \"If a museum does not know what is in its collection, where the works are located, and the condition they are in, it, in effect, invites theft because it will have no immediate sense that an object has disappeared, and most important, it will have no descriptive information to aid the recovery of an object in the event of a theft.\" \n<br>\n\nThe type of inventory system used by a museum will be dictated by the Collections Management Policy (CMP). The CMP will determine how often items, what items, and how many items are to be inventory. Museums need to periodically complete a one-hundred percent inventory of their collection, but for the period in between the completion of such an inventory, a random sampling of the collection is sufficient. A random sampling of the collection serves as an indicator for the rest of the collection. If all the items are accounted for in a random sampling, then it can be assumed that rest of the collections’ records is just as reliable. However, a complete inventory provides the institution with the knowledge that the entire collection can be accounted for; the random sampling is used to check the consistency of the collections’ records.\n\nAn ongoing inventory method is a system that inventories on a regular basis high value items or items that are more susceptible to theft. This method resembles an iceberg, with the high value items being at the top of the iceberg. As the inventory method progresses further down the iceberg, items of lesser value can be found. Items found toward the center of the iceberg, need to be inventoried less than those found higher up on the berg, and more than items found below its position. Items at the lowest position of the iceberg, below the water’s surface, may only need to be inventoried annually. With this type of inventory system, the most important or most valued objects are accounted for on a regular basis.\n\nInventories serve several purposes, including the opportunity for review of the collections department. Such review includes: \nAn inventory provides a systematic review of the collections department’s records and helps to identify any problems. How smoothly an inventory goes is actually a reflection upon the institution. If an inventory is completed with little or no issues, then the collections department is running well; however, if many issues arise during the inventory process, this may be indicative of a collections department in need of review and change.\n\nEvery museum must complete an inventory on a regular basis and this requirement should be stated in the museum’s CMP. The CMP should also outline the steps that need to be carried out in the inventory process, including: \n\nSufficient time spent in planning must be devoted before beginning such a task as an inventory. A well thought out inventory procedure will efficiently utilize staff and their time. Such procedure should include:\n\nNow that inventory policy and procedure have been established, it is time to carry out the inventory. Conducting an inventory is the final step to the inventory process, it is relatively simple in that the actions are repetitive, but it can be one of the most time consuming parts of the inventory process depending upon the size of the collection and the intended scope of the inventory. \n<br>\n\nSelect a method of approach when beginning the inventory process. How will the collection be inventoried? Shelf by shelf; or in numerical order of the catalogue? Once the inventory method is decided, a uniformed and basic inventory record for each object needs to be created. Such a record might contain the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34356513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34356513", "title": "Journal of Disability Policy Studies", "text": "Journal of Disability Policy Studies\n\nThe Journal of Disability Policy Studies is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of disability studies, including issues in ethics, public policy, and the law related to individuals with disabilities. The editors-in-chief are Mitchell Yell (University of South Carolina) and Antonis Katsiyannis (Clemson University). It was established in 1990 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with the Hammill Institute on Disabilities.\n\nThe \"Journal of Disability Policy Studies\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 1.104, ranking it 47 out of 69 journals in the category \"Rehabilitation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32130427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32130427", "title": "Nasothek", "text": "Nasothek\n\nA nasothek (from the Latin \"\" \"nose\" and Greek \"container\") is a collection of sculpted noses. \n\nThe Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek museum in Copenhagen has a nasothek collection that displays restored noses that were removed from portrait busts and statues after changes in the museum's art restoration policies. The noses, some made of marble and others of plaster, were all originally exhibited on the Greek and Roman statues in the glyptotek itself.\n\nThe white marble favored by Classical sculptors is easily broken, and many antique statues have been damaged since their creation by accidents, iconoclasm, or vandalism. During the 19th century, it was common practice for museums to exhibit such marble sculptures in a \"restored\" state, with damaged parts repaired or reconstructed to make the statue look as much as possible as it did when it was first created. The noses of antique statues are especially likely to be damaged or missing, so many Greek or Roman statues acquired new noses during this era. Modern exhibition practice may differ from museum to museum. The minimalist approach prescribes removing such 19th-century additions in the interest of authenticity, as has been done in Copenhagen.\n\nThe Ny Carlsberg museum, which has an extensive collection of Greek and Roman marble statues, participated both in 19th-century restoration and in 20th-century \"de-restoration.\" As a result, many Roman portrait heads are now noseless again, with their restored noses removed to the museum's nasothek.\n\nThe museum display explains its contents in both Danish and English. The English description says, \"The word \"nasothek\" means a collection of noses, in analogy with \"\", a collection of records.\" The Danish explanation compares \"nasotek\" (Danish equivalent of \"nasothek\") to \"\", a collection of books.\n\nThe \"Nasoteket\" at Lund University in Sweden consists of a display of more than 100 plaster casts of noses, including a cast of the silver nose of Tycho Brahe.\n\n"}
{"id": "38264968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38264968", "title": "Native American rhetoric", "text": "Native American rhetoric\n\nA history of Native American rhetorics.\n\n1823 - Johnson v. McIntosh\n1830s - William Appess \n1827 and 1839 - Cherokee constitutions\n1879 - Thomas Tibbles\n1879 - Sarah Winnemucca Hopkins\n1881 - Constitution of the Osage Nation\n1881 – Helen Hunt Jackson, A Century of Dishonor\n1928 – Meriam Report \n1946 - Indian Claims Commission created\n1953 – Thomas Banyacya \n1955 - Tee-Hit-Ton Indians v. United States\n1961 - The American Indian Chicago Conference \n1966-1995 - Blackbird Bend litigation \n1969 - Alcatraz Occupation \n1970 - N. Scott Momaday \n1973 - Maria Campbell \n1977 - Charles Aubid \n1980 - Russell Means “Fighting Words on the Future of the Earth,” \"Mother Jones\" \n1994 - Gerald Vizenor \"Manifest Manners\"\n1997 - U.N. Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples\n1997 - Delgamuukw v. British Columbia \n1997 - Robin Ridington and Dennis Hastings, \"Blessing for a Long Time\"\n1998 - “Statement of Reconciliation” \n2005 - Statement on Native American Languages in the College and University Curriculum: MLA Committee on the Literatures of People of Color in the United States and Canada \n2007 - Ward Churchill \n2008 - Malea Powell, “Dreaming Charles Eastman: Cultural Memory, Autobiography, and Geography in Indigenous Rhetorical Histories” \n\n[1]Adamson, Joni. “Cultural Critique and Local Pedagogy: A Reading of Louise Erdrich’s Tracks.” \"American Indian Literature, Environmental Justice, and Ecocriticism: The Middle Place\". Tucson: U of Arizona P, 2001. 89-115. Print.\nDeloria, Philip J. \"Playing Indian\". New Haven: Yale UP, 1998. Print.\nKovach, Margaret. \"Indigenous Methodologies: Characteristics, Conversations, and Contexts\". Toronto: U of Toronto P, 2009. Print.\nLaDuke, Winona. \"The Winona LaDuke Reader: A Collection of Essential Writings\". Stillwater: Voyageur, 2002. Print.\nLyons, Scott Richard. “Rhetorical Sovereignty: What Do American Indians Want from Writing?” \"College Composition and Communication\" 51.3 (Feb. 2000): 447-468. JSTOR. Web. 9 Nov. 2011. PDF File. <https://www.jstor.org/stable/358744>\n---, Scott Richard. “There's No Translation for It: The Rhetorical Sovereignty of Indigenous Languages.” \"Cross-Language Relations in Composition\". Ed. Bruce Horner, Min-Zhan Lu, and Paul Kei Matsuda. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 2010.\n---, Scott Richard. \"X-Marks: Native Signatures of Assent\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 2010. Print.\nMihesuah, Devon Abott, and Angela Cavender Wilson, eds. \"Indigenizing the Academy: Transforming Scholarship and Empowering Communities\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 2004. Print.\n---. \"American Indians: Stereotypes & Realities\". Atlanta: Clarity P, 1996. Print.\n---. \"So You Want to Write about American Indians?: a Guide for Writers, Students, and Scholars\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 2005. Print.\n---. \"Natives and Academics: Researching and Writing about American Indians\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1998. \nPowell, Malea. “Dreaming Charles Eastman: Cultural Memory, Autobiography, and Geography in Indigenous Rhetorical Histories.” \"Beyond the Archives: Research as a Lived Process\". Ed. Gesa E. Kirsch and Liz Rohan. Carbondale: Southern Illinois UP, 2008. Print.\n---. “Learning (Teaching) to Teach (Learn).” \"Relations, Locations, Positions: Composition Theory for Writing Teachers\". Ed. Peter Vandenberg, Sue Hum, and Jennifer Clary-Lemon. Urbana: National Council of Teachers of English, 2006. 571-580. Print.\n---. “Stories Take Place.”\nScherer, Mark R. \"Imperfect Victories: The Legal Tenacity of the Omaha Tribe, 1945-1995\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1999.\nSmith, Paul Chaat and Robert Allen Warrior. \"Like a Hurricane: the Indian Movement from Alcatraz to Wounded Knee\". New York: New P, 1996. Print. \nSmith, Linda Tuhiwai. \"Decolonizing Methodologies: Research and Indigenous Peoples\". New York: St. Martin’s, 1999. Print.\nVizenor, Gerald. \"Manifest Manners: Narratives on Postindian Survivance\". Lincoln: U of Nebraska P, 1999. Print. \nWarrior, Robert. \"The People and the Word: Reading Native Nonfiction\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 2005. Print.\nWomack, Craig S. \"Red on Red: Native American Literary Separatism\". Minneapolis: U of Minnesota P, 1999. Print.\n"}
{"id": "21566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21566", "title": "Noam Chomsky", "text": "Noam Chomsky\n\nAvram Noam Chomsky (born December 7, 1928) is an American linguist, philosopher, cognitive scientist, historian, political activist, and social critic. Sometimes described as \"the father of modern linguistics\", Chomsky is also a major figure in analytic philosophy and one of the founders of the field of cognitive science. He holds a joint appointment as Institute Professor Emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and laureate professor at the University of Arizona, and is the author of over 100 books on topics such as linguistics, war, politics, and mass media. Ideologically, he aligns with anarcho-syndicalism and libertarian socialism.\nBorn to middle-class Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants in Philadelphia, Chomsky developed an early interest in anarchism from alternative bookstores in New York City. He began studying at the University of Pennsylvania at age 16, taking courses in linguistics, mathematics, and philosophy. From 1951 to 1955, he was appointed to Harvard University's Society of Fellows. While at Harvard, he developed the theory of transformational grammar; for this, he was awarded his doctorate in 1955. Chomsky began teaching at MIT in 1957 and emerged as a significant figure in the field of linguistics for his landmark work \"Syntactic Structures\", which remodelled the scientific study of language. From 1958 to 1959, he was a National Science Foundation fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study. Chomsky is credited as the creator or co-creator of the universal grammar theory, the generative grammar theory, the Chomsky hierarchy, and the minimalist program. Chomsky also played a pivotal role in the decline of behaviorism, being particularly critical of the work of B. F. Skinner.\nChomsky vocally opposed U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, believing the war to be an act of American imperialism. In 1967, Chomsky attracted widespread public attention for his anti-war essay entitled \"The Responsibility of Intellectuals\". Associated with the New Left, he was arrested multiple times for his activism and was placed on Nixon's \"Enemies List\". While expanding his work in linguistics over subsequent decades, he also became involved in the Linguistics Wars. In collaboration with Edward S. Herman, Chomsky later co-wrote , which articulated the propaganda model of media criticism, and worked to expose the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. Additionally, his defense of freedom of speech—including free speech for Holocaust deniers—generated significant controversy in the Faurisson affair of the early 1980s. Following his retirement from active teaching, Chomsky has continued his vocal political activism by opposing the War on Terror and supporting the Occupy Movement.\nOne of the most cited scholars in history, Chomsky has influenced a broad array of academic fields. He is widely recognized as a paradigm shifter who helped spark a major revolution in the human sciences, contributing to the development of a new cognitivistic framework for the study of language and the mind. In addition to his continued scholarly research, he remains a leading critic of U.S. foreign policy, neoliberalism and contemporary state capitalism, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and mainstream news media. His ideas have proved highly significant within the anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist movements. Some of his critics have accused him of anti-Americanism.\n\nAvram Noam Chomsky was born on December 7, 1928, in the East Oak Lane neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His father was William \"Zev\" Chomsky, an Ashkenazi Jew originally from Ukraine who had fled to the United States in 1913. Having studied at Johns Hopkins University, William went on to become school principal of the Congregation Mikveh Israel religious school, and in 1924 was appointed to the faculty at Gratz College in Philadelphia. Chomsky's mother was the Belarusian-born Elsie Simonofsky (1904–1972), a teacher and activist whom William had met while working at Mikveh Israel.\n\nNoam was the Chomsky family's first child. His younger brother, David Eli Chomsky, was born five years later. The brothers were close, although David was more easygoing while Noam could be very competitive. Chomsky and his brother were raised Jewish, being taught Hebrew and regularly discussing the political theories of Zionism; the family was particularly influenced by the Left Zionist writings of Ahad Ha'am. As a Jew, Chomsky faced anti-semitism as a child, particularly from the Irish and German communities living in Philadelphia.\n\nChomsky described his parents as \"normal Roosevelt Democrats\" who had a center-left position on the political spectrum; however, he was exposed to far-left politics through other members of the family, a number of whom were socialists involved in the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. He was substantially influenced by his uncle who owned a newspaper stand in New York City, where Jewish leftists came to debate the issues of the day. Whenever visiting his uncle, Chomsky frequented left-wing and anarchist bookstores in the city, voraciously reading political literature. He later described his discovery of anarchism as \"a lucky accident\", because it allowed him to become critical of other far-left ideologies, namely Stalinism and other forms of Marxism–Leninism.\n\nChomsky's primary education was at Oak Lane Country Day School, an independent Deweyite institution that focused on allowing its pupils to pursue their own interests in a non-competitive atmosphere. It was here, at the age of 10, that he wrote his first article, on the spread of fascism, following the fall of Barcelona to Francisco Franco's fascist army in the Spanish Civil War. At the age of 12, Chomsky moved on to secondary education at Central High School, where he joined various clubs and societies and excelled academically, but was troubled by the hierarchical and regimented method of teaching used there. During the same time period, Chomsky attended the Hebrew High School at Gratz College. From the age of 12 or 13, he identified more fully with anarchist politics.\n\nIn 1945, Chomsky, aged 16, embarked on a general program of study at the University of Pennsylvania, where he explored philosophy, logic, and languages and developed a primary interest in learning Arabic. Living at home, he funded his undergraduate degree by teaching Hebrew. However, he was frustrated with his experiences at the university, and considered dropping out and moving to a kibbutz in Mandatory Palestine. His intellectual curiosity was reawakened through conversations with the Russian-born linguist Zellig Harris, whom he first met in a political circle in 1947. Harris introduced Chomsky to the field of theoretical linguistics and convinced him to major in the subject. Chomsky's B.A. honors thesis was titled \"Morphophonemics of Modern Hebrew\", and involved his applying Harris's methods to the language. Chomsky revised this thesis for his M.A., which he received at Penn in 1951; it would subsequently be published as a book. He also developed his interest in philosophy while at university, in particular under the tutelage of his teacher Nelson Goodman.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1955, Chomsky was named to the Society of Fellows at Harvard University, where he undertook research on what would become his doctoral dissertation. Having been encouraged by Goodman to apply, a significant factor in his decision to move to Harvard was that the philosopher W. V. Quine was based there. Both Quine and a visiting philosopher, J. L. Austin of the University of Oxford, would strongly influence Chomsky. In 1952, Chomsky published his first academic article, \"Systems of Syntactic Analysis\", which appeared not in a journal of linguistics, but in \"The Journal of Symbolic Logic\". Being highly critical of the established behaviorist currents in linguistics, in 1954 he presented his ideas at lectures given at the University of Chicago and Yale University. Although he had not been registered as a student at Pennsylvania for four years, in 1955 he submitted a thesis to them setting out his ideas on transformational grammar; he was awarded his Ph.D. on the basis of it, and it would be privately distributed among specialists on microfilm before being published in 1975 as part of \"The Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\". Possession of this Ph.D. nullified his requirement to enter national service in the armed forces, which was otherwise due to begin in 1955. George Armitage Miller, a Professor at Harvard, read the Ph.D. and was impressed; together he and Chomsky published a number of technical papers in mathematical linguistics.\n\nIn 1947, Chomsky entered into a romantic relationship with Carol Doris Schatz, whom he had known since they were toddlers, and they married in 1949. After Chomsky was made a Fellow at Harvard, the couple moved to an apartment in the Allston area of Boston, remaining there until 1965, when they relocated to the suburb of Lexington. In 1953 the couple took up a Harvard travel grant in order to visit Europe, traveling from the United Kingdom through France and Switzerland and into Italy. On that same trip they also spent six weeks in Israel at Hashomer Hatzair's HaZore'a Kibbutz. Although enjoying himself, Chomsky was appalled by the Jewish nationalism and anti-Arab racism that he encountered in the country, as well as the pro-Stalinist trend that he thought pervaded the kibbutz's leftist community.\n\nOn visits to New York City, Chomsky continued to frequent the office of Yiddish anarchist journal \"Freie Arbeiter Stimme\", becoming enamored with the ideas of contributor Rudolf Rocker, whose work introduced him to the link between anarchism and classical liberalism. Other political thinkers whose work Chomsky read included the anarchist Diego Abad de Santillán, democratic socialists George Orwell, Bertrand Russell, and Dwight Macdonald, and works by Marxists Karl Liebknecht, Karl Korsch, and Rosa Luxemburg. His readings convinced him of the desirability of an anarcho-syndicalist society, and he became fascinated by the anarcho-syndicalist communes set up during the Spanish Civil War, which were documented in Orwell's \"Homage to Catalonia\" (1938). He avidly read leftist journal \"politics\", remarking that it \"answered to and developed\" his interest in anarchism, as well as the periodical \"Living Marxism\", published by council communist Paul Mattick. Although rejecting its Marxist basis, Chomsky was heavily influenced by council communism, voraciously reading articles in \"Living Marxism\" written by Antonie Pannekoek. He was also greatly interested in the Marlenite ideas of the Leninist League, an anti-Stalinist Marxist–Leninist group, sharing their views that the Second World War was orchestrated by Western capitalists and the Soviet Union's \"state capitalists\" to crush Europe's proletariat.\n\nChomsky had befriended two linguists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Morris Halle and Roman Jakobson, the latter of whom secured him an assistant professor position at MIT in 1955. There Chomsky spent half his time on a mechanical translation project, and the other half teaching a course on linguistics and philosophy. Chomsky had been recruited to MIT by Jerome Wiesner, an influential scientist who, at this time, was also involved in getting the US's nuclear missile program established Having brought such missile research to MIT, Wiesner then became a nuclear strategy adviser to both Presidents Eisenhower and Kennedy, before returning to MIT to oversee research programmes at the Institute. However, despite its military involvement, Chomsky has described MIT as \"a pretty free and open place, open to experimentation and without rigid requirements. It was just perfect for someone of my idiosyncratic interests and work.\" In 1957 MIT promoted him to the position of associate professor, and from 1957 to 1958 he was also employed by Columbia University as a visiting professor. That same year, Chomsky's first child, a daughter named Aviva, was born, and he published his first book on linguistics, \"Syntactic Structures\", a work that radically opposed the dominant Harris–Bloomfield trend in the field. The response to Chomsky's ideas ranged from indifference to hostility, and his work proved divisive and caused \"significant upheaval\" in the discipline. Linguist John Lyons later asserted that it \"revolutionized the scientific study of language\". From 1958 to 1959 Chomsky was a National Science Foundation fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nIn 1959 he published a review of B. F. Skinner's 1957 book \"Verbal Behavior\" in the journal \"Language\", in which he argued against Skinner's view of language as learned behavior. Opining that Skinner ignored the role of human creativity in linguistics, his review helped him to become an \"established intellectual\", and he proceeded to found MIT's Graduate Program in linguistics with Halle. In 1961 he was awarded academic tenure, being made a full professor in the Department of Modern Languages and Linguistics. He went on to be appointed plenary speaker at the Ninth International Congress of Linguists, held in 1962 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which established him as the \"de facto\" spokesperson of American linguistics. He continued to publish his linguistic ideas throughout the decade, including in \"Aspects of the Theory of Syntax\" (1966), \"Topics in the Theory of Generative Grammar\" (1966), and \"Cartesian Linguistics: A Chapter in the History of Rationalist Thought\" (1966). Along with Halle, he also edited the \"Studies in Language\" series of books for Harper and Row, and extended the theory of generative grammar to phonology in \"The Sound Pattern of English\" (1968).\n\nHe continued to receive academic recognition and honors for his work, in 1966 visiting a variety of Californian institutions, first as the Linguistics Society of America Professor at the University of California, and then as the Beckman Professor at the University of California, Berkeley. His Beckman lectures would be assembled and published as \"Language and Mind\" in 1968. In this period, military scientists were also interested in Chomsky's linguistics. As former Air Force Colonel, Anthony Debons, said: \"much of the research conducted at MIT by Chomsky and his colleagues [has] direct application to the efforts undertaken by military scientists to develop … languages for computer operations in military command and control systems.\" Indeed, between 1963 and 1965, Chomsky was a consultant for a military sponsored project \"to establish natural language as an operational language for command and control.\" One of Chomsky's students who also worked on this project, Barbara Partee, says that this research was justified to the military on the basis that \"in the event of a nuclear war, the generals would be underground with some computers trying to manage things, and that it would probably be easier to teach computers to understand English than to teach the generals to program.\"\n\nHowever, these scientists eventually found Chomsky's theories unworkable for their computer systems. Other subsequent difficulties with the theories led to various debates between Chomsky and his critics that came to be known as the \"Linguistics Wars\", although they revolved largely around debating philosophical issues rather than linguistics proper.\n\nChomsky first involved himself in active political protest against U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War in 1962, speaking on the subject at small gatherings in churches and homes. However, it was not until 1967 that he publicly entered the debate on United States foreign policy. In February he published a widely read essay in \"The New York Review of Books\" entitled \"The Responsibility of Intellectuals\", in which he criticized the country's involvement in the conflict; the essay was based on an earlier talk that he had given to Harvard's Foundation for Jewish Campus Life. He expanded on his argument to produce his first political book, \"American Power and the New Mandarins,\" which was published in 1969 and soon established him at the forefront of American dissent. His other political books of the time included \"At War with Asia\" (1971), \"The Backroom Boys\" (1973), \"For Reasons of State\" (1973), and \"Peace in the Middle East?\" (1975), published by Pantheon Books. Coming to be associated with the American New Left movement, he nevertheless thought little of prominent New Left intellectuals Herbert Marcuse and Erich Fromm, and preferred the company of activists to intellectuals. Although \"The New York Review of Books\" did publish contributions from Chomsky and other leftists from 1967 to 1973, when an editorial change put a stop to it, he was virtually ignored by the rest of the mainstream press throughout the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nAlong with his writings, Chomsky also became actively involved in left-wing activism. Refusing to pay half his taxes, he publicly supported students who refused the draft, and was arrested for being part of an anti-war teach-in outside the Pentagon. During this time, Chomsky, along with Mitchell Goodman, Denise Levertov, William Sloane Coffin, and Dwight Macdonald, also founded the anti-war collective RESIST. Although he questioned the objectives of the 1968 student protests, Chomsky gave many lectures to student activist groups; furthermore, he and his colleague Louis Kampf began running undergraduate courses on politics at MIT, independently of the conservative-dominated political science department.\n\nDuring this period, MIT's various departments were researching helicopters, smart bombs and counterinsurgency techniques for the war in Vietnam and, as Chomsky says, \"a good deal of [nuclear] missile guidance technology was developed right on the MIT campus\". As Chomsky elaborates, \"[MIT was] about 90% Pentagon funded at that time. And I personally was right in the middle of it. I was in a military lab ... the Research Laboratory for Electronics.\" By 1969, student activists were actively campaigning \"to stop the war research\" at MIT. Chomsky was sympathetic to the students but he also thought it best to keep such research on campus and he proposed that it should be restricted to what he called \"systems of a purely defensive and deterrent character\". MIT had six of its anti-war student activists sentenced to prison terms. Chomsky says MIT's students suffered things that \"should not have happened.\" However, Chomsky has also claimed that MIT has \"quite a good record on civil liberties\". In 1970 Chomsky visited the Vietnamese city of Hanoi to give a lecture at the Hanoi University of Science and Technology; on this trip he also toured Laos to visit the refugee camps created by the war, and in 1973 he was among those leading a committee to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the War Resisters League.\n\nAs a result of his anti-war activism, Chomsky was ultimately arrested on multiple occasions, and U.S. President Richard Nixon included him on the master version of his \"Enemies List\". He was aware of the potential repercussions of his civil disobedience, and his wife began studying for her own Ph.D. in linguistics in order to support the family in the event of Chomsky's imprisonment or loss of employment. However, MIT – despite being under some pressure to do so – refused to fire him due to his influential standing in the field of linguistics. His work in this area continued to gain international recognition; in 1967 he received honorary doctorates from both the University of London and the University of Chicago. In 1970, Loyola University and Swarthmore College also awarded him honorary D.H.L.'s, as did Bard College in 1971, Delhi University in 1972, and the University of Massachusetts in 1973.\n\nIn 1971 Chomsky gave the Bertrand Russell Memorial Lectures at the University of Cambridge, which were published as \"Problems of Knowledge and Freedom\" later that year. He also delivered the Whidden Lectures at McMaster University, the Huizinga Lecture at Leiden University in the Netherlands, the Woodbridge Lectures at Columbia University, and the Kant Lectures at Stanford University. In 1971 he partook in a televised debate with French philosopher Michel Foucault on Dutch television, entitled \"Human Nature: Justice versus Power\". Although largely agreeing with Foucault's ideas, he was critical of post-modernism and French philosophy generally, believing that post-modern leftist philosophers used obfuscating language which did little to aid the cause of the working-classes and lambasting France as having \"a highly parochial and remarkably illiterate culture\". Chomsky also continued to publish prolifically in linguistics, publishing \"Studies on Semantics in Generative Grammar\" (1972), an enlarged edition of \"Language and Mind\" (1972), and \"Reflections on Language\" (1975). In 1974 he became a corresponding fellow of the British Academy.\n\nThroughout the late 1970s and 1980s, Chomsky's publications expanded and clarified his earlier work, addressing his critics and updating his grammatical theory. His public talks often generated considerable controversy, particularly when he criticized actions of the Israeli government and military, and his political views came under attack from right-wing and centrist figures, the most prominent of whom was Alan Dershowitz. Chomsky considered Dershowitz \"a complete liar\" and accused him of actively misrepresenting his position on issues. During the early 1970s Chomsky began collaborating with Edward S. Herman, who had also published critiques of the U.S. war in Vietnam. Together they authored \"\", a book which criticized U.S. military involvement in Southeast Asia and highlighted how mainstream media neglected to cover stories about these activities; the publisher Warner Modular initially accepted it, and it was published in 1973. However, Warner Modular's parent company, Warner Communications, disapproved of the book's contents and ordered all copies to be destroyed.\n\nWhile mainstream publishing options proved elusive, Chomsky found support from Michael Albert's South End Press, an activist-oriented publishing company.\nIn 1979, Chomsky and Herman revised \"Counter-Revolutionary Violence\" and published it with South End Press as the two-volume \"The Political Economy of Human Rights\". In this they compared U.S. media reactions to the Cambodian genocide and the Indonesian occupation of East Timor. They argued that because Indonesia was a U.S. ally, U.S. media ignored the East Timorese situation while focusing on that in Cambodia, a U.S. enemy. Taking a particular interest in the situation in East Timor, Chomsky testified on the subject in front of the United Nations' Special Committee on Decolonization in both 1978 and 1979, and attended a conference on the occupation held in Lisbon in 1979. The following year, the Marxist academic, Steven Lukes authored an article for the \"Times Higher Education Supplement\" accusing Chomsky of betraying his anarchist ideals and acting as an apologist for Cambodian leader Pol Pot. Laura J. Summers and Robin Woodsworth Carlsen replied to the article, arguing that Lukes completely misunderstood Chomsky and Herman's work. The controversy damaged his reputation, and Chomsky maintains that his critics deliberately printed lies about him in order to defame him.\n\nAlthough Chomsky had long publicly criticized Nazism and totalitarianism more generally, his commitment to freedom of speech led him to defend the right of French historian Robert Faurisson to advocate a position widely characterized as Holocaust denial. Without Chomsky's knowledge, his plea for the historian's freedom of speech was published as the preface to Faurisson's 1980 book \"Mémoire en défense contre ceux qui m'accusent de falsifier l'histoire\". Chomsky was widely condemned for defending Faurisson, and France's mainstream press accused Chomsky of being a Holocaust denier himself, refusing to publish his rebuttals to their accusations. Critiquing Chomsky's position, sociologist Werner Cohn later published an analysis of the affair titled \"Partners in Hate: Noam Chomsky and the Holocaust Deniers\". The Faurisson affair had a lasting, damaging effect on Chomsky's career, and Chomsky did not visit France, where the translation of his political writings was delayed until the 2000s, for almost thirty years following the debacle.\n\nThe election of Republican Party candidate Ronald Reagan to the U.S. Presidency in 1980 marked a period of increased military intervention in Central America. In 1985, during Nicaragua's Contra War – in which the U.S. supported the Contra militia against the Sandinista government – Chomsky travelled to Managua to meet with workers' organizations and refugees of the conflict, giving public lectures on politics and linguistics. Many of these lectures would be published in 1987 as \"On Power and Ideology: The Managua Lectures\". In 1983 he published \"The Fateful Triangle\", an examination of the Israel-Palestine conflict and the place of the U.S. within it, arguing that the U.S. had continually used the conflict for its own ends. In 1988, Chomsky then visited the Palestinian territories to witness the impact of Israeli military occupation.\n\nIn 1988, Chomsky and Herman published \"Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media\", in which they outlined their propaganda model for understanding the mainstream media; there they argued that even in countries without official censorship, the news provided was censored through four filters which had a great impact on what stories are reported and how they are presented. The book was adapted into a 1992 film, \"\", which was directed by Mark Achbar and Peter Wintonick. In 1989, Chomsky published \"Necessary Illusions: Thought Control in Democratic Societies,\" in which he critiqued what he sees as the pseudo-democratic nature of Western capitalist states.\n\nBy the 1980s, a number of Chomsky's students had become leading linguistic specialists in their own right, expanding, revising, and expanding on Chomsky's ideas of generative grammar. By the end of the 1980s, Chomsky had established himself as a globally recognized figure.\n\nIn the 1990s, Chomsky embraced political activism to a greater degree than before. Retaining his commitment to the cause of East Timorese independence, in 1995 he visited Australia to talk on the issue at the behest of the East Timorese Relief Association and the National Council for East Timorese Resistance. The lectures that he gave on the subject would be published as \"Powers and Prospects\" in 1996. As a result of the international publicity generated by Chomsky, his biographer Wolfgang Sperlich opined that he did more to aid the cause of East Timorese independence than anyone but the investigative journalist John Pilger. After East Timor's independence from Indonesia was achieved in 1999, the Australian-led International Force for East Timor arrived as a peacekeeping force; Chomsky was critical of this, believing that it was designed to secure Australian access to East Timor's oil and gas reserves under the Timor Gap Treaty. Chomsky's book \"Profit Over People: Neoliberalism and Global Order\" was a Boston Globe and Voice Literary Supplement bestseller in 1999.\n\nChomsky retired from full-time teaching, although as an Emeritus he nevertheless continued to conduct research and seminars at MIT.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks in 2001, Chomsky was widely interviewed, with these interviews being collated and published by Seven Stories Press in October.\nChomsky argued that the ensuing War on Terror was not a new development, but rather a continuation of the same U.S. foreign policy and its concomitant rhetoric that had been pursued since at least the Reagan era of the 1980s. In 2003 he published \"Hegemony or Survival\", in which he articulated what he called the United States' \"imperial grand strategy\" and critiqued the Iraq War and other aspects of the 'War on Terror.'\n\nChomsky toured the world with increasing regularity during this period, giving talks on various subjects. In 2001 he gave the D.T. Lakdawala Memorial Lecture in New Delhi, India, and in 2003 visited Cuba at the invitation of the Latin American Association of Social Scientists. In 2002 Chomsky visited Turkey in order to attend the trial of a publisher who had been accused of treason for printing one of Chomsky's books; Chomsky insisted on being a co-defendant and amid international media attention the Security Courts dropped the prosecution on the first day. During that trip, Chomsky visited Kurdish areas of Turkey and spoke out in favour of the Kurds' human rights. A supporter of the World Social Forum, he attended their conferences in Brazil in both 2002 and 2003, also attending the Forum event in India.\n\nHis wife, Carol, died in December 2008.\n\nChomsky was drawn to the energy and activism of the Occupy movement, delivering talks at encampments and producing two works that chronicled its influence, first \"Occupy\" a pamphlet, in 2012, then, in 2013, \"Occupy: Reflections on Class War, Rebellion and Solidarity\". Both were published by Zuccotti Park Press. His analysis included a critique that attributed Occupy's growth as a response to a perceived abandonment of the interests of the white working class by the Democratic Party.\n\nIn March 2014, Chomsky joined the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation advisory council and is a senior fellow there.\n\nIn late 2015, Chomsky announced his support for Vermont U.S. senator Bernie Sanders in the upcoming 2016 United States presidential election.\n\nIn early 2016, Chomsky was publicly rebuked by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey after he signed an open letter condemning the Turkish leader for his anti-Kurdish repression and for holding double standards on terrorism. Chomsky accused Erdoğan of hypocrisy and added that the Turkish president supports al-Qaeda's Syrian affiliate, the al-Nusra Front. Chomsky also criticized the U.S.'s close ties with Saudi Arabia and U.S. involvement in Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen, highlighting that Saudi has \"one of the most grotesque human rights records in the world\".\n\nIn 2016, the documentary \"Requiem for the American Dream\" was released, summarizing his views on capitalism and economic inequality through a \"75-minute teach-in\". \"Requiem for the American Dream\" was published as a book in 2017, and is a furthering of the ideas put forward in the 2016 documentary (Seven Stories Press).\n\nIn an interview with Al Jazeera, Chomsky called Donald Trump an \"ignorant, thin-skinned megalomaniac\" and a \"greater evil\" than Hillary Clinton. Asked about claims that Russia interfered in the U.S. presidential election through hacking, Chomsky said: \"It's possible, but it's a kind of strange complaint in the United States. The U.S. has been interfering with, and undermining, elections all over the world for decades and is proud of it.\"\n\nIn August 2017, at age 88 and retired since 2002, Chomsky left MIT to join the linguistics department of University of Arizona in Tucson as part-time faculty, officially starting a few weeks later, and teaching in spring 2018. His salary is covered by philanthropy funds. Chomsky will maintain an office in Cambridge.\n\nIn July 2018, Chomsky said in an interview with \"Democracy Now!\" that \"it's hard to think of a more brutal and sadistic policy\" about the Trump administration family separation policy. In the same interview Chomsky also said that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's victory of the 2018 New York primary election \"was a quite spectacular and significant event\".\n\nWithin the field of linguistics, McGilvray credits Chomsky with inaugurating the \"cognitive revolution\". McGilvray also credits him with establishing the field as a formal, natural science, moving it away from the procedural form of structural linguistics that was dominant during the mid-20th century. As such, some have called him \"the father of modern linguistics\".\n\nThe basis to Chomsky's linguistic theory is rooted in biolinguistics, holding that the principles underlying the structure of language are biologically determined in the human mind and hence genetically transmitted. He therefore argues that all humans share the same underlying linguistic structure, irrespective of sociocultural differences. In adopting this position, Chomsky rejects the radical behaviorist psychology of B. F. Skinner which views the mind as a \"tabula rasa\" (\"blank slate\") and thus treats language as learned behavior. Accordingly, he argues that language is a unique evolutionary development of the human species and is unlike modes of communication used by any other animal species. Chomsky's nativist, internalist view of language is consistent with the philosophical school of \"rationalism\", and is contrasted with the anti-nativist, externalist view of language, which is consistent with the philosophical school of \"empiricism\".\n\nSince the 1960s, Chomsky has maintained that syntactic knowledge is at least partially inborn, implying that children need only learn certain parochial features of their native languages. Chomsky based his argument on observations about human language acquisition, noting that there is an enormous gap between the linguistic stimuli to which children are exposed and the rich linguistic knowledge they attain (see: \"poverty of the stimulus\" argument). For example, although children are exposed to only a finite subset of the allowable syntactic variants within their first language, they somehow acquire the ability to understand and produce an infinite number of sentences, including ones which have never before been uttered. To explain this, Chomsky reasoned that the primary linguistic data (PLD) must be supplemented by an innate linguistic capacity. Furthermore, while a human baby and a kitten are both capable of inductive reasoning, if they are exposed to exactly the same linguistic data, the human will always acquire the ability to understand and produce language, while the kitten will never acquire either ability. Chomsky labeled whatever relevant capacity the human has that the cat lacks as the language acquisition device (LAD), and he suggested that one of the tasks for linguistics should be to determine what the LAD is and what constraints it imposes on the range of possible human languages. The universal features that would result from these constraints constitute \"universal grammar\".\n\nBeginning with his \"Syntactic Structures\" (1957), a distillation of his \"Logical Structure of Linguistic Theory\" (1955), Chomsky challenges structural linguistics and introduces transformational grammar.\n\nChomsky's theory posits that language consists of both deep structures and surface structures. Surface structure 'faces out' and is represented by spoken utterances, while deep structure 'faces inward' and expresses the underlying relations between words and conceptual meaning. Transformational grammar is a generative grammar (which dictates that the syntax, or word order, of surface structures adheres to certain principles and parameters) that consists of a limited series of rules, expressed in mathematical notation, which transform deep structures into well-formed surface structures. The transformational grammar thus relates meaning and sound.\n\nThe Chomsky hierarchy, sometimes referred to as the Chomsky-Schützenberger hierarchy, is a containment hierarchy of classes of formal grammars. The hierarchy imposes a logical structure across different language classes and provides a basis for understanding the relationship between grammars (devices that enumerate the valid sentences within languages). In order of increasing expressive power it includes regular (or Type-3) grammars, context-free (or Type-2) grammars, context-sensitive (or Type-1) grammars, and recursively enumerable (or Type-0) grammars. Each class is a strict subset of the class above it, i.e., each successive class can generate a broader set of formal languages (infinite sets of strings composed from finite sets of symbols, or alphabets) than the one below. In addition to being important in linguistics, the Chomsky hierarchy is also relevant in theoretical computer science, especially in programming language theory, compiler construction, and automata theory.\n\nSince the 1990s, much of Chomsky's research has focused on what he calls the Minimalist Program (MP), in which he departs from much of his past research and instead attempts to simplify language into a system that relates meaning and sound using the minimum possible faculties that could be expected, given certain external conditions that are imposed on us independently. Chomsky dispenses with concepts such as 'deep structure' and 'surface structure' and instead places emphasis on the plasticity of the brain's neural circuits, along with which comes an infinite number of concepts, or 'logical forms'. When exposed to linguistic data, the brain of a hearer-speaker then proceeds to associate sound and meaning, and the rules of grammar that we observe are in fact only the consequences, or side effects, of the way that language works. Thus, while much of Chomsky's prior research has focused on the rules of language, he now focuses on the mechanisms that the brain uses to \"create\" these rules.\n\nChomsky has built a \"reputation as a political dissident\". Chomsky's political views have changed little since his childhood, when he was influenced by the emphasis on political activism that was ingrained in Jewish working-class tradition. He usually identifies as an anarcho-syndicalist or a libertarian socialist. He views these positions not as precise political theories but as ideals that he thinks best meet the needs of humans: liberty, community, and freedom of association. Unlike some other socialists, such as those who accept Marxism, Chomsky believes that politics lies outside the remit of science; however, he still roots his ideas about an ideal society in empirical data and empirically justified theories.\n\nIn Chomsky's view, the truth about political realities is systematically distorted or suppressed through elite corporate interests, who use corporate media, advertising, and think tanks to promote their own propaganda. His work seeks to reveal such manipulations and the truth that they obscure. He believes that \"common sense\" is all that is required to break through the web of falsehood and see the truth, if it (common sense) is employed using both critical thinking skills and an awareness of the role that self-interest and self-deception plays both on oneself and on others. He believes that it is the moral responsibility of intellectuals to tell the truth about the world, but claims that few do so because they fear losing prestige and funding. He argues that, as such an intellectual, it is his duty to use his privilege, resources, and training to aid popular democracy movements in their struggles.\n\nAlthough he had joined protest marches and organized activist groups, he identifies his primarily political outlet as being that of education, offering free lessons and lectures to encourage wider political consciousness. His political writings have covered a wide range of topics, although there are a number of core themes throughout much of his work. He is a member of the Industrial Workers of the World international union, and sits on the interim consultative committee of the International Organization for a Participatory Society.\n\nChomsky has been a prominent critic of U.S. imperialism. His published work has focused heavily on criticizing the actions of the United States, such as the U.S.-backed state terror campaign against left-wing dissidents across Latin America known as Operation Condor. Chomsky believes that the basic principle of the foreign policy of the United States is the establishment of \"open societies\" that are economically and politically controlled by the U.S. and where U.S.-based businesses can prosper. He argues that the U.S. seeks to suppress any movements within these countries that are not compliant with U.S. interests and ensure that U.S.-friendly governments are placed in power. When discussing current events, he emphasizes their place within a wider historical perspective.\nHe believes that official, sanctioned historical accounts of U.S. and British imperialism have consistently whitewashed these nations' actions in order to present them as having benevolent motives in either spreading democracy or, in older instances, spreading Christianity; criticizing these accounts, he seeks to correct them. Prominent examples that he regularly cites are the actions of the British Empire in India and Africa, and the actions of the U.S. in Vietnam, the Philippines, Latin America, and the Middle East.\n\nChomsky explains his decision to focus on criticizing the U.S. over other countries as being because, during his lifetime, the country has militarily and economically dominated the world, and because its liberal democratic electoral system allows for the citizenry to exert an influence on government policy. His hope is that, by spreading awareness of the negative impact that imperialism has on the populations affected by it, he can sway the population of the U.S. and other countries into opposing government policies that are imperialist in their nature. He urges people to criticize the motivations, decisions, and actions of their governments; to accept responsibility for one's own thoughts and actions; and to apply the same standards to others as one would apply to oneself.\n\nHe has been critical of U.S. involvement in the Israel–Palestine conflict, arguing that it has consistently blocked a peaceful settlement. Chomsky has long endorsed the left binationalist program, seeking to create a democratic state in the Levant that is home to both Jews and Arabs. However, acknowledging the realpolitik of the situation, Chomsky has also considered a two-state solution on the condition that both nation-states exist on equal terms. As a result of his criticisms of Israel, Chomsky was barred from entering Israel in 2010.\n\nIn his youth, Chomsky developed a dislike of capitalism and the selfish pursuit of material advancement. At the same time, he developed a disdain for the authoritarian attempts to establish a socialist society, as represented by the Marxist–Leninist policies of the Soviet Union. Rather than accepting the common view among American economists that a spectrum exists between total state ownership of the economy on the one hand and total private ownership on the other, he instead suggests that a spectrum should be understood between total democratic control of the economy on the one hand and total autocratic control (whether state or private) on the other. He argues that Western capitalist nations are not really democratic, because, in his view, a truly democratic society is one in which all persons have a say in public economic policy. He has stated his opposition to ruling elites, among them institutions like the IMF, World Bank, and GATT.\n\nChomsky highlights that, since the 1970s, the U.S. has become increasingly economically unequal as a result of the repeal of various financial regulations and the rescinding of the Bretton Woods financial control agreements. He characterizes the U.S. as a \"de facto\" one-party state, viewing both the Republican Party and Democratic Party as manifestations of a single \"Business Party\" controlled by corporate and financial interests. Chomsky highlights that, within Western capitalist liberal democracies, at least 80% of the population has no control over economic decisions, which are instead in the hands of a management class and ultimately controlled by a small, wealthy elite.\n\nNoting that this economic system is firmly entrenched and difficult to overthrow, he believes that change is possible through the organized co-operation of large numbers of people who understand the problem and know how they want to re-organize the economy in a more equitable way. Although acknowledging that corporate domination of media and government stifle any significant change to this system, he sees reason for optimism, citing the historical examples of the social rejection of slavery as immoral, the advances in women's rights, and the forcing of government to justify invasions to illustrate how change is possible. He views violent revolution to overthrow a government as a last resort to be avoided if possible, citing the example of historical revolutions where the population's welfare has worsened as a result of the upheaval.\n\nChomsky deems libertarian socialist and anarcho-syndicalist ideas to be the inheritors of the classical liberal ideas of the Age of Enlightenment, arguing that his ideological position revolves around \"nourishing the libertarian and creative character of the human being\".\nHe envisions an anarcho-syndicalist future in which there is direct worker control of the means of production, with society governed by workers' councils, who would select representatives to meet together at general assemblies. In this, he believes that there will be no need for political parties. By controlling their productive life, he believes that individuals can gain job satisfaction, a sense of fulfillment, and purpose to their work. He argues that unpleasant and unpopular jobs could be fully automated, carried out by workers who are specially remunerated, or shared among everyone.\n\nChomsky's political writings have largely been focused on the two concepts of ideology and power, or the media and state policy. One of Chomsky's best-known works, \"Manufacturing Consent\", dissects the media's role in reinforcing and acquiescing to state policies across the political spectrum while marginalizing contrary perspectives. Chomsky asserts that this version of censorship, from government-guided \"free market\" forces, is more subtle and difficult to undermine than the equivalent propaganda system that was present in the Soviet Union. As he argues, the mainstream press is corporate owned and thus reflects corporate priorities and interests. Although acknowledging that many American journalists are dedicated and well-meaning, he argues that the choice of topics and issues featured in the mass media, the unquestioned premises on which that coverage rests, and the range of opinions that are expressed are all constrained to reinforce the state's ideology. He states that, although the mass media will criticize individual politicians and political parties, it will not undermine the wider state-corporate nexus of which it is a part. As evidence, he highlights that the U.S. mass media does not employ any socialist journalists or political commentators. He also points to examples of important news stories that have been ignored by U.S. mainstream media because reporting on them would reflect badly upon the U.S. state: For instance, it ignored the murder of Black Panther Fred Hampton with possible FBI involvement, the massacres perpetrated in Nicaragua by the U.S.-funded Contras, and the constant reporting on Israeli deaths while ignoring the far larger number of Palestinian deaths in the conflict between those two nations.\nTo remedy this situation, Chomsky calls for grassroots democratic control and involvement of the media.\n\nChomsky considers most conspiracy theories to be fruitless, distracting substitutes to thinking about policy formation in an institutional framework, where individual manipulation is secondary to broader social imperatives. He does not dismiss conspiracy theories outright, but he does consider them unproductive to challenging power in a substantial way.\nIn response to the labeling of his own thoughts as \"conspiracy theory\", Chomsky has replied that it is very rational for the media to manipulate information in order to sell it, like any other business. He asks whether General Motors would be accused of conspiracy if they deliberately selected what they would use or discard to sell their product.\n\nChomsky has also been active in a number of philosophical fields, including the philosophy of mind, the philosophy of language, and the philosophy of science. In these fields he has been highly critical of many other philosophers, in particular those operating within the field of cognitive science.\n\nChomsky endeavors to keep his family life, linguistic scholarship, and political activism strictly separate from one another, calling himself \"scrupulous at keeping my politics out of the classroom\". An intensely private person, he is uninterested in appearances and the fame that his work has brought him. McGilvray suggested that Chomsky was never motivated by a desire for fame, but that he was impelled to tell what he perceived as the truth and a desire to aid others in doing so. He also has little interest in modern art and music. He reads four or five newspapers daily; in the U.S., he subscribes to \"The Boston Globe\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Financial Times\", and \"The Christian Science Monitor\". He acknowledges that his income and the financial security that it accords him means that he lives a privileged life compared to the majority of the world's population. He characterizes himself as a \"worker\", albeit one who uses his intellect as his employable skill.\n\nDespite having been raised Jewish, Chomsky is currently non-religious, although he has expressed approval of forms of religion such as liberation theology. He is known for his \"dry, laconic wit\", and for the use of irony in his writings, and has attracted controversy for labeling established political and academic figures with terms such as \"corrupt\", \"fascist\", and \"fraudulent\". Chomsky's colleague Steven Pinker has said that he \"portrays people who disagree with him as stupid or evil, using withering scorn in his rhetoric\", and that this contributes to the extreme reactions that he generates from his critics. Chomsky avoids attending academic conferences, including left-oriented ones such as the Socialist Scholars Conference, preferring to speak to activist groups or hold university seminars for mass audiences.\n\nChomsky was married to Carol Doris Schatz (Chomsky) from 1949 until her death in 2008. They had three children together: Aviva (b. 1957), Diane (b. 1960), and Harry (b. 1967). In 2014, Chomsky married Valeria Wasserman.\n\nChomsky's legacy is as both a \"leader in the field\" of linguistics and \"a figure of enlightenment and inspiration\" for political dissenters. Despite his academic success, his political viewpoints and activism have resulted in him being distrusted by the mainstream media apparatus, and he is regarded as being \"on the outer margin of acceptability.\"\n\nLinguist John Lyons remarked that within a few decades of publication, Chomskyan linguistics had become \"the most dynamic and influential\" school of thought in the field. By the 1970s, his work had also come to exert a considerable influence on philosophy, while a poll conducted by Minnesota State University found \"Syntactic Structures\" to be the single most important work in the field of cognitive science. In addition, his work in automata theory and the Chomsky hierarchy has become well known in computer science, and he is much cited within the field of computational linguistics.\n\nChomsky's work contributed substantially to the decline of behaviorist psychology; in addition, some arguments in evolutionary psychology are derived from his research results. Nim Chimpsky, a chimpanzee who was the subject of a study in animal language acquisition at Columbia University, was named after Chomsky in reference to his view of language acquisition as a uniquely human ability.\n\nThe 1984 Nobel Prize laureate in Medicine and Physiology, Niels Kaj Jerne, used Chomsky's generative model to explain the human immune system, equating \"components of a generative grammar ... with various features of protein structures\". The title of Jerne's Stockholm Nobel Lecture was \"The Generative Grammar of the Immune System\". His theory of generative grammar has also carried over into music theory and analysis.\nAn MIT press release found that Chomsky was cited within the Arts and Humanities Citation Index more often than any other living scholar from 1980 to 1992.\n\nDespite their respect for his intellectual contribution, a number of linguists and philosophers have been very critical of Chomsky's approach to language. These critics include Christina Behme, Cedric Boeckx, Margaret Boden, Rudolph Botha, Vyvyan Evans, Nicholas Evans, Daniel Everett, Adele Goldberg, Anna Kinsella, Chris Knight, Stephen Levinson, Bruce Nevin, Geoffrey K. Pullum, Barbara Scholtz, Pieter Seuren and Michael Tomasello.\n\nChomsky's approach to academic freedom has led him to give support to MIT academics whose actions he deplores. In 1969, when Chomsky heard that Walt Rostow, a major architect of the Vietnam war, wanted to return to work at MIT, Chomsky threatened \"to protest publicly\" if Rostow was \"denied a position at MIT\". Then, in 1989, when Pentagon adviser John Deutch wanted to be the President of MIT, Chomsky supported his candidacy. Later, when Deutch became head of the CIA, \"The New York Times\" quoted Chomsky as saying, \"He has more honesty and integrity than anyone I've ever met... If somebody's got to be running the C.I.A., I'm glad it's him.\"\n\nChomsky biographer Wolfgang B. Sperlich characterizes the linguist and activist as \"one of the most notable contemporary champions of the people\", while journalist John Pilger described him as a \"genuine people's hero; an inspiration for struggles all over the world for that basic decency known as freedom. To a lot of people in the margins – activists and movements – he's unfailingly supportive.\" Arundhati Roy called him \"one of the greatest, most radical public thinkers of our time\", and Edward Said thought him to be \"one of the most significant challengers of unjust power and delusions\". Fred Halliday stated that by the start of the 21st century, Chomsky had become a \"guru\" for the world's anti-capitalist and anti-imperialist movements. The propaganda model of media criticism that he and Herman developed has been widely accepted in radical media critiques and adopted to some level in mainstream criticism of the media, also exerting a significant influence on the growth of alternative media, including radio, publishers, and the Internet, which in turn have helped to disseminate his work.\n\nHowever, Sperlich notes that Chomsky has been vilified by corporate interests, particularly in the mainstream press. University departments devoted to history and political science rarely include Chomsky's work on their syllabuses for undergraduate reading. Critics have argued that despite publishing widely on social and political issues, Chomsky has no expertise in these areas; to this he has responded that such issues are not as complex as many social scientists claim and that almost everyone is able to comprehend them, regardless of whether they have been academically trained to do so or not.\n\nHis far-reaching criticisms of U.S. foreign policy and the legitimacy of U.S. power have raised controversy. A document obtained pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request from the U.S. government revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) monitored Chomsky's activities and for years denied doing so. The CIA also destroyed its files on Chomsky at some point in time, possibly in violation of federal law. He has often received undercover police protection at MIT and when speaking on the Middle East, although he has refused uniformed police protection. German newspaper \"Der Spiegel\" described him as \"the Ayatollah of anti-American hatred\", while conservative commentator David Horowitz termed him \"the most devious, the most dishonest and ... the most treacherous intellect in America\", one whose work was infused with an \"anti-American dementia\" and which evidences Chomsky's \"pathological hatred of his own country\". Writing in \"Commentary\" magazine, the journalist Jonathan Kay described Chomsky as \"a hard-boiled anti-American monomaniac who simply refuses to believe anything that any American leader says\".\n\nHis criticism of Israel has led to him being accused of being a traitor to the Jewish people and an anti-Semite. Criticizing Chomsky's defense of the right of individuals to engage in Holocaust denial on the grounds that freedom of speech must be extended to all viewpoints, Werner Cohn accused Chomsky of being \"the most important patron\" of the Neo-Nazi movement, while the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) accused him of being a Holocaust denier himself. The ADL have been accused of monitoring Chomsky's activities, and have characterized him as a \"dupe of intellectual pride so overweening that he is incapable of making distinctions between totalitarian and democratic societies, between oppressors and victims\". In turn, Chomsky has claimed that the ADL is dominated by \"Stalinist types\" who oppose democracy in Israel. Alan Dershowitz considered Chomsky to be a \"false prophet of the left\", while Chomsky has accused Dershowitz of being on \"a crazed jihad, dedicating much of his life to trying to destroy my reputation\".\n\nAccording to McGilvray, many of Chomsky's critics \"do not bother quoting his work or quote out of context, distort, and create straw men that cannot be supported by Chomsky's text\".\n\nIn Spring 2017, Chomsky taught a short-term politics course at the University of Arizona.\n\nIn 1970, Chomsky was named one of the \"makers of the twentieth century\" by the London \"Times\". In early 1969, he delivered the John Locke Lectures at Oxford University; in January 1971, the Bertrand Russell Memorial Lecture at the University of Cambridge; in 1972, the Nehru Memorial Lecture in New Delhi; in 1975, the Whidden Lectures at McMaster University; in 1977, the Huizinga Lecture in Leiden; in 1978, the Woodbridge Lectures at Columbia University; in 1979, the Kant Lectures at Stanford University; in 1988, the Massey Lectures at the University of Toronto; in 1997, The Davie Memorial Lecture on Academic Freedom in Cape Town; in 2011, the Rickman Godlee Lecture at University College, London; and many others.\n\nChomsky has received honorary degrees from many colleges and universities around the world, including from the following:\n\nIn the United States, he is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, the Linguistic Society of America, the American Philosophical Association, and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. Abroad, he is a member of the Utrecht Society of Arts and Sciences, the Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher Leopoldina, a corresponding fellow of the British Academy, an honorary member of the British Psychological Society, and a foreign member of the Department of Social Sciences of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In addition, he is a recipient of a 1971 Guggenheim Fellowship, the 1984 American Psychological Association Award for Distinguished Contributions to Psychology, 1988 the Kyoto Prize in Basic Sciences, the 1996 Helmholtz Medal, the 1999 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Computer and Cognitive Science, and the Dorothy Eldridge Peacemaker Award. He is also a two-time winner of the Gustavus Myers Center Award, receiving the honor in both 1986 and 1988, and the NCTE George Orwell Award for Distinguished Contribution to Honesty and Clarity in Public Language, receiving the honor in both 1987 and 1989. He has also received the Rabindranath Tagore Centenary Award from The Asiatic Society.\n\nIn 2004 Chomsky received the Carl-von-Ossietzky Prize from the city of Oldenburg, Germany, to acknowledge his body of work as a political analyst and media critic. In 2005, Chomsky received an honorary fellowship from the Literary and Historical Society. In February 2008, he received the President's Medal from the Literary and Debating Society of the National University of Ireland, Galway. Since 2009, he has been an honorary member of International Association of Professional Translators and Interpreters (IAPTI).\n\nIn 2010, Chomsky received the Erich Fromm Prize in Stuttgart, Germany. In April 2010, Chomsky became the third scholar to receive the University of Wisconsin's A.E. Havens Center's Award for Lifetime Contribution to Critical Scholarship.\nChomsky has an Erdős number of four.\n\nChomsky was voted the world's leading public intellectual in The 2005 Global Intellectuals Poll jointly conducted by American magazine \"Foreign Policy\" and British magazine \"Prospect\". In a list compiled by the magazine \"New Statesman\" in 2006, he was voted seventh in the list of \"Heroes of our time.\"\n\nActor Viggo Mortensen and avant-garde guitarist Buckethead dedicated their 2003 album \"Pandemoniumfromamerica\" to Chomsky. On January 22, 2010, a special honorary concert for Chomsky was given at Kresge Auditorium at MIT. The concert, attended by Chomsky and dozens of his family and friends, featured music composed by Edward Manukyan and speeches by Chomsky's colleagues, including David Pesetsky of MIT and Gennaro Chierchia, head of the linguistics department at Harvard University.\n\nIn May 2007, Jamia Millia Islamia, a prestigious Indian university, named one of its complexes after Noam Chomsky.\n\nIn June 2011, Chomsky was awarded the Sydney Peace Prize, which cited his \"unfailing courage, critical analysis of power and promotion of human rights.\" Also in 2011, Chomsky was inducted into IEEE Intelligent Systems' AI's Hall of Fame for \"significant contributions to the field of AI and intelligent systems.\"\n\nIn 2013, a newly described species of bee was named after him: \"Megachile chomskyi\".\n\nIn 2014, he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy: this medal is awarded \"for lifetime achievement in the scholarly study of linguistics\".\n\nIn 2016, he was awarded the Int'l Courage of Conscience Award by the Peace Abbey: this award was bestowed at MIT \"for his unrelenting critique of U.S. foreign policy, capitalism and the globalization of systems and structures of profit and greed\".\n\nIn 2017 he was one of three recipients awarded the Seán MacBride Peace Prize \"for his tireless commitment to peace, his strong critiques to U.S. foreign policy, and his anti-imperialism\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3194691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3194691", "title": "Older Dryas", "text": "Older Dryas\n\nThe Older Dryas was a stadial (cold) period between the Bølling and Allerød interstadials (warmer phases), about 14,000 years Before Present), towards the end of the Pleistocene. Its date is not well defined, with estimates varying by 400 years, but its duration is agreed to have been around 200 years.\n\nThe gradual warming since the Last Glacial Maximum (27,000 to 24,000 years BP) has been interrupted by two cold spells: the Older Dryas and the Younger Dryas (c. 12,900-11,650 BP). In northern Scotland, the glaciers were thicker and deeper during the Older Dryas than the succeeding Younger Dryas, and there is no evidence of human occupation of Britain. In Northwestern Europe was also an earlier Oldest Dryas. The Dryas are named after an indicator genus, the Arctic and Alpine plant Dryas, the remains of which are found in higher concentrations in deposits from colder periods.\n\nThe Older Dryas was a variable cold, dry Blytt-Sernander period, observed in climatological evidence in only some regions, depending on latitude. In regions in which it is not observed, the Bølling-Allerød is considered a single interstadial period. Evidence of the Older Dryas is strongest in northern Eurasia, particularly part of Northern Europe, roughly equivalent to Pollen zone Ic.\n\nIn the Greenland oxygen isotope record, the Older Dryas appears as a downward peak establishing a small, low-intensity gap between the Bølling and the Allerød. That configuration presents a difficulty in estimating its time, as it is more of a point than a segment. The segment is small enough to escape the resolution of most carbon-14 series, as the points are not close enough together to find the segment.\n\nOne approach to the problem assigns a point and then picks an arbitrary segment. The Older Dryas is sometimes considered to be \"centered\" near 14,100 BP or to be 100 to 150 years long \"at\" 14,250 BP.\n\nA second approach finds carbon-14 or other dates as close to the end of the Bølling and the beginning of the Allerød as possible and then selects endpoints that based on them: for example, 14,000-13,700 BP.\n\nThe best approach attempts to include the Older Dryas in a sequence of points as close together as possible (high resolution) or within a known event.\n\nFor example, pollen from the island of Hokkaidō, Japan, records a Larix pollen peak and matching sphagnum decline at 14,600-13700 BP. In the White Sea, a cooling occurred at 14,700-13,400/13,000, which resulted in a re-advance of the glacier in the initial Allerød. In Canada, the Shulie Lake phase, a re-advance, is dated to 14,000-13,500 BP. On the other hand, varve chronology in southern Sweden indicates a range of 14,050-13,900 BP.\n\nCapturing the Older Dryas by high resolution continues to be of interest to climatologists.\n\nNorthern Europe offered an alternation of steppe and tundra environments depending on the permafrost line and the latitude. In moister regions, around lakes and streams, were thickets of dwarf birch, willow, sea buckthorn, and juniper. In the river valleys and uplands, to the south, were open birch forests.\n\nThe first trees, birch and pine, had spread into Northern Europe 500 years earlier. During the Older Dryas, the glacier re-advanced, and the trees retreated southward, to be replaced by a mixture of grassland and cool-weather alpine species. The biome has been called \"Park Tundra,\" \"Arctic tundra,\" \"Arctic pioneer vegetation,\" or “birch woodlands.\" It is now in the transition between taiga and tundra in Siberia. Then, it stretched from Siberia to Great Britain, in a more-or-less unbroken expanse.\n\nTo the northwest was the Baltic ice lake, which was truncated by the edge of the glacier. Species had access to Denmark and southern Sweden. Most of Finland and the Baltic countries were under the ice or the lake for most of the period. Northern Scandinavia was glaciated. Between Britain and the Continental Europe were rolling hills prolifically populated with animals. Thousands of specimens, hundreds of tons of bones, have been recovered from the bottom of the North Sea, called \"Doggerland,\" and they continue to be recovered.\n\nThere are many more species found for the period than in this article. Most families were more diverse than they are today, and they were yet more so in the last interglacial. A great extinction, especially of mammals, continued throughout the end of the Pleistocene, and it may be continuing today.\n\nThe Older Dryas is a period of cooling during the Bølling-Allerød warming, estimated to be from 13,900 to 13,600 years before present (BP), and the estimated ages can vary using different age dating methods. Numerous studies on chronology and palaeoclimate of last deglaciation show a cooling event within Bølling-Allerød warming that reflects the occurrence of Older Dryas. The determination of paleotemperatures varies from study to study depending on the sample collected. δO measurements are most common when analyzing Ice core samples whereas the changing abundance pattern of fauna and flora are most commonly used when examining lake sediments. Moraine belts are usually studied in places with palaeoglacier presented. As for ocean sediments, the variations of alkenone levels and faunal abundances were measured to model paleotemperatures in separate studies showed in the following sections.\n\nThe North Greenland Ice Core Project (GRIP) members drilled an undisturbed ice core from North Greenland (75.1 8N, 42.3 8W). The ice core record showed a cold oscillation between 14,025 to13,904 years BP, which is reflected in the increased δO during this period. This cold oscillation was also observed in earlier ice core records (GRIP and GISP2) drilled in early 1990’s by GRIP members.\n\nA multi-proxy study on late glacial lake sediments of Moervaart palaeolake shows multiple pieces of evidence in various aspects to support Older Dryas.\n\nThe lake sediment had an erosional surface prior to Older Dryas suggesting a change to colder climate. Microstructure observation of the sediments shows that fossil soil wedges or frost cracks were observed in the top of Older Dryas deposits, which indicates mean annual air temperatures below -1 to 0 ℃ and cold winters. This conclusion is also supported by the presence of \"Juniperus\", which indicates a protecting snow cover in winter. This change is also shown on the records at the Rieme sites on the Great SandRidge of Maldegem-Stekene at Snellegem in NW Belgium, and many other sites in north-western Europe.\n\nδO measurements show a decreasing trend in δO at the transition to the Older Dryas, which corresponds to the ice core record of precipitation in the northern hemisphere.\n\nPollen analysis shows a temporary decrease in the pollen levels of trees and shrubs with a short-term increase of herbaceous pollen. The changed pollen pattern suggests an increased abundance of grass as well as a retreat of tree and shrubs. The change of vegetation distribution further indicates a colder and drier climate during this period. As for aquatic plant evidence, both aquatic and semi-aquatic botanical taxa show a sharp decrease, suggesting lower lake levels caused by drier climate. The drier climate is also reflected by increased salinity indicated by diatom analysis.\n\nThe change of Chironomids population also indicates a colder climate. \"Microtendipes\" is an indicator of intermediate temperature in Late glacial deposits in northern Europe (Brooks and Birks, 2001). The abundance of \"Microtendipes\" peaked in the early part of Older Dryas suggesting a cold oscillation. The mollusc data (\"Valvata piscinalis\" as a cold-water indicator) suggests a lower summer temperature comparing to previous Bølling period.\n\nRecent research on sea surface temperature (SST) for the past 15,000 years in southern Okinawa modelled the Paleoclimate of ocean sediment core (ODP 1202B) using an alkenone analysis. The results show a cooing stage at 14,300 to 13,700 years BP between Bølling and Allerød warm phases, corresponding to the Older Dryas event.\n\nAnother study on an ocean sediment core from Norwegian Trench also suggests a cooling between Bølling and Allerød warm phases. The glacial polar faunal study on ocean sediment core Troll 3.1 based on \"Neogloboquadrina pachyderma\" abundances suggests that there were two cooling events before Younger Dryas in which one of the events occurred within Bølling-Allerød interstadial and can be associated with Older Dryas.\n\nThe study on late-glacial climate change in White Mountains (New Hampshire, USA) refined the deglaciation history of White Mountain Moraine System (WMMS) by mapping moraine belts and related lake sequences. The result suggests that the Littleton-Bethlehem (L-B) readvance of ice sheet occurred between 14,000 to 13,800 years BP. The L-B readvance coincided with the Older Dryas events and provides the first well-documented and dated evidence of Older Dryas.\n\nAnother Glacial chronology and palaeoclimate study on moraine suggests a cold oscillation in the second late-glacial (LG2) following the first late-glacial readvance (LG1) at around 14,000±700 to 13,700±1200 years BP. The LG2 cold oscillation around 14,000 years BP can correspond to the cooling of Greenland Interstadial 1 (GI-1d-Older Dryas) that happened around the same time period, which is the first chronological evidence that supports the presence of Older Dryas in the Tatra Mountains.\n\nOlder Dryas species are usually found in sediment below the bottom layer of the bog. Indicator species are the Alpine plants:\n\nGrasslands species are the following: \n\nA well-stocked biozone prevailed on the Arctic plains and thickets of the Late Pleistocene. Plains mammals were most predominant:\n\nArtiodactyls:\nPerissodactyls:\nProboscidea:\n\nSo much meat on the hoof must have supported large numbers of Carnivora:\nUrsidae:\nHyaenidae:\nFelidae:\nCanidae:\nMustelidae:\n\nThe sea also had its share of carnivores; their maritime location made them survive until modern times:\nPhocidae:\nOdobenidae:\nOf the Cetacean Odontoceti, the Monodontidae:\nDelphinidae:\nOf the Mysticetian Eschrichtiidae:\n\nThe top of the food chain was supported by larger numbers of smaller animals farther down, which lived in the herbaceous blanket covering the tundra or steppe and helped maintain it by carrying seeds, manuring and aerating it.\n\nLeporidae:\nOchotonidae:\nCricetidae:\nSciuridae:\nDipodidae:\n\nEurasia was populated by \"Homo sapiens sapiens\" (Cro-Magnon man) during the late Upper Paleolithic. Bands of humans survived by hunting the mammals of the plains. In Northern Europe they preferred reindeer, in Ukraine the woolly mammoth. They sheltered in huts and manufactured tools around campfires. Ukrainian shelters were supported by mammoth tusks. Humans were already established across Siberia and in North America.\n\nTwo domestic dogs (\"Canis familiaris\") have been found in late Pleistocene Ukraine and were a heavy breed, similar to a Great Dane, perhaps useful to run down Elephantidae. The large number of mammoth bones at campsites make it clear that even then, the Elephantidae in Europe were approaching the limit of their duration. Their bones were used for many purposes, one being the numerous objects of art, including an engraved star map.\n\nLate Upper Palaeolithic culture was by no means uniform. Many local traditions have been defined. The Hamburgian culture had occupied the lowlands and Northern Germany before the Older Dryas. During the Older Dryas, contemporaneous with the Havelte Group of the late Hamburgian, the Federmesser culture appeared and occupied Denmark and southern Sweden, following the reindeer. South of the Hamburgian was the longstanding Magdalenian. In Ukraine was the Moldovan, which used tusks to build shelters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3563307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3563307", "title": "Paley Center for Media", "text": "Paley Center for Media\n\nThe Paley Center for Media, formerly the Museum of Television & Radio (MT&R) and the Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, is an American cultural institution in New York and Los Angeles dedicated to the discussion of the cultural, creative, and social significance of television, radio, and emerging platforms for the professional community and media-interested public.\n\nIt was renamed The Paley Center for Media on June 5, 2007, to encompass emerging broadcasting technologies such as the Internet, mobile video, and podcasting, as well as to expand its role as a neutral setting where media professionals can engage in discussion and debate about the evolving media landscape.\n\nWith an ever-growing collection of content broadcast on radio and television, the Paley Center has two branches; in New York City and Los Angeles. The New York City branch is in the heart of Midtown Manhattan at 25 West 52nd Street between 5th and 6th Avenues. The Los Angeles branch is located at 465 N Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, near Rodeo Drive.\n\nThe original Museum of Broadcasting, founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, opened in Manhattan on November 9, 1976, occupying two floors in an office building at 1 East 53rd Street, near the corner of 53rd Street and Fifth Avenue. This was adjacent to the Doubleday Book Store on Fifth Avenue.\n\nThe Museum of Broadcasting's name was changed to The Museum of Television & Radio with the September 12, 1991 move into the William S. Paley Building. Designed by Philip Johnson and located at 25 West 52nd Street (adjacent to the famed 21 Club at 21 West 52nd Street), the 16-story building was itself renamed The Paley Center for Media in 2007. It has two front entrances: the one on the left is for office staff, and the main entrance on the right for the general public. The Alexander Mackendrick film \"Sweet Smell of Success\" (1957) has an exterior location scene with different angles revealing how the neighborhood looked in the years before the building was constructed.\n\nThe ground-level floor of the New York museum features the ticket and information area and the Steven Spielberg Gallery, used for exhibitions, receptions and fund-raising events. Reservations to use the Library are made at the front desk. In addition to the elevator, a staircase on the first floor leads down to the large basement-level theater. The fourth floor has numerous computers, used by visitors to locate programming in the collection. When a selection is made, it can be watched on the computer. Computers are available both for individuals and for groups.\n\nThe Museum of Television & Radio in Los Angeles at 465 North Beverly Drive in Beverly Hills, opened March 18, 1996 in a new building designed by Richard Meier and named for Leonard H. Goldenson. When the Los Angeles building opened, it featured a collection duplicated from the tapes in the New York collection. Rooms are named for the celebrity sponsors: the Danny Thomas Lobby, the Aaron Spelling Reception Area and the Garry Marshall Pool. Screenings are held in the 150-seat John H. Mitchell Theatre. The Ahmanson Radio Listening Room has headphones for use with five pre-programmed channels.\n\nThe Paley Center for Media is committed to the idea that many television and radio programs are significant works and should be preserved for posterity's sake. Instead of collecting artifacts and memorabilia, the Paley Center comprises mostly screening rooms, including two full-sized theaters. Nearly 160,000 television shows, commercials, and radio programs are available in the Paley Center's library, and during each visit, viewers can select and watch shows at individual consoles, and radio programs are accessed through these same consoles.\n\nSome television programs are from the 1940s with radio programs dating back to the 1920s. The earliest TV program in the Museum's collection is a silent film of NBC's 1939 production of Dion Boucicault's melodrama \"The Streets of New York\" (1857), with Norman Lloyd, George Coulouris, and Jennifer Jones.\n\nThe museum does not sell the material or permit it to leave the premises. Viewing copies of television programs are Hi-8mm video tape dubs. The originals are kept in a vault outside of New York City, and the collection is being digitized. The Paley Center has acquired many lost episodes of classic television shows and has produced documentary features about the history and impact of television and radio. In recent years, the Center has sponsored advance viewing of the pilot episodes of each network's new programs.\n\nTelevision and radio shows are added to the collection after archival discoveries and through donations from individuals and organizations. In 2002, the Museum held a showing of the previously unseen rehearsal film of Rodgers and Hammerstein's \"Cinderella\" telecast from March 17, 1957. This rehearsal was found in the CBS vault while the Museum was on a quest for other \"lost\" \"Cinderella\" materials. It had been believed that on the night of the live broadcast the show was preserved on both kinescope and videotape and then transmitted to the West Coast. Seeking either of these, Jane Klain, the Director of Research at the New York facility, asked CBS to search their vaults. The CBS database listed three 16mm films featuring five-minute segments of Julie Andrews performing in the show. When the earliest one was brought from the CBS vault, it was discovered to be the full dress rehearsal.\n\nThe Center is also known for its many discoveries involving daytime game shows. Episodes of destroyed shows such as \"High Rollers\", \"Celebrity Sweepstakes\", \"The Money Maze\", the Chuck Woolery version of \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"To Say the Least\", and daytime \"Hollywood Squares\" episodes are all available for viewing in the library. Episodes of other game shows such as \"Tattletales\", \"Let's Make a Deal\", and \"The Gong Show\" are also in the library.\n\nSeminars and interviews with public figures are conducted frequently, all of which are recorded and available for later viewing on individual consoles. Past seminar participants have included Lucille Ball, Carol Burnett, Dick Cavett, Alan Alda, Al Franken, John Frankenheimer, James Garner, Bob Hope, Roy Huggins, Jack Paar, Dennis Potter, Dick Van Dyke, and Gore Vidal. Also available for viewing are seminars featuring creators and cast members from TV shows, including \"The Larry Sanders Show\", \"Seinfeld\", \"King of the Hill\", \"The Simpsons\", \"South Park\", \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\", \"Arrested Development\", \"House\", \"Battlestar Galactica\", and \"The League\". Panel discussions have varied from what it was like to work with Orson Welles to a celebration of Roy Huggins's career.\n\nPaleyFest, also known as the William S. Paley Television Festival, is an annual television festival hosted by the Paley Center in the Los Angeles area. Founded in 1984, the festival, held annually in the spring, features panels composed of the casts and prominent creative talent from popular television shows such as \"Community\", \"Parks and Recreation\", \"Mad Men\", and \"Lost\", among many others. The panels field questions from a moderator and a public audience and often present exclusive content from their respective series. The festival has been in many venues over its history, including the Los Angeles County Museum of Art Bing Theater, the Directors Guild of America theater, the Cinerama Dome, and the Saban Theatre in Beverly Hills. It was relocated to the larger Dolby Theatre in Hollywood in 2014.\n\nIn 2010, The Paley Center for Media announced a partnership with IESE Business School to offer the Advanced Management Program in Media and Entertainment or the \"Media AMP\", a postgraduate level program for media and entertainment executives to preparing them for high level leadership roles in their companies. Launched in January 2011, the program’s goal is to bring executives up to speed on new business models, management techniques, and technologies. A key feature is access to leaders in the industry.\n\nThe Media AMP curriculum covers four modules over a six-month period. Three of the modules are held in New York, and one in Los Angeles. Key discussion topics include: Value Creation; Digital Strategy; Accounting, Finance and Management Control; Content and Customers; Leadership; Production, Technology and Operations Management; Entrepreneurship and Innovation; IT Systems and Strategy; Managerial Economics and Decision Analysis; Marketing Strategy; and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43024791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43024791", "title": "Plastiglomerate", "text": "Plastiglomerate\n\nPlastiglomerate is a term that was proposed by Patricia Corcoran, Charles J. Moore and Kelly Jazvac for a stone that contains mixtures of sedimentary grains, and other natural debris (e.g. shells, wood) that is held together by hardened molten plastic. It has been considered a potential marker of the Anthropocene, an informal epoch of the Quaternary proposed by some social scientists, environmentalists, and geologists.\n\nPlastiglomerates form along shorelines where natural sedimentary grains and organic debris are agglutinated by melted plastic created during campfire burning. They have been reported from Kamilo Beach on the island of Hawaii.\n\nPlastiglomerate could potentially form a marker horizon of human pollution on the geologic record. and may survive as future fossils. Plastiglomerate may also conceivably form in plastic-polluted regions affected by lava flows or forest fires. They have been found on the surface as well as beneath the sand. This suggests that plastiglomerates are being actively deposited into the sedimentary record. Some geophysicists and geologists speculate that plastiglomerates will not persist in the fossil record, however, or that they might \"revert back to a source of oil from whence they came, given the right conditions of burial\".\n\n\"In situ\" plastiglomerate forms where plastic melts and fills in rock cavities. \"Clastic\" plastiglomerate are smaller solitary pieces that form where larger fused items become fragmented by waves. Plastiglomerate is more dense than particles that are solely composed of plastic, which gives them greater potential to become buried and preserved in the rock record.\n\nCharles Moore, a sea captain and oceanographer for the Algalita Marine Research Institute in Long Beach, California, discovered this substance in 2006 while surveying Kamilo Beach on the Big Island of Hawai’i. Geology professor, Dr. Patricia Corcoran and Visual artist professor, Kelly Jazvac of the University of Western Ontario investigated the samples on Kamilo Beach in 2012 where they also coined the term \"plastiglomerate\". Approximately one-fifth of the plastiglomerates found at Kamilo Beach consisted of fishing debris, one quarter consisted of broken lid containers, and one half consisted of plastic \"confetti\". The plastiglomerate at Kamilo Beach was more likely created from human campfires than from molten lava flows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "498582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498582", "title": "Procatalepsis", "text": "Procatalepsis\n\nProcatalepsis, also called prolepsis or prebuttal, is a figure of speech in which the speaker raises an objection to their own argument and then immediately answers it. By doing so, they hope to strengthen their argument by dealing with possible counter-arguments before their audience can raise them.\n\nIn rhetoric anticipating future responses and answering possible objections will set up one's argument for a strong defense. The \"Columbia Dictionary of Modern Literary and Cultural Criticism\" states that there are three distinct theoretical uses of prolepsis: argumentation, literary discussion, and conjunction with narratological analyses of the order of events.\n\nIn argumentation, procatalepsis is used to answer the opponent's possible objections before they can be made. In literary discussion, procatalepsis is used as a figure of speech in which a description is used before it is strictly applicable. Sayings such as \"I'm a dead man\" exemplify the suggestion of a state that has not yet occurred. In narratological analyses prolepsis can be used with the order of events and presentation of events in texts. This refers to the study of narrative in respect to \"flash-forwards\" in which a future event serves as an interruption of the present time of the text.\n\nExample:\n\nAs a linguistic phenomenon found in both classic and current languages, prolepsis is described as the construction whereby the subject of a subordinate clause occurs by anticipation as an object in the main clause. Although this definition is strictly technical as used in linguistics, it has also been used to describe the more general phenomenon of objects or phrases appearing earlier than intended or expected. \n\nProcatalepsis as a rhetorical technique is also related to and used in other forms and techniques. A hypophora is described as a figure of speech in which a speaker raises a question then immediately answers it. Since these questions are often raised as possible dissenting opinions or audience objections, the hypophora can be said to be a use of procatalepsis.\n\nThe Straw Man argument, an informal fallacy in which one misrepresents an opposing argument in order to further one's own, can serve as an example of misused procatalepsis. In this fallacy, the rhetor misconstrues the words, arguments, or views of an opponent, most often on purpose, to facilitate rebuttal or create a false impression on the audience. This, in effect, creates a \"straw man\" against which the rhetor will then defend and strengthen his or her argument. \n\nThe correct use of procatalepsis is still an effective tactic in an argument, since it allows the rhetor to answer opponents before they have a chance to raise the counterargument themselves. This \"inoculation\" can be subtle, but also signaled rather obviously (e.g. \"Now, my opponent might argue that X. But, as you can see, Y\"). The unique benefit to this more overt approach is twofold: The rhetor successfully replies to an opposing argument or audience objection, but also builds a sort of trust and authority with the audience. Then, if the opponent does in fact bring up the argument that the rhetor anticipated, the rhetor appears to be correct not only in the subject matter of the argument but in the general course of the argument itself.\n\nProcatalepsis is linked to the rhetorical term inoculation. The \"Encyclopedia of Communication Theory\" describes this rhetorical technique in relation to its medical definition: introducing small doses of viruses to the body in order to build up immunization. In rhetoric, the small dose of the threat parallels to the awareness of the opposing argument that is used to build up one's argument by defense in prolepsis. William McGuire proposed the Inoculation Theory in 1964 to challenge attitudes, beliefs, and behaviors that make an argument more resistant when exposed to counter views in weakened, small doses. Persuasion research in the 1950s found that providing two sides of an issue created a greater resistance to later arguments. This is closely related to the rhetorical use of procatalepsis as an opposing argument to defend the intended view of the argument.\n\nInoculation and procatalepsis are both present in certain courtroom situations, as described in the \"Encyclopedia of Communication Theory\". An attorney may set up their defense by disclaiming the negative views or classifications of the accused as untrue: \"The prosecutor will call Ms. Jones evil, a bad mother, and a poor member of society, but these labels are not true. I will prove to you their inaccuracy.\" When the prosecutor asserts an attack on Ms. Jones' character, the jury is already prepared and expecting to hear it and they may question or even discount these accusations. The goal is not to overwhelm the audience members with anticipation or the opposing view of the argument, but rather to use the inverse argument to one's advantage through strategic rhetoric.\n"}
{"id": "3931478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931478", "title": "Process drama", "text": "Process drama\n\nProcess drama is a method of teaching and learning drama where both the students and teacher are working in and out of role.\n\nAs a teaching methodology, process drama developed primarily from the work of Brian Way, Dorothy Heathcote and Gavin Bolton and through the work of other leading drama practitioners. Cecily O'Neill describes process drama being used to explore a problem, situation, theme or series of related ideas or themes through the use of the artistic medium of unscripted drama. Process drama was described by O'Mara (1999) as\" a dynamic way of working that requires teachers to reflect-in-action\", constantly dealing with unique situations that require novel approaches. It has its roots in dramatic play, where normally developing children in every culture in the world will create their own imagined worlds, often with the co-participation of an empathetic adult (usually the parent) in role.\n\nProcess drama in school settings usually involves the whole class working with the teacher in role in a made-up scenario. When they are working in process drama, the students and teachers work together to create an imaginary dramatic world within which issues are considered and problems can be solved. In this world they work together to explore problems and issues such as, \"How do communities deal with change?\", \"How do we accept other people into our community?\" or themes such as environmental sustainability, betrayal, truth and other ethical and moral issues. Sometimes the work may begin as light-hearted, but the teacher always layers more dramatic tension and complexity into the work as the teacher is aiming for a pedagogical outcome. Students learn to think beyond their own points of view and consider multiple perspectives on a topic through playing different roles. For instance, if the issue being discussed is logging a forest, they may play the loggers, people who live in the forest community and environmentalists. Playing a range of positions encourages them to be able to recast themselves as the \"other\" and to consider life from that viewpoint, thereby creating complexity and enabling us to explore multiple dimensions of the topic. Process drama does what the character Atticus Finch advocates: the ability to work for social justice comes from the ability to understand another perspective—to be able to try on someone else's shoes and walk around in them for a while. Process drama allows us to \"try on\" other people's shoes, to walk the paths they tread and to see how the world looks from their point of view.\n\nProcess drama is also suggested as a tool to promote literacy development through opportunities for dramatic play in early childhood settings within which children speak for a range of purposes in role.\n"}
{"id": "11329244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11329244", "title": "Salvatore Attardo", "text": "Salvatore Attardo\n\nSalvatore Attardo is a full professor at Texas A&M University–Commerce and the editor-in-chief of \"Humor\", the journal for the International Society of Humor Research. He studied at Purdue University under Victor Raskin and extended Raskin's script-based semantic theory of humor (SSTH) into the general theory of verbal humor (GTVH). He publishes in the field of humor in literature and is considered to be one of the top authorities in the area.\n\nHe was born March 14, 1962, in Anderlecht, Belgium, to an Italian State Railways employee and a Belgian mother, living thereafter in Como, Italy, until adulthood. He has been a permanent resident of the United States since 1991. He has one daughter, Gaia,\nborn in 1994. Attardo is a native speaker of Italian and French.\nHe has served on the thesis and dissertation committees for other humor scholars, including Christian F. Hempelmann and Katrina Triezenberg.\n\n\n\n\nAs a teenager, Attardo attended a High School specializing in Humanities (Liceo Ginnasio Statale Alessando Volta, Como) where along with fellow students he published a satyrical magazine on the school life, its teachers and principal, called \"Giravolta.\" In these early days, he was known by the nickname of \"Pidou.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44471450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44471450", "title": "Smurfette principle", "text": "Smurfette principle\n\nThe Smurfette principle is the practice in media, such as film, television series and television networks, to include only one woman in an otherwise entirely male ensemble. The term was coined by Katha Pollitt in 1991 in \"The New York Times\":\n\nIt establishes a male-dominated narrative, where the woman is the exception and exists only in reference to the men. The woman character essentially represents “femininity” in these cases. She may or may not play a major role in the story, but typically is “everything female.” Some examples that Pollitt cites include the mother figure, a “glamour queen,” or a female sidekick of sorts. As a consequence, works employing this trope often fail the Bechdel test, an indicator of gender bias in fiction.This term continues to be used in discourse to describe not only \"preschool culture,\" but also popular media from the last 40 years.\n\nPollitt observed this as what she thought of in terms of a common media practice while shopping for her daughter’s Christmas toys. The initial use of the term was in relation to “preschool culture,” that to Pollitt, would hinder a child’s understanding of gender. She goes further to say, “The sexism in preschool culture deforms both boys and girls. Little girls learn to split their consciousness, filtering their dreams and ambitions through boy characters while admiring the clothes of the princess.”\n\nIn 2011 Pollitt discussed her term again in \"The Atlantic\". She said that the issue is still highly prevalent in the current media. She specifically cited the then major blockbuster, \"Super 8\", which had only one female main character (played by Elle Fanning). Also at this time, she extended the principle to include television networks. The only major anchor in the MSNBC lineup in 2011, according to Pollitt was Rachel Maddow. She said, \"there's one Rachel Maddow, and then there's that whole male lineup. There's Ed [Schultz], there used to be Keith [Olbermann], and Lawrence O'Donnell, and now there's going to be Al Sharpton. It's quite remarkable that there's only this one woman, and it's never equal.\"\n\nThis term has not disappeared by any means, making many appearances in popular literature and discourse. Journalists complain that major blockbusters that will turn out millions of dollars, include only one female, and this trend is not fading anytime soon. This is visible in ensemble movie posters, like with \"Ocean's Eleven\", \"The Matrix\" and \"Star Wars\", among many others. Steve Rose looks at Eleven’s situation in the TV show \"Stranger Things\", where she is essentially replaced (while on her own adventures) by Max, another young girl, who is also teased, then “lusted after,” another common reaction to a lone female character. The “Smurfette,” or sole female cast member, has been understood to typically have a stereotypical role of a romantic partner, a “brooding badass,” or exists to deflate the tension of an all-male cast.\n\nAs a result of the discontent about the lack of women, a new pattern has emerged, of “gender-inversion,” casts of exclusively female actresses, like \"Ocean’s 8\" and \"Ghostbusters\".\n\nThe Geena Davis Institute found that only “10% of all films have a gender balanced cast,” thus reinforcing the existence of the lack of fair female representation, i.e. the Smurfette Principle.\n\nIn an article and video for \"Bitch Magazine\", Anita Sarkeesian asserts that the reoccurrence of this issue is that media from the 1980s and 1990s is continuously being remade, which still typically adhere to this principle, creating an ongoing cycle. She also called on the film industry to include more female characters, or even a female dominated cast, \"and\" pass the Bechdel test. After these are kept in mind and actually accomplished, meaningful diversity will be possible.\n\nRickie Solinger, in a review of some of Pollitt’s major works up to 1993, stated that the “Smurfette Principle” is applicable to preschoolers and adults alike.\n\nJan Susina, a scholar and researcher of child and adolescent literature, used the term in a 1995 edition of the journal, \"The Lion and the Unicorn\", to back up his assertion that children’s literature is being “dumbed down” as a larger symptom of cultural problems, particularly that entertainment is like “junk food,” or unrewarding to the audience. He uses Pollitt’s term as evidence that a lack of women contributes to low quality media for children and also that the popular media has picked up on this issue in major publications.\nNamed after Smurfette, the only female among the Smurfs (a group of comic book creatures), the principle has been observed in the following works among others:\n\nThe user-edited TV Tropes website collects further uses of the trope.\n\n"}
{"id": "47135208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47135208", "title": "Susan Hockey", "text": "Susan Hockey\n\nSusan Hockey is an Emeritus Professor of Library and Information Studies at University College London. She has written about the history of digital humanities, the development of text analysis applications, electronic textual mark-up, teaching computing in the humanities, and the role of libraries in managing digital resources. In 2014, the University College of London created a Digital Humanities lecture series in her honour.\n\nHockey was born Susan Petty in 1946 in Halifax, West Yorkshire, and educated at Princess Mary High School, Halifax and Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. \nIn 1969 she joined the Atlas Computer Laboratory at Chilton in Oxfordshire. She became a founding member of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC) in 1973 and in 1975 she joined Oxford University Computing Services. At Atlas she developed software for the display of non-Western characters. At Oxford she was instrumental in developing the Oxford Concordance Program from COCOA, an early piece of software used in humanities computing. These tools have become central to the practice of the digital humanities in the United States and UK.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1997 Hockey was director of the Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities at Rutgers and Princeton Universities in New Jersey. From 1997 to 1999 she was Professor and Director of the Canadian Institute for Research Computing in Arts at the University of Alberta in Edmonton. In 2000 she joined University College London as Professor of Library and Information Studies, and from 2001 was Director of the School of Library, Archive and Information Studies at UCL. She retired in 2004.\n\nIn 2004, Hockey was awarded the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations's Roberto Busa Prize in recognition of \"outstanding lifetime achievements in the application of information and communications technologies to humanities research\".\n\nShe is a founding member of several major digital humanities-related associations such as the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC), 1973, and the Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH), 1978, and an editor of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC) Bulletin, 1979–83, chair of the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC), 1984–97 and member of the steering committee of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), 1987–99.\n\n"}
{"id": "55422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55422", "title": "Theoretical linguistics", "text": "Theoretical linguistics\n\nTheoretical linguistics, or general linguistics, is the branch of linguistics which inquires into the nature of language itself and seeks to answer fundamental questions as to what language is; how it works; how universal grammar (UG) as a domain-specific mental organ operates, if it exists at all; what are its unique properties; how does language relate to other cognitive processes, etc. Theoretical linguists are most concerned with constructing models of linguistic knowledge, and ultimately developing a linguistic theory.\n\nThe fields that are generally considered the core of theoretical linguistics are phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics. Although phonetics often guides phonology, it is often excluded from the purview of theoretical linguistics, along with semantics. Theoretical linguistics also involves the search for an explanation of linguistic universals, that is, properties that all, or many languages have in common.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, the term \"general linguistics\" was more common (cf. Ferdinand de Saussure's famous \"Course in General Linguistics\"), which could be contrasted with \"language-particular linguistics\" (which is more often called descriptive linguistics). Since the 1960s, the term \"theoretical linguistics\" has typically been used in more or less the same sense as \"general linguistics\", even though it also contrasts with applied linguistics, and even though it is often said that language description is inherently theoretical. The usual terminology is thus not entirely clear and consistent.\n\nPhonetics is the study of speech sounds with concentration on three main points :\nAccording to this definition, phonetics can also be called linguistic analysis of human speech at the surface level. That is one obvious difference from phonology, which concerns the structure and organisation of speech sounds in natural languages, and furthermore has a theoretical and abstract nature. One example can be made to illustrate this distinction:\nIn English, the suffix \"-s\" can represent either , , or can be silent (written Ø) depending on context.\n\nThe field of articulatory phonetics is a subfield of phonetics. In studying articulation, phoneticians attempt to document how humans produce speech sounds (vowels and consonants). That is, articulatory phoneticians are interested in how the different structures of the vocal tract, called the articulators (tongue, lips, jaw, palate, teeth etc.), interact to create the specific sounds.\n\nAuditory phonetics is a branch of phonetics concerned with the hearing, acquisition and comprehension of phonetic sounds of words of a language. As articulatory phonetics explores the methods of sound production, auditory phonetics explores the methods of reception—the ear to the brain, and those processes.\n\nAcoustic phonetics is a subfield of phonetics which deals with acoustic aspects of speech sounds. Acoustic phonetics investigates properties like the mean squared amplitude of a waveform, its duration, its fundamental frequency, or other properties of its frequency spectrum, and the relationship of these properties to other branches of phonetics (e.g. articulatory or auditory phonetics), and to abstract linguistic concepts like phones, phrases, or utterances.\n\nPhonology (sometimes called \"phonemics\" or \"phonematics\") is the study of how sounds are used in languages to convey meaning. Phonology includes topics such as stress and intonation.\n\nThe basic unit of analysis for phonology is called phoneme. A phoneme is a group of sounds which are not distinguished by the language rules in determining the meaning. In English, for example, and are different allophones that represent a single phoneme .\n\nMorphology is the study of the internal structure of words. For example, in the sentences \"The dog runs\" and \"The dogs run\", the word forms \"runs\" and \"dogs\" have an affix \"-s\" added, distinguishing them from the base forms \"dog\" and \"run\". Adding this suffix to a nominal stem gives plural forms, adding it to verbal stems restricts the subject to third person singular. Some morphological theories operate with two distinct suffixes \"-s\", called allomorphs of the morphemes Plural and Third person singular, respectively. Languages differ with respect to their morphological structure. Along one axis, we may distinguish analytic languages, with few or no affixes or other morphological processes from synthetic languages with many affixes. Along another axis, we may distinguish agglutinative languages, where affixes express one grammatical property each, and are added neatly one after another, from fusional languages, with non-concatenative morphological processes (infixation, umlaut, ablaut, etc.) and/or with less clear-cut affix boundaries.\n\nSyntax is the study of language structure and phrasal hierarchies, depicted in parse tree format. It is concerned with the relationship between units at the level of words or morphology. Syntax seeks to exactly delineate all and only those sentences which make up a given language, using native speaker intuition. Syntax seeks to formally describe exactly how structural relations between elements (lexical items/words and operators) in a sentence contribute to its interpretation. Syntax uses principles of formal logic and Set Theory to formalize and accurately represent the hierarchical relationship between elements in a sentence. Abstract syntax trees are often used to illustrate the hierarchical structures that are posited. Thus, in active declarative sentences in English the subject is followed by the main verb which in turn is followed by the object (SVO). This order of elements is crucial to its correct interpretation and it is exactly this which syntacticians try to capture. They argue that there must be a formal computational component contained within the language faculty of normal speakers of a language and seek to describe it.\n\nSemantics is the study of intension, that is, the intrinsic meanings of words and phrases. Much of the work in the field of philosophy of language is concerned with the relation between meanings and the word, and this concern cross-cuts formal semantics in several ways. For example, both philosophers of language and semanticists make use of propositional, predicate and modal logics to express their ideas about word meaning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16349122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16349122", "title": "Theories about religions", "text": "Theories about religions\n\nSociological and anthropological theories about religion (or theories of religion) generally attempt to explain the origin and function of religion. These theories define what they present as universal characteristics of religious belief and practice.\n\nFrom presocratic times, ancient authors advanced prescientific theories about religion.\nHerodotus (484 – 425 BCE) saw the gods of Greece as the same as the gods of Egypt. Euhemerus (about 330 – 264 BCE) regarded gods as excellent historical persons whom admirers eventually came to worship.\n\nScientific theories, inferred and tested by the comparative method, emerged after data from tribes and peoples all over the world became available in the 18th and 19th centuries. Max Müller (1823-1900) has the reputation of having founded the scientific study of religion; he advocated a comparative method that developed into comparative religion. Subsequently, Clifford Geertz (1926-2006) and others questioned the validity of abstracting a general theory of all religions.\n\nTheories of religion can be classified into:\n\nOther dichotomies according to which theories or descriptions of religions can be classified include:\n\n\nEarly essentialists, such as Tylor and Frazer, looked for similar beliefs and practices in all societies, especially the more primitive ones, more or less regardless of time and place. They relied heavily on reports made by missionaries, discoverers, and colonial civil servants. These were all investigators who had a religious background themselves, thus they looked at religion from the inside. Typically they did not practice investigative field work, but used the accidental reports of others. This method left them open to criticism for lack of universality, which many freely admitted. The theories could be updated, however, by considering new reports, which Robert Ranulph Marett (1866-1943) did for Tylor's theory of the evolution of religion.\n\nField workers deliberately sent out by universities and other institutions to collect specific cultural data made available a much greater database than random reports. For example, the anthropologist E. E. Evans-Pritchard (1902-1973) preferred detailed ethnographical study of tribal religion as more reliable. He criticised the work of his predecessors, Müller, Tylor, and Durkheim, as untestable speculation. He called them \"armchair anthropologists\".\n\nA second methodology, functionalism, seeks explanations of religion that are outside of religion; i.e., the theorists are generally (but not necessarily) atheists or agnostics themselves. As did the essentialists, the functionalists proceeded from reports to investigative studies. Their fundamental assumptions, however, are quite different; notably, they apply what is called \"methodological naturalism\". When explaining religion they reject divine or supernatural explanations for the status or origins of religions because they are not scientifically testable. In fact, theorists such as Marett (an Anglican) excluded scientific results altogether, defining religion as the domain of the unpredictable and unexplainable; that is, comparative religion is the rational (and scientific) study of the irrational. The dichotomy between the two classifications is not bridgeable, even though they have the same methods, because each excludes the data of the other.\n\nThe functionalists and some of the later essentialists (among others E. E. Evans-Pritchard) have criticized the substantive view as neglecting social aspects of religion. Such critics go so far as to brand Tylor's and Frazer's views on the origin of religion as unverifiable speculation. The view of monotheism as more evolved than polytheism represents a mere preconception, they assert. There is evidence that monotheism is more prevalent in hunter societies than in agricultural societies. The view of a uniform progression in folkways is criticized as unverifiable, as the writer Andrew Lang (1844–1912) and E. E. Evans-Pritchard assert. The latter criticism presumes that the evolutionary views of the early cultural anthropologists envisaged a uniform cultural evolution. Another criticism supposes that Tylor and Frazer were individualists (unscientific). However, some support that supposed approach as worthwhile, among others the anthropologist Robin Horton. The dichotomy between the two fundamental presumptions - and the question of what data can be considered valid - continues.\n\nEvolutionary theories view religion as either an adaptation or a byproduct. Adaptationist theories view religion as being of adaptive value to the survival of Pleistocene humans. Byproduct theories view religion as a spandrel.\n\nThe anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor (1832–1917) defined religion as belief in spiritual beings and stated that this belief originated as explanations of natural phenomena. Belief in spirits grew out of attempts to explain life and death. Primitive people used human dreams in which spirits seemed to appear as an indication that the human mind could exist independent of a body. They used this by extension to explain life and death, and belief in the after life. Myths and deities to explain natural phenomena originated by analogy and an extension of these explanations. His theory assumed that the psyches of all peoples of all times are more or less the same and that explanations in cultures and religions tend to grow more sophisticated via monotheist religions, such as Christianity and eventually to science. Tylor saw practices and beliefs in modern societies that were similar to those of primitive societies as \"survivals\", but he did not explain why they survived.\n\nJames George Frazer (1854–1941) followed Tylor's theories to a great extent in his book The Golden Bough, but he distinguished between magic and religion. Magic is used to influence the natural world in the primitive man's struggle for survival. He asserted that magic relied on an uncritical belief of primitive people in contact and imitation. For example, precipitation may be invoked by the primitive man by sprinkling water on the ground. He asserted that according to them magic worked through laws. In contrast religion is faith that the natural world is ruled by one or more deities with personal characteristics with whom can be pleaded, not by laws.\n\nThe theologian Rudolf Otto (1869–1937) focused on religious experience, more specifically moments that he called numinous which means \"Wholly Other\". He described it as \"mysterium tremendum\" (terrifying mystery) and \"mysterium fascinans\" (awe inspiring, fascinating mystery). He saw religion as emerging from these experiences.\n\nHe asserted that these experiences arise from a special, non-rational faculty of the human mind, largely unrelated to other faculties, so religion cannot be reduced to culture or society. Some of his views, among others that the experience of the numinous was caused by a transcendental reality, are untestable and hence unscientific.\n\nHis ideas strongly influenced phenomenologists and Mircea Eliade.\nMircea Eliade's (1907–1986) approach grew out of the phenomenology of religion. Like Otto, he saw religion as something special and autonomous, that cannot be reduced to the social, economical or psychological alone. Like Durkheim, he saw the sacred as central to religion, but differing from Durkheim, he views the sacred as often dealing with the supernatural, not with the clan or society. The daily life of an ordinary person is connected to the sacred by the appearance of the sacred, called hierophany. Theophany (an appearance of a god) is a special case of it. In \"The Myth of the Eternal Return\" Eliade wrote that archaic men wish to participate in the sacred, and that they long to return to lost paradise outside the historic time to escape meaninglessness. The primitive man could not endure that his struggle to survive had no meaning. According to Eliade, man had a nostalgia (longing) for an otherworldly perfection. Archaic man wishes to escape the \"terror of time\" and saw time as cyclic. Historical religions like Christianity and Judaism revolted against this older concept of cyclic time. They provided meaning and contact with the sacred \"in\" history through the god of Israel.\n\nEliade sought and found patterns in myth in various cultures, e.g. sky gods such as Zeus.\n\nEliade's methodology was studying comparative religion of various cultures and societies more or less regardless of other aspects of these societies, often relying on second hand reports. He also used some personal knowledge of other societies and cultures for his theories, among others his knowledge of Hindu folk religion.\n\nHe has been criticized for vagueness in defining his key concepts. Like Frazer and Tylor he has also been accused of out-of-context comparisons of religious beliefs of very different societies and cultures.\nHe has also been accused of having a pro-religious bias (Christian and Hindu), though this bias does not seem essential for his theory.\n\nThe anthropologist Edward Evan Evans-Pritchard (1902–1973) did extensive ethnographic studies among the Azande and Nuer peoples who were considered \"primitive\" by society and earlier scholars. Evans-Pritchard saw these people as different, but not primitive.\n\nUnlike the previous scholars, Evans-Pritchard did not propose a grand universal theory and he did extensive long-term fieldwork among \"primitive\" peoples, studying their culture and religion, among other among the Azande. Not just passing contact, like Eliade.\n\nHe argued that the religion of the Azande (witchcraft and oracles) can not be understood without the social context and its social function. Witchcraft and oracles played a great role in solving disputes among the Azande. In this respect he agreed with Durkheim, though he acknowledged that Frazer and Tylor were right that their religion also had an intellectual explanatory aspect. The Azande's faith in witchcraft and oracles was quite logical and consistent once some fundamental tenets were accepted. Loss of faith in the fundamental tenets could not be endured because of its social importance and hence they had an elaborate system of explanations (or excuses) against disproving evidence. Besides an alternative system of terms or school of thought did not exist.\n\nHe was heavily critical about earlier theorists of primitive religion with the exception of Lucien Lévy-Bruhl, asserting that they made statements about primitive people without having enough inside knowledge to make more than a guess. In spite of his praise of Bruhl's works, Evans-Pritchard disagreed with Bruhl's statement that a member of a \"primitive\" tribe saying \"I am the moon\" is prelogical, but that this statement makes perfect sense within their culture if understood metaphorically.\n\nApart from the Azande, Evans-Pritchard, also studied the neighbouring, but very different Nuer people. The Nuer had had an abstract monotheistic faith, somewhat similar to Christianity and Judaism, though it included lesser spirits. They had also totemism, but this was a minor aspect of their religion and hence a corrective to Durkheim's generalizations should be made. Evans-Pritchard did not propose a theory of religion\"s\", but only a theory of the Nuer religion.\n\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz (1926–2006) made several studies in Javanese villages. He avoided the subjective and vague concept of group attitude as used by Ruth Benedict by using the analysis of society as proposed by Talcott Parsons who in turn had adapted it from Max Weber. Parsons' adaptation distinguished all human groups on three levels i.e. \"1.\" an individual level that is controlled by \"2.\" a social system that is in turn controlled by \"3.\" a cultural system. Geertz followed Weber when he wrote that \"man is an animal suspended in webs of significance he himself has spun and the analysis of it to be therefore not an experimental science in search of law but an interpretive one in search of meaning\". Geertz held the view that mere explanations to describe religions and cultures are not sufficient: interpretations are needed too. He advocated what he called \"thick descriptions\" to interpret symbols by observing them in use, and for this work, he was known as a founder of symbolic anthropology. \n\nGeertz saw religion as one of the cultural systems of a society. He defined religion as \nWith symbols Geertz meant a carrier that embodies a conception, because he saw religion and culture as systems of communication.\n\nThis definition emphasizes the mutual reinforcement between world view and ethos.\nThough he used more or less the same methodology as Evans-Pritchard, he did not share Evans-Pritchard's hope that a theory of religion could ever be found. Geertz proposed methodology was not the scientific method of the natural science, but the method of historians studying history.\n\nThe social philosopher Karl Marx (1818–1883) held a materialist worldview.\nAccording to Marx, the dynamics of society were determined by the relations of production, that is, the relations that its members needed to enter into to produce their means of survival.\n\nDeveloping on the ideas of Ludwig Feuerbach, he saw religion as a product of alienation that was functional to relieving people's immediate suffering, and as an ideology that masked the real nature of social relations.\nHe deemed it a contingent part of human culture, that would have disappeared after the abolition of class society.\n\nThese claims were limited, however, to his analysis of the historical relationship between European cultures, political institutions, and their Christian religious traditions.\nMarxist views strongly influenced individuals' comprehension and conclusions about society, among others the anthropological school of cultural materialism.\n\nMarx' explanations for all religions, always, in all forms, and everywhere have never been taken seriously by many experts in the field, though a substantial fraction accept that Marx' views possibly explain some aspects of religions.\n\nSome recent work has suggested that, while the standard account of Marx's analysis of religion is true, it is also only one side of a dialectical account, which takes seriously the disruptive, as well as the passifying moments of religion \nSigmund Freud (1856–1939) saw religion as an illusion, a belief that people very much wanted to be true. Unlike Tylor and Frazer, Freud attempted to explain why religion persists in spite of the lack of evidence for its tenets. Freud asserted that religion is a largely unconscious neurotic response to repression. By repression Freud meant that civilized society demands that we not fulfill all our desires immediately, but that they have to be repressed. Rational arguments to a person holding a religious conviction will not change the neurotic response of a person. This is in contrast to Tylor and Frazer, who saw religion as a rational and conscious, though primitive and mistaken, attempt to explain the natural world.\n\nIn his 1913 book \"Totem and Taboo\" he developed a speculative story about how all monotheist religions originated and developed. In the book he asserted that monotheistic religions grew out of a homicide in a clan of a father by his sons. This incident was subconsciously remembered in human societies.\n\nIn \"Moses and Monotheism\", Freud proposed that Moses had been a priest of Akhenaten who fled Egypt after the pharaoh's death and perpetuated monotheism through a different religion.\n\nFreud's view on religion was embedded in his larger theory of psychoanalysis, which has been criticized as unscientific. Although Freud's attempt to explain the historical origins of religions have not been accepted, his generalized view that all religions originate from unfulfilled psychological needs is still seen as offering a credible explanation in some cases.\nÉmile Durkheim (1858–1917) saw the concept of the sacred as the defining characteristic of religion, not faith in the supernatural. He saw religion as a reflection of the concern for society. He based his view on recent research regarding totemism among the Australian aboriginals. With totemism he meant that each of the many clans had a different object, plant, or animal that they held sacred and that symbolizes the clan. Durkheim saw totemism as the original and simplest form of religion. According to Durkheim, the analysis of this simple form of religion could provide the building blocks for more complex religions. He asserted that moralism cannot be separated from religion. The sacred i.e. religion reinforces group interest that clash very often with individual interests. Durkheim held the view that the function of religion is group cohesion often performed by collectively attended rituals. He asserted that these group meeting provided a special kind of energy, which he called effervescence, that made group members lose their individuality and to feel united with the gods and thus with the group. Differing from Tylor and Frazer, he saw magic not as religious, but as an individual instrument to achieve something.\n\nDurkheim's proposed method for progress and refinement is first to carefully study religion in its simplest form in one contemporary society and then the same in another society and compare the religions then and only between societies that are the same.\nThe empirical basis for Durkheim's view has been severely criticized when more detailed studies of the Australian aboriginals surfaced. More specifically, the definition of religion as dealing with the sacred only, regardless of the supernatural, is not supported by studies of these aboriginals. The view that religion has a social aspect, at the very least, introduced in a generalized very strong form by Durkheim has become influential and uncontested.\n\nDurkheim's approach gave rise to functionalist school in sociology and anthropology Functionalism is a sociological paradigm that originally attempted to explain social institutions as collective means to fill individual biological needs, focusing on the ways in which social institutions fill social needs, especially social stability. Thus because Durkheim viewed society as an \"organismic analogy of the body, wherein all the parts work together to maintain the equilibrium of the whole, religion was understood to be the glue that held society together.\".\nThe anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski (1884–1942) was strongly influenced by the functionalist school and argued that religion originated from coping with death. He saw science as practical knowledge that every society needs abundantly to survive and magic as related to this practical knowledge, but generally dealing with phenomena that humans cannot control.\n\nMax Weber (1864–1920) thought that the truth claims of religious movement were irrelevant for the scientific study of the movements. He portrayed each religion as rational and consistent in their respective societies.\nWeber acknowledged that religion had a strong social component, but diverged from Durkheim by arguing, for example in his book The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism that religion can be a force of change in society. In the book Weber wrote that modern capitalism spread quickly partially due to the Protestant worldly ascetic morale. Weber's main focus was not on developing a theory of religion but on the interaction between society and religion, while introducing concepts that are still widely used in the sociology of religion. These concept include\n\nSomewhat differing from Marx, Weber dealt with status groups, not with class. In status groups the primary motivation is prestige and social cohesion. Status groups have differing levels of access to power and prestige and indirectly to economic resources. In he saw Confucianism as helping a certain status group, i.e. the educated elite to maintain access to prestige and power. He asserted that Confucianism opposition against both extravagance and thrift made it unlikely that capitalism could have originated in China.\n\nHe used the concept of \"Verstehen\" (German for \"understanding\") to describe his method of interpretation of the intention and context of human action.\n\nThe rational choice theory has been applied to religions, among others by the sociologists Rodney Stark (1934 – ) and William Sims Bainbridge (1940 – ). They see religions as systems of \"compensators\", and view human beings as \"rational actors, making choices that she or he thinks best, calculating costs and benefits\". Compensators are a body of language and practices that compensate for some physical lack or frustrated goal. They can be divided into specific compensators (compensators for the failure to achieve specific goals), and general compensators (compensators for failure to achieve any goal). They define religion as a system of compensation that relies on the supernatural. The main reasoning behind this theory is that the compensation is what controls the choice, or in other words the choices which the \"rational actors\" make are \"rational in the sense that they are centered on the satisfaction of wants\".\n\nIt has been observed that social or political movements that fail to achieve their goals will often transform into religions. As it becomes clear that the goals of the movement will not be achieved by natural means (at least within their lifetimes), members of the movement will look to the supernatural to achieve what cannot be achieved naturally. The new religious beliefs are compensators for the failure to achieve the original goals. Examples of this include the counterculture movement in America: the early counterculture movement was intent on changing society and removing its injustice and boredom; but as members of the movement proved unable to achieve these goals they turned to Eastern and new religions as compensators.\n\nMost religions start out their lives as cults or sects, i.e. groups in high tension with the surrounding society, containing different views and beliefs contrary to the societal norm. Over time, they tend to either die out, or become more established, mainstream and in less tension with society. Cults are new groups with a new novel theology, while sects are attempts to return mainstream religions to (what the sect views as) their original purity. Mainstream established groups are called denominations. The comments below about cult formation apply equally well to sect formation.\n\nThere are four models of cult formation: the Psychopathological Model, the Entrepreneurial Model, the Social Model and the Normal Revelations model.\nSome religions are better described by one model than another, though all apply to differing degrees to all religions.\n\nOnce a cult or sect has been founded, the next problem for the founder is to convert new members to it. Prime candidates for religious conversion are those with an openness to religion, but who do not belong or fit well in any existing religious group. Those with no religion or no interest in religion are difficult to convert, especially since the cult and sect beliefs are so extreme by the standards of the surrounding society. But those already happy members of a religious group are difficult to convert as well, since they have strong social links to their preexisting religion and are unlikely to want to sever them in order to join a new one. The best candidates for religious conversion are those who are members of or have been associated with religious groups (thereby showing an interest or openness to religion), yet exist on the fringe of these groups, without strong social ties to prevent them from joining a new group.\n\nPotential converts vary in their level of social connection. New religions best spread through pre-existing friendship networks. Converts who are marginal with few friends are easy to convert, but having few friends to convert they cannot add much to the further growth of the organization. Converts with a large social network are harder to convert, since they tend to have more invested in mainstream society; but once converted they yield many new followers through their friendship network.\n\nCults initially can have quite high growth rates; but as the social networks that initially feed them are exhausted, their growth rate falls quickly. On the other hand, the rate of growth is exponential (ignoring the limited supply of potential converts): the more converts you have, the more missionaries you can have out looking for new converts. But nonetheless it can take a very long time for religions to grow to a large size by natural growth. This often leads to cult leaders giving up after several decades, and withdrawing the cult from the world.\n\nIt is difficult for cults and sects to maintain their initial enthusiasm for more than about a generation. As children are born into the cult or sect, members begin to demand a more stable life. When this happens, cults tend to lose or de-emphasise many of their more radical beliefs, and become more open to the surrounding society; they then become denominations.\n\nThe theory of religious economy sees different religious organizations competing for followers in a religious economy, much like the way businesses compete for consumers in a commercial economy. Theorists assert that a true religious economy is the result of religious pluralism, giving the population a wider variety of choices in religion. According to the theory, the more religions there are, the more likely the population is to be religious and hereby contradicting the secularization thesis.\n"}
{"id": "5271201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5271201", "title": "Tractatus coislinianus", "text": "Tractatus coislinianus\n\nTractatus coislinianus is an ancient Greek manuscript outlining a theory of comedy in the tradition of Aristotle's \"Poetics\".\n\nThe \"Tractatus\" states that comedy invokes laughter and pleasure, thus purging those emotions (catharsis), in a manner parallel to the description of tragedy in the \"Poetics\". It proceeds to describe the devices used and manner in which catharsis is brought about.\n\nThe manuscript now resides in Paris, France, at the Bibliothèque Nationale; it is labeled \"Coislinianus 120\". The 10th-century manuscript resided at Great Lavra on Mount Athos. In 1643, Athanasius Rhetor sent it from Cyprus to Séguier de Coislin. The classicist J. A. Cramer, poring through the collection of Henri Charles du Cambout de Coislin, was struck by the content, believing it to be the work of a commentator on Aristotle's theory of comedy, and published it in 1839. This belief was soon derided, but it has gained force in the 20th century; Richard Janko has argued that it is the notes or sketches of the lost second section of the \"Poetics\". Nesselrath argues that it is a later work, perhaps by Theophrastus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1157399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1157399", "title": "Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa", "text": "Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa\n\nThe Venus tablet of Ammisaduqa (\"Enuma Anu Enlil\" Tablet 63) refers to the record of astronomical observations of Venus, as preserved in numerous cuneiform tablets dating from the first millennium BC. It is believed that this astronomical record was first compiled during the reign of King Ammisaduqa (or Ammizaduga), the fourth ruler after Hammurabi. Thus, the origins of this text should probably be dated to around the mid-seventeenth century BC. (according to the Middle Chronology).\n\nThe tablet recorded the rise times of Venus and its first and last visibility on the horizon before or after sunrise and sunset (the heliacal risings and settings of Venus) in the form of lunar dates. These observations are recorded for a period of 21 years.\n\nThis Venus tablet is part of \"Enuma anu enlil\" (\"In the days of Anu and Enlil\"), a long text dealing with Babylonian astrology, which mostly consists of omens interpreting celestial phenomena.\n\nThe earliest copy of this tablet to be published, a 7th-century BC cuneiform, part of the British Museum collections, was recovered from the library at Nineveh. It was first published in 1870 by Henry Creswicke Rawlinson and George Smith as \"Enuma Anu Enlil\" Tablet 63, in \"Tablet of Movements of the Planet Venus and their Influences\" (\"The Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia\", volume III).\n\nAs many as 20 copies of this text are currently on record, many of them fragmentary, falling into 6 groups. The oldest of these copies is believed to be Source \"B\", found at Kish in 1924. It was copied from a tablet written at Babylon while Sargon II was King of Assyria between 720 and 704 BC.\n\nSeveral dates for the original observations, as contained in the tablet, were proposed early in the 20th century. The following dates, corresponding to the High, Middle, Low and Ultra-Low Chronologies, were inferred for the beginning of the Venus observations: 1702 BC, 1646 BC, 1582 BC, 1550 BC, respectively.\n\nThe tablet's significance for corroborating Babylonian chronology was first recognised by Franz Xaver Kugler in 1912, when he succeeded in identifying the enigmatic \"Year of the Golden Throne\" (\"Venus\" tablet K.160) as potentially the 8th year of the reign of Ammisaduqa, based on one of his year names. \n\nSince then, this 7th-century BC copy has been variously interpreted to support several chronologies in the 2nd millennium BC.\nMany uncertainties remain about the interpretation of the record of astronomical observations of Venus, as preserved in these surviving tablets. Some copying corruptions are probable. Problems of atmospheric refraction were addressed by Vahe Gurzadyan in a 2003 publication. The entry for some years, notably 13 and 21 are not physically possible and are considered in error. Also, the tables used to calculate the helical rising of Venus assume a rate at which the earth is slowing, a rate which is not certain, causing \"clock-time errors\".\n\nYear 1 inferior Venus sets on Shabatu 15 and after 3 days rises on Shabatu 18\n\nYear 2 superior Venus vanishes E on Arahsamnu 21 and after 1 month 25 days appears W on Tebetu 16\n\nYear 3 inferior Venus sets on Ululu 29 and after 16 days rises on Tashritu 15\n\nYear 4 superior Venus vanishes E on Dumuzi 3 and after 2 months 6 days appears W on Ululu 9\n\nYear 5 inferior Venus sets on Nisan 29 and after 12 days rises on Ayar 11\n\nYear 5 superior Venus vanishes E on Kislimu 27 and after 2 months 3 days appears W on Shabatu 30\n\nYear 6 inferior Venus sets on Arahsamnu 28 and after 3 days rises on Kislimu 1\n\nYear 7 superior Venus vanishes E on Abu 30 and after 2 months appears W on Tashritu 30\n\nYear 8 inferior Venus sets on Dumuzi 9 and after 17 days rises on Dumuzi 26\n\nYear 8 superior Venus vanishes E on Adar 27 and after 2 months 16 days appears W on Simanu 13\n\nYear 9 inferior Venus sets on Adar 12 and after 2 days rises on Adar 14\n\nYear 10 superior Venus vanishes E on Arahsamnu 17 and after 1 month 25 days appears W on Tebetu 12\n\nYear 11 inferior Venus sets on Ululu 25 and after 16 days rises on II Ululu 11\n\nYear 12 superior Venus vanishes E on Ayar 29 and after 2 months 6 days appears W on Abu 5\n\nYear 13 inferior Venus sets on Nisan 25 and after 12 days rises on Ayar 7\n\nYear 13 superior Venus vanishes E on Tebetu 23 and after 2 months 3 days appears W on Adar 26\n\nYear 14 inferior Venus sets on Arahsamnu 24 and after 3 days rises on Arahsamnu 27\n\nYear 15 superior Venus vanishes E on Abu 26 and after 2 months appears W on Tashritu 26\n\nYear 16 inferior Venus sets on Dumuzi 5 and after 16 days rises on Dumuzi 21\n\nYear 16 superior Venus vanishes E on Adar 24 and after 2 months 15 days appears W on Simanu 9\n\nYear 17 inferior Venus sets on Adar 8 and after 3 days rises on Adar 11\n\nYear 18 superior Venus vanishes E on Arahsamnu 13 and after 1 month 25 days appears W on Tebetu 8\n\nYear 19 inferior Venus sets on II Ululu 20 and after 17 days rises on Tashritu 8\n\nYear 20 superior Venus vanishes E on Simanu 25 and after 2 months 6 days appears W on Ululu 1\n\nYear 21 inferior Venus sets on Nisan 22 and after 11 days rises on Ayar 3\n\nYear 21 superior Venus vanishes E on Tebetu 19 and after 2 months 3 days appears W on Adar 22\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35424118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35424118", "title": "Women in engineering", "text": "Women in engineering\n\nWomen are often under-represented in the fields of engineering, both in academia and in the profession of engineering, yet many have contributed to the diverse fields of engineering historically and currently. A number of organizations and programs have been created to understand and overcome this tradition of gender disparity. Some have decried this gender gap, saying that it indicates the absence of potential talent. Though the gender gap as a whole is narrowing, there is still a growing gap with minority women compared to their white counterparts.\n\nThe history of women as designers and builders of machines and structures predates the development of engineering as a trade. Prior to the creation of the term \"engineer\" in the 11th century, women had contributed to the technological advancement of societies around the globe, including Hypatia of Alexandria (350 or 370–415 AD), who is credited with the invention of the hydrometer. By the 19th century, women who participated in engineering work often had academic training in mathematics or science. Ada Lovelace was privately schooled in mathematics before beginning her collaboration with Charles Babbage on his analytical engine that would earn her the designation of the \"first computer programmer.\" In the early years of the 20th century, greater numbers of women began to be admitted to engineering programs, but they were generally looked upon as anomalies by the men in their departments.\n\nThe first University to award an engineering's bachelor's degree for women was University of California, Berkeley. Elizabeth Bragg was the recipient of a bachelor's degree in civil engineering in 1876, becoming the first female engineer in the United States. Prior to the 19th century, it was very rare for women to earn bachelor's degree in any field because they did not have the opportunity to enroll in universities due to gender disparities. Some universities started to admit women to their colleges by the early 1800s and by the mid-1800s they started to admit them into all academic programs including engineering.\n\nThe entry of the United States into World War II created a serious shortage of engineering talent in that country as men were drafted into the armed forces. To address the shortage, initiatives like GE on-the-job engineering training for women with degrees in mathematics and physics and the Curtiss-Wright Engineering Program among others created new opportunities for women in engineering. Curtiss-Wright partnered with Cornell, Penn State, Purdue, the University of Minnesota, the University of Texas, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and Iowa State University to create an engineering curriculum that lasted ten months and focused primarily on aircraft design and production.\n\nDuring this time, since the female representation in the engineering field, there were barely public attacks on women. Chiefly, these attacks were kept quiet inside institutions due to the fact that women did not pressure aggressively to shift the gender gap between men and women in the engineering field. Another reason why these “attacks” were kept private is due to how men believed that it was impossible for engineering to stop being a male-dominated field.\n\nWomen's roles in the workforce, specifically in engineering fields changed greatly during the Post–World War II period. As women started to marry at later ages, have fewer children, divorce more frequently and stopped depending on male breadwinners for economic support, they started to become even more active in the engineering labor force despite the fact that their salaries were less than men's.\n\nWomen also played a crucial role in programming the ENIAC from its construction during the World War II period through the next several decades. Originally recruited by the Army in 1943, female ENIAC programmers made considerable advancements in programming techniques, such as the invention of breakpoints, now a standard debugging tool.\n\nIn addition to the wartime shortage of engineers, women also made inroads in engineering fields due to the gradual increase in public universities admitting female students. For example, Georgia Tech began to admit women engineering students in 1952, while the École Polytechnique in Paris, a premier French engineering institution, began to admit female students in 1972.\n\nStereotype threat may contribute to the under-representation of women in engineering. Because engineering is a traditionally male-dominated field, women may be less confident about their abilities, even when performing equally. At a young age, girls do not express the same level of interest in engineering as boys, possibly due in part to gender stereotypes. There is also significant evidence of the remaining presence of implicit bias against female engineers, due to the belief that men are mathematically superior and better suited to engineering jobs. Women who persist are able to overcome these difficulties, enabling them to find fulfilling and rewarding experiences in the engineering profession.\nDue to this gender bias, women's choice in entering an engineering field for college is also highly correlated to the background and exposure they have had with mathematics and other science courses during high school. Most women that do choose to study engineering have significant experience with regarding themselves better at these types of courses and as a result, think they are capable of studying in a male-dominated field.\n\nWomen's self-efficacy is also a contributor to the gender stereotype that plays a role in the underrepresentation of women in engineering. Women's ability to think critically that they can be successful and perform accomplishments is correlated to the choices they have when choosing a college career. Women that show high self-efficacy personalities are more prone to choose to study in the engineering field. Self-efficacy is also correlated to gender roles because men often present higher self-efficacy than women, which can also be a cause to why when choosing a major, most women opt to not choose the engineering major.\n\nOver the past few years 40 percent of women are leaving the engineering field, there are many factors leading to why they don't go into engineering because of women being judged about going into a difficult major such as engineering, working in difficult workplace conditions. According to the Society of Women Engineers one in four female leave the field after a certain age.\n\nWomen are under-represented in engineering education programs as in the workforce (see Statistics). Enrollment and graduation rates of women in post-secondary engineering programs are very important determinants of how many women go on to become engineers. Because undergraduate degrees are acknowledged as the \"latest point of standard entry into scientific fields\", the under-representation of women in undergraduate programs contributes directly to under-representation in scientific fields. Additionally, in the United States, women who hold degrees in science, technology, and engineering fields are less likely than their male counterparts to have jobs in those fields.\n\nThis degree disparity varies across engineering disciplines. Women tend to be more interested in the engineering disciplines that have societal and humane developments, such as agricultural and environmental engineering. They are therefore well-represented in environmental and biomedical engineering degree programs, receiving 40-50% of awarded degrees in the U.S. (2014–15), women are far less likely to receive degrees in fields like mechanical, electrical and computer engineering.\n\nA study made by the Harvard Business Review discussed the reasons why the rates of women representation in the engineering field are still low. The study discovered that rates of female students in engineering programs are continuous because of the collaboration aspects in the field. The results of the study chiefly determined how women are treated differently in group works in which there are more male than female members and how male members “excluded women from the real engineering work”. Aside from this, women in this study also described how professors treated female students differently “just because they were women”.\n\nDespite the fact that fewer women enroll in engineering programs across the nation, the representation of women in STEM-based careers can potentially increase when college and university administrators work on implementing mentoring programs and work-life policies for women. \nResearch shows that these rates have a hard time increasing since women are judged as less competent than men to perform supposedly “masculine jobs”.\n\nAnother possible reason for lower female participation in engineering fields is the prevalence of values \"associated with the male gender role\" in workplace culture. For example, some women in engineering have found it difficult to re-enter the workforce after a period of absence. Because men are less likely to take time off to raise a family, this disproportionately affects women.\n\nMales are also associated with taking leadership roles in the workplace. By holding a position of power over the women, they may create an uncomfortable environment for them. For example, lower pay, more responsibilities, less appreciation as compared to men.\n\nCommunication is also a contributing factor to the divide between men and women in the workplace. A male to male communication is said to be more direct,\nbut when a man explains a task to a woman, they tend to talk down, or “dumb down” terms. This comes from the stereotype that men are more qualified than women for engineering, causing men to treat women as inferiors instead of equals.\n\nPart of the male dominance in the engineering field is explained by their perception towards engineering itself. A study in 1964 found that both women and men believed that engineering was in fact masculine.\n\nThe masculinity dominating engineering majors and fields proves the issues that men themselves believe that they “naturally” excel in fields related to mathematics and sciences while women “naturally” excel in linguistics and liberal arts. In the past few decades, women's representation in the workforce in STEM fields, specifically engineering, has significantly improved. In 1960 women made up around 1% of all the engineers and by the year 2000 women have made up 11% of all engineers.\n\nSeveral colleges and universities nationwide want to decrease the gender gap between men and women in the engineering field by recruiting more women into their programs. The strategies used for recruiting more female undergraduate students are: increasing women's exposure to stem-courses during high school, planting the idea of positivism relating gender from the engineering culture, producing a more female-friendly environment inside and outside the classroom. These strategies have helped institutions encourage more women to enroll in engineering programs as well as other STEM-based majors. \nFor universities to encourage women to enroll in their graduate programs, institutions have to emphasize the importance of recruiting women, emphasize the importance of STEM education in the undergraduate level, offer financial aid, and develop more efficient methods for recruiting women to their programs.\n\nFemales are underrepresented as both graduate students in engineering and working engineers. The number of bachelor's degrees awarded to women dropped from 20.4% in 2003, down to 17.8% in 2009, and back up to 18.9% in 2012. Women's underrepresentation in the engineering workforce varies by field. In the year 2008 women Mechanical Engineers made up 6.7%, Electrical and Electronics made 7.7%, Aerospace and Civil made 10.4%, Chemical made 13.1% and Computer and Software Engineers made up 20.9% of the workforce. These values are even more outnumbered while quantifying the number of women who hold doctorates.\n\nThe percentage of master's degrees awarded to women has not changed much from 2003 (22.3%) to 2012 (23.1%). The percentage of doctoral degrees awarded to women in engineering increased from 11.6% in 1995, to 17.4% in 2004, to 21.1% in 2008, then to 22.2% in 2012.\n\nSince 1997, the percentage of Asian females enrolling in engineering majors has risen from about 30% to 34% but somehow also dropped in 2002. African American females have increased their representation in engineering from 21% to 33% in the same time frame. Mexican American (Chicana) and Puerto Rican females have had an increase in their representation from 25% to 31%. Even if ethnicities are included in these statistics, men from all ethnicities still outnumber the proportion of women who enroll in engineering bachelor programs.\n\nThere is a significant drop-off rate regarding the number of women who earn a bachelor's degree and the women who afterward enroll in graduate school. Over the last 35 years, women have been more likely than men to enroll in graduate school right after receiving their bachelor's degree. Women who do not enroll in a graduate program right after earning their bachelor's degree tend to be caregivers who face work-family conflicts in the context of family women.\nThe workforce remains the area of lowest representation for women. In 2009, women comprised 48% of the total workforce, but only 14% of the engineering workforce.\n\nOnly 14% of engineers in Australia are women. The retention of female engineers is also disproportionally low; in 2006, 62.6% of qualified male engineers were employed in engineering professions, as opposed to 47.1% of qualified female engineers.\n\nThough women tend to make up more than half of the undergraduate population in Canada, the number of women in engineering is disproportionately low. Whereas in 2001, 21 percent of students in engineering programs were female, by 2009, this had fallen to 17 percent. One commentator attributed this drop to a number of factors, such as the failure of higher education programs to explain how engineering can improve others' lives, a lack of awareness of what engineers do, and discomfort of being in a male-dominated environment and the perception that women must adapt to fit in.\n\nIn the 1990s, undergraduate enrollment of women in engineering fluctuated from 17 to 18%, while in 2001, it rose to 20.6%. In 2010, 17.7% of students in undergraduate engineering were women.\n\nFemale undergraduate enrollment was highest in 2010 in environmental, biosystems, and geological engineering.\n\nThe number of women enrolled in undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral engineering programs tends to vary by province, with the highest number in Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia.\n\nOn average, 11% of engineering faculty are women and the percentage of leadership roles held by women is an average of 9%. The University of Toronto has the highest female faculty rate in Canada at 17% and École Polytechnique de Montréal, University of British Columbia, and Dalhousie University all have a female faculty rate of 13%.\n\nIn 2011, the INWES Education and Research Institute (ERI) held a national workshop, Canadian Committee of Women in Engineering (CCWE+20), to determine ways of increasing the number of women in the engineering field in Canada. CCWE+20 identified a goal of increasing women's interest in engineering by 2.6 percent by 2016 to a total of 25 percent through more incentives such as through collaboration and special projects. The workshop identifies early education as one of the main barriers in addition to other factors, such as: \"the popular culture of their generation, the guidance they receive on course selection in high school and the extent to which their parents, teachers, and counselors recognize engineering as an appropriate and legitimate career choice for women.\" The workshop report compares enrollment, teaching, and professional statistics from the goals identified in 1997 compared to the actual data from 2009, outlining areas of improvement (see table, right).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26557726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26557726", "title": "Women surrealists", "text": "Women surrealists\n\nWomen Surrealists are women artists, photographers, filmmakers and authors connected with the Surrealism movement, which began in the early 1920s.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242881", "title": "World religions", "text": "World religions\n\nWorld religions is a category used in the study of religion to demarcate the five—and in some cases six—largest and most internationally widespread religious movements. Christianity, Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, and Buddhism are always included in the list, being known as the \"Big Five\". Some scholars also include another religion, such as Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, or the Bahá'í Faith, in the category. \n\nThe world religions paradigm was developed in the United Kingdom in the 1960s, where it was pioneered by phenomenological scholars like Ninian Smart. It was designed to broaden the study of religion away from its heavy focus on Christianity by taking into account other large religious traditions around the world. \nThe paradigm is often used by lecturers instructing undergraduate students in the study of religion and is also the framework used by school teachers in the UK and other countries. The paradigm's emphasis on viewing these religious movements as distinct and mutually exclusive entities has also had a wider impact on the categorisation of religion—for instance in censuses—in both Western countries and elsewhere.\n\nSince the late twentieth century, the paradigm has faced critique by scholars of religion like Jonathan Z. Smith, some of whom have argued for its abandonment. Critics have argued that the world religions paradigm is inappropriate because it takes the Protestant variant of Christianity as the model for what constitutes religion; that it is tied up with discourses of modernity, including modern power relations; that it encourages an uncritical understanding of religion; and that it makes a value judgement as to what religions should be considered \"major\". Others have argued that it remains useful in the classroom, so long as students are made aware that it is a socially constructed category.\n\nThe scholars of religion Christopher R. Cotter and David G. Robertson described the \"World Religions Paradigm\" as \"a particular way of thinking about religions which organizes them into a set of discrete traditions with a supposedly 'global' import.\" It typically consists of the \"Big Five\" religions: Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Hinduism, and Buddhism. \nAs noted by Cotter and Robertson, the \"Big Five\" religions are often listed in an \"Abrahamocentric order\" which places the largest three Abrahamic religions—Christianity, Judaism, and Islam—before the non-Abrahamic religions Hinduism and Buddhism. The category is sometimes also extended to include other religious groups, namely Sikhism, Zoroastrianism, and the Bahá'í Faith.\n\nThe inclusion of Judaism in the Big Five raises some issues; it is included in the list because of its influence on Christianity and Islam and because of its relevance to traditional Western understandings of Western history. On demographic grounds, it does not fit into the list, for there are far fewer Jews in the world than there are Christians, Muslims, Hindus, and Buddhists. Similarly, it does not fit into the list if the groups are defined by a desire to spread internationally, because Judaism is typically non-proselytizing.\n\nMany scholars have utilised the \"World Religions\" category alongside other \"catch-all\" categories such as \"new religious movements\" and \"indigenous religions\". The scholar Steven J. Sutcliffe compared the relationship between the three categories to the English football league system, with the \"world\" religions forming a Premier League, the \"new\" religions forming a Championship, and \"indigenous\" religions a First Division. That groups that get placed in categories like \"indigenous religions\" get treated less seriously than the \"world religions\" by many scholars was noted by the scholar of religion Graham Harvey, who maintained that \"indigenous religions should receive similarly respectful treatment to that considered appropriate to the larger 'World Religions'.\"\n\nCotter and Robertson noted that the history of the world religions paradigm is \"intimately tied up\" with the history of the study of religion as an academic discipline. It emerged from within the phenomenology of religion approach which placed an emphasis on description rather than critical analysis. \n\nThe paradigm was integrated throughout the education system through work of scholars like Ninian Smart, who formed the Shap Working Party on World Religions in Education in 1969. It was introduced with the intent of moving Western education away from its focus on Christianity. However, it took liberal Western Protestantism as its baseline and interpreted these different religious traditions through the framework of liberal Protestant norms and values. This included an emphasis on theology as being central to a given religion. It also reflects the post-Enlightenment Christian approach of treating different religious groups as distinct, mutually exclusive categories. It thus reflects the socio-political concerns of 1960s Britain, the environment in which it was devised.\n\nThe paradigm has since gone beyond this academic discipline, and \"informs the perception\" of many members of different religious groups. The paradigm for instance frames the teaching about religion in the British education system; at all three Key Stages, British teachers are instructed to teach about Christianity, while by the end of key Stage 3 they are also supposed to teach about the other \"five principal religions\": Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, and Sikhism. Similarly, the censuses of many countries for instance reflect the influence of the world religion paradigm by only permitting respondents to describe themselves as adhering to one particular religious tradition, whereas in reality many individuals identify themselves with various different traditions at the same time. This idea of mutually exclusive religious identities is not only a Western phenomenon, but can also be found in other socio-cultural contexts; Hindu nationalists for instance often endorse the idea that Hinduism and Buddhism are mutually exclusive categories despite the fact that many people in South Asia mix Hindu and Buddhist practices.\nThe scholars of religion Tara Baldrick-Morrone, Michael Graziano, and Brad Stoddard stated that \"the WRP is neither neutral nor natural, but its social authority derives from appearing as both.\"\n\nThe utility of the World Religions Paradigm has experienced a sustained and rigorous critique from many scholars of religion. In 1978, the scholar of religion Jonathan Z. Smith for example called it a \"dubious category\".\n\nOne of the major criticisms of the framework is that it is based on a model of 'religion' that is highly reliant on using the Protestant version of Christianity as its base example. A second criticism is that it is rooted in the discourses of modernity, including the power relations present in modern society. Smith observed that it was constructed by Western scholars from a Western perspective. He noted that the only religions that get included in it are those which have \"achieved sufficient power and numbers to enter our [i.e. Western] history, either to form it, interact with it, or to thwart it\" and represent \"important geo-political entities with which we must deal.\" The framework also includes privileging the literate elites active in particular religious movements by presenting their interpretations of particular traditions as being authoritative, eclipsing alternative interpretations presented by non-literate, marginalised, and localized practitioners. For instance, as noted by the scholar of religion Suzanne Owen, \"Hinduism as a World Religion does not include Hinduism as a village religion\".\n\nA third criticism of the world religions paradigm is that it encourages an uncritical and \"sui generis\" model of 'religion'. It presents each of the 'world religions' in an abstracted and essentialised form, failing to take account of hybridization. For instance, in teaching about Christianity it does not refer to reincarnation, because this is not typically regarded as a Christian doctrine, and yet there are Christians who profess a belief in reincarnation.\nA fourth criticism is that in choosing to focus attention on the \"major\" religions, it makes a value judgement as to what constitutes \"major\" and what does not. \n\nMany scholars of religion have resisted efforts to challenge the paradigm, and as of 2016 was reported as still being widespread in university introductory courses to the study of religion. Many instructors feel that explaining the critique of the world religions paradigm to undergraduate students would be difficult, as the critique would be too complex for many of them to understand. Its continued use has also been defended by the claim that it is what undergraduate students expect and that it mirrors what they will have been taught at school.\n\nSome scholars have argued for the rejection of the world religions paradigm altogether; Cotter and Robertson presented the argument that \"the continued uncritical use of the WRP fosters a breeding ground for relativistic navel-gazing which has no place in the contemporary research university\". Owen was of the view that \"as long as it continues to employ the World Religions paradigm as a default approach (even after deconstructing it), religious studies will fail in its humanistic task\" because it will simply be engaging in \"knowledge transfer\" and not \"critically engaging\" with \"culture and knowledge\". One alternative framework that some scholars use to teach about religion is the \"lived religion\" paradigm, which places emphasis not on distinct religious traditions but on individual experiences and practices. Another alternative is the \"material religion\" framework which focuses on examining religion through material culture and physical objects. Owen noted that, in her experience, many students display an \"initial resistance to alternatives\" as they are expecting the world religions paradigm. She cited the example of her introductory course at Leeds Trinity University College, which was constructed on thematic lines rather than according to the world religions paradigm, and which induced feelings of panic among many undergraduates.\n\nMany scholars who are critical of the world religions paradigm find themselves having to teach it as part of introductory courses for undergraduate students. Some spent much of a course teaching the concept and then several sessions after this deconstructing it. Some scholars have suggested that even when students are taught using the world religions paradigm, it could be a good means of encouraging them to think critically about category formation. The scholar Steven W. Ramey for instance advocated teaching the paradigm in a manner that makes it clear that it is a \"constructed discourse\". Similarly, Baldrick-Morrone, Graziano, and Stoddard suggested that teaching undergraduates about the world religious paradigm helps to explain to students how \"classification is a social act\". They noted that students could leave such a course not only knowing more about the specific religious traditions included in the world religions category, but that they would also leave \"knowing how to better interrogate the world around them\". To avoid promoting the paradigm's portrayal of different religious traditions as rigid, homogenous categories, the scholar Teemu Taira suggested introducing ethnographic case studies into the class to better explain the realities of people's lives and uses of religious traditions.\n\n"}
