{"id": "24462937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462937", "title": "Accident", "text": "Accident\n\nAn accident, also known as an unintentional injury, is an undesirable, incidental, and an unplanned event that could have been prevented had circumstances leading up to the accident been recognized, and acted upon, prior to its occurrence. Most scientists who study unintentional injury avoid using the term \"accident\" and focus on factors that increase risk of severe injury and that reduce injury incidence and severity.\n\nPhysical examples of accidents include unintended motor vehicle collisions or falls, being injured by touching something sharp, hot, moving objects, contacting electricity or ingesting poison. Non-physical examples are unintentionally revealing a secret or otherwise saying something incorrectly, accidental deletion of data, forgetting an appointment etc.\n\n\n\nPoisons, vehicle collisions and falls are the most common causes of fatal injuries. According to a 2005 survey of injuries sustained at home, which used data from the National Vital Statistics System of the United States National Center for Health Statistics, falls, poisoning, and fire/burn injuries are the most common causes of death.\n\nThe United States also collects statistically valid injury data (sampled from 100 hospitals) through the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. This program was revised in 2000 to include all injuries rather than just injuries involving products. Data on emergency department visits is also collected through the National Health Interview Survey. In The U.S. the Bureau of Labor Statistics has available on their website extensive statistics on workplace accidents.\n\nMany models to characterize and analyze accidents have been proposed, which can by classified by type. Notable types and models include:\n\nIshikawa diagrams are sometimes used to illustrate root-cause analysis and five whys discussions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13416327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13416327", "title": "Accident-proneness", "text": "Accident-proneness\n\nAccident-proneness, also known as clumsiness, is the idea that some people have a greater predisposition than others to suffer accidents, such as car crashes and industrial injuries. It may be used as a reason to deny any insurance on such individuals.\n\nThe early work on this subject dates back to 1919, in a study by Greenwood and Woods, who studied workers at a British munitions factory and found that accidents were unevenly distributed among workers, with a relatively small proportion of workers accounting for most of the accidents.\nFurther work on accident-proneness was carried out in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe subject is still being studied actively. Research into accident-proneness is of great interest in safety engineering, where human factors such as pilot error, or errors by nuclear plant operators, can have massive effects on the reliability and safety of a system.\nOne of the areas of most interest and more profound research is the Aeronautical area, where accidents have been reviewed from psychological and human factors, to mechanical and technical failures. There has been many conclusive studies, that present that human factor has great influence on the results of those occurrences.\n\nStatistical evidence clearly demonstrates that different individuals can have different rates of accidents from one another; for example, young male drivers are the group at highest risk for being involved in car accidents. There also seems to be substantial variation in personal accident rates between individuals.\n\nHowever, a number of studies have cast doubt on whether accident-proneness actually exists as a \"distinct, persistent and independently verifiable\" physiological or psychological syndrome. Although substantial research has been devoted to this subject, there still seems to be no conclusive evidence either for or against the existence of accident proneness in this sense.\n\nThe exact nature and causes of accident-proneness, assuming that it exists as a distinct entity, are unknown. Factors which have been considered as associated with accident-proneness have included absent-mindedness, clumsiness, carelessness, impulsivity, predisposition to risk-taking, and unconscious desires to create accidents as a way of achieving secondary gains.\nBroad studies on the speed and accuracy using a specially designed test sheet of finding a specific figure on various people as Japanese, Brazil born Japanese, Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Filipinos, Thai and Central Americans with different educational backgrounds. The studies have revealed that educational background or study experience is the key factor of concentration capability. Screening new employees using this test gave drastic decrease of work accidents in several companies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5732655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5732655", "title": "Alternate ending", "text": "Alternate ending\n\nAlternate ending (British English: alternative ending) is a term used (usually in movies) to describe the ending of a story that was planned or debated but ultimately unused in favor of the actual ending. Generally, alternative endings are considered to have no bearing on the canonical narrative. On the internet, amateurs may make their own alternative endings.\n\nAlternative endings are often filmed before being scrapped, and may be subsequently included as a special feature in the film's DVD release. These alternative endings are a special type of deleted scene. In other cases, ideas that were presented but discarded early on are alluded to by the production team in commentary or interviews.\n\nSome films or movies also present the alternative ending on International releases as well as their international Home media release, with its original region release only showing the alternative ending on certain TV channels.\n\nThe following are examples of known alternative endings to movies:\n\nIn TV shows, producers may want to keep the ending of an episode a secret, even if it means keeping it from the stars themselves. In such a case, they will usually film more than one ending and not tell the cast which one will be used.\n\nMany video games also have alternative endings. These endings are generally posed after completing the game in a harder difficulty, or taking a different route through the game's storyline.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18336087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18336087", "title": "Bloodline (2008 film)", "text": "Bloodline (2008 film)\n\nBloodline is a 2008 documentary film by Bruce Burgess, a filmmaker with an interest in paranormal claims, focused on the \"Jesus bloodline\" hypothesis and other elements of the book \"The Holy Blood and the Holy Grail\".\n\nThe 2008 documentary was originally released in cinemas on 9 May. \"Ben Hammott\" relating to his alleged discoveries made in the vicinity of Rennes-le-Château since 1999; Burgess claims Ben Hammott would have found the treasure of Bérenger Saunière: a mummified corpse, which he believed were Mary Magdalene. In the film, Burgess interviews several people with alleged connections to the Priory of Sion, including a Gino Sandri and Nicolas Haywood. A book by one of the documentary's researchers, Rob Howells, entitled \"Inside the Priory of Sion: Revelations from the World's Most Secret Society - Guardians of the Bloodline of Jesus\" presented the version of the Priory of Sion as given in the 2008 documentary, which contained several erroneous assertions, such as the claim that Plantard believed in the Jesus bloodline hypothesis. By 21 March 2012 Ben Hammott confessed and apologised on Podcast interview (using his real name Bill Wilkinson) that everything to do with the tomb and related artifacts was a hoax; revealing that the actual tomb was now destroyed, being part of a full sized set located in a warehouse in England.\n\nBruce Burgess returned to the subject matter with \"The Bloodline of Christ\" that was shown in September 2013 on the Yesterday channel.\n"}
{"id": "28986172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28986172", "title": "Boutique Week", "text": "Boutique Week\n\nBoutique Week is a bi-annual shopping event in New York, Boston, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Miami. Boutique Week was launched in October 2010 in New York, Boston, and Los Angeles with over 40 boutiques participating in each city. Each of the participating boutiques offers their merchandise at a discount of at least 25% off during the selected week.\n\nBoutique Week is supported by local government in these cities as an effort to stimulate the economy and raise awareness for small local businesses.\n\nBoutique Week also raises money for Nancy Lublin's non-profit organisation Dress for Success, supplying women with interview suits and resources they need for success in today's workforce.\n\nBoutique Week was founded in July 2010 by Polina Raygorodskaya and Olga Vidisheva.\n\nPolina Raygorodskaya is the founder and president of Polina Fashion LLC. Formerly a top runway model, Raygorodskaya earned a BS degree in Business Administration at Babson College. Her entrepreneurial endeavors have been recognized by Fox Business Channel and LegalZoom. In 2007, Business Week named her as one of the \"Best 25 Entrepreneurs Under 25\".\n\nOlga Vidisheva is currently pursuing a Masters degree in Business Administration at Harvard Business School. Most recently, she worked for Chanel in their 'Fashion' and 'Fragrance and Beauté' marketing divisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "1449800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1449800", "title": "Breaking news", "text": "Breaking news\n\nBreaking news, interchangeably termed late-breaking news and also known as a special report or special coverage or news bulletin, is a current issue that broadcasters feel warrants the interruption of scheduled programming and/or current news in order to report its details. Its use is also assigned to the most significant story of the moment or a story that is being covered live. It could be a story that is simply of wide interest to viewers and has little impact otherwise. Many times, breaking news is used after the news organization has already reported on the story. When a story has not been reported on previously, the graphic and phrase \"Just In\" is sometimes used instead.\n\nThe format of a \"special report\" or \"breaking news\" event on television commonly consists of the current non-news programming (or, in some cases, regularly scheduled newscasts) suddenly switching to a reverse countdown, usually from 5 seconds, to allow any affiliated stations to switch to the network news feed (television stations typically do not provide these countdowns for local coverage, normally leading with a graphic and/or voiceover announcing the cut-in). If a national network newscast is in progress when the breaking news event occurs, the newscast will pause temporarily to allow other network affiliates to join the network news feed.\nThere is then an opening graphic, featuring music (such as NBC's \"The Pulse of Events\", composed by John Williams) which adds an emphasis on the importance of the event. This is usually followed by the introduction of a news anchor, who welcomes the viewer to the broadcast and introduces the story at hand. Lower thirds and other graphics may also be altered to convey a sense of urgency. \n\nOnce the story is introduced, the network or local station may, if possible, choose to continue to show a live shot of the anchor or may cut away to video or images of the story that is being followed during the broadcast. Additionally, the coverage may be passed to a reporter at the location of the breaking event, possibly sharing more information about the story as it breaks.\n\nDepending upon the story being followed, the report may last only a few minutes, or continue for multiple hours – or with the longest uninterrupted news events, four days – at a time (events in which the latter instances has occurred include the assassination of John F. Kennedy and the September 11 attacks, which took place between November 22–26, 1963 and September 11–15, 2001, respectively). If coverage continues for an extended amount of time, the network may integrate analysis about the story through analysts in-studio, via phone, satellite, broadband (B-GAN) or through other means of communication. Depending on the severity of the event, regular commercial advertising may be completely suspended for sustained coverage, and network affiliates will be required to insert their station identification in at the top of the hour overlaid during the report rather than through the usual means of a station imaging promo or program reminder. \n\nIf a story occurs during the Early Fringe timeslot and depending on the magnitude of the events at hand, local stations might be given the opportunity to break away from the network feed and begin their evening newscasts. This is set up by a cue from the network's talent that they will pause for a few seconds to reset coverage, at which point an opening graphic may be rolled again. Information is also disseminated from an internal alert service utilized by a station's master control. After the local newscast, stations will likely return to the network's feed as they normally would for the nightly news, but they may be joining in on an \"extended edition\". Whether or not a station will take over for local news is usually the choice of that station's news director.\n\nWhen the coverage comes to a close, the network or station may either resume programming that was occurring prior to the event or begin new programming (if the breaking news occurs during a newscast the network will switch back to the newscast upon completion if time permits), depending upon the amount of time spent on the coverage. The anchor will usually remind viewers to check the network's website (or that of the station, if coverage is provided locally), or watch any cable news channels that may be co-owned with the network for more information. If the story breaks during daytime programming, the anchor will usually remind viewers that there will be or might be more details on their local news that day and a full wrap-up on the network's evening news program. Usually, regular daytime programming is re-joined in progress and segments may be missed.\n\nIf the event occurs during prime time, the anchor will usually remind viewers that there will be more details on their late local newscast and on the network's overnight news program (if applicable) the next morning. Programming at this time is either joined in progress or started back up at the point of the interruption, depending on whether the program is new to air, highly rated or has time left in its time slot to finish airing (for instance, ABC's breaking news report involving the April 2017 Shayrat missile strike took into account a new episode of the popular series \"Scandal\", where the show was resumed right at the point of interruption twice for those reports; NBC's coverage featured the low-rated \"\" joined in the middle of an episode in progress after their special report without any of that consideration). In either of the above instances, network (and in some cases, for local stations, syndicated) programs that have segments not aired or are pre-empted in their entirety by breaking news reports – particularly those that extend to or longer than 20 or 45 minutes, depending on the length of the previously scheduled program – may have to be rescheduled to air at a later time. \n\nSome events, like State of the Union addresses and presidential debates, are scheduled to start at the top of the hour during prime time. Under those circumstances, regularly scheduled network programming is preempted for the entire duration of the event. If there is sufficient time (generally 60 minutes or more) remaining in prime time, the network may broadcast its next regularly scheduled program in its entirety or join regularly scheduled programming in progress. However, if there is insufficient time remaining for any prime-time programs, the special report will continue until the network affiliates begin airing their late local newscasts.\n\nIn the United States, on days when presidential elections take place, regularly scheduled prime-time programming is suspended so that networks can air up-to-the-minute coverage of the elections. Likewise, regularly scheduled daytime programs are suspended during coverage of presidential inaugurations. However, during those types of events, regular commercial advertising is shown. Similar procedures are enacted for elections or political inaugurations that take place in other countries.\n\nOn radio, the process of a breaking news story is somewhat the same, though some different considerations are made for the medium. For instance, a breaking news theme is required by default to have an urgent tenor and be used only for the purpose of true breaking news or bulletins. This is obvious on the local all-news radio stations owned by Entercom (formerly owned by CBS Radio), which very rarely use a breaking news theme for all but the most urgent and dire of breaking news, and is purposefully structured to give a sense of attention for the listener, almost sounding like an alarm. For local events, continuous coverage may be imposed, or else the station may wait until they have a reporter at the scene and will promise more details of the event as they become available.\n\nNational news that is broadcast over a radio network requires constant monitoring by station employees to allow the network coverage to air, although many stations will take the 'urgent' signal sent by the network and break into programming immediately. Again, continuous coverage from a national radio network depends on the severity of the event, and often the network may just pass down the coverage by their local affiliate with spare commentary by the network's anchors.\n\nOther considerations are made also; FM music stations rarely relay breaking news unless it is an event of grave national concern, though local weather warnings are relayed when in effect (either in the form of updates provided by an on-staff anchor or disc jockey, an emergency alert system or through an audio simulcast of a television station which maintains a contractual partnership with a radio outlet). Less urgent events allow a network to feed updates to stations at 20, 30 and 50 minutes after the hour to give a summary of events. Stations are also careful about what stories are relayed during play-by-play broadcasts of professional and college sports, as those are the programs most listened to on radio, so breaking news coverage is limited to only commercial breaks.\n\nNews bulletins have been a fixture of radio broadcasting since at least the 1920s. Examples of early news bulletins in the Golden Age of Radio include fictionalized versions in the 1938 radio drama \"The War of the Worlds\" and coverage of the attack on Pearl Harbor, which was also the first television news bulletin, reported on stations in New York and Pennsylvania. KTLA in Los Angeles is credited with being the first television station to provide extended coverage of a breaking news event: for 27½ hours from April 8 to 9, 1949, the station carried live coverage of an attempt to rescue three-year-old Kathy Fiscus, who had fallen down an abandoned well in San Marino, California, where she ultimately perished due to asphyxia from a lack of oxygen.\n\nIn the decades before 24-hour news networks such as CNN began to exist, programming interruptions were restricted to extremely urgent news, such as the death of an important political figure. For example, one of the earliest such interruptions that modern viewers would recognize as \"breaking news\" coverage was for the assassination of U.S. President John F. Kennedy in 1963, (with CBS News anchorman Walter Cronkite's coverage being especially noted), and as such reflected the relatively crude technology and procedures of that era. Such breaks are now common at 24-hour news channels, which may have an anchor available for live interruption at any time. Some networks, such as Sky News, largely emphasize this, even advertising the station/network as being \"first for breaking news\".\n\nAnother type of breaking news is that of severe weather events, which had such coverage evolve in a very similar manner. In North America until the 1990s, television and radio stations normally only provided long-form weather coverage during immediate, ongoing threats (such as a tornado that has been confirmed visually or by radar to be producing damage or a landfalling hurricane); cut-ins and, in the case of television stations, alert crawls during regular programming were used otherwise, even when higher-end alerts such as tornado warnings were issued. Advancements in newsgathering and weather technology (including the deployment of helicopters to provide aerial coverage and radar systems that can detect specific storm attributes), coupled with a few highly life-threatening events during the 1990s (such as Hurricane Andrew and the 1999 Oklahoma tornado outbreak) and the resulting heightened urgency to advise those in the storm's path to take safety precautions in advance made extended (or \"wall-to-wall\") weather coverage once a high-end alert is issued more common in storm-prone areas, with cut-ins only being used in weather events of lesser severity.\n\nIn various countries and at various news outlets, terms such as \"(late)breaking\", \"urgent\", \"flash\", \"bulletin\", and \"alert\" may accompany breaking news reports. The term \"breaking news\" has come to replace the older use of \"news bulletin\", with the latter term relegated to only the most extraordinary of events. There has been widespread use of \"breaking news\" at the local level, particularly when one station in a market wants to emphasize the exclusivity of coverage. Not all viewers agree that stories assigned as \"breaking news\" rise to the significance or level of interest that warrant such a designation.\n\nAmerican network news divisions still use the term \"special report\" for either a breaking news, a developing news story or both, but tend to use the term \"breaking news\" on their morning and evening news programs. Most local stations across the United States that interrupt regular programming for a news story use the \"breaking news\" and \"special report\" terms (though, local broadcast news outlets use the former most often), with a voice-over stating either \"This is a breaking news special report\" or \"This is a special breaking news report\" or \"This is a(n) (network name) News Special Report\" or \"This is a(n) (station brand name) breaking news (special) report\" or \"(From [station brand name],) this is breaking news.\" The breaking news ending has a past-tense variation, followed by a disclaimer for viewers who would like more information to see the network's news division website.\n\nHowever, \"special report\" has also been de-emphasized by cable news channels in the United States, as both Fox News Channel and CNN now use that phrase for regular programming; Fox News carries \"Special Report with Bret Baier\", a daily political affairs program, while CNN's \"Special Report\" is a catch-all banner for CNN's library documentary and true crime programming.\n\nIn early coverage of a breaking story, details are commonly sketchy, usually due to the limited information that is available at the time. For example, during the Sago Mine disaster, there were initial reports that all twelve miners were found alive, but news organizations later learned that only one actually survived.\n\nOften it is considered important to be quick with news bulletins also for less important news. Such news might not be updated later, even if it was found that information was wrong or severely incomplete. If someone (e.g. when editing Wikipedia) later wants to research the event, only incomplete information might be found.\n\nAnother criticism has been the diluting of the importance of \"breaking news\" by the need of 24-hour news channels to fill time, applying the title to soft news stories of questionable importance and urgency (for example, car chases). Others question as to whether the use of the term is excessive, citing occasions when the term is used even though scheduled programming is not interrupted. Some programs, such as HLN's defunct \"Nancy Grace\", used the term for recurring coverage of events which occurred months before, even when criminal trial coverage which may deserve the breaking news tag was not occurring and no new information has developed.\n\nIn June 2013, Fox affiliate WDRB in Louisville, Kentucky gained notice in the television industry for a promo that criticized the broad and constant use of the \"breaking news\" term, explaining that it has been overused as a \"marketing ploy\" by other news-producing stations, who tend to apply the term to stories that are low in urgency and/or relevance. To coincide with the promo, on its website, WDRB posted \"Contracts\" with its viewers and advertisers, with the former list promising to use \"breaking news\" judiciously (applying it to stories that are \"both 'breaking' and 'news'\").\n\n"}
{"id": "5662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5662", "title": "Calendar year", "text": "Calendar year\n\nGenerally speaking, a calendar year begins on the New Year's Day of the given calendar system and ends on the day before the following New Year's Day, and thus consists of a whole number of days. A year can also be measured by starting on any other named day of the calendar, and ending on the day before this named day in the following year. This may be termed a \"year's time\", but not a \"calendar year\". To reconcile the calendar year with the astronomical cycle (which has a fractional number of days) certain years contain extra days (\"leap days\" or \"intercalary days\").\n\nThe Gregorian year, which is in use in most of the world, begins on January 1 and ends on December 31. It has a length of 365 days in an ordinary year, with 8,760 hours, 525,600 minutes, or 31,536,000 seconds; but 366 days in a leap year, with 8,784 hours, 527,040 minutes, or 31,622,400 seconds. With 97 leap years every 400 years, the year has an average length of 365.2425 days. Other formula-based calendars can have lengths which are further out of step with the solar cycle: for example, the Julian calendar has an average length of 365.25 days, and the Hebrew calendar has an average length of 365.2468 days. The Islamic calendar is a lunar calendar consisting of 12 months in a year of 354 or 355 days.\n\nThe astronomer's mean tropical year, which is averaged over equinoxes and solstices, is currently 365.24219 days, slightly shorter than the average length of the year in most calendars, but the astronomer's value changes over time, so William Herschel's suggested correction to the Gregorian calendar may become unnecessary by the year 4000.\n\nThe calendar year can be divided into four quarters, often abbreviated as Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4.\n\n\nWhen combined with a year, the quarter/year combination may be written, for example, as Q42018 or 4Q2018 or 2018Q4.\n\n"}
{"id": "174883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174883", "title": "Catastrophism", "text": "Catastrophism\n\nCatastrophism was the theory that the Earth had largely been shaped by sudden, short-lived, violent events, possibly worldwide in scope. This was in contrast to uniformitarianism (sometimes described as gradualism), in which slow incremental changes, such as erosion, created all the Earth's geological features. Uniformitarianism held that the present was the key to the past, and that all geological processes (such as erosion) throughout the past were like those that can be observed now. Since the early disputes, a more inclusive and integrated view of geologic events has developed, in which the scientific consensus accepts that there were some catastrophic events in the geologic past, but these were explicable as extreme examples of natural processes which can occur.\n\nCatastrophism held that geological epochs had ended with violent and sudden natural catastrophes such as great floods and the rapid formation of major mountain chains. Plants and animals living in the parts of the world where such events occurred were made extinct, being replaced abruptly by the new forms whose fossils defined the geological strata. Some catastrophists attempted to relate at least one such change to the Biblical account of Noah's flood.\n\nThe concept was first popularised by the early 19th-century French scientist Georges Cuvier, who proposed that new life forms had moved in from other areas after local floods, and avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings.\n\nIn the early development of geology, efforts were made in a predominantly Christian western society to reconcile biblical narratives of Creation and the universal flood with new concepts about the processes which had formed the Earth. The discovery of other ancient flood myths was taken as explaining why the flood story was \"stated in scientific methods with surprising frequency among the Greeks\", an example being Plutarch's account of the Ogygian flood.\n\nThe leading scientific proponent of catastrophism in the early nineteenth century was the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier. His motivation was to explain the patterns of extinction and faunal succession that he and others were observing in the fossil record. While he did speculate that the catastrophe responsible for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia might have been the result of the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea, he did not make any reference to Noah's flood. Nor did he ever make any reference to divine creation as the mechanism by which repopulation occurred following the extinction event. In fact Cuvier, influenced by the ideas of the Enlightenment and the intellectual climate of the French revolution, avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings. Cuvier also believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several of these revolutions, which he viewed as recurring natural events, amid long intervals of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nBy contrast in Britain, where natural theology was influential during the early nineteenth century, a group of geologists including William Buckland and Robert Jameson interpreted Cuvier's work differently. Cuvier had written an introduction to a collection of his papers on fossil quadrupeds, discussing his ideas on catastrophic extinction. Jameson translated Cuvier's introduction into English, publishing it under the title \"Theory of the Earth\". He added extensive editorial notes to the translation, explicitly linking the latest of Cuvier's revolutions with the biblical flood. The resulting essay was extremely influential in the English-speaking world. Buckland spent much of his early career trying to demonstrate the reality of the biblical flood using geological evidence. He frequently cited Cuvier's work, even though Cuvier had proposed an inundation of limited geographic extent and extended duration, whereas Buckland, to be consistent with the biblical account, was advocating a universal flood of short duration. Eventually, Buckland abandoned flood geology in favor of the glaciation theory advocated by Louis Agassiz, following a visit to the Alps where Agassiz demonstrated the effects of glaciation at first hand. As a result of the influence of Jameson, Buckland, and other advocates of natural theology, the nineteenth century debate over catastrophism took on much stronger religious overtones in Britain than elsewhere in Europe.\n\nUniformitarian explanations for the formation of sedimentary rock and an understanding of the immense stretch of geological time, or as the concept came to be known deep time, were found in the writing of James Hutton, sometimes known as the father of geology, in the late 18th century. The geologist Charles Lyell built upon Hutton's ideas during the first half of 19th century and amassed observations in support of the uniformitarian idea that the Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present acting gradually over an immense period of time. Lyell presented his ideas in the influential three volume work, \"Principles of Geology\", published in the 1830s, which challenged theories about geological cataclysms proposed by proponents of catastrophism like Cuvier and Buckland.\n\nFrom around 1850 to 1980, most geologists endorsed uniformitarianism (\"The present is the key to the past\") and gradualism (\"geologic change occurs slowly over long periods of time\") and rejected the idea that cataclysmic events such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or floods of vastly greater power than those observed at the present time, played any significant role in the formation of the Earth's surface. Instead they believed that the earth had been shaped by the long term action of forces such as volcanism, earthquakes, erosion, and sedimentation, that could still be observed in action today. In part, the geologists' rejection was fostered by their impression that the catastrophists of the early nineteenth century believed that God was directly involved in determining the history of Earth. Some of the theories about Catastrophism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were connected with religion and catastrophic origins were sometimes considered miraculous rather than natural events.\n\nThe rise in uniformitarianism made the introduction of a new catastrophe theory very difficult. In 1923 J Harlen Bretz published a paper on the channeled scablands formed by glacial Lake Missoula in Washington State, USA. Bretz encountered resistance to his theories from the geology establishment of the day, kicking off an acrimonious 40 year debate. Finally in 1979 Bretz received the Penrose Medal; the Geological Society of America's highest award.\n\nIn the 1950s, Immanuel Velikovsky propounded catastrophism in several popular books. He speculated that the planet Venus is a former \"comet\" which was ejected from Jupiter and subsequently 3,500 years ago made two catastrophic close passes by Earth, 52 years apart, and later interacted with Mars, which then had a series of near collisions with Earth which ended in 687 BCE, before settling into its current orbit. Velikovsky used this to explain the biblical plagues of Egypt, the biblical reference to the \"Sun standing still\" for a day (Joshua 10:12 & 13, explained by changes in Earth's rotation), and the sinking of Atlantis. Scientists vigorously rejected Velikovsky's conjectures.\n\nNeocatastrophism is the explanation of sudden extinctions in the palaeontological record by high magnitude, low frequency events (such as asteroid impacts, super-volcanic eruptions, supernova gamma ray bursts, etc.), as opposed to the more prevalent geomorphological thought which emphasises low magnitude, high frequency events.\n\nOver the past 25 years, a scientifically based catastrophism has gained wide acceptance with regard to certain events in the distant past. One impetus for this change came from the publication of a historic paper by Walter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. This paper suggested that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The impact wiped out about 70% of all species, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–T boundary). In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nSince then, the debate about the extinction of the dinosaurs and other mass extinction events has centered on whether the extinction mechanism was the asteroid impact, widespread volcanism (which occurred about the same time), or some other mechanism or combination. Most of the mechanisms suggested are catastrophic in nature.\n\nThe observation of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 cometary collision with Jupiter illustrated that catastrophic events occur as natural events.\n\nOne of the key differences between catastrophism and uniformitarianism is that uniformitarianism requires the assumption of vast timelines, whereas catastrophism does not. Today most geologists combine catastrophist and uniformitarianist standpoints, taking the view that Earth's history is a slow, gradual story punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events that have affected Earth and its inhabitants.\n\nModern theories also suggest that Earth's anomalously large moon was formed catastrophically. In a paper published in \"Icarus\" in 1975, William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis proposed that a catastrophic near-miss by a large planetesimal early in Earth's formation approximately 4.5 billion years ago blew out rocky debris, remelted Earth and formed the Moon, thus explaining the Moon's lesser density and lack of an iron core. The impact theory does have some faults; some computer simulations show the formation of a ring or multiple moons post impact, and elements are not quite the same between the earth and moon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311400", "title": "Common year", "text": "Common year\n\nA common year is a calendar year with 365 days. More generally, a common year is one without intercalation. The Gregorian calendar, (like the earlier Julian calendar), employs both common years and leap years to keep the calendar aligned with the tropical year, which does not contain an exact number of days.\n\nThe common year of 365 days has 52 weeks and one day, hence a common year always begins and ends on the same day of the week (for example, January 1 and December 31 fell on a Sunday in 2017) and the year following a common year will start on the subsequent day of the week. In common years, February has four weeks, so March will begin on the same day of the week. November will also begin on this day.\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, 303 of every 400 years are common years. By comparison, in the Julian calendar, 300 out of every 400 years are common years, and in the Revised Julian calendar (used by Greece) 682 out of every 900 years are common years.\n\n"}
{"id": "44358983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44358983", "title": "Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis", "text": "Cultural effects of the Ebola crisis\n\nThe Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa has had a large effect on the culture of most of the West African countries. In most instances, the effect is a rather negative one as it has disrupted many Africans’ traditional norms and practices. For instance, many West African communities rely on traditional healers and witch doctors, who use herbal remedies, massage, chant, and witchcraft to cure just about any ailment. Therefore, it is difficult for West Africans to adapt to foreign medical practices. Specifically, West African resistance to Western medicine is prominent in the region, which calls for severe distrust of Western and modern medical personnel and practices.\n\nSimilarly, some African cultures have a traditional solidarity of standing by the sick, which is contrary to the safe care of an Ebola patient. This tradition is known as \"standing by the ill\" in order to show one's respect and honor to the patient. According to the Wesley Medical Center, these sorts of traditional norms can be dangerous to those not infected with the virus as it increases their chances of coming in contract with their family member's bodily fluids. In Liberia, Ebola has wiped out entire families, leaving perhaps one survivor to recount stories of how they simply could not be hands off while their loved ones were sick in bed, because of their culture of touch, hold, hug and kiss.\n\nSome communities traditionally use folklore and mythical literature, which is often passed on verbally from one generation to the next to explain the interrelationships of all things that exist. However the folklore and songs are not only of traditional or ancient historical origins, but are often about current events that have affected the community. Additionally, folklore and music will often take opposing sides of any story. Thus early in the Ebola epidemic, the song \"White Ebola\" was released by a diaspora based group and centers on the general distrust of \"outsiders\" who may be intentionally infecting people.\n\nThis initial misinformation increased the general distrust in foreigners, and the idea that Ebola was not in Africa before their arrival led to attacks on many health workers as well as blockages of aid convoys blocked from checking remote areas. A burial team, which was sent in to collect the bodies of suspected Ebola victims from West Point in Liberia, was blocked by several hundred residents chanting: \"No Ebola in West Point.\" Health ministries and workers started an aggressive Ebola information campaign on all media formats to properly inform the residents and allow aid workers safe access to the high risk areas. In Guinea, riots broke out after medics disinfected a market in Nzerekore. Locals rumored that the medics were actually spreading the disease. In nearby Womey, 8 people distributing information about Ebola were killed by the villagers.\n\nThe Ebola epidemic of 2014 has forced West Africans to face numerous difficulties on daily basis regarding their traditional norms and practices. In essence, their traditions have been severely disrupted due to the Ebola virus. For instance, Africans have had the tendency to remain close to their sick family members to nurse them during illness for centuries. Unfortunately for the African community, many have been encouraged to keep their distance from their infected family members as potential contact could be fatal. In addition, it is part of their culture to touch the deceased at funerals and for the sister of the deceased’s father to bathe, clean, and dress the corpse in a favorite outfit. When there is not an aunt to perform this task, a female elder in their community is then held responsible. Not only is it customary to wash and touch the deceased, but also to kiss those that have passed.\n\nSpecifically, funerals are considered to be major cultural events for families and friends to gather around to celebrate the deceased. The funeral performances, which involve wailing and dancing, is done out of care and respect for the dead. Funerals in Africa often last for several days, depending on the status of the person who died. In other words, the more important the person who died was while they were alive, the longer the mourning will last. More importantly, there is a common bowl used for ritual hand-washing towards the end of the ceremony, including a final kiss or touch on the face, which is to be bestowed on the dead. This is commonly referred to as a \"love touch.\" The Wesley Medical Center has confirmed that prohibiting African families from performing such rites is a disgrace as it insults the deceased, putting the remaining family in danger. Specifically, it is believed that the dead person’s spirit, also known as \"tibo,\" will cause harm and bring illness to the family as a result of an improper burial.\n\nResistance to Western medicine is considered to be a significant barrier to battling the Ebola virus. The Wesley Medical Center claims that the interference with African burial rituals caused by Western medical practices has prohibited them from properly honoring their loved ones. They believe that this may have been a reason for heightened distrust in medical professionals, and that the mistrust enhances each time family members of infected persons are prohibited from participating in the funeral or seeing the dead body in person. Due to the mistrust Ebola-stricken communities in Liberia reportedly hid family members with Ebola from health care providers and held secret burials. In Sierra Leone health workers made more progress because health measures were implemented according to WHO guidance, which advises health workers to heed the traditions of the threatened communities when attending to the dead. Therefore, funerals were held in agreement with the wishes of the families, but also gave health workers an opportunity to disinfect the bodies. In many of the Ebola infected areas in Africa, Western medicine is also believed either to be ineffective or to be the actual origin of the virus. In other words, there is a belief among the African community that Western doctors are intentionally killing their patients with their treatments. A conspiracy theory also says that the medical professionals are planning to harvest the organs of those dying from Ebola.\n\nResistance to Western medicine exists also because of the look of the hazmat suits, which are worn by healthcare workers to protect themselves from becoming infected with the Ebola virus. The protective equipment is said to frighten many West Africans and also believed to be hostile and intimidating to the African families. Lastly, the interference in the family’s care for the patient diminishes the honor of the patient as well as hindering the family’s duty to provide comfort and care. Regardless of the existing resistance towards Western medicine, handling the bodies of the deceased poses a high risk of contagion as Ebola is contracted through physical contact with an infected person’s bodily fluids. This is mainly because preparation for burial includes touching, washing, and kissing as is mentioned above. Those that are preparing for the funeral can become easily infected as they can easily become exposed to the infected person’s blood, vomit, diarrhea, and other bodily fluids as these are the main symptoms of the virus.\n\nApart from the fact that traditional African healers have been using ritual and herbal remedies for many centuries, the African people also trust these treatments and find the costs more affordable. Traditional procedures include the following: magic, biomedical methods, fasting, dieting, herbal therapies, bathing, massage, as well as surgery. Surgical procedures often involve cutting a patient’s skin with unsterilized knives. Sometimes, traditional healers apply blood to the skin to rid them of their sickness. Despite the severe distrust of Africans in modern medicine, the Ebola virus has been said to spread rampantly across West Africa due to a shortage of healthcare workers and limited medical resources and facilities. The unsanitary conditions in the overall African region have also made it easier for Ebola to spread.\n\nAlakey Osei, a student and bank-teller from Freetown, Sierra Leone, described the Sierra Leonean capital as a ghost-town, as a result of the increasing death toll in the West African region caused by the Ebola epidemic. Osei states that \"everyone is scared to be out of their houses. No one is going to church or mosque, no one is going to work, the kids are not going to school, [and] people are not even going to the market place\". The fact that the city of Freetown has been completely abandoned is foreign to the student, because the nation is and has always been heavily reliant on physical contact and very close interaction. Osei has indicated that following the no touching rule that the medical personnel have been promoting is extremely difficult for her. Osei continues by saying that she does not even know how her people are surviving.\n\nIn her interview, Osei provides some insight about her childhood. She moved to US in 2008 when she was thirteen years old. She experienced extensive bullying for her obliviousness to American culture and simply for being the \"uncivilized\" African. For example, others had asked her if she was getting accustomed to wearing shoes since people do not wear shoes in Africa. She was also called names, such as monkey and pre-historic. As a result of this cruelty, she began to believe that American culture was very cold. She also noticed that Americans were \"protective of their property\", space, and time. She concluded that American society is \"extremely individualistic\". This truly made her miss living in Africa, \"... where every woman is your mother and every man is your father, ... where you are never alone, because everyone is family and family is all around you\".\n\nAs of October 2014, the Ebola virus had not reached her home-town back in Sierra Leone; however, she said that her family still living in the country claimed that Freetown did not \"feel like the same place\" anymore. Her aunt had told her that people were not sharing food anymore nor spending time at each other's houses as they used to because of the fear of becoming infected. Osei finds it heart-breaking that people in Sierra Leone have turned to isolation as a way to stay Ebola-free. Osei now says that \"Freetown has become Fear-town\", and that \"Ebola has turned us into prisoners in our own country\".\n\nThe Ebola virus, for which the primary host is suspected to be fruit bats, has been linked to bushmeat, which is commonly consumed in areas of West Africa that use it as a protein source. Although primates and other species may be intermediates, evidence suggests people primarily get the virus from bats. Hunters usually shoot, net, scavenge or catapult their prey, and butcher the bats without gloves, getting bites or scratches and coming in contact with their blood.\n\nIn 2014, the suspected index case for the Ebola outbreak in West Africa is a two-year-old child in Guéckédou in south-eastern Guinea, who was the child of a family that hunted two species of fruit bat, \"Hypsignathus monstrosus\" and \"Epomops franqueti\". Some researchers suggested the case was caused by zoonotic transmission though the child playing with an insectivorous bat from a colony of Angolan free-tailed bats near the village.\n\nDespite health organisations warning about risks of bushmeat, surveys pre-dating the 2014 outbreak indicate that people who eat bushmeat are usually unaware of the risks and view it as healthy food. Because of bushmeat's role as a protein source in Western Africa, it is traditionally associated with good nutrition, and efforts to outlaw the sale and consumption of bushmeat have been impossible to enforce and have met with suspicion from rural communities. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization estimates that between 30 and 80 percent of protein intake in rural households in Central Africa comes from wild meat.\n\nOne major Nigerian newspaper published a report about the widespread view that eating dog meat was a healthy alternative to bush meat. Dog meat was implicated in a June 2015 Liberian outbreak of Ebola, where three villagers who had tested positive for the disease had shared a meal of dog meat.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are a number of Ebola-themed jokes circulating in West Africa to spread awareness.\n\nIn July 2014 the Liberian Football Association made an announcement that all soccer related activities would be put on hold \"\"indefinitely to protect players and fans\".\" In September 2014, in a joint venture between FIFA and WHO, the Antoinette Tubman Stadium was converted into an Ebola treatment center.\n\nThe 2015 African Cup of Nations (AFCON) was temporarily put on hold when the original hosts, Morocco, asked the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to postpone the final games till 2016, due to the Ebola outbreak. CAF eventually moved the finals to Equatorial Guinea, which eliminated Morocco from the game as hosts, and brought Equatorial Guinea in, even though they had been eliminated prior.\n\nHowever the qualifiers for 2015 AFCON have been influenced by many countries' fear of Ebola, with many refusing to enter or allow entry of teams from affected countries. In July 2014, Seychelles refused entry to the Sierra Leone team. CAF ruled that Seychelles forfeited the game, giving Sierra Leone an automatic pass to the next stage. Lesotho refused to send the Under-20 team to Nigeria. CAF again ruled that Lesotho forfeited the game, sending Nigeria through to the finals.\n\nIn August 2014, CAF also decided to forbid any official games in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone. For Liberia, who had already been eliminated, this was not of concern. Sierra Leone managed to move some home games to the visiting teams home; both home and away games against DR Congo were played in Lubumbashi, and both games against Cameroon were played in Yaounde. Guinea managed to get their home games moved to Casablanca, Morocco.\n\nEven after calls to have the 2015 AFCON postponed, the Equatorial Guinea government and CAF organisers have downplayed these concerns, and insisted that they would have ample measures in place, including: \n\nOn 7 August 2014 a social media hoax message was doing the rounds in Nigeria. It urged readers to \"bath with hot water and salt before daybreak\" and to drink as much of it as possible. On 8 August the person who started the joke message to see how many of their friends would fall for it, identified it as such and posted an apology. The hoax message quickly went viral when \"several gullible, unsophisticated opinion leaders\" repeated the hoax message. Within days many were hospitalized due to excessive salt intake, with 2 deaths in Jos, Plateau, 2 deaths in Makurdi, Benue and at least 3 deaths in Bauchi.\n\nIt is ironic that these deaths all happened in states that had no known EVD infected people. In fact only Lagos State and Rivers State had any infected. Furthermore, the unconfirmed death toll of the hoax cure is as many as the EVD death toll for Nigeria, with 8 deaths each.\n\nIn two separate incidents in October, flights have been delayed from disembarking because of an Ebola joke. On 8 October 2014, US Airways flight 845 from Philadelphia to Punta Cana, Dominican Republic was held up for two hours on the tarmac when an American passenger sneezed, then announced \"I have Ebola. You're all screwed,\" during the flight. After landing, he was escorted off the plane by four emergency personnel wearing blue hazmat suits, and detained until medical tests cleared him. On 30 October 2014, during the Aer Lingus flight EI 433, from Milan, Italy to Dublin, Ireland a passenger wrote \"'Attenzione Ebola'\" (\"Attention Ebola\") on a coffee lid before handing it to his daughter. The container and lid were discreetly disposed of, however a flight attendant noticed, and alerted the captain. The passenger was arrested, and later pleaded guilty to \"engaging in threatening, abusive or insulting behavior on an airplane contrary to the Air Navigation and Transport Act\", and was fined 2500 euros.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8137", "title": "Disaster", "text": "Disaster\n\nA disaster is a serious disruption, occurring over a relatively short time, of the functioning of a community or a society involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental loss and impacts, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope using its own resources.\n\nIn contemporary academia, disasters are seen as the consequence of inappropriately managed risk. These risks are the product of a combination of both hazards and vulnerability. Hazards that strike in areas with low vulnerability will never become disasters, as in the case of uninhabited regions.\n\nDeveloping countries suffer the greatest costs when a disaster hits – more than 95 percent of all deaths caused by hazards occur in developing countries, and losses due to natural hazards are 20 times greater (as a percentage of GDP) in developing countries than in industrialized countries.\n\nThe word \"disaster\" is derived from Middle French \"désastre\" and that from Old Italian \"disastro\", which in turn comes from the Ancient Greek pejorative prefix δυσ-, (\"dus-\") \"bad\" and ἀστήρ (\"aster\"), \"star\". The root of the word \"disaster\" (\"bad star\" in Greek) comes from an astrological sense of a calamity blamed on the position of planets.\n\nResearchers have been studying disasters for more than a century, and for more than forty years disaster research. The studies reflect a common opinion when they argue that all disasters can be seen as being human-made, their reasoning being that human actions before the strike of the hazard can prevent it developing into a disaster. All disasters are hence the result of human failure to introduce appropriate emergency management measures. Hazards are routinely divided into natural or human-made, although complex disasters, where there is no single root cause, are more common in developing countries. A specific disaster may spawn a secondary disaster that increases the impact. A classic example is an earthquake that causes a tsunami, resulting in coastal flooding.\n\nA natural disaster is a natural process or phenomenon that may cause loss of life, injury or other health impacts, property damage, loss of livelihoods and services, social and economic disruption, or environmental damage.\n\nVarious phenomena like earthquakes, landslides, volcanic eruptions, floods, hurricanes, tornadoes, blizzards, tsunamis, and cyclones are all natural hazards that kill thousands of people and destroy billions of dollars of habitat and property each year. However, the rapid growth of the world's population and its increased concentration often in hazardous environments has escalated both the frequency and severity of disasters. With the tropical climate and unstable landforms, coupled with deforestation, unplanned growth proliferation, non-engineered constructions make the disaster-prone areas more vulnerable. Developing countries suffer more or less chronically from natural disasters due to ineffective communication combined with insufficient budgetary allocation for disaster prevention and management. Asia tops the list of casualties caused by natural hazards.\n\nHuman-instigated disasters are the consequence of technological hazards. Examples include stampedes, fires, transport accidents, industrial accidents, oil spills and nuclear explosions/radiation. War and deliberate attacks may also be put in this category. As with natural hazards, man-made hazards are events that have not happened—for instance, terrorism. Man-made disasters are examples of specific cases where man-made hazards have become reality in an event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986491", "title": "Disaster area", "text": "Disaster area\n\nA disaster area is a region or a locale, heavily damaged by either natural, technological or social hazards. Disaster areas affect the population living in the community by dramatic increase in expense, loss of energy, food and services; and finally increase the risk of disease for citizens. An area that has been struck with a natural, technological or sociological hazard that opens the affected area for national or international aid.\n\nA natural hazard is a negative process of phenomena created naturally (tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes) that will affect people or the environment.\n\nTornadoes are narrow aggressively rotating mixtures of air that come from the base of a thunderstorm, being the most violent of storms. Tornadoes are usually hard to see unless they form a condensations funnel made from:- dust, water droplets and debris. Tornadoes take place in several parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, Africa but mostly occur in the United States, Argentina, and Bangladesh.\n\nHurricanes, cyclones, tropical storms and typhoons can be referred to as the same. They combine low pressure and strong winds that rotate counter clockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern hemisphere. Tropical cyclones have a low pressure center, rain and strong winds. They usually initiate over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricanes can be predicted several days before they hit and can be very destructive and destroy homes and some other buildings. Cyclones, although they are the same type of storm, are harder to predict before a few days like hurricanes thus giving people only a few hours of notice to evacuate their homes. In this case there are far more deaths from flooding and high tides. A recent (2012) example of a hurricane is Hurricane Sandy, which was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nFloods take place when water overflows or submerges land that is usually parched. The most common way is when rivers or streams overflow their banks. A floodplain is produced when water from a rivers spreads through the land from excessive rain, rapid ice melting, unfortunately placed beaver dam, and ruptured dam. There are two types of floods: general and flash floods. General floods are predicted well in advance and usually cause the destruction of housing, people and crops. Flash floods come without warning and are sudden and extreme: A large volume of water flows rapidly and people have to make quick movements if they do not want to be caught in the flood. They have to find high safe ground where the water will not reach them.\n\nWhen two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past each other in the fault of the earth, it is called an earthquake. Energy released in many forms moves in all directions and causes the ground to shake. Sometimes earthquakes may have foreshocks, which are smaller earthquakes that occur in the same region which is followed by a larger earthquake. The larger earthquake, called the mainshock, always has aftershocks that follow it. Aftershocks can continue of hours, weeks, months and sometimes even years depending on how big the mainshock was. Earthquakes usually occur on active faults which define major tectonic plates on the Earth. 90% of the world’s earthquakes occur along plate boundaries. Earthquakes can cause much damage, mainly from the ground shaking and leaving cracks in the ground. Sometimes it can also cause buildings to collapse and cause deaths.\n\nThere are several technical hazards one should be aware of as they pose a threat humans and their values. These hazards are measured in terms of the risk they pose to the community using them. Technical hazards are classified by a source, specifically speaking; they can fall under automotive emissions, medical radiation, explosions and air pollution (environmental) hazards. The quality of the hazard determines the safety precautions that are taken. For example, hazards can be a risk to an individual or a risk to the population. If the population is at risk with the hazard, there will be more priorities for the management of the hazardous material. These hazardous materials can cause illness or even death to an individual if they are not address accordingly, so it is crucial for them to inform the public about these technical hazards.\n\nThere are several thoughts that come to mind when one thinks of the word “nuclear”, whether it be basic chemistry or highly complex explosives; nuclear accidents, nuclear incidences or nuclear terrorism are definitely a threat to the community or the world in that matter. But what is nuclear terrorism exactly? A \"nuclear accident, incident, or act of terrorism is an unpredictable, unusual and unwanted event involving radiation and/or radioactive materials.\" To specifically distinguish between the three, nuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. Nuclear incidents on the other hand are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” \n\nNuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. There are several examples of these nuclear accidents taken place around the world. To start off, a prime example of a nuclear accident would be Palo mares B-52 Accident. On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber collided with a mid-tanker airplane that was being refueled at 31000 feet. When the two airplanes collided, the tanker airplane exploded completely killing all crew members, while the B-52 bomber split in half killing a small proportion of the crew. When the airplane split in half, four bombs dropped from the sky. Two of them detonated, causing 2 kilometers of land to be contaminated by radioactive plutonium. The fourth explosive was recovered when it was discovered that it landed on the sea. The soil on the contaminated area had to be removed and placed in barrels, to reduce the amount of pollution having been caused by the nuclear explosive.\n\nNuclear incidents are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” A Secondary example would be the Johnston Atoll Incident that occurred on July 25, 1962. They decided to conduct the experiment at Christmas Island on Johnson Atoll, where they set off 36 nuclear explosions. One of the missile launches went wrong as it malfunctioned when trying to launch. The leaders decided to detonate the missile before it launched. When it detonated, the entire island was covered with radioactive plutonium. The witnesses claimed that 85% of the people suffered from radioactive contamination that created cancer and other radioactive related diseases. Plus those who were present at the site of the explosion suffered from infertility, and other body deformations.\n\nSociological hazards that create a disaster area are riots, terrorism, and war.\n\nA riot is defined as a noisy, violent public disturbance caused by a group or a crowd (three or more people) usually protesting against another group or government policy in the streets. The UK London riot in August 2011, for example, was started due to the shooting of Mark Duggan by the London police. The rioters came together destroying neighborhoods and streets violently damaging property to protest the police's actions that happened a few days prior. Riots increase expenses to repair costly damages putting the city in distress.\n\nTerrorism is defined as acts of violence and threats by a group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons. Terrorism occurs with an unexpected attack on non-combatants to create fear and panic having a detrimental consequence. Terrorist attacks create a massive, costly impact on the society. Not only is there large amount of property damage that may not be able to be repaired, there is also a large impact on citizens. People lose loved ones and suffer from their own health being impacted. The 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York City marks one of the largest attacks on the United States. The Twin Towers were completely destroyed, damaging the surrounding buildings as well as causing the loss of many lives. People suffered from health problems from inhaling the sediments from the crumbling towers. The financial and social impact is still present thirteen years later in today's society. It is concluded that New York City still suffers from a post-disaster decline in financial services. New York City is a Disaster area due to the sociological hazard of terrorism.\n\nWar defined as a period where conflict is carried out as an act of hostility by armed forces between two or more nations or within a nation. Afghanistan, for example would be a sociological hazard causing disaster areas because it is considered a war zone. There has been an ongoing battle between United States and the Taliban in Afghanistan resulting in a war zone. Constant bombing and shooting marks up Afghanistan destructing property, land and causing threats to the civilians living in the area. Thousands have died and international aid for the cost of the war is implemented through tax payers. There is lack of resources due to the war area cutting off access to areas because of violence and danger.\n\nAn example of a technological disaster was the Fukushima disaster which was caused by a “massive 8.9-magnitude earthquake [that] hit northeast Japan”. This earthquake caused a nuclear explosion at a power plant; five reactors were damaged, causing the plant to go into an emergency state. All this occurred because there was a technological error in the system that cut down the regular and emergency power, causing the five reactors to destabilize and explode. This significant nuclear event had a big impact on the public health, as the area suffered nuclear contamination. The contamination caused all the crops such as milk, water or vegetables unsafe to eat. Hence all food grown in that area was banned from being sold. People in the “surroundings were moved to safe shelters,” and 3 people were affected by the radiation alone. Luckily, the “Japanese government [handled] the situation in the most efficient and amazing way that anyone can imagine.”\n\nA recent example of a disaster area caused by a natural hazard is Hurricane Sandy which hit October 27, 2012. It was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States. The storm killed about 50 people and many were also hit by falling trees. The hardest-hit state was New York, leaving millions without power and a few homeless. \n\nA disaster area caused by a sociological hazard would be the terrorist attack on September 11th, 2001, in New York City. Two airplanes struck the Twin Towers, causing them to crumble, killing many people in the process. The unexpected attack harmed many people and had a detrimental impact on New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10385691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10385691", "title": "Earth Hour", "text": "Earth Hour\n\nEarth Hour is a worldwide movement organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The event is held annually encouraging individuals, communities, and businesses to turn off non-essential electric lights for one hour, from 8:30 to 9:30 pm on a specific day towards the end of March, as a symbol of commitment to the planet. It was started as a lights-off event in Sydney, Australia, in 2007. Since then, it has grown to engage more than 7,000 cities and towns across 187 countries and territories.\n\nOccasionally, in years when Holy Saturday falls on the last Saturday of March, Earth Hour is moved a week early rather than its traditional date.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 was on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nIn 2004, confronted with scientific findings, WWF Australia met with advertising agency Leo Burnett Sydney to \"discuss ideas for engaging Australians on the issue of climate change\". The idea of a large scale switch off was coined and developed in 2006, originally under the working title \"The Big Flick\". WWF Australia presented their concept to Fairfax Media who, along with Sydney Lord Mayor Clover Moore, agreed to back the event. The 2007 Earth Hour was held on March 31 in Sydney, Australia at 7:30 pm, local time.\n\nIn October 2007 San Francisco ran its own \"Lights Out\" program inspired by the Sydney Earth Hour. After their successful event in October, the organizers decided to rally behind the Earth Hour being planned for March 2008.\n\nEarth Hour 2008 was held internationally on March 29, 2008 from 8 pm to 9 pm local time, marking the first anniversary of the event. 35 countries around the world participated as official flagship cities and over 400 cities also supported. Landmarks around the world turned off their non-essential lighting for Earth Hour. Some websites took part in the event, with Google's homepage going \"dark\" on the day .\n\nAccording to a Zogby International online survey, 36 million Americans—approximately 16 percent of the United States adult population—participated in Earth Hour 2008. The survey also showed there was a 4 percentage point increase in the level of interest in environmental issues such as climate change and pollution directly after the event (73 percent pre-event versus 77 percent post-event).\nTel Aviv scheduled their Earth Hour for Thursday March 27, 2008 to avoid conflict with Sabbath. Dublin moved their Earth Hour to between 9 and 10 pm due to their northern geographical location.\n\nAccording to WWF Thailand, Bangkok decreased electricity usage by 73.34 megawatts, which, over one hour, is equivalent to 41.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide. The \"Bangkok Post\" gave different figures of 165 megawatt-hours and 102 tonnes of carbon dioxide. This was noted to be significantly less than a similar campaign initiated by Bangkok's City Hall the previous year in May, when 530 megawatt-hours were saved and 143 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission were cut.\n\nPhilippine Electricity Market Corp. noted that power consumption dropped by about 78.63 megawatts in Metro Manila, and up to 102.2 megawatts on Luzon. The maximum demand drop of around 39 MW was experienced at 8:14 pm in Metro Manila and of around 116 MW at 8:34 pm in the Luzon grid.\n\nOntario used approximately 900 megawatt-hours less electrical energy during Earth Hour. At one point, Toronto saw an 8.7% reduction in consumption as compared to a typical March Saturday night.\n\nIreland, as a whole, had a reduction in electricity use of about 1.5% for the evening. In the three-hour period between 6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, there was a reduction of 50 megawatts, saving 150 megawatt-hours, or approximately 60 tonnes of carbon dioxide.\n\nIn Dubai, where external lighting on several major city landmarks was turned off and street lighting in selected areas was dimmed by 50%, the Electricity and Water Authority reported savings of 100 megawatt-hours of electricity. This represented a 2.4% reduction in demand compared to before the hour began.\nThe best result was from Christchurch, New Zealand, with the city reporting a drop of 13% in electricity demand. However, national grid operator Transpower reported that New Zealand's power consumption during Earth Hour was 335 megawatts, higher than the 328 megawatt average of the previous two Saturdays. Melbourne, Australia reduced demand by 10.1%. Sydney, being the city that participated in both the 2007 and 2008 Earth Hours, cut electricity consumption by 8.4%. This is less than the previous year's 10.2%; however, Earth Hour executive director Andy Ridley made the claim that after factoring margin of error, the participation in this city was the same.\n\nThe worst result was from Calgary, Canada. The city's power consumption actually went up 3.6% at the hour's peak electricity demand. Calgary's weather plays a large role in power consumption, and the city experienced weather 12 °C (around 22 °F) colder than the previous Saturday's recorded temperature in the inaugural year. Enmax, the city's power supplier, has confirmed that in all subsequent years, Calgarians have not supported the Earth Hour initiative, noting that power consumption changed only marginally during the hour in 2010 and 2011 (1% or less) and in 2012 and 2013 showed no appreciable change in power usage at all.\n\nEarth Hour 2009 was from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time, March 28, 2009. The campaign was titled \"Vote Earth\" and was dubbed \"the world's first global vote\" with one billion votes was the stated aim for Earth Hour 2009, in the context of the pivotal 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference. WWF reported that 88 countries and 4,159 cities participated in Earth Hour 2009, ten times more cities than Earth Hour 2008 had (2008 saw 400 cities participate).\n\nAmong the participants in 2009 was, for the first time, the United Nations Headquarters in New York City.\n\nIn Egypt, the lights went out on the Sphinx and the Great Pyramids of Giza from 8:30 to 9:30 pm.\n\nThe Philippines saw participation from 647 cities and towns; over 10 million Filipinos were estimated to have joined in the hour-long lights-off. This was followed by Greece with 484 cities and towns participating, and Australia with 309.\n\nDespite official organizers WWF stating that the event is not about the reduction in electricity, a number of public institutions reported on electricity savings in their cities to see participation numbers. The Canadian province of Ontario, excluding the city of Toronto, saw a decrease of 6% in electricity usage while Toronto saw a decrease of 15.1% (nearly doubled from 8.7% the previous year) as many businesses darkened, including the landmark CN Tower.\n\nThe Philippines was able to save 611 MWh of electricity during the time period, which is said to be equivalent to shutting down a dozen coal-fired power plants for an hour.\n\nSwedish electricity operator Svenska Kraftnät recorded a 2.1% decrease in power consumption from its projected figure between 8 pm and 9 pm. The following hour, the corresponding number was 5%. This is equivalent to the consumption of approximately half a million households out of the total 4.5 million households in Sweden.\n\nAccording to Vietnam Electricity Company, Vietnam's electricity demand fell 140 MWh during Earth Hour.\n\n96 countries and territories on 6 continents participated in the event in 2009.\n\n\nMalaysia's 8TV halted transmission for one hour starting from 20:30\n\nEarth Hour 2010 was held from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time on March 27. In Israel, the hour was held on April 22.\n\n126 countries participated in Earth Hour 2010.\n\nIn the United States polling showed that an estimated 90,000,000 Americans participated in Earth Hour as lights were turned off around the country, including landmarks such as Mount Rushmore, the Las Vegas Strip, the Empire State Building and Niagara Falls.\n\nSome cities and landmarks took the opportunity to make more long-term adjustments to their everyday power consumption. In Chicago, the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA) developed lighting guidelines to reduce light pollution and reduce the carbon footprint of downtown buildings. Mount Rushmore in South Dakota started powering down each night around 9 pm instead of 11 pm.\n\nIn Vietnam, electricity demand fell 500,000 kWh during Earth Hour 2010, which was three times larger than the first time the country joined the event in 2009.\n\nIn the Philippines, 1,067 towns and cities pledged participation in 2010 and over 15 million Filipinos participated in the event.\n\nAbout 4000 cities participated, including landmarks such as Big Ben, the Empire State Building, the Sydney Opera House, the Eiffel Tower, the Parthenon, the Brandenburg Gate, and the Forbidden City.\n\n\nEarth Hour 2011 was the biggest year in the campaign's five-year history, reaffirming it as the largest ever voluntary action for the environment. In 2011, the tagline \"Beyond the Hour\" was adopted by organizers as a way to encourage people to take their commitment to the cause beyond the 60-minute event. Together with agency Leo Burnett, Earth Hour unveiled an updated planet themed logo that included a small plus symbol to the right of the signature \"60\" which was used in previous years. The 60+ symbol continues to be the main logo used by campaign organizers around the world.\n\nEarth Hour 2011 took place in a record 5,251 cities and towns in 135 countries and territories on all seven continents. It had an estimated reach of 1.8 billion people across the globe. In addition to this, the campaign's digital footprint grew to 91 million.\n\nIn India, Earth Hour 2011 was held on March 26, 2011 from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm. IST, flagged off by the Chief Minister of Delhi Sheila Dikshit and Earth Hour 2011 Ambassador and Bollywood actress Vidya Balan in the presence of Jim Leape, Director General, WWF International. Rosebowl channel suspended broadcasting from 8.30 pm to 9.30 pm to mark the observance of Earth Hour.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, Maiden Tower darkened for Earth Hour.\n\nThe Philippines, which has been an active participant of the Earth Hour, had an early \"earth hour\" when power was accidentally interrupted, plunging Metro Manila and nearby provinces into darkness. After power was restored, major buildings, commercial centers and residential areas in Metro Manila and most provinces continued to turn off their lights, while participating channels in the Philippines, ABS-CBN and Cartoon Network halted their transmissions for an hour.\n\n30 provinces and cities in Vietnam took part in Earth Hour 2011 with the main event held in Nha Trang. The nation's electricity demand fell 400,000 kWh, one-fifth less than the previous year's. Vietnam managed to save 500 million VND (US$23,809) thanks to the saved power.\n\nYouTube promoted the Earth Hour by changing its logo, and by adding a switch on/off feature near the title of each video, so that users could change the background colour from white to black.\n\nOne of the least co-operative areas traditionally has been Alberta; in 2008, Calgary's power consumption went up during Earth Hour. The trend continued in 2011 when Edmonton's power usage also increased. While Calgary's power usage went down in 2011 during the event, electricity officials could not distinguish their readings between normal usage and a conscious attempt to participate.\n\nEarth Hour Global headquarters was moving from Sydney to Singapore in February 2012. A launch event took place at ION Orchard on February 20, with the move supported by Singapore's Economic Development Board (EDB) and WWF-Singapore.\n\nEarth Hour 2012 was observed on March 31, 2012, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm (participants' local time). It took place in more than 7000 cities and towns across 152 countries and territories, making it the biggest growth year for the campaign since 2009. It was also the first year that Earth Hour was celebrated in space, with Dutch astronaut André Kuipers tweeting at various moments during the event's trek around the globe.\n\nEarth Hour 2013 was held across the world on Saturday, March 23 at 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm local time to avoid taking place after European Summer Time began, ensuring a greater impact for the lights-off event. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 30 of that year.\n\nIn 2013, the world's first Earth Hour Forest began in Uganda, an ongoing project that aims to restore 2700 hectares of degraded land. Standard Chartered Bank-Uganda pledged to help fill the forest with more than 250,000 trees.\n\nEarth Hour commemorations in Madagascar had as their highlight the distribution of one thousand wood-saving stoves to victims of the cyclone Haruna in the southern town of Toliara, extensively damaged in February 22 storm. WWF-Madagascar and ADES (Association pour le Développement de l'Energie Solaire) distributed an additional 2,200 wood-saving stoves later that year.\n\nFormer President of Botswana, Festus Mogae promised to plant one million indigenous trees over four years, as part of his \"I Will If You Will\" challenge for Earth 2013.\n\nWWF-Russia launched its 2013 campaign aiming to secure more than 100,000 signatures from Russian citizens to petition for amendments to the current forest legislation. The petition reached more than 127,000 signatures before the Earth Hour event, ensuring the legislation was debated in the State Duma by politicians.\n\nEarth Hour 2014 took place on Saturday, March 29, during the same 8:30 to 9:30 pm local timeslot. Earth Hour Blue was launched as a global crowdfunding and crowdsourcing platform for the planet. \"It is all about the collective effort of individuals around the world getting together to help fund or add their voice to support on-the-ground environmental and social projects that deliver real outcomes.\"\n\nThe Earth Hour 2014 Report highlighted a broad range of environmental outcomes achieved by the movement across 162 countries and territories around the world. More than US$60,000 was raised on the Earth Hour Blue platform for grassroots environmental projects run by WWF. The movement also saw campaigns to help protect Australia's Great Barrier Reef, the launch of a Blue Sky App in China, and the delivery of thousands of wood efficient stoves to communities in Madagascar.\n\nEarth Hour 2015 took place on Saturday, March 28, again between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local time. The tagline for the global campaign was \"Change Climate Change\", returning to the movement's original focus to initiate citizen action on global warming. A day before the event, over 170 countries and territories had confirmed their participation; with more than 1200 landmarks and close to 40 UNESCO world heritage sites set for the switch off.\n\nFor the second year running, Earth Hour Blue aims to raise funds for WWF organized climate focused projects on a crowdfunding platform. This year, crowdfunding projects include solar light distribution in the Philippines and India, and wildlife based projects from Colombia, Uganda and Indonesia.\n\nUniquely participating in the Earth Hour activity are the inhabitants of an island called Sibuyan in the Philippines who turned on their lights to elevate the message of using renewable energy. The island's source of electricity is a mini-hydro power plant.\n\nEarth Hour 2016 was on Saturday, March 19, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm during participants' local time. It was also changed to avoid coinciding with the Christian Holy Saturday, which fell on March 26 of that year. It was the 10th anniversary of the campaign's beginnings in Sydney, Australia. Östersund in Sweden cancelled the 2016 event, following a spate of sex attacks, highlighting safety as a subject for discussion when saving resources. Almost all the countries in the world observed Earth Hour.\n\nEarth Hour occurred on Saturday, March 25.\n\nEarth Hour 2018 took place on March 24, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm in participants' time, in order to avoid coinciding with Catholic Holy Saturday which fell on March 31.\n\nEarth Hour 2019 is scheduled for March 30, from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm.\n\nEarth Hour is supported around the world by UNESCO, the UN Environment Programme, the International Trade Union Confederation, Woodland, CBRE Group, the National Hockey League, FIFA, UEFA, Hilton Worldwide, Girl Scouts of the US, World Organization of the Scout Movement, HSBC, World Association of the Girl Guides and Girl Scouts, Philips, IKEA, The Body Shop, ING Vysya Bank, and more.\n\nThe Earth Hour Global FAQ page states:\nA 2014 study published in \"Energy Research and Social Science\" compiled 274 measurements of observed changes in electricity demand caused by Earth Hour in 10 countries, spanning 6 years, and found that the events reduced electricity consumption an average of 4%. The study noted the policy challenge of converting Earth Hour's short-term energy saving into longer-term actions, including sustained changes in behaviour and investment.\n\nBjørn Lomborg, author of \"The Skeptical Environmentalist\", wrote, \"It is vital to make solar and other new technology cheaper than fossil fuels quickly so we can turn off carbon energy sources for a lot longer than one hour and keep the planet running... Fossil fuels literally gave us an enlightenment, by lighting our world and giving us protection from the fury of the elements. It is ironic that today's pure symbolism should hark back to a darker age.\" Lomborg also pointed out the feel-good factor Earth Hour creates, noting that it is an \"ineffective feel good event\" that makes people feel they are doing something for the environment, while in reality the amount of carbon emissions reduced by the earth hour is negligible.\n\nOther criticisms of Earth Hour have included the following: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "418480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=418480", "title": "EgyptAir Flight 648", "text": "EgyptAir Flight 648\n\nEgyptAir Flight 648 was a regularly scheduled international flight between Athens Ellinikon International Airport in Greece and Cairo International Airport in Egypt. On 23 November 1985, a Boeing 737-200 airliner, registered SU-AYH, servicing the flight was hijacked by the terrorist organization Abu Nidal. The subsequent raid on the aircraft by Egyptian troops resulted in dozens of deaths, making the hijacking of Flight 648 one of the deadliest such incidents in history. \n\nOn 23 November 1985, Flight 648 took off at 8pm on its Athens-to-Cairo route. Ten minutes after takeoff, three Palestinian members of Abu Nidal hijacked the aircraft. The terrorists, calling themselves the Egypt Revolution, were heavily armed with guns and grenades. The terrorist leader, Omar Rezaq, proceeded to check all passports. At this point, an Egyptian Security Service agent, Mustafa Kamal, aboard opened fire, killing one terrorist before being wounded along with two flight attendants. In the exchange of fire the fuselage was punctured, causing a rapid depressurization. The aircraft was forced to descend to to allow the crew and passengers to breathe.\n\nLibya was the original destination for the hijackers, but due to negative publicity the hijacking would have had if flown to Libya and the fact that the plane did not have enough fuel, Malta was chosen as a more suitable option. The aircraft was running dangerously low on fuel, experiencing serious pressurization problems and carrying a number of wounded passengers. However, Maltese authorities did not give permission for the aircraft to land; the Maltese government had previously refused permission to other hijacked aircraft, including on 23 September 1982 when an Alitalia aircraft was hijacked on its way to Italy. The EgyptAir 648 hijackers insisted, and forced the pilot, Hani Galal, to land at Luqa Airport. As a last-ditch attempt to stop the landing, the runway lights were switched off, but the pilot managed to land the damaged aircraft safely.\n\nNationalities of the passengers included the following:\nThe Mexican passengers were actress Lupita Pallás and her daughter Laila Ortiz de Pinedo, mother and sister of Mexican actor Jorge Ortiz de Pinedo.\n\nAt first, Maltese authorities were optimistic they could solve the crisis. Malta had good relations with the Arab world, and 12 years earlier had successfully resolved a potentially more serious situation when a KLM Boeing 747 landed there under similar circumstances. The Maltese Prime Minister, Karmenu Mifsud Bonnici, rushed to the airport's control tower and assumed responsibility for the negotiations. Aided by an interpreter, he refused to refuel the aircraft, or to withdraw Maltese armed forces which had surrounded the plane, until all passengers were released. Eleven passengers and two injured flight attendants were allowed off the plane. The hijackers then started shooting hostages, starting with Tamar Artzi, an Israeli woman, whom they shot in the head and back. Artzi survived her wounds. Rezaq, the chief hijacker, threatened to kill a passenger every 15 minutes until his demands were met. His next victim was Nitzan Mendelson, another Israeli woman, killing her. He then shot three Americans – Patrick Scott Baker, Scarlett Marie Rogenkamp and Jackie Nink Pflug. Of the five passengers shot, Artzi, Baker and Pflug survived; Mendelson died in a Maltese hospital a week after the hijacking. A British passenger commented that he saw that Rezaq had to raise his gun in order to shoot Baker, who was about 6' 5\" tall.\n\nFrance, the United Kingdom and the United States all offered to send anti-hijack forces. Bonnici was under heavy pressure from both the hijackers and from the United States and Egypt, whose ambassadors were at the airport. The non-aligned Maltese government feared that the Americans or the Israelis would arrive and take control of the area, as the U.S. Naval Air Station Sigonella was only 20 minutes away. A U.S. Air Force C-130 Hercules with an aeromedical evacuation team from Rhein-Main Air Base (2nd Aeromedical Evacuation Squadron) near Frankfurt, Germany, and rapid-deploying surgical teams from Wiesbaden Air Force Medical Center were on standby at the U.S. Navy Hospital at Naples. When the U.S. told Maltese authorities that Egypt had a special forces counterterrorism team trained by the U.S. Delta Force ready to move in, they were granted permission to come. The Egyptian Unit 777 under the command of Major-General Kamal Attia was flown in, led by four American officers. Negotiations were prolonged as much as possible, and it was agreed that the plane should be attacked on the morning of 25 November when food was to be taken into the aircraft. Soldiers dressed up as caterers would jam the door open and attack.\n\nWithout warning Egyptian commandos launched the raid about an hour and a half before it had been originally planned. They blasted open the passenger doors and luggage compartment doors with explosives. Bonnici claimed that these unauthorized explosions caused the internal plastic of the plane to catch fire, causing widespread suffocation. On the other hand, the \"Times of Malta\", quoting sources at the airport on the day, held that when the hijackers realized that they were being attacked, they lobbed hand grenades into the passenger area, killing people and starting the fire aboard.\n\nThe storming of the aircraft killed 54 of the remaining 87 passengers, as well as two crew members and one hijacker. Only one hijacker — Omar Rezaq, who had survived — remained undetected by the Maltese government. The terrorist leader, who was injured during the storming of the aircraft, had removed his hood and ammunition and pretended to be an injured passenger. Egyptian commandos tracked Rezaq to St. Luke's General Hospital and, holding the doctors and medical staff at gunpoint, entered the casualty ward looking for him. He was arrested when some of the passengers in the hospital recognized him.\n\nA total of 58 of the 95 passengers and crew had died, as well as two of the three hijackers, by the time the crisis was over. Maltese medical examiners estimated that eight passengers were shot dead by the commandos.\n\nRezaq faced trial in Malta, but with no anti-terrorism legislation, he was tried on other charges. There was widespread fear that terrorists would hijack a Maltese plane or carry out a terrorist attack in Malta as an act of retribution. Rezaq received a 25-year sentence, of which he served eight. His release caused a diplomatic incident between Malta and the U.S. because Maltese law strictly prohibited trying a person twice, in any jurisdiction, on charges connected to the same series of events (having wider limitations compared to classic double jeopardy). Following his immediate expulsion on release, he was captured on arrival in Nigeria. After three months he was handed over to the U.S., brought before a U.S. court and, on 7 October 1996, sentenced to life imprisonment with a no-parole recommendation.\n\nIn his 1989 book \"Massacre in Malta\", John A. Mizzi writes:\n\nMizzi adds:\n\nMizzi also mentions how Maltese soldiers positioned in the vicinity of the aircraft were equipped with rifles but were not issued ammunition. An Italian secret service report on the incident showed how the fire inside the aircraft was caused by the Egyptian commandos who placed explosives in the aircraft cargo hold – the most vulnerable part of the aircraft, as it held the oxygen tanks which blew up. During the hijacking, only the Socialist Party media and state-controlled television were given information on the incident. Such was the censorship of the media, that the Maltese people first heard of the disaster through RAI TV, when its correspondent Enrico Mentana spoke live on the air via a direct phone call: \"Parlo da Malta. Qui c'è stato un massacro ...\" (\"I'm speaking from Malta. Here there's just been a massacre ...\") Shortly before this broadcast, a news bulletin on the Maltese national television had erroneously stated that all passengers had been released and were safe.\n\nDecisions taken by the Maltese government drew criticism from overseas. The United States protested to Malta about U.S. personnel sent to resolve the issue having been confined to Air Squadron HQ and the U.S. Embassy in Floriana. The United States had seen the situation as so ‘hot’ that it had ordered a number of its naval ships, including an aircraft carrier, to move toward Malta for contingency purposes.\n\nEgyptAir still flies the Athens–Cairo route, now assigned flight numbers 748 and 750 and is now performed by Boeing 737-800. The flight number 648 \nis now on its Riyadh–Cairo route.\n\nThe events of the hijacking were related in an account by American survivor Jackie Nink Pflug, who had been shot in the head, on the Biography Channel television program \"I Survived...\", which was broadcast on 13 April 2009. Laurence Zrinzo, the neurologist and neurosurgeon who established neurosurgery as a sub-speciality in the Maltese islands, performed Ms Pflug's neurosurgical procedure. Ms Pflug also related details about the flight and the attack in her 2001 book, \"Miles to Go Before I Sleep\". The incident was chronicled and reenacted in an \"Interpol Investigates\" episode, \"Terror in the Skies\", broadcast by the National Geographic Channel.\n\nThe hijacking is also the subject of the book \"Valinda, Our Daughter\", written by Canadian author Gladys Taylor.\n\nThe events of the hijacking are described in and used to further the plot in Brad Thor's novel Path of the Assassin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50186510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50186510", "title": "Event Supplier and Services Association", "text": "Event Supplier and Services Association\n\nEvent Supplier and Services Association (ESSA) is a trade association in the United Kingdom which represents contractors and suppliers of goods and services to the exhibition industry.\n\nESSA was established in 2008 to promote the commercial, technical, and service interests of British event companies and suppliers. It was incorporated in 2008 as private company limited by guarantee without share capital. Alongside its sister organisations, the Association of Event Organisers (AEO) and Association of Event Venues (AEV), it aims to integrate the industry with a \"united voice\" and increase its share of the market.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10061279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10061279", "title": "Event chain methodology", "text": "Event chain methodology\n\nEvent chain methodology is an uncertainty modeling and schedule network analysis technique that is focused on identifying and managing events and relationship between them (event chains) that affect project schedules. Event chain methodology is an extension of quantitative project risk analysis with Monte Carlo simulations. It is the next advance beyond critical path method and critical chain project management. Event chain methodology helps to mitigate the effect of motivational and cognitive biases in estimating and scheduling. It improves accuracy of risk assessment and helps to generate more realistic risk adjusted project schedules.\n\nEvent chain methodology is an extension of traditional Monte Carlo simulation of project schedules where uncertainties in task duration and costs are defined by statistical distribution. For example, task duration can be defined by three point estimates: low, base, and high. The results of analysis is a risk adjusted project schedule, crucial tasks, and probabilities that project will be completed on time and on budget. Defining uncertainties using statistical distribution provide accurate results if there is a reliable historical data about duration and cost of similar tasks in previous projects. Another approach is to define uncertainties using risk events or risk drivers, which can be assigned to different tasks or resources. Information about probabilities and impact of such events is easier to elicit, which improves accuracy of analysis. Risks can be recorded in the Risk register. Event chain methodology was first proposed in the period of 2002-2004. It is fully or partially implemented in a number of software application. Event Chain Methodology is based on six principles and has a number of outcomes.\n\nActivities (tasks) are not a continuous uniform procedure. Tasks are affected by external events, which transform an activity from one state to another. One of the important properties of an event is the moment when an event occurs during the course of an activity. This moment, when an event occurs, in most cases is probabilistic and can be defined using statistical distribution. The original state is called a ground state, other states are called excited states. For example, if the team completes their job on activity, they can move to other activities. The notion of an activity's state is important because certain events can or cannot occur when activity is in certain state. It means that the state of an activity is subscribed to the events. Events can be local, affecting particular tasks or resources, or global affecting all tasks or resources.\n\nEvents can be related to other events, which will create event chains. These event chains can significantly affect the course of the project. \nFor example, requirement changes can cause an activity to be delayed. To accelerate the activity, the project manager allocates a resource from another activity, which then leads to a missed deadline. Eventually, this can lead to the failure of the project. It could be different relationship between events. One event can trigger one or multiple events.\n\nEvents can be correlated with each other without one triggering another one. In this case if one risk has occurred, another one will occur and vice versa. One event assigned in one activity can execute another activity or group of activities. In many cases it the execution of risk response plans. For example, event “structural defect is discovered” can cause one or many activities “Repair”. Events can cause other events to occur either immediately or with a delay. The delay is a property of the event subscription. The delay can be deterministic, but in most cases, it is probabilistic. Also risks can be transferred from one activity to another. To define event chains, we need to identify a \"sender\", the event that initiates the chain of events. The sender event can cause one or more events that effect multiple activities. These are called \"receiver\" events. In turn, the receiver events can also act as sender events.\n\nEvent chain diagram is a visualization that shows the relationships between events and tasks and how the events affect each other. The simplest way to represent these chains is to depict them as arrows associated with certain tasks or time intervals on the Gantt chart. Here are a few important rules:\n\nBy using event chain diagrams to visualize events and event chains, the modeling and analysis of risks and uncertainties can be significantly simplified.\nAnother tool that can be used to simplify the definition of events is a state table. Columns in the state table represent events; rows represent the states of an activity. Information for each event in each state includes four properties of event subscription: probability, moment of event, excited state, and impact of the event.\n\nOnce events and event chains are defined, quantitative analysis using Monte Carlo simulation can be performed to quantify the cumulative effect of the events. Probabilities and impacts of risks assigned to activities are used as input data for Monte Carlo simulation of the project schedule. In most projects it is necessary to supplement the event based variance with uncertainties as distributions related to duration, start time, cost, and other parameters.\n\nIn Event chain methodology, risk can not only affect schedule and cost, but also other parameters such as safety, security, performance, technology, quality, and other objectives. In other words one event can belong to different categories. The result of the analysis would show risk exposure for different categories as well as integrated project risk score for all categories. This integrated project risk score is calculated based on relative weights for each risk category.\n\nMonte Carlo simulation provides the capability, through sensitivity analysis, to identify single or chains of events. These chains of events can be identified by analyzing the correlations between the main project parameters, such as project duration or cost, and the event chains. These are called “critical events” or “critical chains of events”. By identifying critical events or critical chains of events, we can identify strategies to minimize their negative effects: Avoid, Transfer, Mitigate, or Accept. Event and event chain ranking is performed for all risk categories (schedule-related and non-schedule) as part of one process. Integrated risk probability, impact and score can be calculated using weights for each risk category.\n\nMonitoring the activity's progress ensures that updated information is used to perform the analysis. During the course of the project, the probability and time of the events can be recalculated based on actual data. The main reason for performance tracking is forecasting an activity’s duration and cost if an activity is partially completed and certain events are assigned to the activity. Event chain methodology reduces the risk probability and impact automatically based on the percent of work completed. Advanced analysis can be performed using a Bayesian approach. It is possible to monitor the chance that a project will meet a specific deadline. This chance is constantly updated as a result of the Monte Carlo analysis. Critical events and event chains can be different at the various phases of the project\n\nSometimes events can cause the start of an activity that has already been completed. This is a very common scenario for real life projects; sometimes a previous activity must be repeated based on the results of a succeeding activity. Event chain methodology simplifies modeling of these scenarios The original project schedule does not need to be updated, all that is required is to define the event and assign it to an activity that points to the previous activity. In addition, a limit to the number of times an activity can be repeated must be defined.\n\nIf an event or event chain occurs during the course of a project, it may require some risk response effort. \nRisk response plans execution are triggered by events, which occur if an activity is in an excited state. Risk response events may attempt to transform the activity from the excited state to the ground state. Response plans are an activity or group of activities (small schedule) that augment the project schedule if a certain event occurs. The solution is to assign the response plan to an event or event chain. The same response plan can be used for one or more events.\n\nOne potential event is the reassignment of a resource from one activity to another, which can occur under certain conditions. For example, if an activity requires more resources to complete it within a fixed period, this will trigger an event to reallocate the resource from another activity. Reallocation \nof resources can also occur when activity duration reaches a certain deadline or the cost exceeds a certain value. Events can be used to model different situations with resources, e.g. temporary leave, illness, vacations, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "52443600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52443600", "title": "Funke Bucknor-Obruthe", "text": "Funke Bucknor-Obruthe\n\nFunke Bucknor-Obruthe (born 27 June 1976) is a Nigerian entrepreneur and lawyer. She is the founder and CEO of Zapphaire Events and is regarded as one of Nigeria's pioneering event planners.\n\nBucknor-Obruthe was born to Segun and Shola Bucknor in Lagos State, Southwestern Nigeria. She began her basic and secondary school education at Fountain Nursery and Primary School, Lagos, and Nigeria Navy Secondary School, Lagos, before she proceeded to study Law at the University of Lagos. In 2000, she was called to bar after attending the Nigerian Law School in Abuja.\n\nAfter practising law briefly, Bucknor-Obruthe was employed at Tie Communications, an advertisement agency, where she worked for a short period. In 2003, her love for event planning made her start Zapphaire Events, an independent event planning enterprise. She has since gone on to plan and organize several high-profile events within and outside Nigeria and has won awards and recognition including being featured in CNN's \"Inside Africa\" for planning a Nigerian royal wedding. Some of these include the Future Award for \"Entrepreneur of the Year\" (2006), the \"Wedding Planner Magazine\" Award for \"Wedding Planner of the Year\" (2007), Go2girl Life Achievement Awards (2011), Nigerian Events Awards for Outstanding Contribution to the Events Industry (2012).\n\n\nIn 2014, Nigerian online magazine \"YNaija\" listed Bucknor-Obruthe in its \"10 Most Powerful Under-40s in Business\". In 2016, she was listed in the BBC's \"100 Women\" series.\n\nBucknor-Obruthe is married to Onome Obruthe, with whom she has two children. She is the elder sister of Nigerian media personality Tosyn Bucknor.\n"}
{"id": "16191394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16191394", "title": "Geohazard", "text": "Geohazard\n\nA geohazard is a geological state that may lead to widespread damage or risk. Geohazards are geological and environmental conditions and involve long-term or short-term geological processes. Geohazards can be relatively small features, but they can also attain huge dimensions (e.g., submarine or surface landslide) and affect local and regional socio-economy to a large extent (e.g., tsunamis).\n\nHuman activities, such as drilling through overpressured zones—could result in significant risk, and as such mitigation and prevention are paramount, through improved understanding of geohazards, their preconditions, causes and implications. In other cases, particularly in montane regions, natural processes can cause catalytic events of a complex nature, such as an avalanche hitting a lake causes a debris flow, with consequences potentially hundreds of miles away, or creating a lahar by volcanism.\n\nThe continued and multi-disciplinary investigation into the occurrence and implications of geohazards, in particular offshore geohazards in relation with the oil and gas exploration, lead to specific mitigation studies and establishing relevant prevention mechanisms.\n\n\nEleven distinct flood basalt episodes occurred in the past 250 million years, resulting in large volcanic provinces, creating plateaus and mountain ranges on Earth. Large igneous provinces have been connected to five mass extinction events. The timing of six out of eleven known provinces coincide with periods of global warming and marine anoxia/dysoxia. Thus, suggesting that volcanic CO2 emissions can force an important effect on the climate system.\n\n"}
{"id": "50406244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50406244", "title": "Global news flow", "text": "Global news flow\n\nGlobal news flow (also referred to as international news flow) is a field of study that deals with the news coverage of events in foreign countries. It describes and explains the flow of news from one country to another.\n\nStudies on global news flow typically attempt to understand why certain countries are more newsworthy than others.. Along the years it has been found that the economic power of countries plays a particularly crucial role in their news prominence as well as the presence of international news agencies. Thus, the US has been found to be very prominent in news mentions around the world (18%), followed by China, Western European and Middle Eastern countries (about 3-5% each).\n\nThe unequal representation of the world and the under-representation of developing countries have been already of a great concern at least since the 1950s, since they influence the way people perceive the world and the image of countries. This problem was later addressed in the MacBride report, and his set of recommendations for a New World Information and Communication Order. The unequal representation of the world has been also linked to the World System Theory, and the unequal economic structure of the world.\n\nRecent empirical studies show that among online news websites and news aggregators the unequal representation of the world has been perpetuated and even further intensified. Economically powerful countries, as well as their opponent countries (mainly in the Middle East and Asia) get the most news coverage around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "30082779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30082779", "title": "Hugh Freeze", "text": "Hugh Freeze\n\nDanny Hugh Freeze Jr. (born September 27, 1969) is an American football coach. He is currently the Offensive Coordinator for the University of Tennessee. He is the former head coach of the University of Mississippi. Freeze served as the head football coach at Lambuth University from 2008 to 2009 and at Arkansas State University in 2011. He was previously a successful high school football coach at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, where he coached Michael Oher and Greg Hardy. He would later follow both of them to the University of Mississippi.\n\nFreeze attended Senatobia High School and the University of Southern Mississippi, from which he graduated in 1992 with a Bachelor of Science degree in mathematics and a minor in coaching and sports administration.\n\nIn 1992, Freeze joined the staff at Briarcrest Christian School in Memphis, Tennessee, as the football team's offensive coordinator and defensive backs coach. Freeze also served as dean of students. In 1995, he was promoted to head coach. Freeze ran the no huddle spread offense and led his team to the state championship twice, in 2002 and 2004, and the regional championship each year from 1995 to 1998 and in 2001 and 2002. He received Region 8-AA Coach of the Year honors five times and Associated Press Coach of the Year honors six times. In ten years at Briarcrest, Freeze was 94–30 as head coach (.785 winning percentage) and 126–37 overall. Freeze was depicted in and motion picture \"The Blind Side\", about one of his former players, current free agent offensive tackle Michael Oher.\n\nWhile at Briarcrest Christian School, Freeze also coached the girls basketball team from 1992 to 2004, and actually had more success in this role, with an overall record of 305–63 (.829 winning percentage), seven straight championship appearances, and four championships.\n\nFollowing his dismissal from Ole Miss, some former students alleged that Freeze had engaged in inappropriate conduct with female students while at Briarcrest. Freeze has denied the allegation and the school has stated it is unaware of any sexual improprieties involving Freeze during his tenure at the school.\n\nIn 2005, the University of Mississippi hired Freeze as an assistant athletic director for football external affairs. The following season, he became the tight ends coach and recruiting coordinator, positions he held through 2007. After that season, he replaced head coach Ed Orgeron on an interim basis before the hiring of Houston Nutt. Freeze interviewed for the offensive coordinator position with Nutt, a position that eventually went to Kent Austin.\n\nIn January 2008, Lambuth University, a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), named Freeze its head coach. In 2008, he led Lambuth to an 8–4 record and a first round loss in the NAIA playoffs, marking their first appearance in the playoffs since 2004 under then head coach Vic Wallace. He was considered for the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga's head coaching position following the 2008 season, but remained at Lambuth University for another season and compiled a 20–5 overall record, and defeating opponents 41–17 on average. In 2009, he led the Eagles to their best regular season record in school history with an unblemished 11–0 mark. Lambuth advanced to the second round of the NAIA playoffs for first time in 11 years—having won one game before suffering elimination to finish 12–1 as the sixth-ranked team in the NAIA.\n\nIn 2010, he joined the staff at Arkansas State as offensive coordinator after a brief stint as offensive coordinator at San Jose State University under Mike MacIntyre. The Red Wolves finished with a 4–8 record, but their offensive rankings jumped from 95th in total offense and 90th in scoring offense in the NCAA Division I FBS to 43rd and 46th, respectively. The Red Wolves' offense broke nine school records including total plays (856), first downs (262), pass attempts (438), pass completions (266), completion percentage (.607), passing yards (3,057), passing yards per game (254.8), and passing touchdowns (23). The Red Wolves' offense averaged 403.4 yards per game, eclipsing over 300 yards all 12 times it took the field for the first time in the history of the program. A-State posted at least 400 yards of total offense in seven games during the 2010 campaign, the most ever as an NCAA FBS member, all in his first year as offensive coordinator. After the season, Freeze was promoted to replace head coach Steve Roberts.\n\nIn 2011, his only season as head coach at Arkansas State, he led the Red Wolves to a 10–2 record and their first Sun Belt Conference title since 2005. The Red Wolves' offense averaged 447.8 ypg (28th nationally, 1st in Sun Belt Conference) including 293.6 ypg passing and 154.2 ypg rushing. Freeze left Arkansas State before the Arkansas State's appearance in the GoDaddy.com Bowl following the season.\n\nOn December 5, 2011, Freeze was announced as the 37th head coach of the University of Mississippi. During the press conference to introduce Freeze as the head coach, he stated that he wanted to \"retire at Ole Miss.\" He was signed to a four-year contract with an annual salary of $1.5 million plus incentives up to $2.5 million.\n\nIn his first season at Ole Miss, Freeze led the Rebels to a 6–6 record in the regular season, making Ole Miss bowl eligible for the first time since 2009 with a 41–24 victory over Mississippi State in the Egg Bowl. His Rebels accepted a bid to play in the BBVA Compass Bowl in Birmingham, Alabama, on January 5, 2013. They beat the University of Pittsburgh 38–17 to finish 7–6.\n\nFreeze received national attention on National Signing Day 2013 as Ole Miss brought in the fifth ranked recruiting class in the country.\n\nFreeze won the 2014 Grant Teaff Coach of the Year award by the Fellowship of Christian Athletes.\n\nDuring Freeze's third season at Ole Miss, he led the Rebels to a 7–0 start, the program's best start since the Johnny Vaught era. By October, they had risen as high as third in the nation, their highest ranking at that late stage in the season in almost half a century. They ultimately finished 9–3, only the third time since Vaught's tenure that Ole Miss has won that many games in the regular season. That netted them an appearance in the 2014 Peach Bowl–their first major bowl appearance since the 1970 Sugar Bowl, and easily the biggest bowl they had attended since Vaught's tenure.\n\nOn September 19, 2015, Freeze's Rebels beat Alabama, 43–37, in Tuscaloosa, Alabama, making Freeze only the third head coach, along with Les Miles and Steve Spurrier, to defeat a Nick Saban-coached team in back-to-back years (Michigan's Lloyd Carr beat Saban's Michigan State Spartans in three consecutive years, '96–'98). The victory catapulted the Rebels to #3 in the AP rankings. They went on to tally their second straight nine-win season, and garnered a berth in the 2016 Sugar Bowl, where they won 48–20 over Oklahoma State. They finished ninth in the AP Poll and 10th in the Coaches' Poll—their first top-10 finishes in a final poll since 1969.\n\nIn January 2016, the NCAA charged Ole Miss with numerous recruiting violations. An investigation turned up evidence that Ole Miss employees and boosters arranged numerous \"impermissible benefits\" for players, such as car loans and cash. At least one recruit was suspected of getting help on his college entrance exam. \n\nThe investigation reopened soon after star offensive tackle Laremy Tunsil admitted taking money from one of Freeze's assistants. In February 2017—three months after suffering its first losing season since the year Freeze arrived—Ole Miss withdrew from bowl consideration for the upcoming season. The move came on the same day that the NCAA sent an updated notice of allegations charging the Rebels with eight additional violations. Most seriously, it accused Freeze of not monitoring his assistants, and also accused Ole Miss of not properly controlling the program.\n\nOn July 13, 2017, Freeze's predecessor, Houston Nutt, sued Ole Miss for defamation, contending that Freeze and school officials falsely blamed him for the violations. As part of discovery for the lawsuit, Nutt's attorneys filed a Freedom of Information Act request for calls Freeze made on his university-issued cell phone during January 2016. Nutt's attorneys contended that Freeze and others at Ole Miss leaked information to the press as part of an effort to smear their client. \n\nWhile reviewing those records, Nutt's attorneys discovered a call to a number associated with a female escort service, and alerted Ole Miss officials about it. Freeze claimed it was a misdialed number. School officials investigated, and discovered what they later described as \"a concerning pattern\" of similar calls dating back to shortly after he arrived in Oxford. On July 20, chancellor Jeff Vitter and athletic director Ross Bjork gave Freeze an ultimatum: resign or be fired for violating the morals clause of his contract. Freeze opted to resign; offensive coordinator Matt Luke was named interim coach.\n\nOn October 11, 2018, Freeze was named as the Offensive Coordinator for the Arizona Hotshots of the Alliance of American Football.\n\nFreeze and his wife Jill have three daughters; Ragan, Jordan and Madison. Freeze is a born again Christian and has been outspoken about his faith throughout his coaching career. He and his family attend Pinelake Church in Oxford.\n\n\nAssistant coaches under Hugh Freeze who became NCAA head coaches:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1861353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861353", "title": "Humbug", "text": "Humbug\n\nA humbug is a person or object that behaves in a deceptive or dishonest way, often as a hoax or in jest. The term was first described in 1751 as student slang, and recorded in 1840 as a \"nautical phrase\". It is now also often used as an exclamation to mean nonsense or gibberish.\n\nWhen referring to a person, a humbug means a fraud or impostor, implying an element of unjustified publicity and spectacle. In modern usage, the word is most associated with the character Ebenezer Scrooge, created by Charles Dickens in his novella \"A Christmas Carol\". His famous reference to Christmas, \"Bah! Humbug!\", declaring Christmas to be a fraud, is commonly used in stage and television versions and also appeared frequently in the original book. The word is also prominently used in \"The Wizard of Oz\", in which the Scarecrow refers to the Wizard as a humbug, and the Wizard agrees.\n\nAnother use of the word was by John Collins Warren, a Harvard Medical School professor who worked at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Warren performed the first public operation with the use of ether anesthesia, administered by William Thomas Green Morton, a dentist. To the stunned audience at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Warren declared, \"Gentlemen, this is no humbug.\"\n\nThe oldest known written uses of the word are in the book \"The Student\" (1750–1751), ii. 41, where it is called \"a word very much in vogue with the people of taste and fashion\", and in Ferdinando Killigrew's \"The Universal Jester\", subtitled \"a choice collection of many conceits ... bon-mots and humbugs\" from 1754; as mentioned in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" from 1911, which further refers to the \"New English Dictionary\".\n\nThere are many theories as to the origin of the term, none of which has been proven:\n\nThe word has been used outside of anglophone countries for well over a century. For instance, in Germany it has been known since the 1830s, in Sweden since at least 1862, in France since at least 1875, in Hungary, and in Finland.\n"}
{"id": "2494205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494205", "title": "International Union of Exhibitions and Fairs", "text": "International Union of Exhibitions and Fairs\n\nInternational Union of Exhibitions and Fairs (IUEF) is an association of the leading exhibition centres and trade show related companies from Russia, Armenia, Belarus, Moldova, Ukraine, Lithuania, Kazakhstan, United Kingdom. It was founded in 1991.\n\n"}
{"id": "43209882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43209882", "title": "Killing of Sergio Guereca", "text": "Killing of Sergio Guereca\n\nOn June 7, 2010, Jesus Mesa Jr., a U.S. Border Patrol agent, shot and killed Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca on the concrete riverbed separating Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mexico and El Paso, Texas. At the time of the shooting Guereca, a 15-year-old-Mexican national was standing on the Mexican side of the Mexico–United States border, while the agent was on the American side. The agent claimed after the shooting that he had used deadly force because Guereca had been throwing rocks.\nThe shooting led to a protracted court case which examined whether the 5th amendment protected Guereca's life even though he was not standing on US soil. The case was heard by the Supreme Court of the United States in February 2017.\n"}
{"id": "23900299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900299", "title": "List of Renaissance fairs", "text": "List of Renaissance fairs\n\nThis is a list of Renaissance fairs worldwide.\n\nIncluded below are the fairs in the United States which are either notably long running or which regularly have had at least a two-week or better run. Generally, renaissance fairs are open weekends-only during the periods indicated. States are listed first and dates are codified to facilitate searching by state and by date.\n\nMost Canadian events are only one weekend in duration. Those notable and older than 10 years are listed here.\n\nMost Australian events are only one or two days in duration. Notable Renaissance and Medieval events (older than 10 years) are listed here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29752766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752766", "title": "List of fan conventions by date of founding", "text": "List of fan conventions by date of founding\n\nThe list of modern fan conventions for various genres of entertainment extends to the first conventions held in the 1930s. \n\nSome fan historians claim that the 1936 Philadelphia Science Fiction Conference, a.k.a. Philcon, was the first science fiction convention ever held. Others, such as Fred Patten and Rob Hansen, make this claim for the January 1937 event in Leeds, England, organized by the Leeds Science Fiction League, which was specifically organised as a conference, with a program and speakers. Out of this came the first incarnation of the British Science Fiction Association.\n\nWhile a few conventions were created in various parts of the world within the period between 1935-1960, the number of convention establishments increased slightly in the 1960s and then increased dramatically in the 1970s, with many of the largest conventions in the modern era being established during the latter decade. Impeti for further establishment of local fan conventions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12261050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12261050", "title": "List of games with concealed rules", "text": "List of games with concealed rules\n\nGames with concealed rules are games where the rules are intentionally concealed from new players, either because their discovery is part of the game itself, or because the game is a hoax and the rules do not exist. In fiction, the counterpart of the first category are games that supposedly do have a rule set, but that rule set is not disclosed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1855237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1855237", "title": "List of hoaxes", "text": "List of hoaxes\n\nThe following are lists of hoaxes:\n\nThese are some claims that have been revealed, or proven definitively, to be deliberate public hoaxes. This list does not include hoax articles published on or around April 1, a long list of which can be found in the \"List of April Fools' Day jokes\" article.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Proven hoaxes of exposure\" are semi-comical or private sting operations. They usually encourage people to act foolishly or credulously by falling for patent nonsense that the hoaxer deliberately presents as reality. See also \"culture jamming\".\n\n\nDeliberate hoaxes, or journalistic fraud, that drew widespread attention include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23563446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23563446", "title": "List of largest funerals", "text": "List of largest funerals\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48494006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48494006", "title": "Lowara Madi incident", "text": "Lowara Madi incident\n\nOn 21 September 2008 at 10 pm local time, in the Ghulam Khan district of North Waziristan Pakistani soldiers fired on two American helicopter gunships that entered Pakistani airspace with 12.7 mm heavy machine guns. The helicopters stopped and hovered for a while, before returning over the border to Afghanistan without retaliation. It is unknown if any of the helicopters sustained any damage in this first incident.\n\nThirty minutes later, two gunships attempted to cross the border again at the same place. Pakistani regular and Frontier Corps troops fired warning shots into the air and away from the helicopters, causing the helicopters to turn back without attacking any targets in Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "14819280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14819280", "title": "Marcy Blum", "text": "Marcy Blum\n\nMarcy Blum is an American author, event planner and owner of Marcy Blum Associates in New York City.\n\nBlum is a graduate of The Culinary Institute of America and began her career in the restaurant business, later creating a segue into the then developing field of event planning. In 1986 she became one of the first in the industry to develop the vocation into a successful career\n\nBlum has been a guest on the \"CBS Morning Show\", \"The Today Show\", \"Live with Regis and Kelly\", \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"The Nate Berkus Show.\"\n\nAmong her clients are Billy Joel and Katie Lee Joel, Kevin Bacon and Kyra Sedgwick, Salman Rushdie and Padma Lakshmi, Colin Hanks and Samantha Bryant, Lebron James and Savannah James, George Soros and Tomiko Soros, The Rockefeller family, Nate Berkus and Jeremiah Brent, and Andre Iguodala and Christina Iguodala. She was also the planner of The Knot's \"Dream Wedding\" in 2014 of Boston Marathon bombing survivors, Rebekah Gregory and Pete DiMartino. \"New York\" magazine described Blum as a \"desired wedding planner to the wealthy and famous.\"\n\n\"Vogue Magazine\" named Blum one of the top wedding planners in the world by, \"Harper's Bazaar\", and Martha Stewart Weddings.\n\nBlum has written and contributed to many articles, including \"The New York Times\", \"New York\" magazine, The Knot, \"Brides\" magazine, \"Elle\", \"Modern Bride\", \"InStyle\", and \"Town & Country\".\n\nShe coauthored, with Laura Kaiser, two books, \"Wedding Planning for Dummies\" and \"Wedding Kit for Dummies\".\n\nMarcy is the sister of American author and journalist Howard Blum.\n\n"}
{"id": "58637916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58637916", "title": "Marlboro M hoax", "text": "Marlboro M hoax\n\nThe Marlboro M Hoax was a false rumor originating from satire news website \"Abril Uno\" on April 1, 2016. It was an April Fools joke.\n\nThe article claims that Philip Morris, owner of the Marlboro tobacco company, is introducing a new line of marijuana cigarettes called Marlboro M in Colorado and the state of Washington. While fake, the article does have some factual basis, as tobacco companies have shown interest in marijuana since the 1970's. Even though the article was quite obviously satire, it's intriguing title was able to make it around the internet before it could be disproved. Some users, upon discovering that there were no 'Marlboro M' cigarettes at their local dispensary, claimed that they would be in stock by the end of 2017.\n\nWhile the article was proven fake, its claims were able gain widespread belief because of past and current events in cannabis culture, which themselves were true. For example, it is true that tobacco companies, including Phillip Morris, were interested in marijuana as a competing product and potentially an addition to their company, long before rapid legalization came about. Legalization is also a contributing factor to the blind acceptance these claims received, as societal views on marijuana use have largely shifted in recent years. Some tobacco companies have actually began investing in medical marijuana research, as well as joining with marijuana seed investment firms, though they haven't gone as far is to introduce cannabis cigarettes into the market. Currently, it would be illegal for such a large company, such as Philip Morris, to introduce cannabis cigarettes, as its use is still illegal on the federal level (in the US). \n"}
{"id": "39513392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39513392", "title": "Named lecture", "text": "Named lecture\n\nA Named Lecture is a lecture delivered usually at a predefined frequency and it is associated with a name of a person of outstanding significance to the subject the lecture is concerned with. Such lectures exist for a number of branches of Science and Engineering and they commemorate individuals who have made significant contribution to the subject.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1972777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1972777", "title": "Neil deGrasse Tyson", "text": "Neil deGrasse Tyson\n\nNeil deGrasse Tyson (; born October 5, 1958) is an American astrophysicist, author, and science communicator. Since 1996, he has been the Frederick P. Rose Director of the Hayden Planetarium at the Rose Center for Earth and Space in New York City. The center is part of the American Museum of Natural History, where Tyson founded the Department of Astrophysics in 1997 and has been a research associate in the department since 2003.\n\nTyson studied at Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Columbia University. From 1991 to 1994 he was a postdoctoral research associate at Princeton University. In 1994, he joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist and the Princeton faculty as a visiting research scientist and lecturer. In 1996, he became director of the planetarium and oversaw its $210-million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000.\n\nFrom 1995 to 2005, Tyson wrote monthly essays in the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine, some of which were later published in his books \"Death by Black Hole\" (2007) and \"Astrophysics for People in a Hurry\" (2017). During the same period, he wrote a monthly column in \"Star Date\" magazine, answering questions about the universe under the pen name \"Merlin\". Material from the column appeared in his books \"Merlin's Tour of the Universe\" (1998) and \"Just Visiting This Planet\" (1998). Tyson served on a 2001 government commission on the future of the U.S. aerospace industry, and on the 2004 Moon, Mars and Beyond commission. He was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal in the same year. From 2006 to 2011, he hosted the television show \"NOVA ScienceNow\" on PBS. Since 2009, Tyson hosted the weekly podcast \"StarTalk\". A spin-off, also called \"StarTalk\", began airing on National Geographic in 2015. In 2014, he hosted the television series \"\", a successor to Carl Sagan's 1980 series \"\". The U.S. National Academy of Sciences awarded Tyson the Public Welfare Medal in 2015 for his \"extraordinary role in exciting the public about the wonders of science\".\n\nTyson was born in Manhattan as the second of three children, into a family living in the Bronx. His mother, Sunchita Maria Tyson (née Feliciano), was a gerontologist for the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and is of Puerto Rican descent. His African-American father, Cyril deGrasse Tyson (1927–2016), was a sociologist, human resource commissioner for New York City mayor John Lindsay, and the first Director of Harlem Youth Opportunities Unlimited. Tyson has two siblings: Stephen Joseph Tyson and Lynn Antipas Tyson. Tyson's middle name, deGrasse, is from the maiden name of his paternal grandmother, who was born as Altima de Grasse in the British West Indies island of Nevis.\n\nTyson grew up in the Castle Hill neighborhood of the Bronx, and later in Riverdale. From kindergarten throughout high school, Tyson attended public schools in the Bronx: P.S. 36, P.S. 81, the Riverdale Kingsbridge Academy (then called \"P.S. 141\"), and The Bronx High School of Science (1972–1976) where he was captain of the wrestling team and editor-in-chief of the \"Physical Science Journal\". His interest in astronomy began at the age of nine after visiting the sky theater of the Hayden Planetarium. He recalled that \"so strong was that imprint [of the night sky] that I'm certain that I had no choice in the matter, that in fact, the universe called me.\" During high school, Tyson attended astronomy courses offered by the Hayden Planetarium, which he called \"the most formative period\" of his life. He credited Dr. Mark Chartrand III, director of the planetarium at the time, as his \"first intellectual role model\" and his enthusiastic teaching style mixed with humor inspired Tyson to communicate the universe to others the way he did.\n\nTyson obsessively studied astronomy in his teen years, and eventually even gained some fame in the astronomy community by giving lectures on the subject at the age of fifteen. Astronomer Carl Sagan, who was a faculty member at Cornell University, tried to recruit Tyson to Cornell for undergraduate studies. In his book, \"The Sky Is Not the Limit\", Tyson wrote:\n\nTyson revisited this moment on his first episode of \"\". Pulling out a 1975 calendar belonging to the famous astronomer, he found the day Sagan invited the 17-year-old to spend a day in Ithaca. Sagan had offered to put him up for the night if his bus back to the Bronx did not come. Tyson said, \"I already knew I wanted to become a scientist. But that afternoon, I learned from Carl the kind of \"person\" I wanted to become.\"\n\nTyson chose to attend Harvard where he majored in physics and lived in Currier House. He was a member of the crew team during his freshman year, but returned to wrestling, lettering in his senior year. He was also active in dance, in styles including jazz, ballet, Afro-Caribbean, and Latin Ballroom.\n\nTyson earned an AB degree in physics at Harvard College in 1980 and then began his graduate work at the University of Texas at Austin, from which he received an MA degree in astronomy in 1983. By his own account, he did not spend as much time in the research lab as he should have. His professors encouraged him to consider alternate careers and the committee for his doctoral dissertation was dissolved, ending his pursuit of a doctorate from the University of Texas.\n\nTyson was a lecturer in astronomy at the University of Maryland from 1986 to 1987 and in 1988, he was accepted into the astronomy graduate program at Columbia University, where he earned an MPhil degree in astrophysics in 1989, and a PhD degree in astrophysics in 1991 under the supervision of Professor R. Michael Rich. Rich obtained funding to support Tyson's doctoral research from NASA and the ARCS foundation enabling Tyson to attend international meetings in Italy, Switzerland, Chile, and South Africa and to hire students to help him with data reduction. In the course of his thesis work, he observed using the 0.91 m telescope at the Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory in Chile, where he obtained images for the Calán/Tololo Supernova Survey helping to further their work in establishing Type Ia supernovae as standard candles. These papers comprised part of the discovery papers of the use of Type Ia supernovae to measure distances, which led to the improved measurement of the Hubble constant and discovery of dark energy in 1998. He was 18th author on a paper with Brian Schmidt, a future winner of the 2011 Nobel Prize in Physics, in the study of the measurement of distances to Type II Supernovae and the Hubble constant.\n\nDuring his thesis research at Columbia University, Tyson became acquainted with Professor David Spergel at Princeton University, who visited Columbia University in the course of collaborating with his thesis advisor on the Galactic bulge typically found in spiral galaxies.\n\nTyson's research has focused on observations in cosmology, stellar evolution, galactic astronomy, bulges, and stellar formation. He has held numerous positions at institutions including the University of Maryland, Princeton University, the American Museum of Natural History, and the Hayden Planetarium.\n\nIn 1994, Tyson joined the Hayden Planetarium as a staff scientist while he was a research affiliate in Princeton University. He became acting director of the planetarium in June 1995 and was appointed director in 1996. As director, he oversaw the planetarium's $210 million reconstruction project, which was completed in 2000. Upon being asked for his thoughts on becoming director, Tyson said \"when I was a kid... there were scientists and educators on the staff at the Hayden Planetarium... who invested their time and energy in my enlightenment... and I've never forgotten that. And to end up back there as its director, I feel this deep sense of duty, that I serve in the same capacity for people who come through the facility today, that others served for me\".\n\nTyson has written a number of popular books on astronomy. In 1995, he began to write the \"Universe\" column for \"Natural History\" magazine. In a column he authored for a special edition of the magazine, called \"City of Stars\", in 2002, Tyson popularized the term \"Manhattanhenge\" to describe the two days annually on which the evening sun aligns with the street grid in Manhattan, making the sunset visible along unobstructed side streets. He had coined the term in 1996, inspired by how the phenomenon recalls the sun's solstice alignment with the Stonehenge monument in England. Tyson's column also influenced his work as a professor with The Great Courses.\n\nIn 2001, U.S. President George W. Bush appointed Tyson to serve on the Commission on the Future of the United States Aerospace Industry and in 2004 to serve on the President's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy, the latter better known as the \"Moon, Mars, and Beyond\" commission. Soon afterward, he was awarded the NASA Distinguished Public Service Medal, the highest civilian honor bestowed by NASA.\nIn 2004, Tyson hosted the four-part \"Origins\" miniseries of the PBS \"Nova\" series, and, with Donald Goldsmith, co-authored the companion volume for this series, \"Origins: Fourteen Billion Years Of Cosmic Evolution\". He again collaborated with Goldsmith as the narrator on the documentary \"400 Years of the Telescope\", which premiered on PBS in April 2009.\n\nAs director of the Hayden Planetarium, Tyson bucked traditional thinking in order to keep Pluto from being referred to as the ninth planet in exhibits at the center. Tyson has explained that he wanted to look at commonalities between objects, grouping the terrestrial planets together, the gas giants together, and Pluto with like objects, and to get away from simply counting the planets. He has stated on \"The Colbert Report\", \"The Daily Show\", and \"BBC Horizon\" that this decision has resulted in large amounts of hate mail, much of it from children. In 2006, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) confirmed this assessment by changing Pluto to the dwarf planet classification.\n\nTyson recounted the heated online debate on the Cambridge Conference Network (CCNet), a \"widely read, UK-based Internet chat group\", following Benny Peiser's renewed call for reclassification of Pluto's status. Peiser's entry, in which he posted articles from the AP and \"The Boston Globe\", spawned from \"The New York Times\"s article entitled \"Pluto's Not a Planet? Only in New York\".\n\nTyson has been vice-president, president, and chairman of the board of the Planetary Society. He was also the host of the PBS program \"Nova ScienceNow\" until 2011. He attended and was a speaker at the symposium in November 2006. In 2007, Tyson was chosen to be a regular on The History Channel's popular series \"The Universe\".\nIn May 2009, Tyson launched a one-hour radio talk show called \"StarTalk\", which he co-hosted with comedian Lynne Koplitz. The show was syndicated on Sunday afternoons on KTLK AM in Los Angeles and WHFS in Washington DC. The show lasted for thirteen weeks, but was resurrected in December 2010 and then, co-hosted with comedians Chuck Nice and Leighann Lord instead of Koplitz. Guests range from colleagues in science to celebrities such as GZA, Wil Wheaton, Sarah Silverman, and Bill Maher. The show is available via the Internet through a live stream or in the form of a podcast.\n\nIn April 2011, Tyson was the keynote speaker at the 93rd International Convention of the Phi Theta Kappa International Honor Society of the Two-year School. He and James Randi delivered a lecture entitled \"Skepticism\", which related directly with the convention's theme of \"The Democratization of Information: Power, Peril, and Promise\".\n\nIn 2012, Tyson announced that he would appear in a YouTube series based on his radio show \"StarTalk\". A premiere date for the show has not been announced, but it will be distributed on the Nerdist YouTube Channel. On February 28, 2014, Tyson was a celebrity guest at the White House Student Film Festival. In 2014, he helped revive Carl Sagan's \"\" television series, presenting \"\" on both FOX and the National Geographic Channel. Thirteen episodes were aired in the first season, and Tyson has stated that if a second season were produced, he would pass the role of host to someone else in the science world. On April 20, 2015, he began hosting a late-night talk show entitled \"StarTalk\" on the National Geographic Channel, where Tyson interviews pop culture celebrities and asks them about their life experiences with science.\n\nTyson is co-developing a sandbox video game with Whatnot Entertainment, \"\", which aims to help provide players with a realistic simulation of developing a space-faring culture, incorporating educational materials about space and technology. The game is anticipated for release in 2018.\n\nTyson has written and broadcast extensively about his views of science, spirituality, and the spirituality of science, including the essays \"The Perimeter of Ignorance\" and \"Holy Wars\", both appearing in \"Natural History\" magazine and the 2006 \"Beyond Belief\" workshop. In an interview with comedian Paul Mecurio, Tyson offered his definition of spirituality: \"For me, when I say spiritual, I’m referring to a feeling you would have that connects you to the universe in a way that it may defy simple vocabulary. We think about the universe as an intellectual playground, which it surely is, but the moment you learn something that touches an emotion rather than just something intellectual, I would call that a spiritual encounter with the universe.\" Tyson has argued that many great historical scientists' belief in intelligent design limited their scientific inquiries, to the detriment of the advance of scientific knowledge.\n\nWhen asked during a question session at the University at Buffalo if he believed in a higher power, Tyson responded: \"Every account of a higher power that I've seen described, of all religions that I've seen, include many statements with regard to the benevolence of that power. When I look at the universe and all the ways the universe wants to kill us, I find it hard to reconcile that with statements of beneficence.\" In an interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson said, \"So what people are really after is what is my stance on religion or spirituality or God, and I would say if I find a word that came closest, it would be agnostic ... at the end of the day I'd rather not be any category at all.\" Additionally, in the same interview with \"Big Think\", Tyson mentioned that he edited Wikipedia's entry on him to include the fact that he is an agnostic:I'm constantly claimed by atheists. I find this intriguing. In fact, on my Wiki page – I didn't create the Wiki page, others did, and I'm flattered that people cared enough about my life to assemble it – and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" I said, \"Well that's not really true.\" I said, \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an agnostic.\" I went back a week later it had been rewritten and it said \"Neil deGrasse Tyson is an atheist.\" – again within a week – and I said, \"What's up with that?\" so I said \"Alright, I have to word it a little differently.\" So I said, okay \"Neil deGrasse Tyson, widely claimed by atheists, is actually an agnostic.\"During the interview \"Called by the Universe: A Conversation with Neil deGrasse Tyson\" in 2009, Tyson said: \"I can't agree to the claims by atheists that I'm one of that community. I don't have the time, energy, interest of conducting myself that way... I'm not trying to convert people. I don't care.\"\n\nIn March 2014, philosopher and secularism proponent Massimo Pigliucci asked Tyson \"What is it you think about God?\" Tyson replied \"I remain unconvinced by any claims anyone has ever made about the existence or the power of a divine force operating in the universe.\" Pigliucci then asked him why he expressed discomfort with the label \"atheist\" in his Big Think video. Tyson replied by reiterating his dislike for one-word labels, saying \"That's what adjectives are for. What kind of atheist are you? Are you an ardent atheist? Are you a passive atheist? An apathetic atheist? Do you rally, or do you just not even care? So I'd be on the 'I really don't care' side of that, if you had to find adjectives to put in front of the word 'atheist.'\" Pigliucci contrasted Tyson with scientist Richard Dawkins: \"[Dawkins] really does consider, at this point, himself to be an atheist activist. You very clearly made the point that you are not.\" Tyson replied: \"I completely respect that activity. He's fulfilling a really important role out there.\"\n\nTyson has spoken about philosophy on numerous occasions. In March 2014, during an episode of \"The Nerdist Podcast\", he stated that philosophy is \"useless\" and that a philosophy major \"can really mess you up\", which was met with disapproval. The philosopher Massimo Pigliucci later criticized him for \"dismiss[ing] philosophy as a useless enterprise\".\n\nIn an undated interview at Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Tyson talked about being black and one of the most visible and well-known scientists in the world. He told a story about being interviewed about a plasma burst from the sun on a local Fox affiliate in 1989. \"I'd never before in my life seen an interview with a black person on television for expertise that had nothing to do with being black. And at that point, I realized that one of the last stereotypes that prevailed among people who carry stereotypes is that, sort of, black people are somehow dumb. I wondered, maybe ... that's a way to undermine this sort of, this stereotype that prevailed about who's smart and who's dumb. I said to myself, 'I just have to be visible, or others like me, in that situation.' That would have a greater force on society than anything else I could imagine.\"\n\nIn 2005, at a conference at the National Academy of Sciences, Tyson responded to a question about whether genetic differences might keep women from working as scientists. He said that his goal to become an astrophysicist was, \"...hands down the path of most resistance through the forces ... of society.\" He continued: \"My life experience tells me, when you don’t find blacks in the sciences, when you don’t find women in the sciences, I know these forces are real and I had to survive them in order to get where I am today. So before we start talking about genetic differences, you gotta come up with a system where there’s equal opportunity. Then we can start having that conversation.\"\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Grantland\", Tyson said that he related his experience on that 2005 panel in an effort to make the point that the scientific question about genetic differences can't be answered until the social barriers are dismantled. \"I'm saying before you even have that conversation, you have to be really sure that access to opportunity has been level\". In that same interview, Tyson said that race is not a part of the point he is trying to make in his career or with his life. According to Tyson, \"[T]hat then becomes the point of people's understanding of me, rather than the astrophysics. So it's a failed educational step for that to be the case. If you end up being distracted by that and not [getting] the message\". He purposefully no longer speaks publicly about race. \"I don't give talks on it. I don't even give Black History Month talks. I decline every single one of them. In fact, since 1993, I've declined every interview that has my being black as a premise of the interview\".\n\nTyson is an advocate for expanding the operations of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Arguing that \"the most powerful agency on the dreams of a nation is currently underfunded to do what it needs to be doing\". Tyson has suggested that the general public has a tendency to overestimate how much revenue is allocated to the space agency. At a March 2010 address, referencing the proportion of tax revenue spent on NASA, he stated, \"By the way, how much does NASA cost? It's a half a penny on the dollar. Did you know that? The people are saying, 'Why are we spending money up there...' I ask them, 'How much do you think we're spending?' They say 'five cents, ten cents on a dollar.' It's a half a penny.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Tyson testified before the United States Senate Science Committee, stating that:\n\nRight now, NASA's annual budget is half a penny on your tax dollar. For twice that—a penny on a dollar—we can transform the country from a sullen, dispirited nation, weary of economic struggle, to one where it has reclaimed its 20th century birthright to dream of tomorrow.\n\nInspired by Tyson's advocacy and remarks, Penny4NASA, a campaign of the Space Advocates nonprofit, was founded in 2012 by John Zeller and advocates the doubling of NASA's budget to one percent of the Federal Budget.\n\nIn his book \"Space Chronicles: Facing the Ultimate Frontier\" Tyson argues that large and ambitious space exploration projects, like getting humans to Mars, will probably require some sort of military or economic driver in order to get the appropriate funding from the United States Federal government.\n\nTyson collaborated with the organization People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) on a public service announcement that stated, \"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that kindness is a virtue.\" He also granted PETA an interview in which he discussed the concept of intelligence (both of human and other animals), the failure of humans to heretofore communicate meaningfully with other animals, and the need of humans to be empathetic.\n\nAs a science communicator, Tyson regularly appears on television, radio, and various other media outlets. He has been a regular guest on \"The Colbert Report\", and host Stephen Colbert refers to him in his comedic book \"I Am America (And So Can You!)\", noting in his chapter on scientists that most scientists are \"decent, well-intentioned people\", but, presumably tongue-in-cheek, that \"Neil DeGrasse Tyson is an absolute monster.\" He has appeared numerous times on \"The Daily Show with Jon Stewart\". He has made appearances on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\", \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon\", and \"The Rachel Maddow Show\". He served as one of the central interviewees on the various episodes of the History Channel science program, \"The Universe\". Tyson participated on the NPR radio quiz program \"Wait Wait... Don't Tell Me!\" in 2007 and 2015. He has appeared several times on \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", and he was also featured on an episode of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\" as the ask-the-expert lifeline. He has spoken numerous times on the Philadelphia morning show, \"Preston and Steve\", on 93.3 WMMR, as well as on SiriusXM's \"Ron and Fez\" and \"The Opie and Anthony Show\".\n\nTyson has been featured as a guest interviewee on \"The Skeptics' Guide to the Universe\", \"Radiolab\", \"Skepticality\", and \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" podcasts and has been in several of the Symphony of Science videos.\n\nTyson lived near the World Trade Center and was an eyewitness to the September 11, 2001 attacks. He wrote a widely circulated letter on what he saw. Footage he filmed on the day was included in the 2008 documentary film \"102 Minutes That Changed America\".\n\nIn 2007, Tyson was the keynote speaker during the dedication ceremony of Deerfield Academy's new science center, the Koch Center, named for David H. Koch '59. He emphasized the impact science will have on the twenty-first century, as well as explaining that investments into science may be costly, but their returns in the form of knowledge gained and piquing interest is invaluable. Tyson has also appeared as the keynote speaker at The Amazing Meeting, a science and skepticism conference hosted by the James Randi Educational Foundation.\n\nTyson made a guest appearance as himself in the episode \"Brain Storm\" of \"Stargate Atlantis\" alongside Bill Nye and in the episode \"The Apology Insufficiency\" of \"The Big Bang Theory\". Archive footage of him is used in the film \"Europa Report\". Tyson also made an appearance in an episode of \"Martha Speaks\" as himself.\nIn a May 2011 \"StarTalk Radio\" show, \"The Political Science of the Daily Show\", Tyson said he donates all income earned as a guest speaker.\n\nTyson is a frequent participant in the website Reddit's AMAs (Ask Me Anythings) where he is responsible for three of the top ten most popular AMAs of all time.\n\nIn \"Action Comics\" #14 (January 2013), which was published November 7, 2012, Tyson appears in the story, in which he determines that Superman's home planet, Krypton, orbited the red dwarf LHS 2520 in the constellation Corvus 27.1 lightyears from Earth. Tyson assisted DC Comics in selecting a real-life star that would be an appropriate parent star to Krypton, and picked Corvus, which is Latin for \"Crow\", and which is the mascot of Superman's high school, the Smallville Crows. Tyson also had a minor appearance as himself in the 2016 film \"\".\n\nIn May 2013, the Science Laureates of the United States Act of 2013 (H.R. 1891; 113th Congress) was introduced into Congress. Neil deGrasse Tyson was listed by at least two commentators as a possible nominee for the position of Science Laureate, if the act were to pass. On March 8, 2014, Tyson made a SXSW Interactive keynote presentation at the Austin Convention Center.\n\nOn June 3, 2014, Tyson co-reviewed \"Gravity\" in a CinemaSins episode. He made two more appearances with CinemaSins, co-reviewing \"Interstellar\" on September 29, 2015, and \"The Martian\" on March 31, 2016.\n\nIn 2016, Tyson narrated and was a script supervisor for the science documentary, Food Evolution, directed by Academy Award nominated director Scott Hamilton Kennedy. In the same year, Tyson made a guest appearance on the Avenged Sevenfold album \"The Stage\", where he delivered a monolog on the track \"Exist\". In 2017, Tyson appeared on Logic's album \"Everybody\" on the song \"AfricAryaN\" as well as on \"The Moon\" on Musiq Soulchild's album \"Feel the Real\".\n\nIn 2018, Tyson made a guest appearance on \"The Big Bang Theory\" as himself, together with fellow scientist Bill Nye, in the first episode of the show's final season (\"The Conjugal Configuration\").\nTyson lives in Lower Manhattan with his wife, Alice Young. They have two children: Miranda and Travis. Tyson met his wife in a physics class at the University of Texas at Austin. They married in 1988 and named their first child Miranda, after the smallest of Uranus' five major moons. Tyson is a wine enthusiast whose collection was featured in the May 2000 issue of the \"Wine Spectator\" and the Spring 2005 issue of \"The World of Fine Wine\".\n\nList of awards received by Tyson:\n\n\n\n\nList of works by Tyson:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14208196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14208196", "title": "News bureau", "text": "News bureau\n\nA news bureau is an office for gathering or distributing news. Similar terms are used for specialized bureaux, often to indicate geographic location or scope of coverage: a ‘Tokyo bureau’ refers to a given news operation's office in Tokyo; 'foreign bureau' is a generic term for a news office set up in a country other than the primary operations center; a ‘Washington bureau’ is an office, typically located in Washington, D.C., that covers news related to national politics in the United States. The person in charge of a news bureau is often called the bureau chief.\n\nThe term is distinct from a news desk, which refers to the editorial function of assigning reporters and other staff, and otherwise coordinating, news stories, and sometimes the physical desk where that occurs, but without regard to the geographic location or overall operation of the news organization. For example, a foreign bureau is located in a foreign country and refers to all creative and administrative operations that take place there, whereas a foreign desk describes only editorial functions and may be located anywhere, possibly as an organizational unit within the news organization's home office.\n\nA news bureau is traditionally operated out of an office by a single news outlet such as a radio, television, or newspaper news program. A single news company such as CNN or NPR may use a single bureau and office staff for all of its programs, and even those of subsidiary or other affiliated companies. For convenience, to save money and space, and to ensure the availability of necessary services (such as video feeds and studios), different companies may share an office space or co-locate at a single office building. News agencies may also operate news bureaux, and major public relations sources (such as governments, large companies, or advocacy groups) may operate news bureaux of their own to create, rather than simply report, news stories.\n\nTraditional news media, particularly television news and newspapers, have cut the number and size of news bureaux in recent decades for several reasons. They face declining profitability due to increasing competition from Internet news sources, and therefore have less money to spend on news-gathering.\n\nNewspapers rely increasingly on cooperative arrangements with counterparts elsewhere, and often will accept stories from their sister organizations rather than investigating stories themselves. Similarly, smaller newspapers may formally affiliate to sponsor cooperative bureaux that operate as press pools to serve more than one news organization (and sometimes a large number of organizations) from a single office. When news sources combine operations following a merger or other business consolidation, the surviving company often combines or eliminates redundant bureaux. Growing multiculturalism has facilitated this process: rather than demanding a reporter from their own country or locale who has been sent on assignment, news audiences have come to tolerate or even expect to see stories in remote locations covered by people who live locally; this empowers the audience to make their own judgments about any apparent cultural difference between themselves and the news subjects, rather than leaving the function of cultural interpretation entirely up to the reporter.\n\nThe often-criticized practice of parachute journalism allows News media to cover stories remotely using journalists who are generalists rather than more specialized field experts. Rather than leaving journalists in place waiting for breaking news to occur, smaller staff can be assigned as needed to wherever there are breaking stories, either by commuting to the physical location or by synthesizing reports from remote sources. An even more controversial practice, sometimes described as a reaction to declining resources rather than a legitimate cost-saving measure, is to rely on and reprint information from press releases written by public relations professionals working for people or companies that are the subject of an article, or have an interest in an article, without spending the resources to verify or conduct independent research on the matter. Another practice that limits news bureaux is embedded reporting, whereby war correspondents travel under the care of military units rather than at their own direction. The ability to quickly and safely travel throughout a war zone, and to obtain interviews with soldiers and coverage of important conflicts, appeals to news media, but at the cost of journalistic independence and, according to some, objectivity.\n\nThe interaction between professional journalists, witnesses, and news subjects has evolved considerably. Whereas news subjects and bystanders were once treated simply as witnesses to be interviewed for a news story, media have now accepted them as part of the news process. There are many antecedents to Citizen journalism. For example, meteorologists would count on amateurs to gather weather data to report, or interview willing subjects unrelated to a news story for \"man on the street\" interviews. As early as the 1930s the Soviet Union encouraged millions of amateur People's correspondents to expose corruption and otherwise report on news. Beginning in the 1970s, media, unable to respond quickly enough to obtain compelling coverage of natural disasters and weather phenomena such as tornadoes would count on hobbyists for photographs and film footage. With improvements in technology and as video cameras and video-equipped cell phones became widely available, they set up formal programs to gather material from nonprofessionals. For example, in August, 2006, CNN launched \"CNN Exchange\", by which the public is encouraged to submit \"I-Reports\" comprising photographs, videos, or news accounts. More recently newspapers have incorporated blogs, once seen as a threat to conventional news practice, either by creating blogs of their own (and deputizing local or field-specific bloggers as a second, lower-paid tier among their recognized staff of independent contractors) or by covering blogs as news sources.\n\nIn 2006 Reuters opened its first virtual news Bureau, staffing real-life reporters in a virtual office in Second Life. CNN followed suit in October 2007, but took a citizen journalism approach, allowing residents of Second Life to submit their own reportage. Although the news audience of Second World is relatively small, and declining, media consider it a training ground for themselves and participants, applicable to future virtual news projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "28962098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28962098", "title": "Riders of Judgment", "text": "Riders of Judgment\n\nRiders of Judgment is the fifth book chronologically in Frederick Manfred's \"The Buckskin Man Tales\", which trace themes through five novels set in the 19th Century Great Plains. The story fictionalizes Wyoming's Johnson County War, based on Manfred's original research (which relied heavily on Johnson County Historian Thelma Condit). His analysis of events is close to the story as recounted in Helena Huntington Smith's \"The War on Powder River\", which was published about ten years after Manfred's novel.\n\nThe novel was the source for the made-for-television film \"The Johnson County War,\" starring Tom Berenger. Manfred's novelization uses Nate Champion, Jack Flagg, and John Tisdale as the models for his Hammett brothers, Cain, Harry, and Dale, and turns Frank Canton into a strange family nemesis called variously Hunt Lawton and Link Keeler. Manfred changes the names of the county and the nearby towns.\n\n"}
{"id": "43174270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43174270", "title": "Rio Nuñez incident", "text": "Rio Nuñez incident\n\nThe Rio Nuñez incident or Rio Nuñez affair was an international incident which occurred on the Rio Nuñez near Boké, in modern-day Guinea, in 1849. The incident occurred when vessels of a joint Belgian and French naval force fired on two British traders in the area. \n\nDuring the 1840s and 50s, West Africa was the site of fledgling colonial rivalry between European powers. The Nuñez region lay between the French colony of Senegal and British Gambia and Sierra Leone. French traders were increasingly challenged by commercial trading expeditions from Britain, Belgium and America.\n\nThe French regional commander, Édouard Bouët-Willaumez, hoped that the Nuñez region could be formally annexed as a protectorate of the French colonial empire. The attack, far from securing the region for France, went contrary to Bouët-Willaumez's plans. Both France and Belgium led a cover-up. Attempts by the British Prime Minister, Viscount Palmerston, to force France to pay reparations for the incident were ultimately unsuccessful and the affair lasted four years.\n\nThe incident formed part of the \"Prelude to the Scramble for Africa\" and, as Bouët-Willaumez had hoped, did lead to increased French control of the Nuñez. In 1866, French forces occupied Boké. The affair was therefore one of the first signs of future French hegemony in West Africa in what would become French West Africa (AOF).\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "48875904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875904", "title": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)", "text": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)\n\nThe Sound of Music Live is a television special that was originally broadcast by ITV on 20 December 2015. The special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\", starring Kara Tointon as Maria von Trapp, performed and televised live from 3 Mills Studios in London. \n\nOn 9 November 2018, the production was broadcast in the United States as part of PBS's performing arts anthology series \"Great Performances\".\n\nIn October 2015, ITV announced that it would transmit a live adaptation of the musical \"The Sound of Music\" as part of its holiday programming lineup, in what would be the first time that such a programme had been attempted in the United Kingdom. \"The Sound of Music Live\" was part of ITV's continuing efforts to broadcast more live \"event\" programs, which are designed to attract critical masses of viewers by encouraging them to watch via the original broadcast, rather than via catch-up services and digital video recorders. The desire for increased ITV viewership came especially in the wake of declining ratings for its reality music competition \"The X Factor\", whose series 12 finale had the second-smallest viewership in the programme's history. ITV had similarly broadcast live episodes of its series \"Coronation Street\" in 2000 and 2010 in honour of its 40th and 50th anniversary respectively, and in 2015 for ITV's 60th anniversary.\n\nThis was not the first time that \"The Sound of Music\" had been adapted in such a manner. In 2013, U.S. network NBC broadcast its own live television adaptation of \"The Sound of Music\" starring country singer Carrie Underwood; similarly to ITV's version, it was an adaptation of the original musical, and not based on the film version. Although it received mixed reviews, it was seen by over 18 million viewers. As follow-ups, NBC produced similar adaptations of \"Peter Pan\" and \"The Wiz\" in 2014 and 2015 respectively. Creative director Coky Giedroyc stated that ITV's iteration would be a \"whole different animal\" in comparison to NBC's, explaining that she wanted to \"keep it true to the original\", and maintain a focus on the political aspects of the story. The production was conducted on soundstages at 3 Mills Studios in London, with the sets alone having a budget of nearly £750,000.\n\nKara Tointon played Maria, and Julian Ovenden played Captain Georg von Trapp. The supporting cast included veterans of British television and theatre, including Alexander Armstrong as Max Detweiler, Katherine Kelly as Baroness Elsa Schraeder, Maria Friedman as Mother Abess, Evelyn Hoskins as Liesl von Trapp, Jon Tarcy as Rolf Gruber, Mel Giedroyc as the housekeeper, Frau Schmidt, and Paul Copley as the butler, Franz.\n\n\"The Sound of Music Live\" received mixed reviews. Mark Shenton of \"The Stage\" said it was a failed experiment, with \"uninspired and sometimes insipid\" choreography and direction, although he praised the cast's performances. Claire Allfree of \"The Daily Telegraph\" said it lacked both the intimacy of live theatre and the scope of the big screen, but nevertheless judged it \"more a success than it was a failure,\" saying that former \"EastEnders\" star Tointon \"brought a refreshing earthiness and grit to Maria that made the passionate, unconventional novice feel thoroughly modern and accessible.\" \"The Mirror\" said that Tointon was \"showered with praise\" for her performance.\n\nThe programme was watched by over 3.82 million viewers according to overnight ratings figures, being beaten by the series eleven finale of \"The Apprentice\" (5.31 million) and its lead-in, the BBC Sports Personality of the Year presentation (5.78 million).\n\n"}
{"id": "21828440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21828440", "title": "This Is It (concert residency)", "text": "This Is It (concert residency)\n\nThis Is It was a planned concert residency by Michael Jackson which was scheduled to begin in July 2009 and end September 29, 2009 with a second leg which was scheduled to run from January 2010 through March 2010 with a total of 50 shows. Jackson announced This Is It at a press conference in the O2 Arena, stating that it would be his final series of concerts in London. AEG Live, the concert promoters, released a promotional video that took up an entire commercial break, setting a record for ITV. Initially, only 10 concerts were announced, but following public demand, 40 more concerts were added. Ticket sales broke several records and Jackson's album sales increased following the announcement; AEG Live estimated that the first 10 dates alone would have earned Jackson approximately £50 million. \n\nIn preparation for the concert series, Jackson had been collaborating with high-profile figures including fashion designer Christian Audigier, choreographer Kenny Ortega and bodybuilder Lou Ferrigno. Prior to Jackson's death in 2009, Allgood Entertainment sued Jackson for $40 million, claiming that he had breached an exclusivity agreement with them by agreeing to the This Is It concerts; the case was dismissed.\n\nAfter Jackson's death, AEG Live offered either refunds to ticket holders or a special \"souvenir\" ticket designed by Jackson. The cancelled shows, record-breaking ticket sales and potential for a world tour led to This Is It being termed \"the greatest concert[s] that never happened.\" Columbia Pictures acquired the footage of the rehearsals and released a concert film, \"Michael Jackson's This Is It,\" accompanied by a compilation album of the same name.\n\nJackson announced the first 10 performances during a press conference at the O2 Arena on March 5, 2009. As many as 7,000 fans and 350 reporters awaited Jackon's arrival, many donning Jackson-related clothing. He commented at the conference, \"I just wanted to say that these will be my final show performances in London. When I say this is it, it really means this is it\", adding that it was his \"final curtain call\", although he may have just been referring to performing in London. Organizers touted the residency as, \"dramatic shows [that] promise an explosive return with a band of the highest calibre, a state-of-the-art stage show and incredible surprise support acts\". Hours before the press conference, promotional posters for the residency were displayed around London. Further promotion took up an entire commercial break period on ITV London during \"Dancing on Ice\", the first time this has ever happened for a musical artist. The advert, which cost £1 million to air, was viewed by 11 million people.\n\nThe shows, Jackson's first significant concert events since the in 2001, had been cited as one of the year's most important musical events, and as the greatest comeback in the history of pop. Randy Phillips, president and chief executive of AEG Live, stated that the first 10 dates would earn Jackson approximately £50 million (about US$80.1 million). \"The Guardian\" characterized the concerts as an \"astonishing comeback for a man who in recent years has been dogged by controversy\", adding that Jackson still had \"enormous commercial clout\". The \"Evening Standard\" stated that the deal was the \"showbiz coup of the decade\" for AEG Live, while \"The Independent\" remarked that the finalized 50 concerts would provide London with a \"much-needed\" economic boost. Joe Cohen, chief executive of Seatwave, told BBC 6 Music that the shows would generate £1 billion for the economy.\n\nSome websites offered early tickets, which the Association of Secondary Ticket Agents warned were fake. \"We are warning people not to buy tickets that are not yet on sale because it is unlikely that they will receive those tickets\", announced the organization's chief, Graham Burns. He concluded, \"It's impossible when the dates haven't been announced to be selling tickets for something when there are no announced dates\". Jackson's official website allowed fans to register early for a \"pre-sale\" draw. Some fans had difficulty applying, as the website could not deal with the large number of registrations—reportedly up to 16,000 applications a second. In the space of 24 hours, nearly a million people from around the world registered for pre-sale tickets, enough to fill the venue 50 times over. Tickets that had not even been printed were selling on auction website eBay for £300. Sales of Jackson's albums increased following the press conference. Overnight, sales of \"Off the Wall\" rose 200%, \"Bad\" rose 110%, \"Dangerous\" rose 165% and \"Thriller 25\" rose 155%.\n\nThe two-day pre-sale began on March 11, and 40 extra dates were added to meet high demand—five of these dates were reserved in their entirety for the public sale. More than 1.5  million fans caused two sites offering pre-sale tickets to crash within minutes of going online. In the space of two hours, 190,000 tickets were sold. Two million people tried to buy pre-sale tickets in the space of 18 hours. Veronica Schmidt of \"The Times\" stated of the reception, \"Michael Jackson has floored his critics\", while organizers proclaimed it a \"cultural phenomenon\". It was announced that Jackson would break the record for number of shows performed by an artist at a single venue, which had been set by Prince, who hosted a residency at the same arena for his concerts. According to Jackson's website, the following records were or would have been broken: \"The biggest audience ever to see an artist in one city\", \"The greatest number of people to attend a series of arena shows\", \"The fastest ticket sales in history\". Randy Phillips acknowledged that Jackson could have sold out even more dates, but this would have conflicted with other career plans. On March 13, the other 50% of seats for dates 1–45 and all the seats for dates 46–50 went on sale to the general public. Within four hours, all 50 dates had sold out. At this stage, the sales of \"King of Pop\" were up 400% and the sales of \"Thriller\" were up 200%. Tickets appeared on eBay for as much as £10,000.\n\nThe 50-concert run was originally scheduled to start on July 8, 2009 and conclude on February 24, 2010. Each of the shows would have been performed at the O2 Arena in London, which has a capacity of 23,000. New York-based fashion designer Zaldy served as head costumer, creating ten of Jackson's stage looks while the other six were created by his longtime costumers, Michael Bush and Dennis Tompkins. Jay Ruckel from La Crasia Gloves recreated Jackson's iconic single glove for the concerts. The costumes he was to wear during the shows were encrusted with 300,000 Swarovski crystals. In April 2009, thousands of dancers flew in from all around the world to audition from the 13th to the 15th for Jackson, who helped select the 11 finalists in person. Kenny Ortega, who had collaborated with Jackson previously, was to work on the overall design and direction of concerts. Ortega said that the final product would have been a \"theatrical musical experience\". According to Randy Philips, £13 million was to be spent on producing the concerts, which would have included 18–22 songs and 22 different sets. There also would have been aerial dancing similar to routines by Cirque du Soleil. Carla Ferrigno told Reuters that her husband Lou had been helping Jackson train in advance of the shows. Jackson and Ferrigno had previously worked together.\n\nOn May 20, it was announced that the first concert would be pushed back five days to July 13 and three other July dates would be rescheduled for March 2010. AEG Live said that the delay was necessary because more time was needed for dress rehearsals. The revised schedule called for 27 shows between July 13 and September 29, 2009, followed by a three-month break, before resuming in the new year with 23 more shows between January 7 and March 6, 2010. Some fans petitioned for the reversal of AEG Live's decision. In late June, several hundred seats for each of the dates were put on sale. These seats were held back until production logistics were worked out.\n\nIt was suggested that after the London concerts, Jackson might head to Australia, Europe, India, China, Hong Kong and Japan before moving on to North America. Randy Phillips, the CEO of AEG Live, told The LA Times that Australia was part of Michael Jackson's international tour plans.\n\nAccording to Jermaine Jackson's 2011 book \"You Are Not Alone: Michael Through a Brother's Eyes\", after the London concerts were finished, Jackson was planning to extend his deal with AEG Live which included new music, a potential three-picture movie deal, a series of one-off concert dates starting in China, a halftime slot at one of the future Super Bowl games to surpass his own halftime show at the Super Bowl XXVII in January 1993 and two more tours (one of which was to be a final reunion with his brothers based on a promise made to their mother to see her sons perform together one last time before she passed away). After the deal was completed, he planned to take time off from musical entertainment and move on to (possibly) directing his own film ideas, such as making a feature-length motion picture based on his 1982 song \"Thriller\" and the music video of the same name. It was also later revealed that a yearly Halloween television special based on his horror-themed songs, such as \"Thriller\" and \"Ghosts\", was part of Jackson's deal with AEG Live.\n\nIn Conrad Murray's manslaughter trial, David Walgren stated another one of Jackson's future plans was to open a children's hospital. This was heard in an audio tape Conrad Murray played of Jackson under the influence of propofol on May 10, 2009. His voice is barely recognisable in the recording, but he can be clearly heard saying that he wanted to build the greatest children's hospital in the world and name it after himself: The \"Michael Jackson's Children's Hospital\". Walgren also stated that while the tour was happening, Jackson wanted to buy an estate with streams, horses and animals so his three children, Prince, Paris and Blanket could live normal lives as their father performed the concerts, as he was photographed looking for a house in the United Kingdom with his children. Walgren also said that the tour would begin that summer, and Jackson could take his children out of school and bring them with him so they could see him perform in London.\n\nAs shown in \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\", songs prepared for the concerts included \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"They Don't Care About Us\", \"Human Nature\", \"Smooth Criminal\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\", a medley of songs by The Jackson 5 consisting of \"I Want You Back\", \"The Love You Save\", \"I'll Be There\" and \"Shake Your Body (Down to the Ground)\", \"I Just Can't Stop Loving You\", \"Thriller\", \"Beat It\", \"Black or White\", \"Earth Song\", \"Billie Jean\", and \"Man in the Mirror\". Later on, \"Stranger in Moscow\", \"You Are Not Alone\", \"Don't Stop 'Til You Get Enough\", \"Rock with You\", \"Dirty Diana\" ,\"You Rock My World\", \"Dangerous\", \"We Are the World\", \"Heal the World\" and \"Will You Be There\" were also confirmed to have been planned for the shows. Due to the larger than usual roster of songs, as well as time constraints, Jackson would perform some songs with one verse less than he did in previous tours (such as \"Wanna Be Startin' Somethin'\", \"Jam\", \"The Way You Make Me Feel\" and \"Black or White\"). \"Bad\" was rumored to have been reserved for select concerts. On the final dates, Jackson wanted to perform a ballad called \"River Ripple\", written by him, with an African choir and his children. During the final concert before \"Man in the Mirror\", Michael was slated to premiere a song called \"Best of Joy\", written and recorded in 2009 prior to Jackson's death. As of 2018, the full version of \"River Ripple\" remains unreleased (although snippets of the song have leaked on YouTube), while \"Best of Joy\" was officially released in 2010 on Jackson's first posthumous album of unreleased songs, \"Michael\".\n\n\n\nIn June 2009, concert promoter Allgood Entertainment, represented by Ira Meyerowitz and Jon Kekielek of MJlawfirm, sued Jackson for $40 million. He claimed that Jackson, through his manager Frank DiLeo, had agreed to a single and a $30 million reunion concert with The Jackson 5 and his sister Janet Jackson. According to the concert promoter, the alleged contractual agreement prevented Jackson from performing elsewhere before the reunion concert and for a three-month period after it. Thus, agreeing to a 50 date residency at the O2 arena was an alleged breach of the Allgood Entertainment contract. The filing company stated that AEG Live knew of the alleged agreement with Jackson and used their dominance in the industry to coerce Jackson into agreeing to the residency. In August 2010, the judge dismissed the case, stating that there was no evidence of a binding agreement, no contracts were signed. The case was in limbo as of 2013.\n\nOn June 25, 2009, Jackson died after going into cardiac arrest which was caused by an overdose of Propofol and benzodiazepines, eighteen days before his planned first show. AEG Live, who persuaded Jackson to sign up for the shows, faced a liability of up to £300 million and an empty venue for the next nine months. The O2 arena stated that full refunds, including all ticket service charges, would be available to those who purchased tickets through authorized agents, but that \"fans will have the option to be sent the actual tickets they would have received to attend the shows in lieu of the full refunds which are being offered.\" Fans who bought their tickets from private sellers potentially faced difficulties. eBay recommended that purchasers contact their sellers for refunds and stated that those who used PayPal can get their money back if the purchase was made during the last 45 days, then later stated that \"all buyers on the site will receive a full refund for their ticket purchase\".\n\nFollowing Jackson's death, AEG stated that they had over \"100 hours of footage of preparations and rehearsals for the shows\". On August 10, 2009, Los Angeles Superior Court Judge Mitchell Beckloff approved a deal between film distributor Columbia Pictures and AEG Live for the former company to purchase and distribute rehearsal footage of Jackson for a film entitled \"Michael Jackson's This Is It\". According to court documents, Columbia paid $60 million (£35 million) for rights to the rehearsal footage. The papers filed in court had reportedly stated that Jackson's estate will get 90% of the profits and that AEG Live will get the remaining 10% from the film's revenue. The film was directed by Kenny Ortega who was also the director of the live concert. It was compiled mostly from footage that was shot as reference for production discussions and was never meant to be shown publicly. Some of the music and vocals in the film were added from previous recordings, though most were from the live performance. The film was released on October 28, 2009.\n\nAn accompanying album to the film was also released. Titled \"This Is It\", the compilation was distributed internationally on October 26, and to North America the following day. The two-disc album features music \"inspired from the documentary of the same name\". Of the album, Sony said, \"Disc one will feature the original album masters of some of Michael's biggest hits arranged in the same sequence as they appear in the film\" and stated that \"the disc ends with two versions of the 'never-released' 'This Is It' [...] This song is featured in the film's closing sequence and includes backing vocals by Michael's brothers, The Jacksons and Alvin Chea of Take 6.\" Sony added that the second disc will feature previously unreleased versions from Jackson's \"catalogue of hits\", along with a spoken word poem entitled \"Planet Earth\" and a 36-page commemorative booklet with \"exclusive photos of Michael from his last rehearsal\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25692137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25692137", "title": "Tim Soar", "text": "Tim Soar\n\nTim Soar is a British fashion designer, graphic designer, event planner and DJ.\n\nSoar began his creative career working with designer Neville Brody on an interiors project POST Design. This was followed by independent practice as a graphic designer, and then in the design company STAC collaborating with photographer Andrew Catlin. His work was focussed in music, producing artwork for numerous international record sleeves, publications and campaigns.\n\nWhile working with Neville Brody, Soar became involved in the music industry and began working as a DJ. Soar had residencies at a number of venues and clubs across London. He was also involved in the writing and arrangement of 23 Skidoo's song \"Just Like Everybody\". He was also part of the band called Toll, which released the album \"Christ Knows\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2005, Soar launched the Tim Soar design label and this was described as “really well-made menswear that mixes minimalism, sportswear, tailoring, and unusual fabrications.” In an interview, Soar described his foray from music to fashion design with these words:I felt that I had something to say about modern menswear and that it was time to move on from the flippant to something more serious. I was tired of seeing gimmicky menswear that was badly made and did not fit correctly. I set out to produce clothes that are a synthesis of minimalism and the avant garde made to the highest possible standards.The first collection was presented by the London-based B-Store, the second collection by Liberty, and has continued with packed shows at each London Fashion Week since Spring/Summer 09. His women's wear line debuted in 2011 with a capsule collection for Browns 24. Soar told British Vogue that the concept is womenswear for boyish women. Soar's collections are now available in numerous countries worldwide.\n\nSoar is also creative head of Music Concrete, a music consultancy that was established in 1987. It initially catered to the boutique hotel market but has since expanded into launches, fashion, and events. He has worked with many of the leading UK and international fashion designers and design houses, including Donna Karen Prada, Ralph Lauren, Levi's, Fendi, LVMH, Mathew Williamson, Fendi and Adidas. Through Music Concrete, Soar also collaborated with luxury hotels groups including Schrager Hotels, St. Martin's Lane Hotel, Sanderson, Columbus and Great Eastern.\n\n"}
{"id": "44777082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44777082", "title": "Unintentional discharge (firearms)", "text": "Unintentional discharge (firearms)\n\nUnintentional discharge is the event of a firearm discharging (firing) at a time not intended by the user. An unintended discharge may be produced by an incompatibility between firearm design and usage, such as the phenomenon of cooking off a round in a closed bolt machine gun, a mechanical malfunction as in the case of slamfire in an automatic weapon, user induced due to training issues or negligence, or a simple accident. The phenomenon has also been defined in the scientific literature as \"an activation of the trigger mechanism that results in an unplanned discharge that is outside of the firearm’s prescribed use\". Where prescribed use refers to departmental policies and laws related to the operation of firearms (O'Neill, 2018).\n\nAn accidental discharge (AD) may occur when the trigger of the firearm is deliberately pulled for a purpose other than shooting—dry-fire practice, demonstration, or function testing—but ammunition is unintentionally left in the chamber. Unintentionally leaving a firearm loaded is more likely to occur when the individual handling the gun is poorly trained, and perhaps also with removable-magazine-fed firearms (as the magazine may be removed, giving an unloaded appearance even when a round remains chambered—see discussion of magazine-safeties below).\n\nA second common cause of negligent discharges is when the gun-handler places their finger on the trigger before they have decided to shoot. With the finger so positioned, many activities may cause the finger to compress the trigger unintentionally. For example, if one attempts to holster the firearm with finger on trigger, the holster edge will drive the finger onto the trigger, and discharge is likely. If one stumbles or struggles (with an adversary) with finger on trigger, the grasping motion of both hands will likely cause the trigger finger to compress the trigger.\n\nGun safety rules recognize the above possibilities, and aim to prevent them. The primary firearm safety rule usually listed by any source is a version of \"Always keep the gun pointed in safe direction.\" Following this rule ensures that, should an accidental discharge occur, no harm will be done. Second, one's finger should remain outside the trigger guard until the decision has been made to fire the weapon; even if (some would say especially if) one is facing a hostile adversary and has to be prepared to fire at a moment's notice, keeping the finger out of the trigger-guard until one has decided to shoot will prevent an accidental shooting.\n\nWhen a firearm is not in use, storing it unloaded and in a separate container from ammunition may also help prevent accidental discharges, especially if the stored firearm is \"accessed\" by an unauthorized user.\n\nOn occasion, an accidental discharge can occur by means other than the finger pulling the trigger, such as dropping a loaded weapon. Because of this possibility, most currently produced pistols are designed with a \"drop-safety\" or firing pin block, a mechanism inhibiting or isolating the firing pin, preventing accidental discharge if the firearm is dropped. However, most long guns do not have drop-safeties.\n\nPrevention of dropped-firearm ADs with long guns therefore depends on the user being familiar with the precautions needed for that particular gun: it is standard practice for all long-gun users to unload the firearm's chamber before any activity that might foreseeably result in a dropped firearm (e.g., climbing a fence while hunting), and before placing the firearm in a vehicle (where sudden deceleration may cause the firearm to act as if dropped).\n\nAccidental discharges not involving trigger-pull can also occur if the firearm is mechanically unsound: poor maintenance, abuse, inept \"gunsmithing,\" or the use of substandard materials or defective ammunition in the gun may all lead to breakage.\n\nIn World War II, early versions of the British Sten gun were notorious for accidentally discharging when dropped. While dropping any long gun with loaded chamber can be dangerous, the use of a soft bronze bolt in early Stens—allowing the sear contact area to wear down quickly—made ADs even more likely.\n\nAs the early Sten gun illustrates, \"poor design,\" including the specification of unsuitable component materials, is sometimes cited as a cause for some firearms being \"unsafe.\" Surely, any firearm that can discharge by itself when loaded is unsafe, and no user would want to handle a firearm that has a high likelihood of accidental discharge when employed for its intended use. But, firearm designs incorporating fewer safeties are not intrinsically unsafe—see discussion of long-guns above—even if they do require competence and proper training for safe use.\n\nA relevant discussion attends the use of magazine-safeties in semi-automatic pistols. Such safeties prevent the pistol from firing if there is a round in the chamber, but the magazine is removed. Some self-defense experts dislike this feature, as it may allow the pistol to be \"disabled\" unexpectedly during a struggle, so that the pistol fails when needed. Others feel that it may improve user safety and prevent some accidental discharges. Both semi-auto pistol designs, with and without magazine-safeties, are currently manufactured.\n\nOne last form of accidental discharge, known as \"cooking off,\" occurs when a weapon becomes overheated, with the firing chamber hot enough to ignite the propellant charge in the ammunition round, causing the cartridge to fire. As recently as 1979, this problem doomed the innovative Heckler & Koch G11 during NATO trials.\n\n\"Cooking off\" is typically encountered only in fully automatic weapons, such as machine guns, when they are fired for long periods of time without allowing the barrel and chamber of the weapon to cool down to safe temperatures. For this reason, modern crew-served machine guns are equipped with spare barrels to allow a machine gun crew to replace an overheated barrel with a cool one, thus restoring the weapon to action while the overheated barrel is allowed to cool. Also, the majority of machine guns fire from an open bolt, so the round is chambered only after pressing the trigger, just before firing.\n\nA negligent discharge (ND) is a discharge of a firearm involving culpable carelessness. In judicial and military technical terms, a negligent discharge is a chargeable offence. A number of armed forces automatically consider any accidental discharge to be negligent discharge, under the assumption that a trained soldier has control of his firearm at all times. This is the case in the United States Army, Canadian Army, the Royal Air Force, the British Army and various Police Forces within the United Kingdom.\n\nFrom an article on a U.S. Air Force website:\n\n"}
