{"id": "37537046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37537046", "title": "Abdul Kahar Muzakkar", "text": "Abdul Kahar Muzakkar\n\nAbdul Kahar Muzakkar was the leader of an Islamic movement in South Sulawesi from 1950 till his death in 1965. He led his group of men in a guerrilla warfare against the Indonesian central government, and was finally killed by the army in the jungle. He was also the leader of the South Sulawesi branch of the Darul Islam movement.\n\nBorn on 24 March 1920 in the Kingdom of Luwu, a smaller principality on the northern end of the Gulf of Bone, Abdul Kahar Muzakkar was formerly known as Ladomeng. Ladomeng is a Buginese word derived from 'dominoes', an allusion to his father who was playing cards at the time he was born. His father, Malinrang, was reportedly a businessman who was from the lower aristocracy class. Their family owned many lands, a sign of wealth at that period of time.\n\nKahar completed elementary school in 1934, and his parents then sent him to Muhammadiyah Standard School in Palopo (capital of Luwu) for 4 years. He was then sent to Solo in Central Java to study in the \"Kweekschool\" Muhammadiyah (Islamic Teachers College) from 1938 to 1941. It was in this last institution that Kahar was introduced to a number of prominent ulema, including a prominent modernist Muslim nationalist, Abdul Kahar Muzakkir. In fact, some people claimed that it was contact with this ulema that prompted Kahar to change his name from Ladomeng. There were other views, though, that Kahar had his name changed before he went to Solo, whilst according to Tommy Thomson, Kahar's former guard in the jungle, Kahar's 2 close friends, Jufri Tambora and Siddiq Bakri had been the one who asked Ladomeng to change his name to Kahar.\n\nAccording to sources, Kahar was average as a student, and that his strength lay not in formal education, but in creativity and talent in dealing with problems. In fact, Kahar did not even complete \"kweekschool\", partly because he married Walimah, a girl from Solo who was his first wife. It was with Walimah that he then returned to Palopo, teaching at a Muhammadiyah school until 1943. Though not an exceptional student, Kahar was actively involved in organizations, particularly after he had returned to Palopo. He joined the local \"Hizbul Wathan\", the youth organization for Muhammadiyah, and was active in his opposition to what he called the feudal system in Luwu, and called for an end to the aristocracy. His opposition gained him many support from the Luwu youths. Kahar remained active in \"Hizbul Wathan\" until the arrival of the Japanese in 1942. During the Japanese Occupation, Kahar worked as a clerk at the Nippon Hodobu, an information agency in Makassar under the Japanese authority.\n\nIn 1943, Kahar was sentenced by the \"Hadat\" (governing council) of the kingdom of Luwu to \"ripaopangitana\" [literally, to put someone or something face downward on the land], or simply to treat someone as dead.This form of punishment not only banishes the person from the kingdom, but also causes him to sever all ties which a Bugis or Makassar person is dependent on. There were varied accounts for the reason for such a sentence, all indicating that Kahar had alienated and angered the ruling powers in Luwu, particularly in his position as an activist of \"Hizbul Wathan\". There are views that Kahar criticized the belief in \"Sawerigading\", which claims that only the descendents of the \"Sawerigading\" can rule Luwu. According to his sister, Sulaeha, Kahar asked the aristocrats to discard the use of aristocratic titles, such as \"opu\", due to its inherent discrimination. Military documentation also disclosed that Kahar rejected the tradition of bowing the knees before aristocrats. He also acted in ways that oppose the traditional system of his homeland, such as marrying a Javanese girl at a time when cross cultural marriages were not common in the Buginese tradition. According to Barbara Harvey, the versions of reasons for Kahar's exile are as many as the persons who spoke about it. Mukhlis, in his writing, attempted to interpret Kahar's punishment, concluding that he broke 2 main rules: \"Mapparibokoang Arung\" (guilty of self-importance and abusing his position) and he did \"mpleo weloie Arung\" (attempted to overthrow of the rulers' position) in his position as a \"Hizbul Wathan\" activist. At the time Kahar was expelled, he swore to return and marry a descendent of the \"Pajung\" (king), a prophecy which came true as he later married Andi Haliah, the granddaughter of the \"Pajung\".\n\nAfter his exile in 1943, Kahar moved to Java and set up a merchandise company known as \"Semangat Muda\" (Spirit of Youth). He also established a shop called \"Toko Luwu.\" It was through this business that Kahar entered the Indonesian nationalist movement. His company was used by him and his colleagues from South Sulawesi to establish an organization, \"Gerakan Pemuda Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Indonesian Youth Movement of Sulawesi, GEPIS) on 10 October 1945. This organization was later renamed \"Angkatan Pemuda Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Sulawesi Indonesian Youth Movement, APIS). This renamed organization became a part of the \"Angkatan Pemuda Indonesia\" (API) and was nationally recognized.\n\nIn one of his writings, Kahar revealed that he was one of Sukarno's bodyguards when the latter gave one of his first mass speeches in September 1945. He was the person, armed with only a machete, who was prepared to protect Sukarno and Hatta against the bayonets of the Japanese soldiers who tried to disperse the meeting and who encircled the car in which Sukarno and Hatta were driving. Kahar's role as bodyguard is not in question, with photographic evidence. According to Hamdan Juhannis, even Ukkas Arifin, a former nationalist activist in Kahar's movement who later became a member of the Republican military, revealed in his writing that he had witnessed the bravery of Kahar in guarding Sukarno in the same meeting.\n\nKahar helped in the founding of \"Kebaktian Rakyat Indonesia Sulawesi\" (Loyalty of the Indonesian People from Sulawesi, KRIS), along with A. \"Zus\" Ratulangie, daughter of the Republican Governor of Sulawesi. KRIS was the most famous of organisations in which Sulawesi youths participated in during the fight against the Dutch. APIS was merged into KRIS soon after and Kahar became the first secretary of KRIS. In this capacity, Kahar was tasked with forming branches of KRIS in East and Central Java, thus the formation of KRIS branches in Solo, Yogyakarta, Madiun, Malang, Tegal, Magelang and Cilacap. It was during this period that Kahar met a group of political prisoners of the Dutch from the Nusakambangan and Cilacap prisons, who originated from the outer islands. He was on his way to Cilacap when he interceded and negotiated the release of the 800-odd prisoners, who were then given brief military training. This battalion became the core of Kahar's army. It also operated as Sukarno's protection guard when he moved to Yogyakarta.\n\nAfter leaving KRIS due to internal conflicts, Kahar was tasked by General Sudirman to prepare for the formation of a republican army in Sulawesi. He then formed the \"Tentara Republik Indonesia Persiapan Sulawesi\" (Sulawesi Preparatory Unit of the Army of the Republic of Indonesia, TRIPES) which was formed on 24 March 1946. The battalion of political prisoners whose release Kahar had negotiated formed the core of TRIPES. Members of Kris were also incorporated into TRIPES. Kahar was the commander of TRIPES, and he, helped by Major Andi Mattalatta and Major Saleh Lahade, both from South Sulawesi, began to organize the infiltration of soldiers from Java into South Sulawesi by boats in 1949. Kahar, however, remained in Yogyakarta and later formed a special military unit called \"Barisan Berani Mati\" (Dare-Devil Unit, BBM) from the last remaining battalion of the unit which fought in the Madiun area of East Java.\n\nFollowing this, and the transfer of sovereignty of East Indonesia to the Republic in December 1949, Kahar had expected to be appointed commander of South Sulawesi since he had been one of the principal figures in organising and sending troops of Sulawesi youths back to their homeland in 1946 to support the pro-Republican guerrillas against the Dutch. However, his name was not in the list of newly appointed members of the Territorial Command for East Indonesia. This was a time when education, technical qualifications and discipline were all important and emphasized as criteria for qualifications, thus making Kahar ill-qualified. He did not have formal military training or battle experience, and his rebellious character was considered an obstacle to the integration of the army. Moreover, Kahar had no powerful friends in the military, thus opposition for his ambition to be commander of the South Sulawesi unit was not just by the army, but also by other South Sulawesi officers such as Saleh Lahade and Andi Mattalatta.\n\nInstead of commander of the South Sulawesi unit, Kahar was appointed as the commander of the \"Komando Grup Seberang\" (Group Commando for the Outer Islands, KGS) in October 1949. He was promoted to the rank of 'acting' lieutenant-colonel, and was put in charge of coordinating the guerrilla units in Sulawesi, Kalimantan, the Moluccas and Nusa Tenggara. Even before the appointment of Kahar as the commander of KGS, he had sent 2 of his staff officers, Saleh Sjahban and Bahar Mattaliu, to South Sulawesi to establish contact with the guerrilla forces there in April 1949. On 17 August 1949, the \"Kesatuan Gerilya Sulawesi Selatan\" (South Sulawesi Guerrilla Unit, KGSS) was founded with the aim of uniting the many guerrilla bands operating in the area.\n\nAfter the formal recognition of Indonesia's independence by the Dutch, Kahar suddenly found himself an unemployed officer when the KGS was disbanded. At the same time, fighting broke out between the newly established army command in South Sulawesi and KGSS, when the latter demanded to be part of the TNI. Kahar was ordered to return to Sulawesi to negotiate with these young men. On 22 June 1950, Kahar arrived in Ujungpandang, and initially cooperated with the Indonesian government and army. However, upon his return from a meeting with the guerrillas, he put forward the proposal made by the guerrillas instead. The military commander of East Indonesia, Kawilarang, rejected the guerrillas' demands in a meeting with Kahar on 1 July 1950. Instead, Kawilarang issued a decree liquidating KGSS on the same day.\n\nKahar, according to Bahar Mattaliu, was very angry at Kawilarang's reaction. Kahar resigned from the Army, pulling off his insignia rank saying '\"Ini tidak ada gunanya. (This is of no use)\" to Kawilarang. He then threatened that if KGSS's demand was not accommodated, they would rebel. A few days later, Kahar was kidnapped into the forest by the KGSS on the initiative of Andi Sose, though it was suggested that the action had Kahar's tacit consent.\n\nFrom then on, Kahar and KGSS had overwhelming support form the local population. This was a major factor which ensured the guerrillas' ability to safely operate in the area. Kahar became the leader of the movement, with his presence further encouraging the men, who looked up to him for his record as a soldier with the highest rank from Sulawesi. Many also saw Kahar as having been betrayed by the central government and deserving of sympathy.\n\nKahar had the guerrillas ignore the ban on KGSS, and functioned as an illegal organization. Though essentially enemies of the Republic, there were moments when KGSS assisted the Republican Army, notably in ensuring them a safe landing-place during the Andi Abdul Azis' rebellion and fighting against the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army [KNIL]. However, during one of these assists, an incident occurred which cemented the hatred of the Sulawesi population against the Javanese, and by extension, the central government. It was alleged that one of the Republican units commanded by Captain Latief of the Mataram Brigade had opened fire on 2 guerrilla leaders and their contingents, with the intention of getting rid of the guerrillas. The 2 leaders, Arief Rate and Abbas Bangsawan, were killed, along with many of the guerrillas and Arief's whole contingent. This hatred by the population proved to be valuable to Kahar in his rebellion.\n\nBefore 1952, Kartosuwirjo, the leader of the Darul Islam movement in West Java, sent a letter to Kahar inviting to join his movement. Kahar only replied on 20 January 1952, accepting the invitation to make Sulawesi part of the Islamic State of Indonesia. However, Kahar clarified in the same letter that he did not think Sulawesi is ready to adopt the DI movement formally, as some of his followers were still influenced by communism [which happened before his arrival in Sulawesi] and the lack of commitment on their part in initiating an Islamic revolution. According to Kahar:\n\n\"Actually, we have also wanted to initiate an Islamic revolution since 16 August 1951 [based on what I plan with Brother Abd. Fattach and Brother Saleh Sjahban], but unfortunately, these two brothers are not committed. That made our effort failed and our power was defeated by stronger and more influential powers in society which were unconsciously influenced by 'reddish' ideology.\"\n\nOn 27 February 1952, Kartosuwirjo replied to Kahar's letter, appointing the latter as the commander of Division IV, Hasanudin of the Indonesian Islamic Army. Kartosuwirjo also expressed his gratitude to Kahar for acknowledging him as the supreme commander of the Islamic State of Indonesia, and reminded him of the importance of being under the banner of the Darul Islam. In the whole organization of DI in Indonesia, Kahar was the Deputy Minister of Defence, and the Commander of the Fourth Military District (East Indonesia) and the Fourth Division (Hasanuddin). However, there cannot be said to be an active coordination between the central DI movement and the South Sulawesi DI movement.\n\nOn 7 August 1953, Kahar formally proclaimed South Sulawesi as part of the West Java Darul Islam at a gathering in Makalua. He read the proclamation of 1949, claiming that Sulawesi and its surroundings were part of the Islamic State of Indonesia. At this same gathering, Kahar also issued several regulations to start off the new movement. He announced the new DI flags for South Sulawesi and its surroundings. The state flag was to be red with a yellow crescent and three yellow stars, while the military flag was red with three yellow stars and the number '24'. He also activated a curfew within the areas of DI, and Islamic law was formally adopted. Kahar called on those who were not Muslims to voluntarily support the Islamic community, and labelled the existing guerrillas who were not part of the Islamic army as \"quttautthariq\" (Ar. 'robbers').\n\nIn 1955, Kahar, in the name of the East Indonesia DI, called to the Muslim community, ulema, and Islamic political parties to understand the content of the term \"jihad\". He also concentrated on the creation of a legal basis in the application of the formalist Islamic system within the organization. In 1955, the DI held a conference at Makalua, and a constitution known as the 'Makalua Charter' was drafted to guide the South Sulawesi people. Kahar created systems to support the existence of the NII. He started collecting taxes, all in the name of the Islamic state, and also established organizations. He founded a youth organization, Pemuda Islam Jihad, whilst his wife, Susana Corry van Stenus, instituted a woman's fighter corps called \"Laskar Wanita\".\n\nKahar also began to extend the DI influences outside South Sulawesi, soon after he was accepted as being under the West Java DI. He first expanded DI to Southeast Sulawesi, and around 1955, North Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara, Maluku and Irian Barat came under the influence of Kahar's DI.\n\nAccording to the information collected by Anhar Gonggong, Kahar was killed on 3 February 1965 by Corporal Sadeli of the Indonesian Army. It was reported that Sadeli heard the sound of a radio playing in the forest near the Lasolo River area, and approached the source of the sound, knowing that Kahar always carried with him a transistor radio. Sadeli had initially wanted to capture Kahar alive, but upon seeing the grenade in his hand, he shot to kill instead. He then compared a photograph of Kahar with that of the dead body, and concluded that the man he had killed was truly Kahar. The body was retrieved by a helicopter and flown to Makassar, where it was received by Mohammad Jusuf at Palemonia Hospital. Upon the announcement of Kahar's death, only one of his wives, 2 children and an uncle were authorized to see the body. Kahar's son, Abdullah, identified his father from the eczema on his foot and his dentures.\n\nHowever, this claim of Kahar's death had been refuted by many of his followers. There were some who claimed that Kahar was a distance away from where the fighting purportedly took place. Moreover, Kahar was always surrounded by 2 platoons of armed bodyguards, and he carried a rifle, not a grenade, as was mentioned in the radio news and newspapers which reported on his death. For these followers, the government news stories were pure propaganda. A whole platoon claimed that they were with Kahar at Lasolo at the supposed time of death, and he disappeared when they left him for a while. However, there was no trace of bloodshed in the area to indicate any sort of fight or struggle. Mansur, one of Kahar's close assistant, also insisted that he was with Kahar when the latter's death was announced on the radio. A few days later, Kahar simply disappeared while Mansur was taking a bath in the river.\n\nAll these witness accounts point not to the death of Kahar, but to a mere disappearance, a view that was supported by his followers. There were some people who claimed that it was Jusuf who had merely faked the death of Kahar based on an earlier face-to-face meeting. These people believed that when Kahar and Jusuf met in Bonepute first on 21 October 1961 and then on 12 November 1961, Jusuf suggested to Kahar that he should go into hiding. It was said that they embraced tearfully. Based on this version, Kahar agreed to be picked up by helicopter to make his escape while another retrieved someone else's body in his place. According to Tihami (1984), the body was dropped in the sea between Makassar and Jakarta so that no one would be able to claim that it was not Kahar's. People also doubted Abdullah's capacity to identify his father as he had spent his childhood in Java with his mother, and rarely saw his father. He had only seen Kahar for 3 days 3 yrs before his death, although they did share a bed. Said Abdullah: \"The problem is that no one else saw the corpse. I did, however.\" Another version that claims to refute Kahar's death draws on the Sulawesi tradition of a \"tomanurung\" (one who descends from heaven) who comes to earth to serve the ruler by protecting the general population from corrupt, authoritarian and abusive leaders. According to the myth constructed and believed by his followers, Kahar is a \"tomanurung\". Therefore, he did not die, but ascended temporarily to heaven, awaiting the time when it is necessary to come back. These suggestions of Kahar as a \"tomanurung\" are usually accompanied by accounts of him living in exile, where he was both engaged in strategic work and at the same time practicing Sufi meditation. \n\nFor many of his followers, the issue of Kahar's alleged death is close for discussion he purportedly said before he left: \"I'll go away from you all for some time, don't ever try to look for me, because you simply can't. But, if I want to, I can easily find you.\" There was also a very prevalent belief that Kahar had merely gone into hiding and had taken another persona. This new identity of Kahar, many believed, was Syamsuri Abdul Madjid also known as Syekh Imam Muhammad Al Mahdi Abdullah. Syamsuri died in 2006, and was said to have been close to Susana Corry van Stenus, one of Kahar's wives.\n\nThe government's position on this issue, though, is that Kahar is truly dead, killed in the jungle on 3 February 1965, a position sustained by both Harvey (1974) and van Dijk (1981). This, though, did not stop the contemporary movement from capitalising on the mystery and controversy of Kahar's death. Mansur's version of events at the time of Kahar's supposed death, though gotten third-hand and thus less reliable, had been the one that has galvanised the movement's followers. Jusuf's silence, on the other hand, had conspired in expanding the truth, wittingly or not. A core group of contemporary Kahar's loyalists includes a number of members of NGOs who are involved in a varied field of activities ranging from cooperatives, legal practice and farming, to youth training, and professionals employed in Sulawesi as teachers, lecturers, lawyers, consultants and engineers. In addition to evoking stories of his escape or his \"tomanurung\" status, contemporary staff members of the movement also institutionalise their stance on Kahar's death through the use of slogans attributed to him such as 'Javanese colonialism' and 'Majapahitism'.\n\nThough he had been dead for many years, Kahar is still remembered in Sulawesi. His legacy differs for different groups, motivated by their own interests of regional politics and movement vitality. Many of the leaders and former members of Kahar's movement had operated underground and been in hiding after his death. Thus, many of the current members do not know each other as the leaders coordinate the operations through staff and cells. Therefore, Kahar's legacy often focuses on him being a symbol of the movement that he had been a part of.\n\nKahar had been remembered by non-members of the movement, even till today. Many of these non-members were knowledgeable about Kahar, but for various reasons, they were not supportive of it. Many claimed that they did not support him that time, and will not do so even now. Some said too, that Kahar had brought much suffering to the people of Sulawesi. For those who had been members but had left after Kahar's death, a clear goal and a replacement for Kahar as a capable leader is needed before they will support the movement again. For youths who had only known of the movement and Kahar recently, there are various opinions. Some had positive impressions as they too saw the 'need for a democratic federal state', whilst others had considered him a traitor to the country.\n\nThe issue of Kahar being either a rebel or fighter for the people of South Sulawesi had resurfaced in contemporary time, when South Sulawesi's governor, Syahrul Yasin Limpo, challenged the people to fight rebels in the area. This created an uproar of critiques from many parties in South Sulawesi. Many are of the opinion that Kahar was not a rebel or a traitor, but indeed, he was a patriot who had fought for Indonesia's independence. He only became a rebel to fight for a principle that he truly believed in.\n\nIn discussing Kahar, discussions on Kartosuwirjo and Daud Beureu'eh had also surfaced. These three figures had been active in the Darul Islam movement, a movement that some people in contemporary Indonesia still view as necessary. Many are of the opinion that these three figures had been excluded from national history, even though they had contributed to the fight for independence between 1945 till 1949 in Indonesia.\n\nIn contemporary time, Kahar's movement had been institutionalized in the form of two branch organizations, the \"Komite Persiapan Pelaksanaan Syariat Islam\" (Organizing Committee for the Preparation for the Application of Islamic Law; KPPSI) which was founded by Kahar's son Abdul Aziz 2000, and \"Pusat Amanat Referendum Rakyat Sulawesi\" (Center for Trusteeship of the Sulawesi People's Referendum; PARAS) which was also established in 2000.\n\nDuring the course of the rebellion, Kahar was active in writing. His writings include monographs, speeches and regulations. He was said to have written more than 10 monographs, of which not all are available to the public. Hamdan Juhannis claims that Kahar's writings especially reflect an effort to strengthen the legitimacy of Darul Islam as most touch on Islamic issues, quoting Quranic verses against the republican government. Several reasons for this had been brought forth, such that Kahar saw a need to 'Islamize' his DI community in South Sulawesi, and that he wrote for a general audience to help outsiders understand the nature of formalist Islamism.\n\nKahar's writings were influenced by his short-temperedness and his broad knowledge. Many of them were rather emotional, even to the extent of attacking his enemies like Sukarno. They also reflect his broad knowledge, especially on Islam and politics. Most of his writings can be categorised into general points, namely: his position from a defender to opponent of the pancasila, Islamic democracy verses Sukarno's Java-centricness, Islam versus other ideologies like the pancasila and communism, and his changing conception of state - from an Islamic federation to that of a caliphate system. According to Deliar Noer, Kahar's writings also are significant for it not only addressed the people in his time, but also provide lessons in idealism, and at least a guide for later generations to continue such idealism.\n\n1. (In Bahasa Indonesia)\n\n2. Kahar Muzakkar Masih Hidup: Sebuah Misteri by A. Wanua Tangke (Book)\n\n3. Tragedi Patriot & Pemberontakan Kahar Muzakkar by Syafaruddin Usman Mhd (Book)\n"}
{"id": "56102220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56102220", "title": "Aimen Dean", "text": "Aimen Dean\n\nAimen Dean (), better known as Ramzi () is a Bahrainian man who was a founding member of al-Qaeda. In 1998, he joined the Secret Intelligence Service and became an MI6 spy.\n\nDean was born in Saudi Arabia. By the age of 12 he had memorised the Quran and become a Hafiz. Following the death of his mother he sought solace in Sayyid Qutb's In the Shade of the Koran. He was part of an Islamic Awareness circle at Omar Bin Abdulaziz Mosque in Khobar, where one of the instructors was Yusef al-Ayeri. In 1989 his eldest brother Moheddin went to fight in Afghanistan for 3 months. At 15 he travelled to Bosnia to participate in the Bosnian War with a friend from the circle Khaled Ali Hajj who had returned from fighting in Afghanistan. In Bosnia he was part of the Bosnian mujahideen Brigade who massacred over 200 prisoners by decapitation following the Battle for Vozuća. He witnessed his friend Khaled saw off the head of a prisoner with a serrated hunting knife. Just before the end of the war he was recruited by Khalid Sheikh Mohammed who suggested that he go to Afghanistan and give him a contact in Peshawar, Pakistan. \n\nFollowing Bosnia, Dean was invited to Kandahar to swear allegiance to Osama bin Laden and join al-Qaeda. In Afghanistan he trained al-Qaeda recruits in the basics of Islamic theology, history and the essentials of religious practice. He was worried by the 1998 United States embassy bombings and asked Abdullah al-Mohaja for the religious justification. He was pointed to a 13th Century Fatwa by Ibn Taymiyyah. He researched the Fatwa which was about the Mongol invasion and their use of human shields when besieging cities, it was clear to him that this was no justification for killing civilian bystanders. He believes the concept of Jihad is changed by al-Qaeda. The target of Jihad in al-Qaeda is starting world war opposed to the West.\n\nDean decided to leave al-Qaeda going to Qatar on the pretext of his health with the intention to disappear. He was captured on arrival in Qatar by Qatari Intelligence, who gave him a choice of intelligence agency and he choose to work with MI6. MI6 then spent 7 months debriefing him. At the end of the debriefing in agreed to go back to Afghanistan as a spy.\n\nDean then spied on al-Qaeda for 8 years prior to being exposed by Washington. During this time he travelled between Afghanistan and London on behalf of al-Qaeda allowing him to report to MI6, when in the UK he acted as al-Qaeda's representative and had to be careful to preach and recruit with in UK law. \n\nDean's cover was blown by a US writer who using CIA sources disclosed his identity with details that could only be sourced to him in a book.\n\nAfter being exposed, Dean started a career as a speaker and security consultant.\n\nDean is the author of two books:\n\n"}
{"id": "51445410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51445410", "title": "Anne Liburd", "text": "Anne Liburd\n\nAnne Liburd MBE (1920–2007) also known as Ann Liburd was a Kittitian women’s rights activist and community organizer. She served as president of the National Council of Women in St. Kitts and was the first and then three-time president of the Caribbean Women’s Association. She headed several programs to develop women's entrepreneurial skills and then served as the first president of the Federation of Labour Women, a political affiliation of the Saint Kitts and Nevis Labour Party to help women gain leadership and communication skills.\n\nAnne Eliza Martin was born on 12 December 1920 in Antigua to Alice Maude (née Cornelius) and Jacob Martin. Her mother, a staunch supporter of education, was a laundress and her father engaged in farming. They were related to the Bird family, which had members who served as Prime Ministers in the country. Martin completed her schooling in Antigua and after high school passed her Senior Cambridge Examination, allowing her to teach. At the age of 17, Martin gave birth to her first son, Clarence Fitzroy Bryant, who would later serve as St. Kitt's Minister of Education and Attorney General. Fitzroy was followed by sons Ronan and Tyrone.\n\nMartin found work in a printing company and during the war years met a Nevisian army reservist, Clement Liburd, who she married in 1944. Two years after her marriage, Liburd and her family, which now included a fourth son, Karl, moved to St. Kitts. She began teaching at Trinity School, riding her bicycle daily from her home in Basseterre to the school in the Trinity Parish. During this time, she had two more children, a son, Clement Juni Liburd, Jr. who would become Director of Broadcasting for the St. Kitts Nevis Information Service, and a daughter, Marcella, who later became the Minister of Health, Social Services, Community Development, Culture and Gender Affairs.\n\nLiburd soon joined the worker's movement providing training for poor women to learn both parenting skills and employment training, guiding them in opening and operating their own businesses. After teaching for several years, she became a civil servant working in the areas of finance and administration. In the 1960s and 1970s, she worked to help develop education policies to improve the opportunities of all children to receive education. Liburd was the first president of the Caribbean Women’s Association (CARIWA), an umbrella organization formed in 1970 to collectively mobilize and unite women and women's organizations throughout the region, and was re-elected to the office three times. During the same period, she served as president of the National Council of Women in St. Kitts and during her tenure launched the \"Learn to Earn\" program which gained acclaim throughout the Caribbean and Canada. The program taught entrepreneurial skills to help women gain economic independence.\n\nIn 1974, when the Labour Party created the Federation of Labour Women, Liburd was elected as its first president. The following year, she founded the Toast Mistress Club of St. Kitts and Nevis to train women in effective communication skills. Throughout the 1970s, Liburd represented the Labour Women at numerous international conferences sponsored by the United Nations. She attended the inaugural conference for the Decade for Women held in Mexico City, the mid-decade conference held in 1985 in Copenhagen; and was also a representative at the 1990 conference of Nairobi. She kept a black board updated with local events at the Masses House, in an age devoid of talk radio. The board was vandalized and removed many times, but always returned so that Liburd could exercise her right to free speech.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1985, Liburd helped anchor the Trade Union Education Institute and University of the West Indies (UWI) interdisciplinary project to provide training and leadership capacity and teach the history of women’s contributions to society as citizens, activists, laborers, and leaders. From 1985 to 1986, she served as one of the policy makers during the Caribbean Women for Democracy conferences held in The Bahamas, Dominica, and Jamaica. Liburd was an executive member of the St. Kitts and Nevis Trade and Labour Union, traveling abroad to numerous training events as its representative. In 1996, she received membership in the Order of the British Empire for her community service work.\n\nUpon retirement from the civil service, Liburd used her bonus to open a specialty shop where she sold clothing, toiletries, ginger beer, and mauby, as well as her own baked goods. She used her shop to sell local products and provide income for the women of her community who made the goods. In 2004, Liburd was honored with a \"Woman of Great Esteem\" award by the organization of the same name of New York, for her contributions to the development of women's opportunities in St. Kitts and Nevis.\n\nLiburd died 13 September 2007 in Basseterre, St. Kitts and was buried in the Springfield Cemetery in Basseterre on 25 September 2007. News of her death led lecturers from UWI to create a series of lectures called \"Forever Indebted to Women\" to highlight the contributions of Caribbean trade women to the history of their countries. The first lecture \"Annstory\" began in St. Kitts and traveled to twelve countries throughout the region, beginning at the end of 2007. In 2011, Liburd was featured in an exhibit promoted by various departments of the Government of Saint Kitts and Nevis to highlight prominent women's accomplishments.\n\n"}
{"id": "90592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90592", "title": "Baron Samedi", "text": "Baron Samedi\n\nBaron Samedi () also written Baron Samdi, Bawon Samedi, or Bawon Sanmdi, is one of the loa of Haitian Vodou. Samedi is a loa of the dead, along with Baron's numerous other incarnations Baron Cimetière, Baron La Croix, and Baron Kriminel. He is syncretized with Saint Martin de Porres.\n\nHe is the head of the Guédé family of loa. His wife is the loa Maman Brigitte.\n\nHe is usually depicted with a top hat, black tail coat, dark glasses, and cotton plugs in the nostrils, as if to resemble a corpse dressed and prepared for burial in the Haitian style. He is frequently depicted as a skeleton (but sometimes as a Black man that merely has his face painted as a skull), and speaks in a nasal voice. The former President for Life of Haiti, François Duvalier, modeled his cult of personality on Baron Samedi; he was often seen speaking in a deep nasal tone and wearing dark glasses.\n\nHe is noted for disruption, obscenity, debauchery, and having a particular fondness for tobacco and rum. Additionally, he is the loa of resurrection, and in the latter capacity he is often called upon for healing by those near or approaching death, as it is only the Baron that can accept an individual into the realm of the dead.\n\nBaron Samedi spends most of his time in the invisible realm of vodou spirits. He is notorious for his outrageous behavior, swearing continuously and making filthy jokes to the other spirits. He is married to another powerful spirit known as Maman Brigitte, but often chases after mortal women. He loves smoking and drinking and is rarely seen without a cigar in his mouth or a glass of rum in his bony fingers. Baron Samedi can usually be found at the crossroads between the worlds of the living and the dead. When someone dies, he digs their grave and greets their soul after they have been buried, leading them to the underworld.\n\nBaron Samedi is the leader of the Guédé, loa with particular links to magic, ancestor worship and death. These lesser spirits are dressed like the Baron and are as rude and crude but not nearly as charming as their master. They help carry the dead to the underworld.\n\nAs well as being master of the dead, Baron Samedi is also a giver of life. He can cure any mortal of any disease or wound, if he thinks it is worthwhile. His powers are especially great when it comes to vodou curses and black magic. Even if somebody has been afflicted by a hex that brings them to the verge of death, they will not die if the Baron refuses to dig their grave. So long as this mighty spirit keeps them out of the ground, they are safe.\n\nHe also ensures that all corpses rot in the ground to stop any soul from being brought back as a brainless zombie. What he demands in return depends on his mood. Sometimes he is content with his followers wearing black, white or purple clothes or using sacred objects; he may simply ask for a small gift of cigars, rum, black coffee, grilled peanuts, or bread. But sometimes the Baron requires a vodou ceremony to help him cross over into this world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1640634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1640634", "title": "Benny Martin", "text": "Benny Martin\n\nBenny Edward Martin (May 8, 1928 - March 13, 2001), was an American bluegrass fiddler who invented the 8-string fiddle. Throughout his musical career he performed with artists such as the Bluegrass Boys, Don Reno, the Smoky Mountain Boys and Flatt and Scruggs, and later performed and recorded with the Stanley Brothers, Jimmy Martin, Johnnie and Jack, and the Stonemans, among others. \n\nBorn in Sparta, Tennessee in White County, his father and two of his sisters played music professionally. From childhood, he learned the fiddle taught to him by Carl Alverson, Sr., of Sparta and ukulele, as well as the guitar and in his early teens left home to go to Nashville to pursue a full-time career as a country musician.\n\nMartin was working at radio station WLAC in Nashville, Tennessee in 1948 when he was asked to replace Bill Monroe's fiddler Chubby Wise who was going to leave the Bluegrass Boys. In 1949, he became a member of Don Reno's Tennessee Cutups. For the next seventeen years, until December 1966, Don Reno and Martin performed on and off together. In 1950, Martin joined Roy Acuff's Smoky Mountain Boys on the Grand Ole Opry, staying with the group until the fall of 1951. During 1951, Martin appeared on all 20 songs at Roy Acuff's last three recording sessions for Columbia Records, playing fiddle, mandolin, guitar, and banjo. In 1952, he joined Flatt and Scruggs and the Foggy Mountain Boys cutting eight songs. On these recordings he played with a bluesy and jazzy flavour that complemented Scruggs' playing. Following a tenure with Johnnie and Jack and the Tennessee Mountain Boys, he returned to Monroe's Bluegrass Boys in 1959, but left within a year. In the 1960s, he toured once again with Roy Acuff and the Smoky Mountain Boys.\n\nMartin was a member of Grand Ole Opry and had his own show, The Benny Martin Show. Over the years, Martin performed and recorded with many different artists such as the Stanley Brothers, Jimmy Martin, Johnnie and Jack, and the Stonemans. He recorded at least four singles one for Gulf Reef, \"Thinking About Love\" and \"The Man Next Door\" and three for Starday \"Hello City Limits\" \"I'll Never Get Over Loving You\", \"Pretty Girl\" \"Dimes Worth of Dreams\" and \"You are the One\" with his wife Joanne \"No One But You.\" He hired Colonel Tom Parker as his manager and eventually would work as the opening act for some of the early Elvis Presley concerts.\n\nIn 1997, after a long retirement and affliction with spasmodic dysphonia, an illness that affected his ability to talk and sing, Benny emerged to record a two part project entitled \"The 'Big Tiger' Roars Again\" (Parts 1&2) on OMS Records. Produced by Hugh Moore, the cream of contemporary Bluegrass and Country Music stars that contributed was impressive and included Vince Gill, Jerry Douglas, Ronnie McCoury, Ricky Scaggs, Terry Eldridge, Brian Sutton and Alison Krauss.\n\nMartin died in 2001 and was interred in Forest Lawn Memorial Gardens in Goodlettsville, Tennessee.\n\nMartin typified the \"country stompin'\" music, with his enthusiastic fiddling while dancing around on stage. For almost five decades he was a popular entertainer making numerous appearances throughout the United States and Europe. He also recorded a number of records on which he performed on the fiddle and sang vocals. Martin's fiddle style was revolutionary. His recordings with Flatt and Scruggs are among their best, and he's particularly remembered for \"Someone Took My Place With You,\" which exemplifies his unique use of double stops. Martin continues to astonish and influence contemporary fiddlers even now, notably in the style of Michael Cleveland, who's recorded many tunes originated by Martin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52268342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52268342", "title": "Bradley Walker (singer)", "text": "Bradley Walker (singer)\n\nBradley Walker is an American bluegrass and country music singer and songwriter.\n\nBradley Walker is a native of Athens, Alabama. He was born with muscular dystrophy, and has been in a wheelchair all his life. He was a student at East Limestone High School where he played percussion in the school band.\n\nWalker started singing when he was two or three years old, and began performing in public when he was four. When he was ten, he was invited on stage to perform with The Oak Ridge Boys, and when he was eleven, he sang with The Oak Ridge Boys on The Nashville Network's Nashville Now as well as on the Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon.\n\nHe works at the Browns Ferry Nuclear Power Plant as a Material Inventory Coordinator while pursuing a music career.\n\nIn 1998, Walker formed a band, The Trinity Mountain Boys, and began to perform at bluegrass festivals. In 2001, he joined the Georgia-based group Lost Horizon. He was signed to Rounder Records, and released his debut album, \"Highway of Dreams\", in 2006. The album was produced by Carl Jackson. For his performance on the album, he won the Male Vocalist of the Year Award from the International Bluegrass Music Association.\n\nWalker's second album, \"Call Me Old-Fashioned\", was produced by Rory Feek and recorded at the Joey + Rory studio out on their farm. Walker had known Joey and Rory Feek since 2007, and he was asked by Rory Feek to sing the hymn \"Leave It There\" at the funeral of Joey Feek in accordance with her wishes. Bill Gaither of the Gaither Music Group, who was also at the funeral service, heard Walker's performance and signed Walker to his label. The album includes a posthumous duet with Joey Feek, \"In The Time That You Gave Me\", using vocals she recorded before her death. The album was released on September 23, 2016, and debuted at No. 9 on the Top Country Albums chart.\n\nOn October 6, 2017, Walker released \"Blessed: Hymns & Songs of Faith\". The album, produced by Ben Isaacs, features collaborations with Vince Gill, Alison Krauss, Rhonda Vincent, Jimmy Fortune, The Oak Ridge Boys, The Isaacs and Ricky Skaggs.\n"}
{"id": "55862694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55862694", "title": "Carmen Lind Pettersen", "text": "Carmen Lind Pettersen\n\nCarmen Lind Pettersen (6 March 1900–1991) was a Guatemalan painter. Known for watercolors of the landscape and traditional costumes of Guatemala and her book, which is the most complete reference work on the textiles of the Guatemalan high plateau. Her works were often listed in Guidebooks for the country and in 1976, she was awarded the Order of the Quetzal for her artistic merit and has paintings in the permanent collection of the Ixchel Museum of Indigenous Textiles and Clothing.\n\nCarmen Dorotea Gehrke de María y Campos was born and baptized 6 March 1900, in Sagrario Parish, of Guatemala City, Guatemala to María Magdalena Soledad Isabel de María y Campos Hoffmann and Arthur Henry Theodore Gehrke (aka Arturo Enrique Teodoro Gehrke). Her father was a British agent for the import-export company Rosing Brothers and Company, while her mother was from Veracruz, Mexico. When the couple immigrated to Guatemala, they settled with two children, Enelda Francisca and Arthur Richard in the Jocotenango neighborhood of Guatemala City. While in Guatemala, the family grew, adding Carmen and another son, Conrad in 1903. In 1904, Arthur was transferred with Rosing Brothers to London.\n\nIn 1909, Gehrke entered the Tunbridge Wells Girls' Grammar School, a boarding school, in Royal Tunbridge Wells, where she began studying painting and developed an interest in nature, spending hours in Kew Gardens. In 1917, she began studying at the Royal Polytechnic Institution on Regent Street in London. Near the end of the war, she met Leif Lind Pettersen, who was visiting from Guatemala with his uncle Walter Lind. Walter Lind (born Lind Pettersen) was an Englishman, born to Norwegian parents, who also worked in Guatemala for Rosing Brothers and owned a coffee plantation. Earthquakes in Guatemala between 1917 and 1918 had devastated the country and in 1923, Arthur was asked to return to the country. He traveled with María and his two daughters, and the family took up residence on one of Walter Lind's farms, known as Helvetia, as Guatemala City was uninhabitable. Gehrke and Leif Lind Pettersen renewed their friendship, which quickly turned into a romance and the couple were married in 1925 in Retalhuleu. At the time of their marriage, Leif was suffering from malaria and immediately after the ceremony, Carmen took him to Guatemala City to recover.\n\nAfter Leif’s recovery, the couple bought a coffee farm known as \"La Colonia\" near El Tumbador. They managed it for several years, until 1929 when the plummet in coffee prices due to the Great Depression forced them to sell and buy a \"cinchona\" farm known as El Zapote, in the Escuintla Department on the slopes of the Volcán de Fuego. This turned out to be a precipitous purchase, as during World War II, the Japanese captured Indonesia, cutting off the supply to the seeds of the \"cinchona\", which were needed to make quinine. The demand and Leif's agreement with the United States government and Merck and Company, soon made their farm one of the largest in the area producing chinchona.\n\nIn the 1930s, Lind Pettersen began gardening on the farm and painting the landscapes she saw, focusing on the diversity of the trees and flora of the Guatemalan coastal piedmont, which few had painted or studied. Her works documented the era of transformation of jungles to rural coffee plantations, showing agricultural migration as well as environmental change. Studying design at Kew Gardens, in 1958 with the help of Venancio Tubac Salazar, she created a botanical garden which became the largest in the region. It featured three lagoons, which became a haven for migrating coastal herons, as well as large trees which were filled with parrots and other tropical birds. As an observer of her world, she began to study the costumes of the farm workers and domestics that helped on the farm. Noticing that over time the dress styles were changing, Pettersen began to draw and catalogue them. A friend sent her a collection of Mayan costumes, which Pettersen duplicated in watercolor, having her employees and friends pose as models. The work took six years to complete, and she is now known mostly for these watercolors of the traditional costumes of Guatemala. In 1976, Lind Pettersen published \"Maya of Guatemala: Vida y Traje/Life and Dress\", a bilingual book, which is the most complete reference work on the textiles of the Guatemalan high plateau. That same year, she received the Order of the Quetzal for her artistic merit of preserving the cultural heritage.\n\nIn 1984, Pettersen began losing her sight and rather than give up art, began teaching. She held an exhibit of her works in 1986 at the National School of Visual Arts and was listed in guidebooks for Guatemala as a reference for the study of textiles and for her watercolors with works on display in the 1990s at the Ixchel Museum and the Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno \"Carlos Mérida\".\n\nLind Pettersen died in 1991. She has over sixty paintings in the permanent collections of the Ixchel Museum of Indigenous Textiles and Clothing in Guatemala City. After her death, the garden she developed on their farm became a nature reserve and is opened once a month to the public. In 2017, the Ixchel Museum hosted an exhibit of around thirty of her works throughout the month of February.\n\n"}
{"id": "42260095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42260095", "title": "Charles Ball (politician)", "text": "Charles Ball (politician)\n\nCharles Ball (April 4, 1819 – March 4, 1903) was the third and fifth President of the Chico Board of Trustees, the governing body of the city of Chico, California from 1876 to 1879, and from 1882 to 1885. He was a jeweler and watchmaker.\n\nHe was the son of Jacob Green Ball from New Jersey and Lucretia Hoyt, from Norwalk, Connecticut. His mother Lucretia was the third great-granddaughter of Walter Hoyt, one of the founding settlers of Norwalk.\n\nHe left from Poughkeepsie, New York to go west while his wife was still pregnant, and his son, Alanson was only two years old in 1848. He departed from New York City on a ship that sailed to Nicaragua, where he crossed over land to the Pacific shore. From there, he sailed to Yerba Buena (the early name of San Francisco) arriving in 1849.\n\nHe made a return trip in 1850, and he is listed in the 1850 census living in Poughkeepsie on August 20.\n\nHe returned again to California, arriving in Sacramento in 1851. We know he practiced his trade there, presumably relieving miners and prospectors of gold, in exchange for watches and jewelry. He is believed to have made at least two more return trips to New York before finally bringing his wife Rebecca and now, three children, to California in late 1857 or early 1858, again by ship/land/ship crossing. He chose to relocate to Marysville, setting up his shop there.\n\nThe 1860 Census lists him with three children, in Marysville, Yuba County. He was still in Marysville at the time of Abraham Lincoln's assassination in April 1865. A letter to the Governor, with his signature, is in the California Archives. He was serving as the Adjutant to the Colonel in charge of the Marysville Rifles, a unit of the California Militia. The letter states the Militia's allegiance to the Union following the assassination, that they were wearing black armbands in mourning and would control and suppress any rabblerousing perpetrated by Confederate sympathizers.\n\nThe 1870 Census lists him as residing in Chico. The Charles Ball House (later called the International House) was built in 1869, and is one of the oldest extant structures in the city of Chico. It is one of the Third Street Language Houses located at 536 West Third Street and used to be owned by California State University, Chico. It was moved this location in the 1920s. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1991, as a contributor to the South Campus Neighborhood.\n\nHe served as President of the Chico Board of Trustees, from 1876 to 1879, and from 1882 to 1885.\n"}
{"id": "13289528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13289528", "title": "Charles Dreyfus", "text": "Charles Dreyfus\n\nCharles Dreyfus (b. Alsace, 1848 - d. Menton, France, 11 December 1935) was President of the Manchester Zionist Society, a member of Manchester City Council and a leading figure in the East Manchester Conservative Association during the time that Arthur Balfour was Member of Parliament for the constituency and Prime Minister. At Dreyfus' suggestion Balfour and future Zionist leader Chaim Weizmann first met at a constituency meeting on 27 January 1905. Dreyfus had been introduced to Weizmann by the Zionist activist and writer Joseph Massel.\n\nDreyfus was born in Alsace, France and studied chemistry in Strasbourg. He emigrated to Manchester in 1869, where he established the Clayton Aniline Company in 1876. As a councillor he led the campaign for a Jewish hospital.\n\nDreyfus was Weizmann's employer in Manchester and remained a friend until his death.\n\nCharles Dreyfus was a distant relative of Alfred Dreyfus, the young Jewish artillery officer at the centre of the notorious French political scandal, the Dreyfus affair.\n\n"}
{"id": "212822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212822", "title": "Charles Leclerc (general)", "text": "Charles Leclerc (general)\n\nCharles Victoire Emmanuel Leclerc (17 March 1772 – 2 November 1802) was a French Army general who served under Napoleon Bonaparte during the French Revolution. He was husband to Pauline Bonaparte, sister to Napoleon. In 1801, he was sent to Saint-Domingue (Haiti), where an expeditionary force under his command captured and deported the former slave Toussaint L'Ouverture, as part of an unsuccessful attempt to reassert imperial control over the Saint-Domingue government. Leclerc died of yellow fever during the failed expedition.\n\nLeclerc started his military career in 1791 during the French Revolution as one of the army volunteers of Seine-et-Oise and passed through the ranks of sous-lieutenant in the 12th Cavalry, then aide-de-camp to general Lapoype. He was made a captain and divisional chief of staff during the siege of Toulon, at which he first allied himself to Napoleon Bonaparte. Following the revolutionary success there, he campaigned along the Rhine. He began serving under Napoleon Bonaparte in the Alpine and Italian campaigns, fighting at Castiglione della Pescaia and Rivoli and rising to général de brigade in 1797. He was then charged with announcing to the French Directory the signature of the peace preliminaries at Leoben. Pauline Bonaparte was at this time receiving a large number of suitors, thus pressing her brother Napoleon Bonaparte to have her married off. On Leclerc's return, he accepted Bonaparte's offer of Pauline's hand in marriage and they married in 1797, having one child, Dermide, and occupying the Château de Montgobert.\n\nHe became chef d'état-major to generals Berthier and Brune and served in the second unsuccessful French Army military expedition to Ireland led by Jean Joseph Amable Humbert in 1798. On Bonaparte's return from the Egyptian expedition in 1798, he made Leclerc a général de division and sent him to the armée du Rhin under Moreau. At this rank Leclerc was able to participate in the coup d'etat of 18 Brumaire (in November 1799) that made his brother-in-law Napoleon First Consul of France – supported by Murat, he ordered the grenadiers to march into the room of the Council of Five Hundred. He was next noted for his participation in the Rhine campaign and the battle of Hohenlinden, receiving the supreme command of the 17th, 18th and 19th military divisions. He then passed from that post to being commander-in-chief of an army corps that Napoleon meant to send to Portugal to force it to renounce its alliance with England, though that expedition never took place.\n\nIn 1791, black slaves in the Caribbean colony of Saint-Domingue had risen up against their French owners in the Haitian Revolution, which was contemporaneous with the French Revolution. In August 1793, the French Republican commissioner Léger-Félicité Sonthonax officially abolished slavery on Saint-Domingue, as part of an effort to recruit rebel slaves to the side of the new French Republic. The prominent rebel leader Toussaint L'Ouverture, himself a former slave, joined the French Republican side shortly afterwards. By 1801, L'Ouverture had consolidated his rule over the entire island of Hispaniola, including the colony of Saint-Domingue. In July 1801, L'Ouverture promulgated a new constitution for the colony that appointed himself governor for life, while simultaneously reaffirming the colony's position as \"part of the French empire.\"\n\nUpon receiving the news in October 1801, Napoleon interpreted L'Ouverture's new constitution as an unacceptable offense to French imperial authority, and subsequently appointed Leclerc commander of a military expedition to reconquer Saint-Domingue. In his initial instructions, Bonaparte directed Leclerc to disarm L'Ouverture's black-controlled government and deport his military officers to France, while maintaining the abolition of slavery in Saint-Domingue. Bonaparte also announced intentions to reinstate slavery in neighboring Spanish Santo Domingo, which L'Ouverture had recently occupied.\n\nLeclerc set off from Brest in December 1801 and landed at Cap-Français in February 1802, with other warships and a total of 40,000 troops (including reinforcements, upwards to 80,000 troops were sent to Saint-Domingue during Leclerc's campaign), publicly repeating Bonaparte's promise that \"all of the people of Saint-Domingue are French\" and forever free. L'Ouverture's harsh discipline had made him numerous enemies and Leclerc played off the ambitions of L'Ouverture's younger key officers and competitors against each other, promising that they would maintain their ranks in the French Army and thus bringing them to abandon L'Ouverture. The French won several victories and regained control in three months after severe fighting, with L'Ouverture forced to negotiate an honorable surrender and to retire to tend his plantations under house-arrest. However, Napoleon had given secret instructions to Leclerc to arrest L'Ouverture, and so Leclerc seized L'Ouverture – during a meeting – for deportation to France, where he died while imprisoned at Fort-de-Joux in the Jura mountains in 1803.\n\nDespite his superiors' warnings, Leclerc did not consolidate his victory by disarming L'Ouverture's old officers. After a brief period in which he incorporated many of L'Ouverture's officers into his own forces, Leclerc began suffering mass defections of troops over the latter half of 1802. Those troops, along with the black and Creole population of the colony, rose up in response to news that slavery had been reestablished on Guadeloupe. The prospect of a similar restoration on Saint-Domingue swung the tide inexorably against French hopes for reimposing control, as Leclerc began executing suspected conspirators en masse.\n\nBy October 1802, Leclerc wrote to Bonaparte advocating for a war of extermination, declaring that \"We must destroy all the blacks of the mountains – men and women – and spare only children under 12 years of age. We must destroy half of those in the plains and must not leave a single colored person in the colony who has worn an epaulette.\" In that letter to Bonaparte, Leclerc also lamented his assignment, declaring \"My soul is withered, and no joyful thought can ever make forget these hideous scenes.\" In the meantime, more black and mulatto army officers had defected, including Jean Jacques Dessalines, Alexandre Pétion and Henri Christophe. After Christophe massacred several hundred Polish soldiers at Port-de-Paix following his defection, Leclerc ordered the arrest of all remaining black colonial troops in Le Cap, and executed 1000 of them by tying sacks of flour to their neck and pushing them off the side of ships.\n\nIn November 1802, Leclerc died of yellow fever, which had already decimated his invasion force. His wife Pauline returned to Europe, where she later married the Italian nobleman Camillo Borghese. Leclerc was succeeded in command by General Rochambeau, whose brutal racial warfare drove more leaders back to the rebel armies. On 18 November 1803, François Capois defeated Rochambeau's forces in the Battle of Vertières. Dessalines proclaimed the independence of Haïti and its new name on 1 January 1804. In the meantime Leclerc's body had been transported to France by his widow and buried on one of his estates.\n\nA statue at Pontoise shows him in Napoleonic uniform, his scabbard touching the earth. It was put up by marshal Davout and his second wife Louise-Aimée-Julie (Leclerc's sister) at the top of a staircase built in 1869 by François Lemot. Around 3m high, the statue is on a square stone pedestal inscribed with information on him in gold majuscule letters. It adjoins the south side of city's cathedral. There is also a statue of him by Jean Guillaume Moitte in the Pantheon de Paris.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8975426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8975426", "title": "Constant Janssen", "text": "Constant Janssen\n\nDr. Jan Constant Janssen (18 September 1895 in Belgium, Vlimmeren – 15 April 1970 in Antwerp) was a Belgian physician and businessman. He was the third child (out of four) of Adriaan Victor Janssen (1854–1942) and Anna Catharina Eelen (1855–1929). He went to high school in Hoogstraten and studied medicine at the Catholic University of Leuven and the University of Ghent. On 16 April 1925, he married Margriet Fleerackers (Turnhout, 5 January 1897-Vosselaar, 23 September 1973), together they had four children. Their oldest son, Paul Janssen, would become one of the most successful scientists in pharmaceutics.\n\nHe started his career as a family physician in Turnhout, but in addition he was interested in business too. In 1921, he met Ladislas Richter in Vienna, who was the son of Gedeon Richter, who owned a pharmaceutical factory in Budapest, Hungary. In 1933, he acquired the right to distribute the pharmaceutical products of Richter, the Hungarian pharmaceutical company, for Belgium, the Netherlands and Belgian Congo. On 23 October 1934, he founded the \"N.V. Produkten Richter\" in Turnhout. In 1937 Constant Janssen acquired an old factory building in the \"Statiestraat 78\" in Turnhout for his growing company, which he expanded during World War II into a four-storey building. In 1938 he closed his practice as a family physician and concentrated his effort of the expansion of his pharmaceutical business. His wife managed the production, quality control, and the administration of the company.\n\nStill a medical student, his son Paul Janssen helped with the development of Perdolan. After World War II, the brandname of the products was changed into \"Eupharma\", and later the company would evolve into Janssen Pharmaceutica.\n\n"}
{"id": "28051239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28051239", "title": "Criticism of Akira Kurosawa", "text": "Criticism of Akira Kurosawa\n\nDespite the extraordinary acclaim that Akira Kurosawa's work has received both in Japan and abroad, his films, as well as Kurosawa as an individual, have also been subject to considerable criticism, much of it harsh. It should, however, be noted that, for many of the accusations leveled against the filmmaker's work or his personality that are cited here, commentators taking the contrary view in defense of the director — including Kurosawa himself — have also been cited.\n\nThe majority of these negative judgments fall into one or more of the following categories: a) accusations, by European commentators, of insufficient \"Japaneseness,\" particularly compared to the work of the older director, Kenji Mizoguchi; b) accusations of sentimentality or didacticism; c) criticisms of the (alleged) political stances taken by Kurosawa in his films; d) objections to his films' treatment of women; e) accusations of elitism; f) accusations of pandering directly to the tastes of Western audiences; g) criticisms of his alleged lack of contact (after 1965) with contemporary realities; and h) claims of personal arrogance and mistreatment of colleagues.\n\nCriticism of Kurosawa during his lifetime and in the reception of his legacy have significantly followed the main currents of criticism as they emerged during his lifetime and with the reception of his individual films as they were released in his lifetime. Since the early to mid-1950s, a number of critics belonging to the French New Wave championed the films of the older Japanese master, Kenji Mizoguchi, at the expense of Kurosawa's work. New Wave critic-filmmaker Jacques Rivette, said: \"You can compare only what is comparable and that which aims high enough ... [Mizoguchi] seems to be the only Japanese director who is completely Japanese and yet is also the only one that achieves a true universality, that of an individual.\" According to such French commentators, Mizoguchi seemed, of the two artists, the more authentically Japanese. But at least one film scholar has questioned the validity of this dichotomy between \"Japanese\" Mizoguchi and \"Western\" Kurosawa by pointing out that \"Mizo\" had been as influenced by Western cinema and Western culture in general as Kurosawa, and that this is reflected in his work.\n\nA criticism frequently directed at Kurosawa's films is that the director's preoccupation with ethical and moral themes led him at times to create what some commentators regard as sentimental or naïve work. Speaking of the postwar \"slice of life\" drama \"One Wonderful Sunday\", for example, film scholar (and future politician) Audie Bock claimed that not even Kurosawa's celebrated prowess as an editor could save one particular scene from bathos: \"The last sequence ... is an excruciating twelve minutes of the boy conducting an imaginary orchestra in an empty amphitheater while his girlfriend appeals directly to the camera for the viewer to join in. Angles and focal lengths change, details of leaves scattering in the wind are intercut, but nothing makes the scene go any faster.\"\n\nSome controversy exists about the extent to which Kurosawa's films of the Second World War period could be considered propaganda. The cultural historian Peter B. High sees Kurosawa's wartime cinema as part of the propagandistic trend of Japan at war and as an example of many of these wartime conventions. High refers to his second film, \"The Most Beautiful\", as a \"dark and gloomy rendition of the standard formulas of the [home front] genre\". Another controversy centers on his alleged refusal to acknowledge Japan's wartime guilt. In one of Kurosawa's last films, \"Rhapsody in August\", an elderly survivor of the atomic attack on Nagasaki is visited by her half-Japanese, half-American nephew, Clark (Richard Gere), who appears (at least to some viewers) to apologize, as an American, for the city's wartime destruction. Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote about this film: \"A lot of people at Cannes were outraged that the film makes no mention of Pearl Harbor and Japan's atrocities in China ... If Clark can apologize for bombing Nagasaki, why can't Granny apologize for the raid on Pearl Harbor?\"\n\nA number of critics have reacted negatively to the female characters in Kurosawa's movies. Joan Mellen, in her examination of this subject, has maintained that, by the time of \"Red Beard\" (1965), \"women in Kurosawa have become not only unreal and incapable of kindness, but totally bereft of autonomy, whether physical, intellectual, or emotional ... Women at their best may only imitate the truths men discover.\" Kurosawa scholar Stephen Prince concurs with Mellen's view, though less censoriously: \"Unlike a male-oriented director like Sam Peckinpah, Kurosawa is not hostile to women, but his general lack of interest in them should be regarded as a major limitation of his work.\"\n\nIn Japan, both critics and other filmmakers have sometimes accused his work of elitism, because of his focus on exceptional, heroic individuals and groups of men. In her commentary on the deluxe DVD edition of \"Seven Samurai\", Joan Mellen maintains that certain shots of the samurai characters Kambei and Kyuzo, which to her reveal Kurosawa \"privileging\" these samurai, \"support the argument voiced by several Japanese critics that Kurosawa was an elitist ... Kurosawa was hardly a progressive director, they argued, since his peasants could not discover among their own ranks leaders who might rescue the village. Instead, justifying the inequitable class structure of their society and ours, the peasants must rely on the aristocracy, the upper class, and in particular samurai, to ensure their survival ... Kurosawa defended himself against this charge in his interview with me. 'I wanted to say that after everything the peasants were the stronger, closely clinging to the earth ... It was the samurai who were weak because they were being blown by the winds of time.\n\nBecause of Kurosawa's popularity with European and American audiences from the early 1950s onward, he has not escaped the charge of deliberately catering to the tastes of Westerners to achieve or maintain that popularity. Joan Mellen, recording the violently negative reaction (in the 1970s) of the left-wing director Nagisa Oshima to Kurosawa and his work, states: \"That Kurosawa had brought Japanese film to a Western audience meant [to Oshima] that he must be pandering to Western values and politics.\" Kurosawa always strongly denied pandering to Western tastes: \"He has never catered to a foreign audience\" writes Audie Bock, \"and has condemned those who do.\"\n\nKurosawa was often criticized by his countrymen for perceived \"arrogant\" behavior. It was in Japan that the (initially) disparaging nickname \"Kurosawa Tennō\"—\"The Emperor Kurosawa\"—was coined. \"Like tennō\", Yoshimoto claimed, \"Kurosawa is said to cloister himself in his own small world, which is completely cut off from the everyday reality of the majority of Japanese. The nickname tennō is used in this sense to create an image of Kurosawa as a director who abuses his power solely for the purpose of self-indulgence.\"\n\nIn the early to mid-1950s, while Kurosawa's films were being widely viewed in Europe and North America, the final films of a Japanese film master of the older generation, Kenji Mizoguchi, also began to be shown internationally and receive film festival prizes. This simultaneous exposure led to frequent critical comparisons between the two directors. A number of critics belonging to the French New Wave, such as Jean-Luc Godard, championed Mizoguchi's films at the expense of Kurosawa's work:\n\nSince Japanese films appeared on our screens after the war, an aesthetic dispute has ranged the admirers of Kurosawa (\"Rashomon\", \"The Seven Samurai\", \"The Idiot\") against those of Mizoguchi. A dispute made even more furious by the fact that both directors have been frequent prizewinners at festivals. Our thanks are due to Jean-José Richer for having cut authoritatively across the debate: \"This double distinction awarded in strict equality (to \"The Seven Samurai\" and \"Sansho Dayu\" [\"Sansho the Bailiff\"], Venice [Film Festival] 1954) is unwarranted… There can be no doubt that any comparison between Mizoguchi and Kurosawa turns irrefutably to the advantage of the former. Alone among the Japanese film-makers known to us, he goes beyond the seductive but minor stage of exoticism to a deeper level where one need no longer worry about false prestige\" (Cahiers du Cinéma 40).\n\nIn the same article, Godard refers to Kurosawa as \"merely a more elegant Ralph Habib\", referring to a very obscure contemporary French director who (apparently) specialized in adventure films.\n\nGodard's fellow New Wave critic-filmmaker, Jacques Rivette, writes: \"You can compare only what is comparable and that which aims high enough. Mizoguchi, alone, imposes a feeling of a unique world and language, is answerable only to himself... He seems to be the only Japanese director who is completely Japanese and yet is also the only one that achieves a true universality, that of an individual.\" \n\nAccording to these French commentators, Mizoguchi seemed, of the two artists, the more authentically Japanese. But at least one film scholar has questioned the validity of this dichotomy between \"Japanese\" Mizoguchi and \"Western\" Kurosawa: \"There were even suggestions by the influential [French film critic] André Bazin that Mizoguchi represented a more authentic Japaneseness, while Kurosawa was quite obviously influenced by the west, \"as was Mizoguchi\" [emphasis added].\"\n\nIt should be noted that Kurosawa himself deeply admired the older master, particularly his indefatigable perfectionism. In his eulogy at Mizoguchi's funeral, Kurosawa said, \"Mizoguchi's greatness was that he would do anything to heighten the reality of every scene. He never made compromises… Of all Japanese directors, I have the greatest respect for him... With the death of Mizoguchi, Japanese film has lost its truest creator.\"\n\nA criticism frequently directed at Kurosawa's films is that the director's preoccupation with ethical and moral themes led him at times to create what some commentators regard as sentimental or naïve work. Speaking of the postwar \"slice of life\" drama \"One Wonderful Sunday\", for example, film scholar (and future politician) Audie Bock claimed that not even Kurosawa's celebrated prowess as an editor could save one particular scene from bathos: \"The last sequence… is an excruciating twelve minutes of the boy conducting an imaginary orchestra in an empty amphitheater while his girlfriend appeals directly to the camera for the viewer to join in. Angles and focal lengths change, details of leaves scattering in the wind are intercut, but nothing makes the scene go any faster.\"\n\nAbout the Christmas scene in \"Scandal\", when several of the characters go to a tavern and sing Auld Lang Syne (in Japanese) together, Donald Richie writes, \"… soon all the whores are crying, the band is crying, the drunks are crying, all roaring out the lyrics. The horror of the situation (for this is plainly the genesis of the harrowing night-town sequence of \"Ikiru\") does not occur to the director. Rather, these are good and simple people and this is their moment of truth.\"\n\nOn \"Dersu Uzala\"—an acclaimed Soviet film about an early 20th-century Nanai hunter in the Siberian wilderness—scholar Joan Mellen expresses the minority view when she writes: \"Kurosawa finds an ideology… in a pantheistic belief in the magnificence of nature and in an embarrassingly archaic, Rousseauesque adulation of the 'natural man'… But the contrast between the person [Dersu] at one with his surroundings and the world of industrialization, which Kurosawa depicts only in the abstract, is largely theoretical, rendering the work a sentimental journey.\"\n\nSome commentators claim that Kurosawa can at times be excessively didactic about the ethical points he makes in his films. Donald Richie, speaking of the upright hero of \"Red Beard\" (a film he otherwise praises highly), writes: \"These [wise moral] precepts are known to Dr. Niide before the film opens; they are not revealed to him in the course of the action. As a result \"Red Beard\" contains a didactic quality absent from Kurosawa's finest works, films like \"Ikiru\", which also treat social themes.\"\n\nScholar Mitsuhiro Yoshimoto, writing of \"Ran\", claims, \"as is often the case in Kurosawa films, some of the remarks by the principal characters… sound naïve, didactic or overstated (e.g., Tango's reproval of Kyoami at the film's close: 'Do not blaspheme! It is the gods who weep. They see us killing each other over and over since time began. They can't save us from ourselves.')\" On the other hand, Yoshimoto also claims that Kurosawa may have created the cynical character of the master swordsman Sanjurō in \"Yojimbo\" as a reaction to this very perception of naïve moralism in the director's earlier work. As Kurosawa depicts him (this scholar claims), Sanjurō, who hires out his services to both corrupt sides in a town feud, does not kill these grotesque characters out of any sense of moral justice, as previous Kurosawa heroes might have done, but merely for the fun of it.\n\nDuring the Second World War, workers on all levels of the Japanese film industry were under immense pressure to create works that not only omitted the slightest criticism of the ruling military dictatorship, but that actively promoted \"kokusaku\" (\"national policy\"), that is, militarism and other aspects of fascist ideology. It was in this highly politicized atmosphere that Kurosawa began his career as a director in 1943. Therefore, some controversy exists about the extent to which his films of this period could be considered fascist propaganda.\n\nThe cultural historian Peter B. High sees Kurosawa's wartime cinema as part of the propagandistic trends of Japan at war and as an example of many of these conventions. About his second film, \"The Most Beautiful\", which High refers to as a \"dark and gloomy rendition of the standard formulas of the [home front] genre\", he writes: \"The film announces its [patriotic] spiritist message in the very first scene. Over a loudspeaker, the factory manager (Shimura Takashi) is giving his morning pep talk to the factory personnel: 'Only an indomitable spirit of deep responsibility can achieve outstanding production results. There can be no improvement in production without an improvement in personal character!' The montage cuts back and forth between Shimura and the workers lined up in military fashion. One of the lines is made up of extremely young boys – a depressing sight.\" High also points out that Kurosawa during this period demonstrated \"a talent and enthusiasm for national policy scenarios\" by writing the blatantly propagandistic 1942 film \"Winged Victory\" (also known as \"A Triumph of Wings\" or \"Victory Song of Wings\") for director Satsuo Yamamoto and submitting several other scripts that won prizes in \"people's cinema script\" contests given by the wartime Information Bureau.\n\nA few of the films Kurosawa directed after the war have also proved politically controversial. In her negative essay about the (mostly) Soviet-financed \"Dersu Uzala\", Joan Mellen strongly criticizes Kurosawa's apparent acquiescence in what she perceives as \"evident Soviet anti-Chinese propaganda.\" (The film was made during the middle 1970s, when relations between the two Communist nations were very tense, particularly regarding the Ussuri region, where the film is set.) For example, in one sequence, Dersu, his friend Arseniev and Arseniev's men find traps that have been laid in the forest for wild animals, in which the animals starve and die, to be later sold for their skins. According to Dersu, this act has been perpetrated by \"bad Chinese.\" These \"bad Chinese\" also steal the wives of local indigenous men and leave the men to die; in the course of the film, Arseniev finds several such victims and rescues them from certain death.\n\nThe narrative of one of Kurosawa's last films, \"Rhapsody in August\", centers on an elderly survivor of the atomic attack on Nagasaki who is visited by her half-Japanese, half-American nephew, Clark (Richard Gere), who appears to apologize, as an American, for the city's wartime destruction. Some viewers took Kurosawa to task for criticizing the U.S. while failing to condemn Japanese conduct during the war. Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote: \"A lot of people at Cannes were outraged that the film makes no mention of Pearl Harbor and Japan's atrocities in China… If Clark can apologize for bombing Nagasaki, why can't Granny apologize for the raid on Pearl Harbor?\" At a press conference during the Cannes Film Festival, Kurosawa, Canby reported, denied that he was trying to absolve the wartime Japanese government of responsibility: \"'We Japanese,' [Kurosawa] said, 'were also the victims of Japanese militarism.' The subject of the film, he insisted, is not guilt and responsibility but the horrors of war, in particular of the bomb, which has made possible the absolute end of everything.\"\n\nA number of critics have reacted negatively to the female characters in Kurosawa's movies. (Kurosawa himself once noted: \"Of course, all my women [in my films] are rather strange, I agree.\") Joan Mellen, in her examination of this subject, praises only the director's characterization of Yukie (Setsuko Hara), the heroine of \"No Regrets for Our Youth\", remarking that \"her face expresses the very potential of the Japanese woman that has been so often, during all these long centuries, left wasted and latent.\" Of the main female character in \"Rashomon\", Masago, Mellen claims that \"in none of the versions [of the film's self-contradictory narrative] is the woman (Machiko Kyo) granted self-respect, dignity or spiritual value,\" and argues that Masago represents one aspect of a \"whore-madonna\" dichotomy on the part of her creator.\n\nMellen also claims that, after \"Rashomon\", Kurosawa stopped portraying women's potential in his works \"as if repelled by Masago, that half-demon of his own creation.\" She maintains that many of Kurosawa's later heroines fall into one of two categories: the destructive and the masochistic woman. Speaking of \"The Idiot\", she wrote, \"the sensual woman is portrayed as the castrating bitch and the 'good' girl is devoid of any capacity for pleasure.\" In the Gorky adaptation, \"The Lower Depths\", one heroine is \"manipulative and malicious,\" and the other is \"weak and unable to survive on her own.\" By the time of \"Red Beard\" (1965), \"women in Kurosawa have become not only unreal and incapable of kindness, but totally bereft of autonomy, whether physical, intellectual, or emotional… Women at their best may only imitate the truths men discover.\"\n\nMitsuhiro Yoshimoto has noted that Kurosawa's films often offer a paradoxical bond between good and evil male protagonists, in which the distinction between them becomes blurred. Outside this \"Möbius strip of male bonding,\" any woman \"functions as a catalyst of sentimentalism by neutralizing\" this duality. \"Without being able to produce any value by herself,\" Yoshimoto writes, \"the woman in Kurosawa's films is often the embodiment of passivity threatening the solipsism of the split male subject.\"\n\nKurosawa scholar Stephen Prince concurs with the above views, though less censoriously: \"Kurosawa's is a world of men, and his interests are not piqued by the sexuality or the psychology of men and women in relation to each other… Unlike a male-oriented director like Sam Peckinpah, Kurosawa is not hostile to women, but his general lack of interest in them should be regarded as a major limitation of his work.\"\n\nIn Japan, critics and other filmmakers, conscious of Kurosawa's samurai background, have sometimes accused his work of elitism, because of his focus on exceptional, heroic individuals and groups of men. In one scene in \"Yojimbo\", the samurai anti-hero Sanjurō, having reneged on his agreement to fight for one of two factions in a feuding town, retreats to a high watchtower to watch, with considerable amusement, the two sides battle it out. This scene greatly offended the filmmaker Masahiro Shinoda, who interpreted the samurai's climb into the watchtower as symbolic of the director's detached, above-it-all attitude towards the chaotic social conditions he was depicting in the film.\n\nIn her commentary on the deluxe DVD edition of \"Seven Samurai\", Joan Mellen maintains that certain shots of the samurai characters Kambei and Kyuzo, which to her reveal Kurosawa \"privileging\" these samurai, \"support the argument voiced by several Japanese critics that Kurosawa was an elitist\":\n\nKurosawa was hardly a progressive director, they argued, since his peasants could not discover among their own ranks leaders who might rescue the village. Instead, justifying the inequitable class structure of their society and ours, the peasants must rely on the aristocracy, the upper class, and in particular samurai, to ensure their survival… Tadao Sato, in particular, objected to Kurosawa's view that only a handful of people are great... Worst of all, the farmers are too stupid. Kurosawa defended himself against this charge in his interview with me. 'I wanted to say that after everything the peasants were the stronger, closely clinging to the earth… It was the samurai who were weak because they were being blown by the winds of time.'\n\nBecause of Kurosawa's popularity with Western audiences from the early 1950s onward, he has not escaped the charge of deliberately catering to the tastes of Westerners to achieve or maintain that popularity. Joan Mellen, recording the violently negative reaction (in the 1970s) of the left-wing director Nagisa Oshima to Kurosawa and his work, states: \"That Kurosawa had brought Japanese film to a Western audience meant [to Oshima] that he must be pandering to Western values and politics.\"\n\nKurosawa always strongly denied pandering to Western tastes: \"He has never catered to a foreign audience\" writes Audie Bock, \"and has condemned those who do.\" However, he did concede in an interview that part of the reason he employed dynamic \"Western\" stylistic elements in his films was to attract the young \"Japanese\" audience of that time. Japanese youth (in the director's view) often preferred the exciting styles of American and European films and were ignorant of or indifferent to their native history and culture. \"In order for them to understand I have to translate, as it were… [In \"Seven Samurai\"] under Mifune's scenes, I had [composer Fumio] Hayasaka put in a mambo. If purely Japanese music had been used I don't think the young people would have felt what that character was like, how much he resembled them… Oh, I'm Japanese all right. I'm truly Japanese.\"\n\nSeveral critics maintain that sometime around the mid-1960s, Kurosawa appeared to lose touch with (or perhaps interest in) the contemporary sociopolitical realities of Japan. Writes Stephen Prince: \"The tide of popular activism [in 1960s Japan] is relevant to \"Red Beard\" and to the films that followed because of its glaring absence from their narratives and concerns, because of the adamant refusal by these films to believe that society could be made better… By contrast [with the Japanese New Wave filmmakers], with evidence readily at hand of democratic protest in modern Japan… Kurosawa chose in his work to retreat to the past and to mythical spaces. The resurgent pessimism of the late films is defiant indeed.\"\n\nAudie Bock, writing in 1978, claims that the humanist ideology that sustained the director during previous decades was no longer relevant: \"By the time \"Red Beard\" was released, in 1965, the postwar era of values like 'humanism,' 'culture' and 'democracy' was over. Those who still flock to see it today do so not because it says something about contemporary Japan, but because it is a kind of summary statement of Kurosawa's values and technical virtuosity… it is the alienation of contemporary society from humanistic values that accounts for [his later films'] feeling of didactic remoteness… The shantytown atmosphere of \"Dodeskaden\" is hard to find in contemporary wealthy Japan, and the man in unspoiled nature represented by Dersu [Uzala] is hard to find anywhere in the world.\"\n\nDuring his lifetime, Kurosawa was often criticized by his countrymen for perceived \"arrogant\" behavior. \"Particularly in Japan,\" writes Mitsuhiro Yoshimoto, \"it is not unusual to find what is supposed to be a review or criticism of his films lapsing into a critic's personal commentary, impressions, or attack on Kurosawa as a director or as a person.\" It was in Japan that the (initially) disparaging nickname \"Kurosawa Tennō\" – \"The Emperor Kurosawa\" – was coined. \"Like tennō,\" Yoshimoto claimed, \"Kurosawa is said to cloister himself in his own small world, which is completely cut off from the everyday reality of the majority of Japanese. The nickname tennō is used in this sense to create an image of Kurosawa as a director who abuses his power solely for the purpose of self-indulgence.\"\n\nOn the sets of his productions, Kurosawa acquired a reputation as a stern taskmaster and even, for some, a dictator. It is well documented that, during the shooting of \"Seven Samurai\", he was particularly harsh to Yoshio Inaba, the actor who played Gorobei, Kambei's second-in-command, and Inaba subsequently appeared in only one other film for the director (\"Throne of Blood\") in a minor role.\n\nHe could even sometimes be hard on seasoned, highly respected film professionals. During the filming of \"Yojimbo\", he lost his temper with cinematographer Kazuo Miyagawa, who has been called \"quite simply, Japan's preeminent cinematographer.\" But when one of Miyagawa's assistants asked him, \"Why don't you get angry when Kurosawa yells at you?\" Miyagawa answered, \"Look at Kurosawa. He devotes himself completely to his work. No other director works so hard to achieve the ideal shot he has envisioned in his mind. I have no right to say anything to someone like him.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8551", "title": "David", "text": "David\n\nDavid is described in the Hebrew Bible as the second king of the United Kingdom of Israel and Judah.\n\nIn the biblical narrative, David is a young shepherd who first gains fame as a musician and later by killing Goliath. He becomes a favorite of King Saul and a close friend of Saul's son Jonathan. Worried that David is trying to take his throne, Saul turns on David. After Saul and Jonathan are killed in battle, David is anointed as King. David conquers Jerusalem, taking the Ark of the Covenant into the city, and establishing the kingdom founded by Saul. As king, David commits adultery with Bathsheba, leading him to arrange the death of her husband Uriah the Hittite. Because of this sin, God denies David the opportunity to build the temple, and his son Absalom tries to overthrow him. David flees Jerusalem during Absalom's rebellion, but after Absalom's death he returns to the city to rule Israel. Before his peaceful death, he chooses his son Solomon as successor. He is honored in the prophetic literature as an ideal king and an ancestor of a future Messiah, and many psalms are ascribed to him.\n\nHistorians of the Ancient Near East agree that David probably existed around 1000 BCE, but that there is little that can be said about him as a historical figure. There is no direct evidence outside of the Bible concerning David, but the Tel Dan Stele, an inscribed stone erected by a king of Damascus in the late 9th/early 8th centuries BCE to commemorate his victory over two enemy kings, contains the phrase , \"bytdwd\", consisting of the Hebrew words \"house\" and \"David\", which most scholars translate as \"House (Dynasty) of David\". Ancient Near East historians generally doubt that the united monarchy as described in the Bible existed.\n\nDavid is richly represented in post-biblical Jewish written and oral tradition, and is discussed in the New Testament. Early Christians interpreted the life of Jesus in light of the references to the Messiah and to David; Jesus is described as being descended from David. David is discussed in the Quran and figures in Islamic oral and written tradition as well. The biblical character of David has inspired many interpretations in fictional literature over centuries.\n\nThe first book of Samuel portrays David as the youngest of the eight sons of Jesse of Bethlehem. His mother is not named in any book of the Bible, but the Talmud identifies her as Nitzevet daughter of Adael. When the story was retold in 1 Chronicles (4th century BCE) he was made the youngest of seven sons and given two sisters, Zeruiah and Abigail. The Book of Ruth (possibly also 4th century BCE) traces his ancestry back to Ruth the Moabite.\n\nDavid is described as cementing his relations with various political and national groups through marriage. King Saul initially offered David his oldest daughter Merab. David did not refuse the offer, but humbled himself in front of Saul to be considered among the King's family. Saul reneged and instead gave Merab in marriage to Adriel the Meholathite. Having been told that his younger daughter Michal was in love with David, Saul gave her in marriage to David upon David's payment in Philistine foreskins. Saul became jealous of David and tried to have him killed. David escaped. Then Saul sent Michal to Galim to marry Palti, son of Laish. David then took wives in Hebron, according to 2 Samuel 3; they were Ahinoam the Yizre'elite, Abigail - the wife of Nabal the Carmelite, Maacah - the daughter of Talmay, king of Geshur, Haggith, Abital, and Eglah. Later, David wanted Michal back and Saul's son Ish-boshet delivered her to David, causing her husband (Palti) great grief.\n\nThe Book of Chronicles lists his sons with his various wives and concubines. In Hebron, David had six sons: Amnon, by Ahinoam; Daniel, by Abigail; Absalom, by Maachah; Adonijah, by Haggith; Shephatiah, by Abital; and Ithream, by Eglah. By Bathsheba, his sons were Shammua, Shobab, Nathan and Solomon. David's sons born in Jerusalem of his other wives included Ibhar, Elishua, Eliphelet, Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia, Elishama and Eliada. Jerimoth, who is not mentioned in any of the genealogies, is mentioned as another of his sons in . His daughter Tamar, by Maachah, is a key character in the incident of her rape by one of her half-brothers.\n\nGod is angered when Saul, Israel's king, unlawfully offers a sacrifice and later disobeys a divine command both to kill all of the Amalekites and to destroy their confiscated property. Consequently, God sends the prophet Samuel to anoint a shepherd, David, the youngest son of Jesse of Bethlehem, to be king instead.\nAfter God sends an evil spirit to torment Saul, his courtiers recommend that he send for David, a man skillful on the lyre, wise in speech, and brave in battle. David thus enters Saul's service as one of the royal armour-bearers and plays the lyre to soothe the king.\nWar comes between Israel and the Philistines, and the giant Goliath challenges the Israelites to send out a champion to face him in single combat. David, sent by his father to bring provisions to his brothers serving in Saul's army, declares that he can defeat Goliath. Refusing the king's offer of the royal armour, he kills Goliath with his sling. Saul inquires the name of the young hero's father.\n\nSaul sets David over his army. All Israel loves David, but his popularity causes Saul to fear him (\"What else can he wish but the kingdom?\"). Saul plots his death, but Saul's son Jonathan, one of those who loves David, warns him of his father's schemes and David flees. He goes first to Nob, where he is fed by the priest Ahimelech and given Goliath's sword, and then to Gath, the Philistine city of Goliath, intending to seek refuge with King Achish there. Achish's servants or officials question his loyalty, and David sees that he is in danger there. He goes next to the cave of Adullam, where his family join him. From there he goes to seek refuge with the king of Moab, but the prophet Gad advises him to leave and he goes to the Forest of Hereth, and then to Keilah, where he is involved in a further battle with the Philistines. Saul plans to besiege Keilah so that he can capture David, so David leaves the city in order to protect its inhabitants. From there he takes refuge in the mountainous Wilderness of Ziph.\nJonathan meets with David again and confirms his loyalty to David as the future king. After the people of Ziph notify Saul that David is taking refuge in their territory, Saul seeks confirmation and plans to capture David in the Wilderness of Maon, but his attention is diverted by a renewed Philistine invasion and David is able to secure some respite at Ein Gedi. Returning from battle with the Philistines, Saul heads to Ein Gedi in pursuit of David and enters the cave where, as it happens, David and his supporters are hiding, \"to attend to his needs\". David realises he has an opportunity to kill Saul, but this is not his intention: he secretly cuts off a corner of Saul's robe, and when Saul has left the cave he comes out to pay homage to Saul as the king and to demonstrate, using the piece of robe, that he holds no malice towards Saul. The two are thus reconciled and Saul recognises David as his successor.\n\nA similar passage occurs in 1 Samuel 26, when David is able to infiltrate Saul's camp on the hill of Hachilah and remove his spear and a jug of water from his side while he and his guards lie asleep. In this account, David is advised by Abishai that this is his opportunity to kill Saul, but David declines, saying he will not \"stretch out [his] hand against the Lord's anointed\". Saul confesses that he has been wrong to pursue David and blesses him.\n\nA different tradition is recalled in , namely that Saul ceased to pursue David because David took refuge a second time with Achish, the Philistine king of Gath. Achish permits David to reside in Ziklag, close to the border between Gath and Judea, from where he leads raids against the Geshurites, the Girzites and the Amalekites, but leads Achish to believe he is attacking the Israelites in Judah, the Jerahmeelites and the Kenites. Achish believes that David had become a loyal vassal, but he never wins the trust of the princes or lords of Gath, and at their request Achish instructs David to remain behind to guard the camp when the Philistines march against Saul. David returns to Ziklag. Jonathan and Saul are killed in battle, and David is anointed king over Judah. In the north, Saul's son Ish-Bosheth is anointed king of Israel, and war ensues until Ish-Bosheth is murdered.\nWith the death of Saul's son, the elders of Israel come to Hebron and David is anointed king over all of Israel. He conquers Jerusalem, previously a Jebusite stronghold, and makes it his capital. He brings the Ark of the Covenant to the city, intending to build a temple for God, but the prophet Nathan forbids it, prophesying that the temple would be built by one of David's sons. Nathan also prophesies that God has made a covenant with the house of David stating, \"your throne shall be established forever\". David wins additional victories over the Philistines, Moabites, Edomites, Amalekites, Ammonites and king Hadadezer of Aram-Zobah, after which they become tributaries.\n\nDuring a siege of the Ammonite capital of Rabbah, David remains in Jerusalem. He spies a woman, Bathsheba, bathing and summons her; she becomes pregnant. The text in the Bible does not explicitly state whether Bathsheba consented to sex. David calls her husband, Uriah the Hittite, back from the battle to rest, hoping that he will go home to his wife and the child will be presumed to be his. Uriah does not visit his wife, however, so David conspires to have him killed in the heat of battle. David then marries the widowed Bathsheba. In response, Nathan prophesies the punishment that will fall upon him, stating \"the sword shall never depart from your house.\" When David acknowledges that he has sinned, Nathan advises him that his sin is forgiven and he will not die, but the child will.\n\nIn fulfillment of Nathan's words, David's son Absalom, fueled by vengeance and lust for power, rebels. Absalom's forces are routed at the battle of the Wood of Ephraim, and he is caught by his long hair in the branches of a tree where, contrary to David's order, he is killed by Joab, the commander of David's army. David laments the death of his favourite son: \"O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! Would I had died instead of you, O Absalom, my son, my son!\" until Joab persuades him to recover from \"the extravagance of his grief\" and to fulfil his duty to his people. David returns to Gilgal and is escorted across the River Jordan and back to Jerusalem by the tribes of Judah and Benjamin.\nWhen David is old and bedridden, Adonijah, his eldest surviving son and natural heir, declares himself king. Bathsheba and Nathan go to David and obtain his agreement to crown Bathsheba's son Solomon as king, according to David's earlier promise, and the revolt of Adonijah is put down. David dies at the age of 70 after reigning for 40 years, and on his deathbed counsels Solomon to walk in the ways of God and to take revenge on his enemies.\n\nThe Book of Samuel calls David a skillful harp (lyre) player and \"the sweet psalmist of Israel.\" Yet, while almost half of the Psalms are headed \"A Psalm of David\" (also translated as \"to David\" or \"for David\") and tradition identifies several with specific events in David's life (e.g., Psalms 3, 7, 18, 34, 51, 52, 54, 56, 57, 59, 60, 63 and 142), the headings are late additions and no psalm can be attributed to David with certainty.\n\nPsalm 34 is attributed to David on the occasion of his escape from Abimelech (or King Achish) by pretending to be insane. According to the parallel narrative in 1 Samuel 21, instead of killing the man who had exacted so many casualties from him, Abimelech allows David to depart, exclaiming, \"Am I so short of madmen that you have to bring this fellow here to carry on like this in front of me? Must this man come into my house?\"\n\nThe Tel Dan Stele, an inscribed stone erected by a king of Damascus in the late 9th/early 8th centuries BCE to commemorate his victory over two enemy kings, contains the phrase , \"bytdwd\", which most scholars translate as \"House of David\". Other scholars, such as Anson Rainey have challenged this reading, but it is likely that this is a reference to a dynasty of the Kingdom of Judah which traced its ancestry to a founder named David. The Mesha Stele from Moab, dating from approximately the same period, may also contain the name David in two places, although this is less certain than the mention in the Tel Dan inscription. \n\nBesides the two steles, bible scholar and egyptologist Kenneth Kitchen suggests that David's name also appears in a relief of Pharaoh Shoshenq (usually identified with Shishak in the Bible, 1 Kings 14:25-27). The relief claims that Shoshenq raided places in Palestine in 925 BCE, and Kitchen interprets one place as \"Heights of David\", which was in Southern Judah and the Negev where the Bible says David took refuge from Saul. The relief is damaged and interpretation is uncertain.\n\nApart from these, all that is known of David comes from the biblical literature. The Books of Samuel were substantially composed during the time of King Josiah at the end of the 7th century BCE, extended during the Babylonian exile (6th century BCE), and substantially complete by about 550 BCE, although further editing was done even after then—the silver quarter-shekel which Saul's servant offers to Samuel in 1 Samuel 9 \"almost certainly fixes the date of the story in the Persian or Hellenistic period\". The authors and editors of Samuel drew on many earlier sources, including, for their history of David, the \"history of David's rise\" (1 Samuel 16:14–2 Samuel 5:10), and the \"succession narrative\" (2 Samuel 9–20 and 1 Kings 1–2). The Book of Chronicles, which tells the story from a different point of view, was probably composed in the period 350–300 BCE, and uses Samuel as its source.\n\nThe authors and editors of Samuel and Chronicles did not aim to record history, but to promote David's reign as inevitable and desirable, and for this reason there is little about David that is concrete and undisputed. The archaeological evidence indicates that in the 10th century BCE, the time of David, Judah was sparsely inhabited and Jerusalem was no more than a small village; over the following century it slowly evolved from a highland chiefdom to a kingdom, but always overshadowed by the older and more powerful kingdom of Israel to the north. The biblical evidence likewise indicates that David's Judah was something less than a full-fledged monarchy: it often calls him \"negid\", for example, meaning \"prince\" or \"chief\", rather than \"melek\", meaning \"king\"; the biblical David sets up none of the complex bureaucracy that a kingdom needs (even his army is made up of volunteers), and his followers are largely related to him and from his small home-area around Hebron.\n\nBeyond this, the full range of possible interpretations is available. The late John Bright, in his \"History of Israel\" (1981), takes Samuel at face value. Donald B. Redford, however, sees all reconstructions from biblical sources for the United Monarchy period as examples of \"academic wishful thinking\". Thomas L. Thompson rejects the historicity of the biblical narrative: \"The history of Palestine and of its peoples is very different from the Bible's narratives, whatever political claims to the contrary may be. An independent history of Judea during the Iron I and Iron II periods has little room for historicizing readings of the stories of I-II Samuel and I Kings.\" Amihai Mazar however, concludes that based on recent archeological findings, like those in City of David, Khirbet Qeiyafa, Tel Dan, Tel Rehov, Khirbet en-Nahas and others \"the deconstruction of United Monarchy and the devaluation of Judah as a state in 9th century is unacceptable interpretation of available historic data\". According to Mazar, based on archeological evidences, the United Monarchy can be described as a \"state in development\".\n\nSome studies of David have been written: Baruch Halpern has pictured David as a lifelong vassal of Achish, the Philistine king of Gath; Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman have identified as the oldest and most reliable section of Samuel those chapters which describe David as the charismatic leader of a band of outlaws who captures Jerusalem and makes it his capital. Steven McKenzie, Associate Professor of the Hebrew Bible at Rhodes College and author of \"King David: A Biography\", argues that David came from a wealthy family, was \"ambitious and ruthless\" and a tyrant who murdered his opponents, including his own sons.\n\nCritical Bible scholarship holds that the biblical account of David's rise to power is a political apology—an answer to contemporary charges against him, of his involvement in murders and regicide.\n\nIsrael Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman reject the idea that David ruled over a united monarchy, suggesting instead that he ruled only as a chieftain over the southern kingdom of Judah, much smaller than the northern kingdom of Israel at that time. They posit that Israel and Judah were still polytheistic in the time of David and Solomon, and that much later seventh-century redactors sought to portray a past golden age of a united, monotheistic monarchy in order to serve contemporary needs. They note a lack of archeological evidence for David's military campaigns and a relative underdevelopment of Jerusalem, the capital of Judah, compared to a more developed and urbanized Samaria, capital of Israel.\n\nJacob L. Wright, Associate Professor of Hebrew Bible at Emory University, has written that the most popular legends about David, including his killing of Goliath, his affair with Bathsheba, and his ruling of a United Kingdom of Israel rather than just Judah, are the creation of those who lived generations after him, in particular those living in the late Persian or Hellenistic periods.\n\nDavid is an important figure in Rabbinic Judaism, with many legends around him. According to one tradition, David was raised as the son of his father Jesse and spent his early years herding his father's sheep in the wilderness while his brothers were in school.\n\nDavid's adultery with Bathsheba is interpreted as only an opportunity to demonstrate the power of repentance, and the Talmud states that it was not adultery at all, quoting a Jewish practice of divorce on the eve of battle. Furthermore, according to Talmudic sources, the death of Uriah was not to be considered murder, on the basis that Uriah had committed a capital offense by refusing to obey a direct command from the King. However, in tractate Sanhedrin, David expressed remorse over his transgressions and sought forgiveness. God ultimately forgave David and Bathsheba but would not remove their sins from Scripture.\n\nAccording to midrashim, Adam gave up 70 years of his life for the life of David. Also, according to the Talmud Yerushalmi, David was born and died on the Jewish holiday of Shavuot (Feast of Weeks). His piety was said to be so great that his prayers could bring down things from Heaven.\n\nThe concept of the Messiah is important in Christianity. Originally an earthly king ruling by divine appointment (\"the anointed one\", as the title Messiah had it), the \"son of David\" became in the last two pre-Christian centuries the apocalyptic and heavenly one who would deliver Israel and usher in a new kingdom. This was the background to the concept of Messiahship in early Christianity, which interpreted the career of Jesus \"by means of the titles and functions assigned to David in the mysticism of the Zion cult, in which he served as priest-king and in which he was the mediator between God and man\". The early Church believed that \"the life of David [foreshadowed] the life of Christ; Bethlehem is the birthplace of both; the shepherd life of David points out Christ, the Good Shepherd; the five stones chosen to slay Goliath are typical of the five wounds; the betrayal by his trusted counsellor, Achitophel, and the passage over the Cedron remind us of Christ's Sacred Passion. Many of the Davidic Psalms, as we learn from the New Testament, are clearly typical of the future Messiah.\" In the Middle Ages, \"Charlemagne thought of himself, and was viewed by his court scholars, as a 'new David'. [This was] not in itself a new idea, but [one whose] content and significance were greatly enlarged by him\". The linking of David to earthly kingship was reflected in later Medieval cathedral windows all over Europe through the device of the Tree of Jesse, its branches demonstrating how divine kingship descended from Jesse, through his son David, to Jesus.\n\nWestern Rite churches (Lutheran, Roman Catholic) celebrate his feast day on 29 December, Eastern-rite on 19 December. The Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches celebrate the feast day of the \"Holy Righteous Prophet and King David\" on the Sunday of the Holy Forefathers (two Sundays before the Great Feast of the Nativity of the Lord), when he is commemorated together with other ancestors of Jesus. He is also commemorated on the Sunday after the Nativity, together with Joseph and James, the Brother of the Lord.\n\nIn European Christian culture of the Middle Ages, David was made a member of the Nine Worthies, a group of heroes encapsulating all the ideal qualities of chivalry. His life was thus proposed as a valuable subject for study by those aspiring to chivalric status. This aspect of David in the Nine Worthies was popularised firstly through literature, and was thereafter adopted as a frequent subject for painters and sculptors.\n\nDavid was considered as a model ruler and a symbol of divinely-ordained monarchy throughout medieval Western Europe and Eastern Christendom. David was perceived as the biblical predecessor to Christian Roman and Byzantine emperors and the name \"New David\" was used as an honorific reference to these rulers. The Georgian Bagratids and the Solomonic dynasty of Ethiopia claimed a direct biological descent from him. Likewise, kings of the Frankish Carolingian dynasty frequently connected themselves to David; Charlemagne himself occasionally used the name of David as his pseudonym.\n\nDavid is an important figure in Islam as one of the major prophets sent by God to guide the Israelites. David is mentioned several times in the Quran with the Arabic name داود, \"Dāwūd\", often with his son Solomon. In the Qur'an: David killed Goliath (2:251), a giant soldier in the Philistine army. When David killed Goliath, God granted him kingship and wisdom and enforced it (38:20). David was made God's \"vicegerent on earth\" (38:26) and God further gave David sound judgment (21:78; 37:21–24, 26) as well as the Psalms, regarded as books of divine wisdom (4:163; 17:55). The birds and mountains united with David in uttering praise to God (21:79; 34:10; 38:18), while God made iron soft for David (34:10), God also instructed David in the art of fashioning chain-mail out of iron (21:80); an indication of the first use of wrought iron, this knowledge gave David a major advantage over his bronze and cast iron-armed opponents, not to mention the cultural and economic impact. Together with Solomon, David gave judgment in a case of damage to the fields (21:78) and David judged the matter between two disputants in his prayer chamber (38:21–23). Since there is no mention in the Qur'an of the wrong David did to Uriah nor any reference to Bathsheba, Muslims reject this narrative.\n\nMuslim tradition and the \"hadith\" stress David's zeal in daily prayer as well as in fasting. Qur'an commentators, historians and compilers of the numerous \"Stories of the Prophets\" elaborate upon David's concise Qur'anic narratives and specifically mention David's gift in singing his Psalms as well as his musical and vocal talents. His voice is described as having had a captivating power, weaving its influence not only over man but over all beasts and nature, who would unite with him to praise God.\n\nLiterary works about David include:\n\n\n\nDavid has been depicted several times in films; these are some of the best-known:\n\n\n\n\nFor a considerable period, starting in the 15th century and continuing until the 19th, French playing card manufacturers assigned to each of the court cards names taken from history or mythology. In this context, the King of Spades was often known as \"David\".\n\n\n\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "33185413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33185413", "title": "Death of Michael Faherty", "text": "Death of Michael Faherty\n\nMichael Faherty (also known as \"Micheál Ó Fátharta\"; 1934–2010) was a 76-year-old man who was found burned to death in the living room of his home at Clareview Park, Ballybane, Galway, on 22 December 2010. His body was partly consumed by a fire that was driven by the wick effect, which commonly occurs near, and is aided by, an open fireplace. His death was recorded as \"spontaneous combustion\" by the coroner.\n\nIn the early hours of 22 December 2010, Faherty's neighbour, a Mr Mannion, was awakened by the sound of his smoke alarm. Mannion went outside to find heavy smoke coming from Faherty's house. Getting no answer from Faherty's house, he roused local residents and the Gardaí and the fire brigade was called.\n\nFaherty's home was searched by forensic experts from the Gardaí and the fire service. Faherty's body had been found lying on his back with his head closest to an open fireplace. The fire had been entirely confined to the sitting room and the only damage found was to the totally burnt body, the ceiling above and the floor beneath him. No trace of any accelerants was found and there was nothing to suggest foul play had taken place. Assistant chief fire officer Gerry O'Malley told the inquest into the death that after a thorough investigation, fire officers were satisfied that the open fire was not the cause of the blaze which led to Faherty's death.\n\nA post-mortem carried out by pathologist Grace Callagy noted that Faherty had suffered from Type 2 diabetes and hypertension but had not died from heart failure. Callagy concluded that \"The extensive nature of the burns sustained precludes determining the precise cause of death.\"\n\nIn September 2011, the west Galway coroner, Dr Ciaran McLoughlin, informed the inquiry into the death that he searched medical literature to determine the cause of death. The coroner referred to Professor Bernard Knight's book on forensic pathology, which states that a high number of alleged incidents of spontaneous human combustion had taken place near an open fireplace or chimney.\n\nThe coroner subsequently made a statement to an inquiry: \"This fire was thoroughly investigated and I'm left with the conclusion that this fits into the category of spontaneous human combustion, for which there is no adequate explanation.\"\n\nMike Green, a retired professor of pathology, related one similar case in his career, but would not himself use the term spontaneous combustion. He believed there had to be some source of ignition, a cigarette or ember from a fire. The source of the ignition is subsequently lost as the body burns. Green surmised that the circumstances surrounding the death of Michael Faherty were very similar to other possible cases. Green also dismissed any explanations centred on divine intervention.\n\nBenjamin Radford, science writer and deputy editor of the science magazine \"Skeptical Inquirer\", contends, \"Faherty's case may not be as mysterious as it looks. There was, after all, an open fire close to his burned body. It seems likely that a spark or ember might have popped from the fire onto his clothing, and caught his clothing on fire. It's not clear why the coroner conclusively ruled this explanation out.\" Radford also casts doubt on the plausibility of spontaneous human combustion, \"If SHC is a real phenomenon (and not the result of an elderly or infirm person being too close to a flame source), why doesn't it happen more often?\"\n"}
{"id": "648294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648294", "title": "Dennis DeYoung", "text": "Dennis DeYoung\n\nDennis DeYoung (born February 18, 1947) is an American singer-songwriter, musician and producer best known for being a founding member of the rock band Styx as primary lead vocalist and keyboardist, a tenure that lasted from 1970 until June 1999. DeYoung has been credited as the writer of more Styx songs than any other Styx member. He was also the band's most successful writer, penning 7 of the band's 8 Billboard Top 10 singles as well as a solo top 10 single.\n\nDennis DeYoung was born on February 18, 1947 in Chicago, Illinois to parents Maurice and Loraine DeYoung. Growing up in the Roseland area of Chicago, DeYoung started his career as a vocalist in 1961 at the age of 14 when he teamed up with his 13-year-old neighbors Chuck and John Panozzo in a three-piece combo. The trio later added guitarist James Young and John Curulewski to form the band Tradewinds in the late 1960s. The band renamed itself TW4 in 1968 before becoming Styx in 1970.\n\nBefore the band met with success, DeYoung spent time as an elementary school teacher in the southern suburbs of Chicago, where he taught music at a variety of schools. During this period, the band played a number of small venues and school auditoriums, refining their craft before the song \"Lady\" propelled them to national, then international, stardom.\n\nOn January 18, 1970, DeYoung married his longtime sweetheart Suzanne Feusi. The couple have two children, daughter Carrie Ann and son Matthew. Suzanne DeYoung frequently joined her husband on the road, and eventually their children came along as well, as a way to provide stability for their family.\n\nDeYoung is an avid fan of the Chicago White Sox.\n\nWithin Styx, DeYoung acted as lead vocalist, keyboardist, accordion player, producer, and songwriter. From the start of Styx's commercial success with the 1972 DeYoung-penned single \"Lady\", DeYoung became the creative force behind most of the band's hit songs. DeYoung wrote and sang lead on six of the band's seven top 10 \"Billboard\" Hot 100-ranked hits during this period, with Tommy Shaw's \"Too Much Time on My Hands\" (#9) being the sole exception. The seven DeYoung penned-and-performed Top 10 Billboard hits, in order of their peak chart placement:\n\n\nA self-taught keyboardist, DeYoung quickly became one of the most notable keyboard players in rock. Featured on the cover of the January 1981 issue of \"Contemporary Keyboard\" magazine (a story that was reprinted in \"Contemporary Keyboard\"'s book on the greatest rock keyboardists), DeYoung described many of his steps along the way through his keyboard-playing career: He'd never played an acoustic piano until the recording session for 1972's \"Lady\"; he recorded the track for 1979's \"Babe\" in a friend's basement on a Rhodes electric piano he'd never touched before; the odd feeling of switching back to playing accordion for the song \"Boat on the River\" and discovering how small the keys felt to his fingers after years of playing electric organs and pianos.\n\nAs a keyboardist in Styx, DeYoung was best remembered for his prominent lead synthesizer solos performed on the Oberheim synthesizer that dominated the mix with a unique tone, a key element of the Styx sound. Influenced by the recent release of Emerson, Lake & Palmer's first album, DeYoung – a novice synthesizer player at the time – used a modular Moog to record the keyboard tracks for Styx's debut album in 1972. This album featured a rock version of \"Fanfare for the Common Man\", more than 5 years before ELP came up with a similar idea of recording this classical composition as a rock band featuring the synthesizer that would later become one of ELP's best known recordings.\n\nDeYoung's songs often had a grandiose style to them in the tradition of 1970s theatrical rock, which heavily influenced the group's direction in the late 1970s, culminating in the concept albums \"Paradise Theatre\" (1981) and \"Kilroy Was Here\" (1983). The dissent of some members in the band during \"Kilroy\" brought tensions between the group's members over the future direction of the band, leading to guitarist Tommy Shaw's departure in 1984.\n\nWith Styx in limbo following Shaw's 1984 departure, DeYoung began a solo career of modest success. His first solo album, \"Desert Moon\" (1984), generated a top 10 hit, \"Desert Moon\", and the follow-up single, \"Don't Wait for Heroes\", cracked the \"Billboard\" Top 100 as well. The \"Desert Moon\" album was certified gold in Canada in 1984.\n\nDeYoung's solo career continued with \"Back to the World\" (1986), which contained the singles \"Call Me\" and \"This Is the Time\" which was featured in the soundtrack of \"Karate Kid II\" (1986) movie. His third solo album \"Boomchild\" (1988) failed to have a hit single, though the video for \"Boomchild\" received a fair amount of music video airplay.\n\nAfter a five-year hiatus; DeYoung and several other members of Styx began discussing a possible reunion in 1989. By December 1989 Styx had unofficially reformed. Tommy Shaw, who joined Damn Yankees in 1988, did not return.\n\nIn 1990, Styx (minus Tommy Shaw, who was replaced by guitarist/singer-songwriter Glen Burtnik) returned to the studio for the album \"Edge of the Century\" (1990). \"Show Me the Way\", a track written by DeYoung for his son Matthew, received extensive radio play, peaking at #3 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart (Styx's 8th top 10 single, and 7th written and sung by DeYoung) particularly after a number of radio stations mixed it with voice tracks of parents headed off to fight in the first Persian Gulf War. This put the group in an exclusive group as one of only a few bands to have a top ten hit single under four different United States Presidents. The group toured extensively before A&M Records (which had just merged with PolyGram Records) dropped the group from its roster in 1992; the group broke up again shortly afterwards.\n\nBetween stints with Styx, DeYoung, a devout Roman Catholic, joined a touring revival of the stage musical \"Jesus Christ Superstar\" in 1993. He appeared in about 200 performances as Pontius Pilate. The experience inspired him to record his 1994 album of Broadway standards, \"10 on Broadway\", and to begin work on a musical of his own based on \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" (French Gothic novel by Victor Hugo, published in 1831).\n\nIn 1987, A&M Records had released the compilation album \"Styx - Classics, Volume 15\", but since A&M did not own the rights to the original recording of \"Lady\" (which had been released by Wooden Nickel Records through a distribution deal with RCA Records), the track could not be included on the disc. In 1995, Styx reunited, this time with Shaw, but without a terminally ill John Panozzo, who had developed cirrhosis following years of chronic alcoholism. The band recorded a new version of \"Lady\", which became the lead track (\"Lady '95\") of a new compilation album, \"Styx Greatest Hits\", for A&M. Todd Sucherman (uncredited) provided the drum track for the recording session. Panozzo died of gastrointestinal bleeding on July 16, 1996. Sucherman took his place, and in 1996, Styx toured for the first time in four years.\n\nStyx's 1996 tour, dubbed the \"Return to Paradise\" tour by the band, proved remarkably successful, and a 2-disc live recording of the show (with three new studio tracks) proved even more so; 1997's \"Return to Paradise\" live album went gold and spawned a top-30 hit on Billboard's Adult Contemporary chart, the DeYoung-penned \"Paradise\". With the positive response and a new record label (CMC International), Styx returned to the studio in 1998 and began work on their first studio album in eight years.\n\nThough DeYoung and his bandmates had been able to put aside their musical and personal differences during the \"Return to Paradise\" tour, those same issues resurfaced once work started on their new album, \"Brave New World\". Complicating matters, DeYoung's physical health took a sudden turn for the worse; DeYoung said he was afflicted with a chronic fatigue syndrome-like disorder that affected his trigeminal nerve, and that he would not be able to perform onstage due to a sensitivity to bright light and sound caused by this disorder. The other four members of Styx said that the band was contractually obliged to tour in support of the \"Brave New World\" album. When DeYoung reiterated his health issues made him unable to perform live, the other members of the band opted to replace DeYoung with Canadian star Lawrence Gowan in 1999 in order to fulfill their touring obligation.\n\nDeYoung sued his former bandmates, seeking the rights to use the group's name in support of his solo career. The suit was settled in 2001, with the group being allowed to keep the name \"Styx\" and DeYoung able to use the name in descriptive phrases such as \"the music of Styx\" or \"formerly of Styx\" (but not \"the voice of Styx\").\n\nStyx has consistently maintained that any chance of a reunion with DeYoung is unlikely. When asked about any possible reunions with DeYoung, James Young of Styx commented on an edition of VH1's \"Behind the Music\" television series, \"Maybe when they are playing hockey on the river Styx.\" Young also addressed the reunion issue on an episode of VH1's \"Feuds 2000\", noting the possibility of a reunion would only happen \"[A]s The Eagles said, 'when Hell freezes over'.\" Bassist Chuck Panozzo, no longer actively touring with Styx due to health issues associated with his HIV-positive status, offered a more hopeful tone to a writer doing a story on the band for tampabay.com; while reflecting on the effect the loss of his fraternal twin brother, John, had on the band, Panozzo noted, \"Before any more of us die, I would hope that it could happen. Every year that it doesn't happen is another year that goes by. And if you wait too long, who will care?\" But in an interview Tommy Shaw gave \"Rolling Stone\" in 2011 indicated that he didn't think a reunion was realistic, noting, \"We're crazy, but we're not insane.\"\n\nIn February 2000, DeYoung was approached to perform a concert featuring his many songs from Styx, as well as his solo works and his 1997 stage musical \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\", with an orchestra. The show, performed at the Rosemont Theatre near DeYoung's hometown of Chicago, was a family affair for DeYoung. His wife Suzanne and sister-in-law Dawn Marie Feusi sang backup, his daughter Carrie Ann was in charge of publicity, while his son Matthew designed the stage lighting. The concert was well received and formed the basis for a touring version of the show, and eventually a 2004 live album, \"The Music of Styx - Live with Symphony Orchestra\".\n\nHealthy once again, DeYoung returned to touring with a 50-piece orchestra augmented by a five-piece rock band, which included Tommy Dziallo on guitar, Hank Horton on bass, and Kyle Woodring (from John Mellencamp and Deana Carter) on drums, all of whom also played shows with DeYoung with or without the orchestra.\n\nDeYoung made his major motion picture debut in 2005's \"The Perfect Man\", in which he played the lead vocalist in a Styx tribute band.\n\nIn August 2006, DeYoung appeared along with Supertramp's Roger Hodgson on \"Canadian Idol\", where he performed with and mentored the contestants.\n\nOn April 20, 2006, at the Community Theatre in Morristown, New Jersey, DeYoung took to the stage once again with former Styx guitarist and bassist Glen Burtnik as part of his \"Lost Treasures\" concert series. It marked the first time in nearly seven years that the two had appeared together. On his website, DeYoung jokingly dubbed the performances \"The Denny and Glenny Show\". While on stage, the duo opened with the Beatles classic \"We Can Work It Out\" and also performed \"Watching the World Go by\", and \"All for Love\", songs that were originally written for the unreleased \"Edge of the Century 2\" Styx album.\n\nOn September 14 and 15, 2006, DeYoung appeared with Hal Sparks on \"Celebrity Duets\", an American reality television show produced by Simon Cowell. They sang Styx songs \"Come Sail Away\" and \"Mr. Roboto\". DeYoung was invited back to perform on \"Celebrity Duets\" on September 28, 2006, with finalist Hal Sparks. The pair performed the Styx breakthrough hit \"Lady\", written by DeYoung in 1973, with DeYoung serenading his wife Suzanne in the audience while Hal did the same for his long-time girlfriend.\n\nIn 2007, DEP Records of Canada released DeYoung's stateside 2004 live CD \"Dennis DeYoung and the Music of Styx Live with Symphony Orchestra\", which went on to achieve platinum status. (In Canada 50,000 plus copies sold for a double CD qualifies as platinum.) They also released his DVD \"The Rock: Symphonic Music of Styx\", which went triple platinum. In addition, he appeared on the Canadian reality TV series \"Star Académie\".\n\nOn June 19, 2007, DeYoung released in Canada his fifth solo album, \"One Hundred Years from Now\", marking a return to his rock roots. The first single, the title track, was a duet with Québécois singer Éric Lapointe. The single reached number 1 on the Québec Radio Single and Soundscan charts. The album was released in the U.S. on April 14, 2009, with slightly different tracks. One song \"I Believe In You\" received some airplay on Sirius XM and some local radio stations.\n\nOn New Year's Eve 2007, he performed \"Mr. Roboto\", \"Come Sail Away\" and many other Styx classics to a large audience at Victoria Park in Niagara Falls, Canada, and millions of viewers via live television on CHCH-TV Channel 11. Following his concert, he did a brief live interview with CHCH-TV's Mat Hayes.\n\nOn May 8, 2008, DeYoung's musical version of \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" premiered at the Bailiwick Repertory Theatre in Chicago. This production went on to win the Joseph Jefferson Award for best musical in Chicago in 2008.\n\nOn September 20, 2008, DeYoung performed at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame benefit concert for the John Entwistle foundation. The benefit concert was held at the Koka Booth Amphitheatre in Cary, North Carolina, and featured many other rock and roll musicians. He and his band performed many of Styx's hits.\nIn November and December 2008, DeYoung was a featured artist on the German Night of the Proms 20-city tour. He joined Robin Gibb, Tears for Fears, 10CC and Kim Wilde on the sold-out tour. He also accompanied Robin Gibb of the Bee Gees on piano performing \"How Deep Is Your Love\".\n\nOn July 12, 2009, DeYoung was honored by his native city Chicago with the \"Great Performer of Illinois Award\". Following the award ceremony in the Frank Gehry-designed Jay Pritzker Pavilion in Millennium Park in Chicago, DeYoung and his band performed many of Styx's hits in a free concert.\n\nOn October 13, 2009, DeYoung's sound creation dubbed the \"ARF 2600\" (from ARP 2600) was given its world premiere at the opening of \"The 101 Dalmatians Musical\" in Minneapolis, Minnesota.\n\nIn 2010, DeYoung formed a new band to capture the sound and look of the original Styx band, dedicated to the music of Styx, adding a Tommy Shaw look-alike and sound-alike guitarist and lead vocalist August Zadra and bassist-vocalist Craig Carter to join John Blasucci, James Young look-alike guitarist Jimmy Leahey, Tom Sharpe, and wife Suzanne DeYoung in performing Styx hits \"Renegade\", \"Blue Collar Man\" and others as well as DeYoung's solo works. The current band members have been lauded for their talents in their own right.\n\nOn October 21, 2014, a 2CD + DVD and Blu-ray package, \"Dennis DeYoung... And the Music of Styx Live in Los Angeles\", was released in the U.S. via Frontiers Records. The European release date was October 17, 2014. Also on October 21, 2014, a condensed version of this live concert package was broadcast on AXS TV Headliner Club Concert Series. The concert took place at the El Rey Theatre in Los Angeles, California on March 18, 2014.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMusic written by DeYoung has been featured in the following films:\n\nMusic either written by DeYoung or performed by him has been featured in the following stage productions:\n\nThe debut of musical \"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\" in May 2008 in Chicago, Illinois brought finally DeYoung's music and songs to the theatrical stage.\n\nMusic written by DeYoung has also been featured in television shows and commercials. Among the more notable are:\n\nDennis DeYoung also played the part of \"Dennis DeYoung impersonator\" in the movie The Perfect Man.\n\n"}
{"id": "25941802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25941802", "title": "Exile and death of Pedro II of Brazil", "text": "Exile and death of Pedro II of Brazil\n\nPedro II of Brazil was the second and last emperor of Brazil. Despite his popularity among Brazilians, Pedro II was removed from his throne in 1889 after a 58-year reign. He was promptly exiled with his family. Despite his deposition, he did not make an attempt to regain power. He died in 1891 while in Paris, France, after two years in exile. \n\nThe monarchist reaction after the fall of the empire \"was not small, and even less so its repression.\" The \"new regime suppressed with swift brutality and total disdain for civil liberties all attempts to launch a monarchist party or to publish monarchist newspapers.\" Soon after several popular riots in protest against the coup occurred as well as battles between monarchist Army troops and republican militias. Those were followed by a civil war in which monarchist military and politicians tried to restore the empire in the Federalist Revolution and the Second Navy Rebellion. The last monarchist rebellion occurred in 1904, in what was called the Vaccine Revolt.\n\nOn 23 November 1891, Pedro II appeared at the French Academy of Sciences for the last time to participate in an election. The following morning, he dispassionately noted in his diary the news that the dictator Deodoro da Fonseca had resigned: \"10:30. Deodoro has quit.\" He soon afterwards took a long drive in an open carriage along the Seine, even though it was a very cold day. He felt ill after returning to the Hôtel de Bedford that evening. The illness progressed into pneumonia during the following days. There was no celebration of his birthday on 2 December, with the exception of a simple mass said while he remained in bed. At that time his daughter Isabel, his son-in-law Gaston and his grandchildren were in attendance. However, he later received several French and Brazilian visitors who had come to offer birthday congratulations.\n\nHis health suddenly worsened on the morning of 3 December. Other relatives and friends went to see him once news of the seriousness of the situation began to spread. On 4 December, he received the last sacrament from Abbé Pierre-Jacques-Almeyre Le Rébours, curé of La Madeleine. That night Pedro II began declining, and died at 12:35 am on 5 December. His last words were, \"May God grant me these last wishes – peace and prosperity for Brazil...\" He was so weakened that he suffered no pain. Pedro II was surrounded by his daughter Isabel, the Count of Eu, his grandchildren (Pedro, Luís, Antonio, Pedro Augusto and Augusto Leopoldo), his sisters Januária and Francisca with their husbands (respectively the Count of Aquila and the Prince of Joinville).\n\nAccording to the death certificate the \"causa mortis\" was acute pneumonia in the left lung. Pedro II died without abdicating, and Isabel inherited the claim to the throne of the Brazilian Empire. She solemnly kissed her father's hands, and after that, all those present, including dozens of Brazilians already there kissed her hand, recognizing her as the Empress \"de jure\" of Brazil. The Baron of Rio Branco, who was also present, later wrote: \"The Brazilians, thirty and something, went in line and, one by one, sprinkled holy water on the corpse and kissed his hand. I did the same. They were saying farewell to the great dead.\" Senator Gaspar da Silveira Martins arrived soon after the Emperor's death and, when he saw the body of his old friend, wept convulsively.\n\nIsabel declined an autopsy, which allowed the body to be embalmed at 9 am on 5 December. Six liters of hydrochloride of zinc and aluminum was injected into his common carotid artery. A death mask was also made. Pedro II was attired in the court dress uniform of a Marshal of the Army to represent his position as commander-in-chief of the Brazilian armed forces. On his chest were placed the Order of the Southern Cross, the Order of the Golden Fleece and the Order of the Rose. His hands held a silver crucifix sent by Pope Leo XIII. Two Brazilian flags covered his legs. While the body was being prepared, the Count of Eu found a sealed package in the room, and next to it a message written by the Emperor himself: \"It is soil from my country, I wish it to be placed in my coffin in case I die away from my fatherland.\" The package, which contained soil from every Brazilian province, was duly placed inside the coffin. Three coffins were used: an inner coffin of lead lined with white satin which contained the body, and two outer coffins (one of varnished oak and the other of oak covered by black velvet).\n\nIn the hours following the death of Pedro II, thousands of people came to the Hôtel de Bedford. Among these were the President of the Council of Ministers, Charles de Freycinet, and the ministers of War and the Navy. In a single day, more than 2,000 telegrams were received by the hotel with messages of condolence. French president Sadi Carnot was traveling in the south of the country and sent the members of the Military Household to pay homage to the deceased monarch on his behalf. Princess Isabel wished to hold a discrete and private burial ceremony. However, she eventually accepted the French Government's request for a Head of State's funeral. To prevent political disruption, the government decided that the burial would be officially accorded because the Emperor was a recipient of the Grand Cross of the Légion d'honneur, although with the pomp due to a monarch. Requests from Brazil's republican government to deny an official funeral and any public display of the imperial flag were ignored by the French government.\n\nThe coffin which contained the body of Pedro II departed the Hôtel de Bedford for La Madeleine on the evening of 8 December. Eight French soldiers bore the coffin, which was covered with the imperial flag. A crowd of more than 5,000 people was on hand to witness the cortege. The hearse was the same one used for the funerals of Cardinal Morlot, the duc de Morny and Adolphe Thiers.\n\nOn the following day, thousands of mourners attended the ceremony at La Madeleine. Aside from Pedro II's family, these included: Amadeo of Savoy, former king of Spain; Francis II, former king of the Two Sicilies; Isabella II, former queen of Spain; Philippe, comte de Paris; and other members of European royalty. Also present were General Joseph Brugère, representing President Sadi Carnot; the presidents of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies as well as their members; diplomats; and other representatives of the French government. Nearly all members of the French Academy, the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres, the French Academy of Sciences, the Académie des Beaux-Arts and the Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques were in attendance. Also among those present were Eça de Queiroz, Alexandre Dumas, fils, Gabriel Auguste Daubrée, Jules Arsène Arnaud Claretie, Marcellin Berthelot, Jean Louis Armand de Quatrefages de Bréau, Edmond Jurien de la Gravière, Julius Oppert, Camille Doucet, and many other notable personages. Other governments from the Americans and Europe also sent representatives, as did distant countries such as Ottoman Turkey, China, Japan and Persia. Notably absent was any delegation from Brazil.\n\nFollowing the services, the coffin was taken in procession to the train station, from whence it would travel to Portugal. Between 200,000 and 300,000 people lined the route despite incessant rain and cold temperatures. Some 80,000 French military troops marched in the procession. Two carriages carried almost 200 funeral wreaths which bore messages paying homage to the Emperor such as: \"To Dom Pedro, Victoria R.I.\", \"To the great Emperor for whom Caxias, Osório, Andrade Neves and many other heroes fought, Fatherland Volunteers from Rio de Janeiro\", \"A group of Brazilian students in Paris\", \"Happy times when the thought, the word and the pen were free, when Brazil freed oppressed people…\" (sent by the Baron of Ladário, Marquis of Tamandaré, Viscount of Sinimbu, Rodolfo Dantas, Joaquim Nabuco and Taunay), \"To the great Brazilian worthy of honors from the Fatherland and Humanity. \"Ubique Patria Memor\".\" (sent by the Baron of Rio Branco), \"From the people of Rio Grande do Sul to the liberal and patriotic king\", and \"A Brazilian black on behalf of his race\". The \"state funeral granted by the French republic proclaimed the former’s [Pedro II] personal virtues and popularity and, by implication, distinguished the imperial regime from other monarchies.\"\n\nAll along the route, from France, through Spain and finally into Portugal, people paid homage to Pedro II. But still no representative appeared on behalf of Brazil's republican government. The journey continued on to the Church of São Vicente de Fora near Lisbon, where the body of Pedro II was interred in the Braganza Pantheon on 12 December. His tomb rested between that of his stepmother Amélia and that of his wife Teresa Cristina.\n\nThe Brazilian republican government, \"fearful of a backlash resulting from the death of the emperor,\" banned any official reaction. Nevertheless, the Brazilian people were far from indifferent to Pedro II's demise, and the \"repercussions in Brazil were also immense, despite the government's effort to suppress. There were demonstrations of sorrow throughout the country: shuttered business activity, flags displayed at half-staff, black armbands on clothes, death knells, religious ceremonies.\" An article written by João Mendes de Almeida on 7 December 1891 says that, \"The news of the death of His Majesty Emperor Dom Pedro II has revealed the feelings of the Brazilian nation towards the Imperial dynasty. The consternation has been general.\" Solemn \"masses were held all over the country, which were followed by eulogies praising Dom Pedro II and the monarchy\". So, the \"Republic stood by silently, given the strength and impact of reactions.\"\n\nPolice were sent to suppress public demonstrations of sorrow, \"provoking serious incidents\", although \"the people were in sympathy with these manifestants.\" A popular gathering in memory of the deceased emperor occurred on 9 December and was organized by the Marquis of Tamandaré, Viscount of Ouro Preto, Viscount of Sinimbu, Baron of Ladário, Carlos de Laet, Alfredo d' Escragnolle Taunay, Rodolfo Dantas, Afonso Celso and Joaquim Nabuco. Even old political adversaries of Pedro II praised him, \"criticizing his policies\" but pointing out \"his patriotism, honesty, abnegation, spirit of justice, devotion to work, tolerance and simplicity.\" Quintino Bocaiúva, one of the main republican leaders, spoke: \"The entire world, it may be said, has paid homage which Mr. Dom Pedro de Alcântara has earned through his virtues as a great citizen.\" Some \"members of republican clubs protested against what they characterized as exaggerated sentimentalism in the tributes, seeing in these monarchist maneuvers. They were lonely voices.\"\n\nForeign reaction also revealed sympathy towards the monarch. \"The New York Times\" on 5 December praised Pedro II, considering him \"the most enlightened monarch of the century\" and also stating that \"he made Brazil as free as a monarchy could be.\" The \"Herald\" wrote: \"In another time, and in happier circumstances, he would be worshiped and honored by his subjects and would be known in history as 'Dom Pedro the Good'.\" \"The Tribune\" affirmed that his \"reign was serene, peaceable and prosperous.\" \"The Times\" observed, in a long article, \"Until November 1889, it was believed that the deceased Emperor and his wife were unanimously beloved in Brazil due to his intellectual and moral qualities and by his affectionate interest for the well-being of his subjects [...] When in Rio de Janeiro he was constantly seen in public; and two times per week he met his subjects, as well as foreign travelers, captivating all with his courtesy.\"\n\n\"The Weekly Register\" wrote, \"He looked more like a poet or a scholar than an emperor, but had he had been given the chance to materialize his several projects, without a doubt he would have made Brazil one of the richest countries in the New World.\" The French periodical \"Le Jour\" affirmed that \"he was effectively the first sovereign that, following our disaster of 1871, dared to visit us. Our defeat did not move him away from us. France will know how to be grateful.\" \"The Globe\" also wrote that he \"was well learned, he was patriotic; he was gentle and indulgent; he had all the private virtues, as well as the public ones, and died in exile.\"\n\nFootnotes\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "18050670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050670", "title": "Feni Rose", "text": "Feni Rose\n\nFeni Rosewidyadhari (born 1 November 1973) is an Indonesia TV presenter and entrepreneur. She is notable for her performance of \"Ibu Dewi\" in a \"Sabun Surf\" advertisement, and as a presenter in the \"Silet\" infotainment program on RCTI and Formula One in RCTI, TPI, and GlobalTV.\n\nFeni Rose is an alumnus of the Universitas Indonesia, majoring in Anthropology. She began her television career in 1999 when she became a quiz presenter in the Formula One live show on RCTI.\n\nIn 2002, she (with F1 live) moved to TPI. She became a \"Qualifying Session\" presenter of this show, and for the and seasons, she was hosting the Formula One show in TPI. She also presents the soccer program \"Liga Italia Serie-A\" on TP).\n\nFeni and her husband Enkito Herman Nugroho own the production house company \"Light’s on Production\".\n\nShe has hobby of aerobic and she conducted Prima Raga in ANTV and in 2012 when her age is 38, she became a presenter of aerobic Fresh & Fun. Di awal tahun 1990an ketika masih berstatus sebagai mahasiswi, dia sudah memiliki kegiatan yang berhubungan dengan kecintaannya dengan karirnya di kemudian hari yaitu menjadi pelatih modern dance di beberapa sekolah swasta.\n"}
{"id": "40406654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40406654", "title": "Firmin Breaux", "text": "Firmin Breaux\n\nFirmin Pierre Breaux was an Acadian pioneer known for unofficially founding the city of Breaux Bridge, Louisiana.\n\nFirmin was the son of Alexis Breaux and Marguerite Brillot, born at Riviere aux Canards, near present day Port Williams, Nova Scotia in 1749. In 1755, Firmin's family, along with many other Acadians, were deported from Canada into Boston during the expulsion of the Acadians. In 1767, at the age of 17, Firmin found himself at the Bayou Tortue in Louisiana, while the rest of his family returned to Canada.\nBy 1769, Firmin had moved into a house in present day St. James Parish, and had been married to his wife Marguerite Braud.\n\nIn 1771, Firmin bought land near the Bayou Teche from the wealthy New Orleans merchant, Jean François Ledée, who had acquired the land as a French land grant. By 1774, Breaux's branding iron had been registered, and by 1786 he was one of the largest property owners near the Bayou Teche.\n\nIn 1799, Breaux built a footbridge across the Bayou Teche, in order to ease the passage of his family and neighbors across the Teche.\n"}
{"id": "32147284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32147284", "title": "Francita Alavez", "text": "Francita Alavez\n\nFrancita Alavez (c. 1816 – c. 1906) was known as the \"Angel of Goliad,\" for saving the lives of Texas prisoners of war in the \"Goliad Massacre\" and at Copano and Victoria, Texas, by interceding on their behalf and persuading the help of Mexican officials.\n\nFrancita's definite date and town of birth are not known. Even her real name has been referred to differently at times, such as Panchita, Francisca, Pancheta, or Francita, and her surname as Alevesco, Alvárez, or Alavez.\n\nDuring the Texas Revolution, she did travel to Texas in 1836, as a companion of Captain Telesforo Alavez, who had sailed to Texas from Matamoros, Mexico to El Cópano port at Copano Bay, Texas.\n\nAt El Cópano, she combined her compassion for humanity with her strong willed personality to influence important Mexican officials to treat the Texian prisoners humanely. When 80 soldiers of Major William Parsons Miller and the Nashville Battalion were captured by Urrea's soldiers, she influenced the Mexican soldiers to untie the men's hands and to give them something to eat.\n\nIn La Bahia (Goliad), due to the intervention of this Angel of Goliad and the courageous effort of Colonel Francisco Garay, 20 more men were held and spared as doctors, interpreters, or workers. Francita entered the presidio the night before the massacre, bringing several men out with her and hiding them until after the Goliad Massacre. She also made sure the 80 men from Miller's Natchez group were not executed.\n\nIn Victoria, where her husband was left in charge, she saw to it that the 26 Texian boat builders and workers there would be released and not executed.\n\nAfter the defeat of Santa Anna, Francita returned with Captain Alavez to Matamoros. At the prison in Matamoros, she continued to support the Texians imprisoned there. When Captain Alavez left for Mexico City, Francita went with him. But their relationship soon ended. She then left Mexico City and returned to Matamoros. While broke and down on her luck, she was befriended by Texians who knew of her humanitarian acts. The 1936 memoirs of Elena O'Shea, a King Ranch schoolteacher, claim that Francita Alavez traveled back to Texas with her new friends, where she was employed to work on the ranch.\n\n"}
{"id": "4198856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4198856", "title": "Giuseppe Di Vittorio", "text": "Giuseppe Di Vittorio\n\nGiuseppe Di Vittorio, also known under the pseudonym \"Nicoletti\" (August 11, 1892 – November 3, 1957), was an Italian syndicalist and communist politician. He was one of the most influential trade union leaders of the labour movement after World War I.\n\nHe was born at Cerignola, Apulia, into a family of poor agricultural day laborers. As an autodidact, Di Vittorio became active in the socialist movement in adolescence. At 15, he was a member of the Socialist Youth Circle in Cerignola, and in 1911, he moved to lead the Camera del Lavoro in Minervino Murge and then the one in Bari.\n\nHe was among the most influential union leaders in the history of the labour movement, leading the Confederazione Generate Italiana dei Lavoratori (CGIL) in its refounding after fascism and the powerful World Federation of Trade Unions(FSM) after World War II.\n\nAfter his father's death, Di Vittorio was forced to leave school and work as a day laborer. He joined the May 1904 general strike during which five workers were killed by troops in Cerignola. Di Vittorio was strongly influenced by the growth of peasants' organizations and the spread of socialist ideas, giving rise to his participation in the local young socialist organization in Cerignola. He was radicalised by affiliating with the national Federazione Giovanile Socialista (Federation of Young Socialists), led by syndicalists in opposition to the official Socialist Party Youth Federation.\n\nAs a native of the \"Mezzogiorno\", Di Vittorio became involved in the syndicalist plans for solving the region's acute problems in the manner illustrated by the Fasci Siciliani in final decade of the 19th century. A partisan of insurgence, Di Vittorio became a leader of an anarcho-syndicalist trade union, Unione Sindacale Italiana, after its formation in 1912. Unlike the majority of the group, which opposed militarism and Italy's entry into World War I), Di Vittorio, Alceste De Ambris and Filippo Corridoni advocated irredentism. He then fought in the conflict and was discharged after he had been gravely wounded.\n\nIn 1921, after the Italian Socialist Party's split at the Congress of Livorno, he joined the Communist Party of Italy (PCd'I). Di Vittorio joined the militant antifascist organization \"Arditi del Popolo\", and hevwas then elected to the Italian Chamber of Deputies on the PCI list in 1924. The new situation after the rise of fascism and the March on Rome made him an enemy of Benito Mussolini's regime. Sentenced to twelve years in prison by a fascist special tribunal in 1925, he managed to flee to France, where he refounded the dissolved Confederazione Generale Italiana del Lavoro (CGIL) and led it into the Soviet-managed Profintern. Di Vittorio lived in the Soviet state from 1928 to 1930, representing Italy to the Red Peasant International. He then returned to Paris, where he entered the Politburo of the PCI.\n\nHe joined the Republican side fighting Francisco Franco's forces during the Spanish Civil War in 1936. He was Political Commissar of the XI International Brigade. After the fall of the Republic, he headed the board of a Paris-based antifascist newspaper. During the World War II, after the Fall of France to Nazi Germany, Di Vittorio was arrested by Nazis, taken in custody by the Italian police and detained on Ventotene. In 1943, as the Fascist regime fell in most of Italy, he was set free by partisans, and he joined the Resistance in fighting against Mussolini's Italian Social Republic, in Northern Italy.\n\nWhen war ended in 1945, he was elected secretary of the CGIL, which he had helped return to politics through a pact signed the previous year with Achille Grandi and Oreste Lizzardi in Rome. The pact recreated CGIL as a representative of all currents of trade unionism in Italy communist, socialist, Christian-democrats and anarcho-syndicalists. In 1948, the organisation split after a general strike, protesting the assassination attempt on PCI leader Palmiro Togliatti. The Christian Democrats left to form the Confederazione Italiana Sindacati Lavoratori. On March 5, 1950, the Social Democrats, who would join the Italian Democratic Socialist Party, left to form the Unione Italiana del Lavoro.\n\nDi Vittorio led the CGIL, as a group favoured by the PCI and the Italian Socialist Party, until his death at Lecco, in 1957. He was also a longtime leader of the World Federation of Trade Unions. His strong charisma made him the most popular myth of the Italian workers. His funeral was attended by more than three million people coming to Rome from all over Italy. \n\nHe was followed in his position at the CGIL by Agostino Novella.\n"}
{"id": "40741545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40741545", "title": "Hedwig Anuar", "text": "Hedwig Anuar\n\nHedwig Anuar was the first Singaporean Director of the National Library in 1960. As a librarian and an administrator, she was responsible for many of the foundations of the modern library system in Singapore. Until her retirement in 1990, the National Library made considerable developments, growing from one library to nine and a change in membership from 43,000 to 333,000. As an administrator, she began several important library projects for children and youth in Malaysia and worked extensively with the media to promote these and other services. Hedwig also contributed to the creation of the library infrastructure used throughout Southeast Asia. She was awarded the Public Administration Medal and is a founding member of the Association of Women for Action and Research(AWARE).\n\n"}
{"id": "47140924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47140924", "title": "Hiker Chiu", "text": "Hiker Chiu\n\nHiker Chiu is an intersex human rights activist who founded Oii-Chinese 國際陰陽人組織 — 中文版 in 2008.\n\nIn an interview with Libération, Chiu describes a personal history of surgical and hormonal treatment.\n\nThrough Oii-Chinese organisation aims to end \"normalising\" surgeries on intersex children, promote awareness of intersex issues, and improve government recognition of gender. As part of this mission, Chiu started a \"free hugs with intersex\" campaign at Taipei's LGBT Pride Parade in 2010. The organisation also gives lectures and lobbies government.\n\nChiu participated in the first International Intersex Forum in 2011, including as a spokesperson. In 2015, Chiu joined an international advisory board for a first philanthropic Intersex Human Rights Fund established by the Astraea Lesbian Foundation for Justice. In the same year, Chiu was elected to the board of the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association, representing ILGA Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "6377833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6377833", "title": "International Centre for Missing &amp; Exploited Children", "text": "International Centre for Missing &amp; Exploited Children\n\nThe International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children (ICMEC), headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia, with a regional presence in Brazil and Singapore, is a private 501(c)(3) non-governmental, nonprofit global organization. It combats child sexual exploitation, child pornography, and child abduction.\n\nFormed in 1998, ICMEC heads a global missing children's network of 22 countries. The organization has trained law enforcement personnel from 121 countries, works with law enforcement in over 100 countries, and has worked with legislatures in 100 countries to adopt new laws combating child pornography. ICMEC also encourages the creation of national operational centers built on a public-private partnership model, and leads global financial and industry coalitions to eradicate child sexual exploitation and child pornography.\n\nThe Koons Family Institute on International Law and Policy is the International Centre's research arm. In August 2008, ICMEC was granted \"Special Consultative Status\" by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), to assist the UN with its expertise regarding child sexual exploitation and child abduction. ICMEC also works with the intergovernmental organization INTERPOL, the inter-continental organization the Organization of American States (the OAS), and the Hague Conference on Private International Law.\n\nIn 1998, the Board of Directors of the United States' National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) approved the creation of the International Centre; the two now act as sister organizations. ICMEC combats child sexual exploitation, child pornography, and child abduction.\n\nICMEC held its first Board of Directors meeting in May 1998. It was officially launched in April 1999 at the British Embassy in Washington, D.C., by Hillary Clinton, then-First Lady of the United States, and Cherie Blair, wife of British Prime Minister Tony Blair.\n\nErnie Allen served as President & CEO of both NCMEC and ICMEC for 15 years. Allen retired from NCMEC in 2012, and in 2014 announced his retirement from ICMEC as well. In November 2014, Ambassador Maura Harty was appointed President & CEO of ICMEC.\n\nThe Board of Directors of ICMEC includes: Franz Humer, Elizabeth Frawley Bagley, Mary Banotti, Eve Branson, Maud de Boer-Buquicchio, Daniel Cardon de Lichtbuer, Dennis DeConcini, Victor Halberstadt, Maura Harty, Jeff Koons, Anne-Marie Lizin, Osamu Nagayama, Raymond F. Schinazi, and Patty Wetterling.\n\nIn 2007, American artist Jeff Koons, along with his wife Justine, founded the Koons Family Institute on International Law and Policy. It is the International Centre's research arm.\n\nAs highlighted by articles over the years, including a \"Wall Street Journal\" article entitled \"Pooling Resources to Fight Child Abuse and Abduction\", the issue of child abduction is personal to Koons. Following the end of his marriage to Hungarian-born Italian porn actress Ilona Staller in 1994, as she wanted to continue to perform as a porn actress and Koons wanted them to be monogamous, Staller, in violation of a US court order, left with their then-two-year-old son, Ludwig and took the child to Italy. After Koons spent millions of dollars in legal fees over a five-year period pursuing parental rights to his young son, the Italian Supreme Court failed to recognize the couples' US-based joint custody agreement and instead sided with Staller.\n\nThis loss for Koons led him to establish the Koons Family Institute, and devote over $4.3 million to the International Centre's work. In addition, Koons' 2010 partnership with Kiehl's to design the artwork for a limited edition moisturizer line raised $200,000 for the Koons Family Institute.\nIn 2006, the International Centre published a report of findings on the presence of child pornography legislation in the then-184 INTERPOL member countries. It later updated this information, in subsequent editions, to include 196 UN member countries. The report, entitled \"Child Pornography: Model Legislation & Global Review,\" assesses whether national legislation: (1) exists with specific regard to child pornography; (2) provides a definition of child pornography; (3) expressly criminalizes computer-facilitated offenses; (4) criminalizes the knowing possession of child pornography, regardless of intent to distribute; and (5) requires ISPs to report suspected child pornography to law enforcement or to some other mandated agency.\n\nICMEC stated that it found in its initial report that only 27 countries had legislation needed to deal with child pornography offenses, while 95 countries did not have any legislation that specifically addressed child pornography, making child pornography a global issue worsened by the inadequacies of domestic legislation. The 7th Edition Report found that still only 69 countries had legislation needed to deal with child pornography offenses, while 53 did not have any legislation specifically addressing the problem. Over seven years of research from 2006–12, ICMEC and the Institute report that they have worked with 100 countries that have revised or put in place new child pornography laws.\n\nIn June 2009, the Koons Family Institute partnered with The Protection Project at Johns Hopkins University Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, creating the Child Protection Project, to draft a model law focusing on the issues of child protection; in particular: \"neglect, abuse, maltreatment, and exploitation\". The primary objectives of the Child Protection Project are to: \"research existing child protection laws in the 193 member states of the United Nations (UN); convene a series of regional expert working group meetings to establish a common definition for 'child protection;' create a database of national legislation and case law on child protection issues from around the world; and draft, publish, and globally disseminate model child protection legislation.\"\n\nThe drafting process included six expert group meetings, held in Singapore, Egypt, Costa Rica, Spain, Turkey, and the US. The final version of the Child Protection Model Law was published in January 2013. It was presented to the members of the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child during its 62nd Session in Geneva, Switzerland, in January 2013. It was also presented before the 129th Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) in Geneva in October 2013. Accompanying the Child Protection Model Law, ICMEC and The Protection Project published a companion \"100 Best Practices in Child Protection\" guide in 2013.\n\nIn March 2013, ICMEC became a member of the World Bank Global Forum on Law, Justice and Development. The Koons Family Institute works with the Global Forum to produce \"Desk Reviews\" of national legislation and policy responses in Latin America and Asia, with a focus on protecting children from violence and abuse, in particular from child pornography, online grooming, cyberbullying, and sexting, through the use of the internet and other technologies.\n\nLaunched in 1998 as a joint venture of NCMEC and ICMEC, the Global Missing Children's Network (GMCN) is a network of countries that connect, share best practices, and disseminate information and images of missing children to improve the effectiveness of missing children investigations. The Network has 22 member countries: Albania, Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the US.\n\nEach country can access a customizable website platform, and can enter missing children information into a centralized, multilingual database that has photos of and information about missing children, which can be viewed and distributed to assist in location and recovery efforts. GMCN staff train new countries joining the Network, and provide an annual member conference sponsored by Motorola Solutions Foundation at which best practices, current issues, trends, policies, procedures, and possible solutions are discussed.\n\nThe parents of Madeleine McCann, a four-year-old girl who disappeared from her bed in a hotel in Portugal in 2007, approached ICMEC to help them publicize her case. ICMEC's YouTube channel, \"Don'tYouForgetAboutMe,\" which lets people post videos, images, and information about their missing children, was launched that year as a part of these efforts, and had 2,200 members. ICMEC reviews the postings to ensure that any child in a posted video is in fact missing, that authorities are aware that the child is missing, and that the images are not inappropriate.\n\nICMEC's child protection work includes training law enforcement officers. Since 2003, along with INTERPOL and Microsoft Corporation, which contributed $1.5 million to the global law enforcement training program, ICMEC has trained officers in methods of investigating cases of child sexual abuse and exploitation. , ICMEC had conducted more than 50 such law enforcement training sessions, of greater than 5,000 law enforcement officers from more than 120 countries.\n\nIn 2003, ICMEC signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Hague Conference on Private International Law, the goal of which is to raise money for projects that interest both organizations.\n\nIn August 2008, ICMEC was granted \"Special Consultative Status\" by the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), to assist the UN with its expertise regarding child sexual exploitation and child abduction. ICMEC also works with the intergovernmental organization INTERPOL, the inter-continental organization the Organization of American States (the OAS), the Hague Conference on Private International Law, and law enforcement and elected officials in a number of countries.\n\nIn 2006, ICMEC, NCMEC, and a number of banks, credit card companies, and electronic and third party payment networks created the Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography (FCACP). The Financial Coalition consists of 34 banks, payment companies, and internet services companies. The Financial Coalition, whose members account for 90% of the US payments industry, aims to eliminate the ability of vendors and buyers to purchase child pornography, by closing payment accounts they use to buy and sell illegal child pornography.\n\nIn 2007, the FCACP developed and published a best practices guide for financial institutions, entitled \"Internet Merchant Acquisition and Monitoring Best Practices for Prevention and Detection of Commercial Child Pornography\". The guide was distributed to banks in the United States by the US Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In 2008, the Coalition published a second paper, entitled \"Trends in Migration, Hosting and Payment for Commercial Child Pornography Websites.\"\n\nThis U.S.-based effort expanded regionally with the creation of the Asia Pacific Financial Coalition in August 2009. The Coalition's initial objective was to make people and companies aware of the issue of online child sexual abuse, and how its sale and distribution was being conducted across payment and technology platforms. In 2013, the Asia Pacific FCACP/ICMEC published \"Confronting New Challenges in the Fight Against Child Pornography: Best Practices to Help File Hosting and File Sharing Companies Fight the Distribution of Child Sexual Exploitation Content.\"\n\nICMEC manages and supports Project Vic. It is an image and video hash-sharing initiative that streamlines investigative workflows and narrows the focus of law enforcement investigations by filtering the material investigators find on offenders' computers. Using robust hash sets, Project Vic technology allows law enforcement to determine which images retrieved have already been identified, and are part of the Project's database of millions of digital hashes of child porn, enabling detectives to focus on those that are new children waiting to be located and recovered.\n\nThe initiative uses donated technologies, such as Microsoft's Photo DNA, which creates a \"fingerprint\" that can be used to uniquely identify an individual photo. The technology also assists online service providers, by helping them detect child sexual abuse images shared on their sites, and block their continued dissemination.\n\nIn addition, in April 2014 the British company Friend MTS Ltd. donated its video fingerprinting technology (known as F1) to ICMEC to help increase the efficiency of child pornography investigations, and to halt the continued sharing of similar files over the internet. ICMEC distributes the technology to law enforcement agencies, software providers, and online service providers to hinder the spread of such material.\nSimultaneously, Project Vic, along with the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, is in the process of compiling a cloud-based archive to consolidate and store the immense amount of data related to these cases, and identify new material as soon as it is shared or transferred.\n\nIn 2012, ICMEC created the Global Health Coalition, composed of health sector experts and leaders, to address child sexual abuse and exploitation as a global \"public health crisis\". ICMEC cited studies by the Mayo Clinic and others concluding that a history of abuse and exploitation as children leads to a number of health disorders in adulthood. ICMEC seeks to encourage the health sector to incorporate child sexual abuse into medical school curricula, increase timely victim recognition through medical training and education, and conduct epidemiological studies to improve healthcare services for victims. Coalition members include Roche, Merck, GlaxoSmithKline, Harvard Medical School, the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).\n\nIn 2013, ICMEC and Thomson Reuters Corporation hosted a conference of experts and leaders to examine the benefits and risks of the developing digital economy. The conference members included representatives from government, academia, civil society, and online services/web companies. The conference led to the August 2013 launch of the Digital Economy Task Force. The Task Force assesses the benefits and the risks of an economy that has the potential to be 100% anonymous.\n\nIn March 2014, the Digital Economy Task Force released its first report, \"The Digital Economy: Potential, Perils, and Promises,\" consisting of a number of recommendations for policy makers, financial institutions, and law enforcement. The report recognizes the opportunities that a digital economy offers, but also highlights the potential for its abuse and misuse, including its role in facilitating criminal activities, including the sexual exploitation of children. Recommendations included the continuation of private and public sector research on the issue, investment in law enforcement training on how the digital economy operates, and the promotion of a global cross-sector discussion that can lead to clear policy on the issue.\n\nICMEC has regional presence in Brazil and in Singapore. The Centre encourages the creation of national operational centers built on a public-private partnership model.\n\nThe ICMEC Latin America & Caribbean office works to help individual country legislators, government agencies, and regional bodies draft uniform legislation and train officers on how to respond to cases of child trafficking, child pornography, abduction, and online grooming. The ICMEC Asia Pacific Office fosters partnerships to fight child sexual exploitation and abuse. Its primary focus has been to fight online child sexual abuse and exploitation, by expanding the Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography.\n\nIn addition, ICMEC has helped establish a number of national and regional centers, including Child Focus in Belgium, The Smile of the Child in Greece, the Romanian Center for Missing & Sexually Exploited Children (FOCUS), the South African Centre for Missing & Exploited Children, and the Southeastern European Centre for Missing and Exploited Children, which serves as a hub for 13 countries in the Balkan region.\n\n"}
{"id": "353066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353066", "title": "Inês de Castro", "text": "Inês de Castro\n\nInês de Castro (; in Castilian: Inés; 1325 – 7 January 1355) was a Galician noblewoman best known as lover and posthumously-recognized wife of King Peter I of Portugal. The dramatic circumstances of her relationship with Peter (at the time Prince of Portugal), which was forbidden by his father King Afonso IV, her murder at the orders of Afonso, Peter's bloody revenge on her killers, and the legend of the coronation of her exhumed corpse by Peter, have made Inês de Castro a frequent subject of art, music, and drama through the ages.\n\nInês was the natural daughter of Pedro Fernández de Castro, Lord of Lemos and Sarria, and his noble Portuguese mistress Aldonça Lourenço de Valadares. Her family descended both from the Galician and Portuguese nobilities. She was also well connected to the Castilian royal family, by illegitimate descent. Her stepmother was Infanta Beatrix of Portugal, the youngest daughter of Afonso of Portugal, Lord of Portalegre and Violante Manuel. Her grandmother was Violante Sánchez de Castile, Lady of Uzero, the illegitimate daughter of Sancho IV of Castile. Her great-great grandfather was Rodrigo Alfonso de León, Lord of Aliger, the illegitimate son of Alfonso IX of León. She was also legitimately descended from Infanta Sancha Henriques of Portugal, the daughter of Henry, Count of Portugal.\n\nInês came to Portugal in 1340 as a maid of Constance of Castile, recently married to Peter, the heir apparent to the Portuguese throne. The prince fell in love with her and started to neglect his lawful wife, endangering the already feeble relations with Castile. Moreover, Peter's love for Inês brought the exiled Castilian nobility very close to power, with Inês's brothers becoming the prince's friends and trusted advisors. King Afonso IV of Portugal, Peter's father, disliked Inês's influence on his son and waited for their mutual infatuation to wear off, but it did not.\n\nConstance of Castile died in 1345. Afonso IV tried several times to arrange for his son to be remarried, but Pedro refused to take a wife other than Inês, who was not deemed eligible to be queen. Peter's legitimate son, future King Ferdinand I of Portugal, was a frail child, whereas Peter and Inês's illegitimate children were thriving; this created even more discomfort among the Portuguese nobles, who feared the increasing Castilian influence over Peter. Afonso IV banished Inês from the court after Constance's death, but Peter remained with her declaring her as his true love. After several attempts to keep the lovers apart, Afonso IV ordered Inês's death. Pêro Coelho, Álvaro Gonçalves, and Diogo Lopes Pacheco went to the Monastery of Santa Clara-a-Velha in Coimbra, where Inês was detained, and killed her, decapitating her in front of her small child. When Peter heard of this he sought out the killers and managed to capture two of them in 1361. He executed them publicly, ripping their hearts out claiming they didn't have one after having pulverized his own heart.\nPeter became king of Portugal in 1357 (Peter I of Portugal). He then stated that he had secretly married Inês, who was consequently the lawful queen, although his word was, and still is, the only proof of the marriage. During the 1383–85 Crisis of royal succession in Portugal, João das Regras produced evidence that allegedly established that Pope Innocent IV had refused Peter's request to recognize his marriage to Inês and legitimize his children by her, the elder of whom, John, Duke of Valencia de Campos would have a strong potential claim to the throne of Portugal. By negating these children's claimed legitimacy, João das Regras strengthened the claim of another illegitimate child of Peter I of Portugal: John, Master of Aviz, who ultimately took the throne and ruled as John I of Portugal.\n\nSome sources say that after Peter became king of Portugal, he had Inês' body exhumed from her grave and forced the entire court to swear allegiance to their new queen: \"The king [Peter] caused the body of his beloved Inês to be disinterred, and placed on a throne, adorned with the diadem and royal robes. and required all the nobility of the kingdom to approach and kiss the hem of her garment, rendering her when dead that homage which she had not received in her life...\" Some modern sources characterize the story of the Ines' post-mortem coronation is a \"legend.\" and it is most likely a myth, since the story only appeared in 1577 in Jerónimo Bermúdez' play \"Nise Laureada.\" She was later buried at the Monastery of Alcobaça where her coffin can still be seen, opposite Peter's so that, according to the legend, at the Last Judgment Peter and Inês can look at each other as they rise from their graves. Both marble coffins are exquisitely sculpted with scenes from their lives and a promise by Peter that they would be together \"até ao fim do mundo\" (until the end of the world).\n\nInês de Castro and Peter I had the following children, who were legitimized by Peter I on 19 March 1361:\n\nInês de Castro's story is immortalized in several plays and poems in Portuguese, such as \"The Lusíadas\" by Luís de Camões (canto iii, stanzas 118-135), and Spanish, such as \"Nise lastimosa\" and \"Nise laureada\" (1577) by Jerónimo Bermúdez, \"Reinar despues de morir\" by Luís Vélez de Guevara, as well as by the comtesse de Genlis (Inès de Castro, 1826), and in a play by French playwright Henry de Montherlant called \"La Reine morte\" (\"The Dead Queen\"). Mary Russell Mitford also wrote a drama from the story entitled \"Inez de Castro\". \"Inês de Castro\" is a novel by Maria Pilar Queralt del Hierro () in Spanish and Portuguese.\n\nShe is a recurring figure in Ezra Pound's \"The Cantos\". She appears first at the end of Canto III, in the lines \"Ignez da Castro murdered, and a wall/Here stripped, here made to stand\".\n\nThere have been over 20 operas and ballets created about Inês de Castro. Operas from the 18th and 19th centuries include:\n\nIn modern times, Inês de Castro has continued to inspire operatic works, including:\n\nIn addition, Portuguese composer Pedro Camacho (born 1979) composed the Requiem to Inês de Castro, first performed on March 28, 2012 in New Cathedral of Coimbra on the occasion of 650 years of the transportation of Ines de Castro's body from Coimbra to Alcobaça Monastery.\nChristopher Bochman,with the Lisbon Youth Orchestra, has produced an opera \"Corpo E Alma\" (Body and Soul) focusing on Pedro's transition from a sensual to a spiritual love following her death, drawing on various aspects of the tale.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "168478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168478", "title": "Itzhak Perlman", "text": "Itzhak Perlman\n\nItzhak Perlman (; born 31 August 1945) is an Israeli-American violinist, conductor, and music teacher. Over the course of his career, Perlman has performed worldwide, and throughout the United States, in venues that have included a State Dinner at the White House honoring Queen Elizabeth II, and at the Presidential Inauguration of President Obama, and he has conducted the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, and the Westchester Philharmonic. In 2015, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.\n\nPerlman was born in Tel Aviv in 1945, then British Mandate of Palestine, now Israel. His parents, Chaim and Shoshana Perlman, were natives of Poland and had independently immigrated to Palestine in the mid-1930s before they met and later married.\n\nPerlman first became interested in the violin after hearing a classical music performance on the radio. At the age of three, he was denied admission to the Shulamit Conservatory for being too small to hold a violin. He instead taught himself how to play the instrument using a toy fiddle until he was old enough to study with Rivka Goldgart at the Shulamit Conservatory and at the Academy of Music in Tel Aviv, where he gave his first recital at age 10. He moved to the United States to study at the Juilliard School with the violin pedagogue Ivan Galamian and his assistant Dorothy DeLay.\n\nPerlman contracted polio at age four and has walked using leg braces and crutches since then and plays the violin while seated. , he uses crutches or an electric Amigo scooter for mobility.\n\nPerlman appeared on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" twice in 1958, and again in 1964, on the same show with the Rolling Stones. He made his debut at Carnegie Hall in 1963 and won the Leventritt Competition in 1964. Soon afterward, he began to tour widely. In addition to an extensive recording and performance career, he has continued to make guest appearances on American television shows such as \"The Tonight Show\" and \"Sesame Street\" as well as playing at a number of functions at the White House.\n\nAlthough he has never been billed or marketed as a singer, he sang the role of \"Un carceriere\" (\"a jailer\") on a 1981 EMI recording of Puccini's \"Tosca\" that featured Renata Scotto, Plácido Domingo, and Renato Bruson, with James Levine conducting. He had earlier sung the role in an excerpt from the opera on a 1980 Pension Fund Benefit Concert telecast as part of the Live from Lincoln Center series with Luciano Pavarotti as Cavaradossi and Zubin Mehta conducting the New York Philharmonic.\n\nOn 5 July 1986, he performed on the New York Philharmonic's tribute to the 100th anniversary of the Statue of Liberty, which was televised live on ABC Television in the United States. The orchestra, conducted by Zubin Mehta, performed in Central Park.\n\nIn 1987, he joined the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra (IPO) for their concerts in Warsaw and Budapest as well as other cities in Eastern bloc countries. He toured with the IPO in the spring of 1990 for its first-ever performance in the Soviet Union, with concerts in Moscow and Leningrad, and toured with the IPO again in 1994, performing in China and India.\n\nIn 2015 on a classical music program entitled \"The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center\" produced by WQXR in New York City, it was revealed that Perlman performed the uncredited violin solo on the 1989 Billy Joel song The Downeaster Alexa.\n\nWhile primarily a solo artist, Perlman has performed with a number of other musicians, including Yo-Yo Ma, Pinchas Zukerman, Jessye Norman, Isaac Stern, and Yuri Temirkanov at the 150th anniversary celebration of Tchaikovsky in Leningrad in December 1990. He has also performed and recorded with his friend and fellow Israeli violinist Pinchas Zukerman on numerous occasions over the years.\n\nAs well as playing and recording the classical music for which he is best known, Perlman has also played jazz, including an album made with jazz pianist Oscar Peterson, and in addition, klezmer. Perlman has been a soloist for a number of film scores such as the theme of the 1993 film \"Schindler's List\" by John Williams, which subsequently won an Academy Award for Best Original Score. More recently, he was the violin soloist for the 2005 film \"Memoirs of a Geisha\" along with cellist Yo-Yo Ma. Perlman played selections from the musical scores of the movies nominated for \"Best Original Score\" at the 73rd Academy Awards with Yo-Yo Ma and at the 78th Academy Awards. \n\nPerlman played at the state dinner attended by Queen Elizabeth II on 7 May 2007, in the East Room at the White House.\n\nHe performed John Williams's \"Air and Simple Gifts\" at the 2009 inauguration ceremony for Barack Obama along with Yo-Yo Ma (cello), Gabriela Montero (piano), and Anthony McGill (clarinet). While the quartet did play live, the music played simultaneously over speakers and on television was a recording made two days prior due to concerns over the cold weather damaging the instruments. Perlman was quoted as saying: \"It would have been a disaster if we had done it any other way.\"\n\nHe made an appearance in Disney's Fantasia 2000 to introduce the segment Pines of Rome along with Steve Martin.\n\nOn 2 November 2018, Perlman reprised the 60th anniversary of his first appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show as a guest on The Late Show with Stephen Colbert.\n\nIn 1975, Perlman accepted a faculty post at the Conservatory of Music at Brooklyn College. In 2003, Mr. Perlman was named the holder of the Dorothy Richard Starling Foundation Chair in Violin Studies at the Juilliard School, succeeding his teacher, Dorothy DeLay. He also currently teaches students one-on-one at the Perlman Music Program on Long Island, NY, rarely holding master classes.\n\nThe Perlman music program, founded in 1995 by Toby Perlman and Suki Sandler, started as a summer camp for exceptional string musicians between the ages of 11 and 18. Over time, it expanded to a year-long program. Students have the chance to have Itzhak Perlman himself coach them before they play at venues such as the Sutton Place Synagogue and public schools. By introducing students to each other and requiring them to practice together, the program strives to have musicians who would otherwise practice alone and develop a network of friends and colleagues. Rather than remain isolated, participants in the program find an area where they belong.\n\nAt the beginning of the new millennium, Perlman began to conduct. He took the post of principal guest conductor at the Detroit Symphony Orchestra. He served as music advisor to the Saint Louis Symphony Orchestra from 2002 to 2004. In November 2007, the Westchester Philharmonic announced the appointment of Perlman as artistic director and principal conductor. His first concert in these roles was on 11 October 2008, in an all-Beethoven program featuring pianist Leon Fleisher performing the Emperor Concerto.\n\nPerlman plays the \"Soil Stradivarius\" violin of 1714, formerly owned by Yehudi Menuhin and considered one of the finest violins made during Stradivari's \"golden period.\" Perlman also plays the Guarneri del Gesu 1743 'Sauret' and the Carlo Bergonzi 1740 'ex-Kreisler'.\n\nPerlman resides in New York City with his wife, Toby, also a classically trained violinist. They have five children: Noah, Navah, Leora, Rami, and Ariella. Perlman is a distant cousin of Canadian comic and TV personality Howie Mandel.\n\n\nWith Andre Previn\n\nWith Oscar Peterson\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44377491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44377491", "title": "Jeremiah Ogbodo", "text": "Jeremiah Ogbodo\n\nJeremiah Ogbodo (born on the 4th of July) better known as Swankyjerry is a Nigerian Celebrity Fashion Stylist known for his work with Tonto Dikeh, D'banj, Ice Prince, M.I, Tu Face, Juliet Ibrahim, Davido and a host of other high profile clients.\n\nSwankyjerry began his career as a celebrity fashion stylist with the launch of his fashion and lifestyle brand Swanky Signatures Styling in June 2012 and has since then, grown to become one of the most sought after stylists in the industry. Asides from styling clients for red carpet appearances and video shoots, coverage of his work has appeared in many magazines and online publications. He has also styled Darey for House of Maliq, D'Banj for a photoshoot, Praiz, Davido for music video \"All of You\" and a host of others.\n\nWithin a space of two years, Swankyjerry's impeccable sense of style and expertise as a stylist has earned him the respect of industry critics with nominations and an award to his name.\n\nIn 2014, Swankyjerry won an award for Fashion Stylist of the year at The Lagos Fashion awards which held recently in Lagos, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "665393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665393", "title": "John Masters", "text": "John Masters\n\nLieutenant Colonel John Masters, DSO, OBE (26 October 1914 – 7 May 1983) was a British officer of the Indian Army and later a novelist. His works are noted for their treatment of the British Empire in India.\n\nMasters was the son of a regular soldier, a lieutenant-colonel whose family had a long tradition of service in the Indian Army. He was educated at Wellington and the Royal Military College, Sandhurst. On graduating from Sandhurst in 1933, he was seconded to the Duke of Cornwall's Light Infantry (DCLI) for a year before applying to serve with the 4th Prince of Wales's Own Gurkha Rifles. He saw service on the North-West Frontier with the 2nd battalion of the regiment, and was rapidly given a variety of appointments within the battalion and the regimental depot.\n\nIn 1938, he organised a hunt for a leopard reported to be roaming the depot at Bakloh, only to find himself facing a full-grown tiger (which killed one of the Gurkhas acting as beaters). He later commented that whatever rank and decorations he was awarded, he was always known to the Gurkhas as \"The Sahib who shot the Bakloh tiger\".\n\nIn early 1939, he was appointed the Adjutant of the 2nd battalion of the 4th Gurkhas. During the Second World War his battalion was sent to Basra in Iraq, during the brief Anglo-Iraqi War. Masters subsequently served in Iraq, Syria, and Persia with the battalion, before being briefly seconded as a staff officer in a Line of Communications HQ. In early 1942, he attended the Indian Army's Staff College at Quetta. Here he met the wife of a fellow officer and they began an affair. Even though they later married, there was something of a scandal at the time.\n\nAfter passing the Staff College, Masters next served as brigade major in the 114th Indian Infantry Brigade before being \"poached\" by Joe Lentaigne, another officer from the 4th Gurkhas, to be brigade major in 111th Indian Infantry Brigade, a Chindit formation. From March, 1944, the brigade served behind the Japanese lines in Burma. On the death of General Orde Wingate on 24 April, Lentaigne became the Chindits' overall commander and Masters commanded the main body of 111 Brigade.\n\nIn May, the brigade was ordered to hold a position code-named ‘Blackpool’ near Mogaung in northern Burma. The isolated position was attacked with great intensity for seventeen days and eventually the brigade was forced to withdraw. Masters felt obliged to order the medical orderlies to shoot 19 of his own men, casualties who had no hope of recovery or rescue. Masters later wrote about these events in the second volume of his autobiography, \"The Road Past Mandalay\". In recognition of his \"gallant and distinguished services in Burma\", he was in October awarded the DSO.\n\nAfter briefly commanding the 3rd battalion of his regiment, Masters subsequently became GSO1 (the Chief of Staff) of Indian 19th Infantry Division, which was heavily involved in the later stages of the Burma Campaign, until the end of the war. On January 17, 1946, he was awarded an OBE for his service in Burma. After a spell as a staff officer in GHQ India in Delhi, he then served as an instructor at the British Army Staff College, Camberley. He left the army after this posting, and moved to the United States, where he attempted to set up a business promoting walking tours in the Himalayas, one of his hobbies. The business was not a success and, to make ends meet, he decided to write of his experiences in the army. When his novels proved popular, he became a full-time writer.\n\nIn later life, Masters and his wife Barbara moved to Santa Fe, New Mexico, USA. He died in 1983 from complications following heart surgery. His family and friends scattered his ashes from an aeroplane over the mountain trails he loved to hike. General Sir Michael Rose, the former UN commander in Bosnia, is a stepson of Masters.\n\n\"John Masters: a regimented life\" by John Clay was published by Michael Joseph in 1992. Now out of print, it is a sympathetic but not uncritical biography. According to Clay, Masters possessed a strong and sometimes domineering personality, and could be impatient with weakness or incompetence. He could also be extremely warmhearted and generous. His outgoing and boisterous personality flourished during his long residence in the United States. Masters was impatient with the literary establishment, which faulted his Indian novels as unsympathetic to Indians, and he was impatient with editors who wanted to remove the rough edges from his characters. Masters strove for accuracy and realism, resenting it when people mistook his characters' views as his own. He was extremely hard-working and meticulously well-organized, both as a soldier and a novelist. Clay speculates that Masters may have been driven to achieve by rumours that his family was not \"pure\" English, but Anglo-Indian or Eurasian. In 1962 Masters learned what he had apparently long suspected, that he did indeed have a distant Indian ancestor.\n\nClay's biography provides details that Masters omitted from the three volumes of autobiography he wrote: \"Bugles and a Tiger\" (1956); \"Road Past Mandalay\" (1961); and \"Pilgrim Son\" (1971). They are nevertheless extremely revealing. \"Bugles and a Tiger\", details Masters's time at Sandhurst and service on India's northwest frontier on the eve of the Second World War. \"Road Past Mandalay\" deals mostly with the Burma campaign in the War, while \"Pilgrim Son\" chronicles his career as a writer.\n\nApart from the autobiographical works mentioned above, Masters is also known for his historical novels set in India. Seven of these portray members of successive generations of the Savage family serving in the British and Indian Armies in India, in an attempt to trace the history of the British in India through the life of one family. In chronological order of events (but not in order of publication) these novels are:\n\n\nOne of Masters's last Indian novels, \"The Venus of Konpara\", is notable for the fact that its principal characters are Indians. The Savage family play no role in the storyline, though it is hinted that a minor unidentified character is a family member. It is set in the nineteenth century during the British \"Raj\", but explores the history of Indo-Aryan and Dravidian identities in the country.\n\nMasters's works are not without their critics, who often characterize his work as historically revisionist or as uncritical of the Empire. Typical are the observations of Ronald Brydon: \"For us, the saga of the Savages, heroes and conquistadors of the Raj, was a political pornography in which we savoured the illicit sensualities of imperialism.\"\n\nOn the other hand, both \"Nightrunners of Bengal\" and \"The Ravi Lancers\" contain sympathetic portrayals of Indian nationalists and portray irreconcilable tensions between British and Indian characters that mirror the conflicts inherent in British India in a manner comparable to E. M. Forster's \"A Passage to India\". The descendant of the hero of the former novel (who is in practice manifestly the same character) experiences the partition of India with a resigned detachment and later undergoes a deep personal crisis which ends with his staying on in independent India rather than returning to Britain. One Indian novelist (Khushwant Singh) remarked that while Kipling understood India, John Masters understood Indians.\n\nThe best-known film is probably \"Bhowani Junction\" (1956), which concerns the Partition of India and the Anglo-Indian community. It starred Ava Gardner. Four of the novels (the 2nd, 3rd, 4th & 6th in the series) were adapted for an 18-part serial in BBC Radio 4's Classic Serial slot, being broadcast from October 1984 to January 1985. \"The Venus of Konpara\" had also been dramatised for BBC Radio in 1973. \"The Deceivers\" was filmed in 1988 and starred Pierce Brosnan.\n\nMasters's trilogy of \"Now God Be Thanked\", \"Heart of War\", and \"In The Green Of The Spring\" has some claim to be considered his magnum opus, covering the changes to various segments of British society wrought by the upheavals of the First World War. Masters's book \"Man of War\" appears to have been the first of a planned trilogy on the Second World War; however, the author died before any other connected books were published.\n\nIn the 1950s and 1960s the books of Masters sold in large numbers, particularly \"Bhowani Junction\", which was also translated into various other languages. Some of his works are now out of print.\n\n"}
{"id": "2875834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2875834", "title": "Joseph Huntley", "text": "Joseph Huntley\n\nJoseph Huntley was a biscuit and cake maker in the 19th century, which grew to become the largest biscuit firm in the world with his son, Thomas Palmer.\n\nbusiness\n\nAt this time, London Street was the main stage coach route from London to Bristol, Bath and the West Country. One of the main calling points of the stage coaches was the Crown Inn, opposite Joseph Huntley's shop and he started selling his biscuits to the travellers on the coaches. Because the biscuits were vulnerable to breakage on the coach journey, he started putting them in a metal tin. Out of this innovation grew two businesses: Joseph (the elder's) biscuit shop that was to become the famous biscuit manufacturer Huntley & Palmers, and Huntley, Bourne and Stevens, a firm of biscuit tin manufacturers founded by his younger son, also called Joseph. In 1838, Joseph Huntley was forced by ill-health to retire, handing control of the shop to his older son Thomas Huntley, who was joined in partnership by George Palmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "52604465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52604465", "title": "Kalākaua's 1881 world tour", "text": "Kalākaua's 1881 world tour\n\nThe 1881 world tour of King Kalākaua of the Kingdom of Hawaii was his attempt to save the Hawaiian culture and population from extinction by importing a labor force from Asia-Pacific nations. His efforts brought the small island nation to the attention of world leaders, but sparked rumors that the kingdom was for sale. Critics in Hawaii believed the labor negotiations were just an excuse to see the world. The 281-day trip gave Kalākaua the distinction of being the first monarch to circumnavigate the globe; his 1874 travels had made him the first reigning monarch to visit America and the first honoree of a state dinner at the White House.\n\nKalākaua met with heads of state in Asia, the Mideast and Europe, to encourage an influx of sugar plantation labor in family groups, as well as unmarried women as potential brides for Hawaii's existing contract laborers. While in Asia, he tried to forestall American ambitions by offering a plan to Emperor Meiji for putting Hawaii under the protection of the Empire of Japan with an arranged marriage between his niece Kaʻiulani and a Japanese prince. On his visit to Portugal, he negotiated a treaty of friendship and commerce with Hawaii that would provide a legal framework for the emigration of Portuguese laborers to Hawaii. The King had an audience in Rome with Pope Leo XIII and met with many of the crowned heads of Europe. Britain's Queen Victoria and the splendor of her royal life impressed him more than any other monarchy; having been greatly affected by the ornate trappings of European sovereigns, he would soon have Hawaii's monarchy mirror that grandeur.\n\nThe King traveled with no security guards; only a small group of personal friends made the journey with him. Except for land transportation in cities, and two loaned ships in China and the US, his modes of transportation were seldom reserved exclusively for him. He shared regularly scheduled steamships and rail transport with fare-paying passengers. On the Red Sea, he played cards and danced with other passengers. Like other tourists, he visited the white elephants of Siam, the Giza pyramid complex in Egypt, tourist sites in India, and museums in Europe. Along the way, he exceeded his original budget, shopping regardless, and sent letters back home.\n\nPresident James A. Garfield died four days before they arrived back in the United States, and Kalākaua paid a courtesy call to newly inaugurated President Chester A. Arthur at the White House in Washington, D.C. There were no public or private appearances for the King in New York, only a day at Coney Island. Before leaving the eastern US, the King met with Thomas Edison to see a demonstration of electric lights, and visited Virginia's Fort Monroe. He toured Hampton Normal and Agricultural School, and shopped for horses in Kentucky. The royal party boarded a train to California, where they were house guests of Claus Spreckels at his estate in Aptos (near Santa Cruz), and spent a few days seeing the sights before sailing back to Hawaii. Kalākaua was successful in jump-starting new immigration, the first transplants arriving in Hawaii less than a year later. In the years that followed, he began emulating the lifestyles of European royalty with expensive furnishings in Iolani Palace, a public coronation for himself, and a two-week public celebration of his birthday.\n\nNo other sovereign ruler had ever accomplished the feat of circling the globe, but Kalākaua, the last king of the Hawaiian Islands, had previously set other records. He was the first reigning monarch to visit America during his 1874 visit to Washington, D.C. for negotiations on the Reciprocity Treaty of 1875. The state dinner in his honor hosted by President Ulysses S. Grant was the first White House state dinner ever given. According to the personal writings of Queen Dowager Emma, a political opponent of his, Kalākaua supposedly had the intention in 1874 of making a world tour \"for his personal gratification and vanity\".\n\nThe islands were officially the Kingdom of Hawaii but had generally been known as the Sandwich Islands since the 1778 visit of Captain James Cook. The estimated population of Native Hawaiians when Cook arrived was 800,000. With the arrival of whaling ships and missionaries in the early 19th century, the Native Hawaiians were exposed to diseases for which they had no immunity and began dying in large numbers. The official 1878 census showed only 44,088 individuals who claimed Hawaiian ethnicity. The sugar plantation work force in the islands and the dwindling population of the Hawaiian race had been Kalākaua's ongoing concerns. On December 24, 1880, he signed an act of the legislative assembly acknowledging corruption in the immigration system and authorizing Minister of the Interior Henry A. P. Carter to take charge of licensing immigration brokers.\n\nImmediately following the signing of the legislation, he visited each major island in the kingdom for a personal look at how the reciprocity treaty had affected his people. In a speech before an audience of Native Hawaiians at a Congregational church on Kauai, Kalākaua related his concerns, \"I will speak to you of one of our great questions, which is the supply of people, not only to meet the requirements of all our industries but to assist in the increase of a Hawaiian population.\" He wanted to bring in immigrants from Asia-Pacific nations, as well as Europe and the United States, to save the declining population of the Hawaiian race from completely dying out. Prior labor immigration had been mostly unmarried men, and he hoped to attract unmarried women as potential wives for them, as well as bringing in family groups.\nKalākaua appointed William Nevins Armstrong as Attorney General in December. Armstrong had been born to Presbyterian missionaries Clarissa and Richard Armstrong in Lahaina. He had known Kalākaua since their early days at the Chiefs Children's School on Maui where he and classmate Charles Hastings Judd became friends with the future king. He graduated from Yale University and became a successful lawyer before returning to Hawaii. Judd had been on Kalākaua's staff since he was elected king, soon after becoming part of his Privy Council, as well as being his chamberlain and private secretary.\n\nYears later Armstrong remembered the invitation to join the tour as having arisen in a casual conversation, during which he did not believe the King was serious. He realized the proposed tour was not just idle conversation when the King informed his Cabinet of his plans and chose Armstrong, Judd, and his personal cook Robert von Oelhoffen as his only traveling companions. At a state dinner held by Kalākaua and his ministers a week before departure, Armstrong spoke of their youthful dreams of sailing around the world finally being brought to fruition.\n\nMinister of the Interior Carter issued a Bureau of Immigration Ordinance on January 14, 1881, stipulating the terms and conditions under which new immigrants would be allowed into the islands. On January 17, Kalākaua appointed Armstrong as Royal Commissioner of Immigration; Carter became acting Attorney General until their return. Armstrong had instructions to return with a feasibility study indicating which nations were likely to provide \"a desirable population\" for the Hawaiian labor force. William L. Green, Minister of Foreign Affairs, followed up with a communique to Hawaii's consulates stating the goals for the tour.\n\nKalākaua's sister and heir-apparent Liliʻuokalani was to act as Regent during his absence. She devoted a chapter of her 1898 book \"Hawaii's Story\" to her brother's tour. Her assertion was that the \"missionary party\" tried to exert its control by insisting that she only be allowed to be in charge of a temporary council and that all decisions in the King's absence were to be made by the entire council. She balked at the suggestion and demanded that her regency have full royal power; he agreed.\n\nFarewell receptions were held for the King by the Catholic and Protestant communities in Honolulu on the eve of his departure. John Mākini Kapena, a member of the House of Nobles, spoke to the assembled well-wishers gathered at Kawaiahaʻo Church, stating \"… The great nations now look with respect on this little Kingdom and will have still more, when they see our King traveling among them for information to benefit his people, Let us all pray every day for the King's health, and safe return to his people.\" Throughout the night, his subjects serenaded him with traditional \"oli\" (chants) and \"mele\" (songs) outside the palace.\n\nKalākaua's Masonic ties as Master of Lodge Le Progres de L'Oceanie would give him a global brotherhood in his travels. He and his chosen companions boarded the steamship \"City of Sydney\" at 6:30 a.m., January 20, bound for San Francisco. As the King made his way onto the ship, many in the crowd at the dock reached out to touch him. Major George W. Macfarlane, his aide-de-camp, would accompany them as far as California. The King traveled as Aliʻi Kalākaua and as Prince Kalākaua, rather than in his capacity as head of state. The intent was to give the impression of a personal vacation, thereby avoiding the large costly retinue required for official business. The Royal Hawaiian Band, the Hawaiian army, and a large contingent of well-wishers bid them farewell as the \"City of Sydney\" sailed out.\n\nThe \"City of Sydney\" arrived at San Francisco during a rain storm a week later, and Kalākaua's party ensconced themselves in the Palace Hotel. Spectators amassed at the train station for their arrival in Sacramento that week, during which the royal group visited the California State Legislature. They were accompanied in California's capital by Governor George Clement Perkins, sugar baron Claus Spreckels, and water engineer Hermann Schussler, who had worked on several projects in Hawaii.\n\nDuring the week, the King and Judd were made honorary members of the Pacific Yacht Club in Sausalito at a reception hosted by Commodore R. S. Floyd. Kalākaua was also feted at a gala in San Francisco's Chinatown, given by the Chinese Consul-General and attended by leaders of the local Chinese community. It was Armstrong who delivered the after-dinner speech and offered a toast to continued good relations with the Chinese population in Hawaii.\n\nIn response to Kalākaua's expressed fondness for music and the company of women, \"The Ladies of the Palace Hotel\" threw a formal-attire grand ball in his honor. A news commentary on the California visit stated, \"…  it may be said that every hour of King Kalākaua's stay in San Francisco has been filled up with a grand ovation of activities.\"\n\nThe party sailed on the \"Oceanic\" out of San Francisco on February 8. Reaching the Empire of Japan on March 4, they were surprised by elaborate welcoming ceremonies that included the playing of the anthem Kalākaua had written, \"Hawaiʻi Ponoʻī\". They had not given advance notice to the Japanese government of their pending visit, but the government had been alerted by a telegraph from the Imperial General Consul in San Francisco. Believing a formal reception was required by their 1871 treaty with the Kingdom of Hawaii, they welcomed the King as a friendly head of state. In deference, Kalākaua acquiesced to his being treated as if he were on an official state visit.\n\nThe King and his small group spent just under three weeks on their tour of Japan. They were formally welcomed at the Tokyo Imperial Palace and taken to Shintomiza, the Imperial Theatre, to be entertained by a kabuki drama. The following day Emperor Meiji held a state dinner for his visitors. The Emperor presented the King with two suits of Japanese armor, and bestowed upon him the Order of the Chrysanthemum with Badge, and the Star of the Order. The King reciprocated with a royal painting of Queen Kapiolani and himself, and presented the Emperor with the Grand Cross of Kamehameha. In the same ceremony, Judd and Armstrong were given the Order of the Rising Sun. By way of understanding local education and industries, the King toured the College of the Imperial Guard, Imperial Engineering College, and the Oji Paper Company. Two of Japan's generals gave him a guided tour through the empire's arsenal.\n\nConcern over a possible United States seizure of the Hawaiian Islands motivated Kalākaua to hold a secret meeting with the Emperor to bring Hawaii under the protective aegis of the Japanese empire. He proposed to unite the two nations with an arranged marriage between his 5-year-old niece Kaʻiulani and 13-year-old Prince Higashifushimi Yorihito. Historian Ralph Kuykendall said the proposal was rejected both by Yorihito, upon advice of his father, and by the government of Japan. The Hawaiian king also recommended that Emperor Meiji create a \"Union and Federation of the Asiatic nations and sovereigns\" with Japan as its head, although the Emperor politely declined this idea at a later date.\n\nJapanese newspapers cautioned about looking for an emigrating labor force in Japan, stating that their own country had large areas of available agricultural land that went untouched. A ball was planned in the king's honor by the Masonic Fraternity of Yokohama, which he bowed out of when he learned of the assassination of Alexander II of Russia. The Kalākaua group arrived in Kobe on March 18 for a sightseeing tour and lunch with the mayor. On March 22, they embarked on the steamship \"Tokio Maru\" bound for Shanghai.\nThe Chinese had been a part of Hawaii's culture since the late 18th century, when the islands were first visited by Chinese merchants and tradesmen. In 1852, sugar plantations began recruiting unskilled labor from China. Because these men initially intended to return to China upon the completion of their contracts, most came without families.\n\nUpon arriving in Shanghai on March 25, Kalākaua spent two days in residence at the Astor House Hotel, receiving foreign diplomats. They departed for Tientsin on March 27 when Viceroy Li Hung Chang offered the steamship \"Pautah\" for their use.\n\nKalākaua met with the Viceroy on March 31 to propose the emigration of unmarried Chinese women, as well as Chinese family units to Hawaii, to counterbalance the labor population of unmarried Chinese men. The Viceroy responded favorably and agreed to co-sponsor such an emigration with the Hawaiian government. Li arranged several events to provide Kalākaua the opportunity to meet the city's influential persons. A copy of a draft of a proposed treaty was forwarded to Hawaii's Minister of Foreign Affairs Green. The \"Hong Kong Daily News\" held a positive view of Hawaii's treatment of existing Chinese laborers, but stated that the Chinese government needed to provide financial assistance for family emigration to Hawaii. The royal party returned to Shanghai on April 6. A proposed trip to Beijing was aborted when Empress Dowager Ci'an died on April 8. They sailed out of China the next day.\n\nThe traveling group departed on the steamship \"Thibet\" for British Hong Kong, arriving April 12. Kalākaua was the guest of Hong Kong's governor John Pope Hennessy at Government House, where the king was honored with a diplomatic reception and banquet. Armstrong delivered the after-dinner speech.\n\nKalākaua was given celebratory receptions at the Victoria Lodge of Freemasons No. 1026 and Perseverance Lodge No. 1165, both in Hong Kong. Judd was voted into the masonry brotherhood at the latter, Lodge No. 1165.\n\nThey left Hong Kong on the steamship \"Killarney\" on April 21.\n\nThe steamship \"Killarney\" arrived in Bangkok on April 26. How they would be received was speculative, since Hawaii had no treaty with Siam. Upon arrival, they were carried aboard a royal yacht up the Menam River to Bangkok. From there, they were carried on silk chairs to one of the many palaces in Bangkok for the duration of their visit. The following day they met with King Chulalongkorn who told Kalākaua that the Siamese and Native Hawaiians were related by the common Malayan bloodline. A member of the Siamese royal family escorted Kalākaua to see the nation's famed white elephants.\n\nChulalongkorn hosted a state dinner and made Kalākaua a Knight of the Grand Cross of the Crown of Siam; Kalākaua reciprocated with the Royal Order of Kamehameha I. Armstrong and Judd were given the Knight Grand Cross of the Crown of Siam, Third Class. No labor negotiations took place, although Kalākaua later mentioned in his letter to his brother-in-law Oahu Governor John Owen Dominis that \"an exchange of decorations\" with leaders in Asian nations potentially opened doors for future talks on immigration. He included a lengthy list of decorations to be sent to various members of the Siamese nobility.\n\nKalākaua's party embarked on the steamship \"Bangkok\" for Singapore on May 1. As the ship sailed away, they were bid farewell by a military gun salute, and shouts of approval by well-wishers at the dock.\n\nBy the time the \"Bangkok\" docked in Singapore on May 6, Kalākaua had had enough of formal events, turning down the offer of accommodations at Government House in favor of the simplicity of a hotel. Nevertheless, Governor Frederick Weld held a formal reception and state dinner for him.\n\nWhen he visited Sultan Abu Bakar of Johor on May 10 at the Palace of Istana Besar, 40 miles from Singapore, he was greeted as a brother. They squared off in the Sultan's palace over a billiard table. Armstrong was advised by Abu Bakar that while the inhabitants of Singapore and the Malay peninsula were good at varied professions, agricultural labor was not one of them. Abu Bakar told Armstrong that the Malay states were importing plantation labor from China and India.\n\nKalākaua and Judd visited the Lodge Zetland in the East, No. 548, in Singapore on May 11, where Judd was bestowed with the third degree in masonry. The king had hoped to buy pearls for his wife Queen Kapiolani in Singapore, but found the prices prohibitive. On May 12, the royal entourage departed on the steamship \"Mecca\".\n\nMalacca was a six-hour layover on May 13, affording limited sightseeing. Kalākaua was given walking canes as souvenirs. Their one day at Penang on May 15 saw a visit by Governor John Frederick Adolphus McNair who hosted them at his residence of Suffolk House.\n\nA change of transportation at Moulmein put them on the steamship \"Pembo\" (or \"Pamba\"), arriving in Rangoon on May 22. During their stopover, they were entertained at Government House by the English Commissioner, and Kalākaua attended worship services at the chapel of St. John's College. They departed on May 24.\n\nSeveral plantation owners in Hawaii favored the importation of coolie labor from the East India region. Henry A. P. Carter and British consul James Hay Wodehouse had already visited England in 1879 to open a door for the process. They were discouraged by stipulations that Hawaii would be forced to pass legislation that would in essence be a detailed labor contract. There was a further requirement that such a Hawaiian law could not be changed without the approval of the governments of both Great Britain and East India. The prospect was explored through the end of 1880, when Hawaii's immigration board decided the islands could not import Indian labor within the parameters required.\n\nAccording to a report of the trip Armstrong later filed with the Hawaiian government, any negotiations for Indian contract labor had to be done with the British government in London, so no talks were conducted during their time in India. They arrived in Calcutta on May 28 and visited the Alipore Zoological Gardens. Kalākaua spent one day sitting in the Calcutta courthouse to observe India's legal process. Their trip across the British India subcontinent was a sightseeing excursion during their last days before sailing to the Middle East, and they stopped to tour the Ellora Caves prior to reaching Bombay. The King soon tired of the long journey, and was bored and restless by the time they arrived at Bombay, where they remained until the departure of their steamship on June 7. There was more in Bombay to interest him: a shopping trip, the Arab Stallion Stables, the Parsi Towers of Silence, and a visit from businessman Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy.\n\nThe steamship \"Rosetta\" sailed out of Bombay on June 7, carrying Kalākaua and his friends to Aden for an afternoon of shopping on June 14, and then onto the Red Sea. In a letter to Liliʻuokalani, Kalākaua described how his romantic boyhood dreams of sailing the Red Sea were dashed by the tedium of a week on the water with no land in sight. All was not lost, since he and the estimated 70 other passengers passed the week playing games and dancing.\n\nArriving at the Suez on June 20, they boarded a train for Cairo. With no existing treaty with Egypt, they were pleasantly surprised by Khedive Tewfik Pasha's offer of his Cairo palace during their stay, accommodating them with a tour of the Pyramid complex and the Great Sphinx on the Giza Plateau.\n\nWriting to his sister Liliʻuokalani from Cairo, he responded to her letter apprising him of the smallpox epidemic in the islands: \"… what is the use of praying after 293 lives of our poor people have gone to their everlasting place. Is it to thank him for killing or is it to thank him for sending them to him or to the other place … To save the life of the people is to work and not pray.\"\n\nThe \"Egyptian Gazette\" published Kalākaua's acceptance speech when the Grand Lodge of Egypt freemasons made him Honorary Grand Master of the Great Orient of Egypt. He was honored with a state ball in Alexandria by the Khedive on June 24, the day before they left on the steamer \"Asia\".\n\nThroughout their European stops, Armstrong saw a willingness among some who were looking for a life change to consider emigrating to Hawaii as plantation labor. Generally, however, they were looking for a stake in land ownership that the kingdom was not willing to offer.\n\nArmstrong mentioned a brief stop at Catania, on the island of Sicily, probably on June 29, visiting the Catania Cathedral and Mount Etna. Their next stop was at Naples on June 30, where they were greeted by the Prefect of Naples, the Commanding General and Admiral of Naples, and Celso Caesar Moreno, presenting himself to local officials as the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Hawaii. Moreno was a friend of Kalākaua's who many felt was a con artist. Armstrong described him as someone who scammed his way into Kalākaua's good graces in Hawaii. Moreno had been appointed Hawaii's Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1880. He created a divisive situation that put the King at odds with his own cabinet, leading to Moreno's dismissal five days later. He and Kalākaua remained on cordial terms. Moreno had been appointed the guardian of three Hawaiian students, including the future rebel leaders Robert Napuʻuako Boyd and Robert William Wilcox, who were being educated in Italy as a part of the government funded study-abroad program. Moreno was relieved of that responsibility once the King was made aware that Moreno had misrepresented them as Kalākaua's natural sons, and that he had misled the Italian government into believing he had an official position with the Hawaiian government. The \"Saturday Press\" in Honolulu was indignant at his association with Kalākaua and their re-connection in Italy, stating that Moreno \"… had fought to the last ditch, and has, we hope, tumbled into it and will remain there.\"\n\nThe royal group spent two hours at Naples National Archaeological Museum before having an audience with King Umberto I and Queen Margherita. They spent the next day seeing more attractions in Naples, before heading for Rome on the afternoon train. Prior to their departure, they had learned of the July 2 shooting of President James A. Garfield in Washington, D.C.\n\nTheir time in Rome was a brief two days, during which Kalākaua, Armstrong, and Judd were granted an audience with Pope Leo XIII on July 3. After receiving his blessing, they toured St. Peter's Basilica and other local tourist sites, and left the following day by train. The party traveled across France and Paris without informing the French authorities, which was seen as a breach of official protocol and had to be explained at a later date.\n\nThe Kalākaua group arrived in London the evening of July 6. The King spent the next day receiving visitors in his suite at Claridge's, later accepting Queen Victoria's offer of the royal box at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden. While in England, he attended an Eton v Harrow cricket match, and returned to the Royal Opera House to hear opera singer Adelina Patti. The Queen's annual Windsor Great Park review of 50,000 military volunteers drew many high-ranking and titled spectators, including Kalākaua. Following the review, he was entertained by Civil Lord of the Admiralty Thomas Brassey and his wife at their encampment. He attended worship services at Westminster Abbey on Sunday, prior to his afternoon sailing trip with Lord Charles Beresford and guests.\n\nKalākaua, Armstrong and Judd were formally presented to Queen Victoria at Windsor Castle. Kalākaua's letter to his sister Liliʻuokalani expressed his excitement about meeting the Queen, \"… I was quite electrified and monopolized the whole conversation that took place during the interview.\" His letter was effusive in details about the titled royals and aristocrats they had met, including the Prince and Princess of Wales, and the Crown Prince and Crown Princess of Prussia. The Prince of Wales paid many attentions to Kalākaua, hoping to sway him away from the United States. He insisted on giving Kalākaua precedence ahead of his brother-in-law, the Crown Prince of Germany and responded to German objections by saying, \"Either the brute is a king or else he is an ordinary black nigger, and if he is not a king, why is he here?\" At this point in their trip, Armstrong temporarily returned to his family in the United States.\n\nHawaii's relationship with A. Hoffnung & Company in London dated back to 1877 when Hawaii's Minister of Foreign Affairs Henry A. P. Carter recommended the firm to handle Portuguese emigration to the island kingdom. The firm's founder Abraham Hoffnung was attached to the Hawaiian Board of Immigration in London, and had already succeeded in sending Hawaii 751 Portuguese citizens (237 men, 191 women, and 323 children) in 1879. Kalākaua reconnected with Hoffnung over dinner, and he became part of the royal party as it traveled through Europe.\n\nOn July 23, the day before departing for Brussels, Kalākaua had lunch with the Duke of Teck, and inspected ships at the Yarrow Shipbuilders.\n\nKalākaua and Judd left England on July 24, arriving in Brussels the next morning. They spent a few days sightseeing, and visited Waterloo, where Napoleon Bonaparte had been defeated in 1815. Kalākaua presented Belgium's King Leopold II with the Order of Kamehameha when he paid a visit to him.\n\nThey arrived at Cologne on July 29, visiting the Cologne Cathedral before continuing on to Berlin. Kalākaua stayed in his Berlin accommodations and took care of his correspondence the first full day of his stay, with German soldiers standing vigil outside his door. He received boisterous expressions of public approval wherever he appeared. During their stay, they attended several military displays and toured museums, castles, and other sites of interest. The King was entertained by the future Kaiser Wilhelm II and his wife, who were receiving him on behalf of Wilhelm's grandfather, the German Emperor. On a visit to Potsdam with Prince Charles of Prussia, Kalākaua was awarded the Grand Cross of the Order of the Red Eagle. Armstrong rejoined the group in Germany, but was too ill to accompany them on their outings. They departed for Vienna on August 4.\n\nOnlookers gathered at Vienna's in anticipation of Kalākaua's arrival. When he stepped off the train to be escorted by Austrian officials to the Hotel Imperial, cheering rang out from the crowd. He later visited the Imperial Arsenal. After a tour of the Belvedere, he attended a concert conducted by Eduard Strauss at the Volksgarten. In the evening he enjoyed a ballet at the Imperial Opera House.\n\nThe royal family had already left Vienna for the summer, but Kalākaua got to inspect the troops during military maneuvers at the Schmelz parade grounds. He later had an audience with Archduke Albrecht, Duke of Teschen. In the evening, he returned to the opera house for a performance of Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\". The next two days were spent sightseeing, including the Schönbrunn Palace, St. Stephen's Cathedral, the Votive Church, and the \"Neue Freie Presse\".\n\nOn August 8, the King and his friends took the evening train to Paris.\n\nThe Royal party arrived at the Gare de l'Est train station in Paris in the pre-dawn hours of August 10, rejoined by Macfarlane. Most of the first day they remained in their suite, recovering from travel exhaustion. They soon ventured out to see to the Auteuil Hippodrome, and stopped by various concert halls.\n\nArmstrong noted that the party was received with \"the cold shoulder\" by diplomatic authorities for the first time on their trip, while the King in return considered them to be a \"mean lot\". They had to apologize for the diplomatic slight from the earlier July stopover, and explain the reason why an invitation for the King, received while they were still in London, to attend the Bastille Day celebration as a guest of President Grévy was left unanswered. After the tension was smoothed out, the French foreign minister visited the King in the absence of the president who was not in the capital at that time.\n\nOtherwise, their stay in Paris was filled with well-wishers who came to call at the hotel. Queen Victoria sent her chargé d'affaires to present him with the Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George. After days of visitors, which included world dignitaries and representatives of two different Masonic lodges, Kalākaua and friends attended a performance of Giuseppe Verdi's opera \"Aida\". He was given a tour of the headquarters of \"Le Figaro\", and visited the Société de géographie. On August 15, the royal group, which now included Hoffnung, left on the evening train, bound for Portugal and Spain.\n\nPortuguese immigrants had been in Hawaii since the whaling days. Many of them were mixed blood Afro-Portuguese sailors who found the brown-skinned Native Hawaiians free of racial bias towards them. The first Portuguese plantation labor emigration to Hawaii came from the Azores and Madeira in 1878, starved out of their homelands by widespread grape vine fungus. They emigrated mostly in family groups, joining an established community of their own culture.\n\nArmstrong's instructions for Portugal were to negotiate an expanded treaty with the government. They arrived at Santa Apolónia railway station in Lisbon on August 19. Kalākaua was presented with the Grand Cross Order of the Immaculate Conception of Vila Viçosa during an audience with King Luís I at the Palace of Ajuda, and also attended a bullfight with Luis's father King Ferdinand II at the Pena Palace. When they left Portugal on August 24, Armstrong remained behind to initiate a treaty.\n\nThe royal group toured Madrid on August 24, visiting the Royal Army, Museo del Prado, and Buen Retiro Park. The Spanish minister presented Kalākaua with the Order of Charles III. An announcement was released to the newspapers that an arrangement had been made for Portugal to send 300 families to the Hawaiian Islands in the near future. They departed for Paris on August 25.\n\nWinding down his tour, Kalākaua's schedule became less hectic. He spent most of August 27 relaxing in his hotel suite in Paris, and attending to his personal correspondence. A little sightseeing was done over the next two days: Napoleon's tomb at Les Invalides, Bal Mabille, the Louvre, and Palais Bourbon. Dutch heir-apparent Alexander, Prince of Orange, visited the King to thank him for the Grand Cross of the Order of Kalākaua. The King spent his remaining day in the city, August 30, in his hotel suite, saying his farewells.\n\nThe train carrying Kalākaua and his travel companions arrived in London at Charing Cross railway station the morning of August 31. In the evening they all attended a performance at Drury Lane Theatre. Armstrong left for New York City on September 1, as the rest of the party went sightseeing and visited the tomb of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington in St Paul's Cathedral. The following day they visited the Tower of London, and later in the day, Kalākaua received the Holy Cross of Wasa from Sweden's chargé d'affaires. On September 3, the royal party visited the Blenheim Gun and Small Arms Works, where they lunched with several dignitaries. After services at St Paul's Cathedral, Kalākaua bestowed the Royal Order of Kalākaua on Hoffnung for his service during their travels around Europe. On September 6, he paid a farewell visit to the Prince and Princess of Wales, before departing for Glasgow, Scotland.\n\nKalākaua arrived in Glasgow on September 7. The Lord Provost of Glasgow and the magistrates hosted the King at a dinner party, where he gave a speech praising the contributions of Scotsmen in Hawaii. For the rest of his stay, he toured Loch Lomond and the River Clyde. Visiting Edinburgh on September 9, he toured Dreghorn Castle and the Royal Botanic Garden, where he planted two maple trees. Kalākaua appeared at Freemason Hall to loud cheers. The Grand Conclave of Scotland of the Order of the Red Cross of Constantine made him an honorary member.\n\nHawaii's royal tourists departed for America via Liverpool on September 13.\n\nThe steamship \"Celtic\" pulled into New York Harbor on September 23, carrying Kalākaua, Judd, Macfarlane, and von Oelhoffen. Awaiting them on the dock were Armstrong, Hawaiian consul general Elisha Hunt Allen, Jr. and Claus Spreckels. New York was in mourning over the September 19 death of President Garfield. Out of respect to the solemnity of the tragedy, Kalākaua attended no public or private functions in the city. The royal party did, however, spend a day as private tourists at Coney Island.\n\nIn Vienna during the first week in August, Kalākaua had made the acquaintance of \"The New York Times\" co-founder George Jones, who noticed the King had an interest in Thomas Edison's work with electric lighting. Returning to New York, Jones arranged for Kalākaua and Armstrong to visit Edison on September 25. The King expressed an urgent need for Honolulu to upgrade its street lighting, which at that time was provided by kerosene lamps. Edison demonstrated some electric light bulbs, and Kalākaua showed interest in the technical details. \"The Sun\" newspaper reported that Armstrong joked with Edison about generating electric power from Hawaiian volcanoes. They left the city by train on the following day for Philadelphia, staying there for a brief rest, and then heading south to Washington, D. C.\nArriving in Washington, D. C. on September 27, they stayed at the Arlington Hotel. On the following day, the party was introduced by the Assistant Secretary of State Robert R. Hitt to the newly inaugurated President Chester A. Arthur, at the home of Virginia Senator John W. Johnston. The informal private interview lasted only twenty minutes but was described as pleasant. Armstrong later described their similarities: \"If the President had been a dark or black man, the [physical] resemblance would have been a singular one.\"\n\nAfter the presidential visit, the royal party headed to Baltimore where Secretary of State William H. Hunt provided a governmental vessel, the USS \"Despatch\", to transport them to Tidewater Virginia. The King toured Fortress Monroe where General George W. Getty received him before spending the day with Armstrong's brother Samuel at Hampton Normal and Agricultural School. The King was interested in the institution's role in educating Native Americans in the industrial trade, a model he wanted to bring back to his people, even though Samuel Armstrong had modeled his school after the Hilo Boarding School in Hawaii. After a visit to the Old Soldier's Home and a reception at Virginia Hall, the party returned north to Fortress Monroe, where they witnessed a review, and then proceeded to the Norfolk Naval Shipyard. It was reported that the royal party also visited Yorktown to observe the centennial celebration of its siege.\n\nReturning to the capital on October 2, they boarded a train, arriving the next day at Cincinnati, where they stayed at the Grand Hotel. While Armstrong remained in Cincinnati, Kalākaua, Judd, and Macfarlane took a trip to Lexington, Kentucky, visiting the city, meeting the local dignitaries, and spending a night with General William T. Withers at his home Fairlawn, outside the city. The following day they visited the Kentucky thoroughbred farm of Milton H. Sanford, where they purchased two stallions and five mares for shipment back to Honolulu, although contradictory reports in the Louisville press stated they did not purchase any horses. Afterward they returned to Cincinnati and boarded another train heading west.\n\nAt a scheduled layover in Chicago, they disembarked only long enough for breakfast and to answer some brief media questions before the train resumed its route. In Omaha, Nebraska, the King was the guest of honor at a reception held in the home of Judge James M. Woolworth. Most of the attendees were friends of the judge's daughter, who had met the King on a vacation in Hawaii. Although Kalākaua had claimed exhaustion from his world trip, he nevertheless danced the whole night with the women guests. Claus and Mrs. Spreckels joined the group at Ogden, Utah.\n\nThey arrived in California on October 11. Part of the King's stay was at the Spreckels summer home in Aptos, with a sightseeing trip to Lick Observatory. While he was a guest at the Spreckels home, the sugar baron gave the King two horses and a colt. California friends of the King joined him for a farewell dinner at the Palace Hotel in San Francisco on October 22, just prior to his sailing on the steamship \"Australia\" back to Honolulu. Among those attending were Spreckels, Governor Perkins, California state senator Paul Neumann, and University of California president Horace Davis.\n\nThe \"Australia\" was not expected to arrive in Hawaii until October 31. Plans for Kalākaua's homecoming celebration in Hawaii had begun in August, and included every organized civic and labor union group, as well as the student body of every school on Oahu. The general public was invited to participate in the festivities. Honolulu was in the final stages of preparation on October 29, when the \"Australia\" flying Kalākaua's royal flag sailed past Diamond Head, making its way to Honolulu Harbor. As the alert quickly spread across Oahu, a battery of guns began firing along the waterfront from Diamond Head to the port, and a frenzied scramble began to complete the decorations. After 281 days of constant travel, Hawaii's last king was home.\n\nThe homecoming celebration went on for days. Officials and the general population of the island crowded the shoreline to cheer their returning monarch. Speeches were made in both English and Hawaiian, and some people stood on rooftops for a glimpse. Floral arrangements permeated the city, welcome-home signs were displayed, and music was everywhere. Along his route to Iolani Palace, the procession passed beneath numerous festooned arches erected for his homecoming. A daytime parade was held in his honor. The palace was opened for the public to personally greet the King. The Honolulu Fire Department and the Poola Association began an evening torchlight parade at a bell tower brightly lit with Chinese lanterns, and proceeded through the streets of downtown Honolulu to the palace.\n\nSunday, November 6 was a day when houses of worship in Honolulu offered prayers and thanks for the divine protection and safe return of their monarch. The Catholic Cathedral Basilica of Our Lady of Peace in Honolulu conducted the Te Deum hymn of praise. Attended by Kalākaua and Kapiolani, the King's ministry, and much of the Hawaiian government, thanks were given for divine protection during the royal journey. Former missionary Rev. Sereno E. Bishop of the Fort Street Church praised the King's historic journey, but condemned the Hawaiian culture for its \"decrepit paganism\" and \"bestialities of the \"hula hula\"\". Kalākaua and Kapiolani attended the services at the Anglican Saint Andrew's Cathedral as private individuals, to hear a sermon on the Parable of the talents or minas based on the Gospel of Luke 19:13, \"And he called his ten servants and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, 'Make use of it till I come.'\"\n\nWhile the King was in California on January 31, the \"Straits Times\" of Singapore published a story that Kalākaua already had a representative in Germany finalizing the sale of the Kingdom of Hawaii. In April, Secretary of State James G. Blaine was made aware of various rumors that Kalākaua wanted to sell the kingdom to a nation other than the United States, and repeated them to Garfield, who in turn shared them in a letter to one of his friends. In an attempt to protect the interests of the United States, Blaine made it clear to British diplomat Edward Thornton that priority on annexation belonged to the United States. Thornton filed a report with his government, sending a copy to Honolulu's British consul Wodehouse who shared it with Queen Dowager Emma, Princess Likelike, her husband Archibald Scott Cleghorn, Liliʻuokalani, and her husband John Owen Dominis. Although troubled by the rumors and by Blaine's stance on annexation, none of them had any knowledge of the situation and so forwarded the report to Kalākaua.\n\nWhen the King was visiting England on July 15, the \"Sacramento Daily Record-Union\" reprinted a defensive July 14 editorial in \"The New York Times\" stating the rumor as fact that Kalākaua was circumnavigating the world in hopes of finding a buyer for the islands: \"… Virtually, the United States has a mortgage upon the Sandwich Islands … we have a monopoly of trade of the islands, both as imports and exports …\". The trade monopoly referred to was Article IV of the Reciprocity Treaty of 1875, which prevented Hawaii from making a like treaty with any other nation. The editorial stated that any act of acquiring the Hawaiian Islands would be viewed by the United States government as an unfriendly act.\n\nThe \"New York Tribune\" quoted Armstrong's response that the rumors were \"frivolous and utterly false\". Immediately below the quote from Armstrong was a different twist on the rumor from San Francisco, also dated July 16, and printed as fact. Sourced to \"a number of the most prominent planters and merchants from the Sandwich Islands\", it alleged a scheme by the King and Celso Caesar Moreno to import 1,000,000 Chinese men (but no women), conferring instant citizenship upon them, and reaping a $7 per head tax. The 1878 census population count for the entire kingdom had been only 57,985. As the tale went, Kalākaua would then hand the deed to the islands over to the Chinese government. The slant on that story was that Kalākaua's tour was his way of getting out of town after the plan backfired when vetoed by the Hawaiian government.\n\nUpon their return trip to New York, \"The Sun\" newspaper quoted Judd about the rumor of the Hawaiian Islands being for sale: \"… there is no truth in it whatsoever. It is perfectly absurd.\" Dismissing the issue of possible annexation, Judd pinpointed the source as coming from England: \"This was thought to be such a serious matter that the British government sent two men of war to Honolulu.\"\n\nMinister of the Interior Henry A. P. Carter and Abraham Hoffnung were sent to Portugal in December 1881 to negotiate immigration details, signing a Provisional Convention on May 5, 1882. The steamship \"Monarch\" arrived in Honolulu on June 9, 1882, carrying 859 Portuguese immigrants, 458 of whom were women and children.\n\nThe United States passed the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882 to deal with what was believed to be an excess of Chinese labor-class immigrants, in particular in California. Many who were already in the United States, or were en route, went to Hawaii, and the islands were flooded with Chinese men. In 1883, between March and May, 3,400 Chinese male laborers arrived in Hawaii. The Hawaiian legislature then restricted immigration of Chinese men to 2,400 per year. Between 1878 and 1884, the population of Chinese laborers in Hawaii tripled.\n\nThe first 943 contract laborers from Japan after Kalākaua's visit arrived February 8, 1885. Included in that influx were 159 women and 108 children. \"The Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" credited Kalākaua, through his efforts, influence, and \"genial character\", as being the major factor in the new labor force. In 1985, a bronze statue of Kalākaua was donated to the City and County of Honolulu to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of the arrival of the first Japanese laborers after the King's visit to Japan. It was commissioned by the Oahu Kanyaku Imin Centennial Committee on behalf of the Japanese-American community of Hawaii. The statue is located at the corner of Kalakaua and Kapiolani avenues in Waikiki.\n\nArmstrong's report was dismissive of any possibility of immigration from India, specifically East India. Based on their caste system, he stated that those who would emigrate would be \"the ignorant and those with the least moral and intellectual power\". He was repulsed by the Hindu and Muslim faiths. Among women immigrants from India, Armstrong believed, would be \"single women who have gone astray\", of insufficient moral character for Hawaii. An editorial in the December 17, 1881 issue of \"The Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" rebuked Armstrong's analysis of the Indian population. As a followup to goodwill generated by Kalākaua's visit, Curtis P. Iaukea was dispatched to India and England in later years to explore the possibility of Indian immigration for sugar plantation labor.\n\nIn 1904, 23 years after the voyage, Armstrong published \"Around the World with a King,\" his daily journal of the trip. This publication has been criticized for errors, inconsistencies and Armstrong's satirical writing style.\n\nNot everybody was enthusiastic about Kalākaua's journey. In \"Hawaii's Story\", Liliʻuokalani defended her brother's efforts against those who she felt \"grossly misjudged and even slandered\" him. She gave no names, but said there were those who believed, or wanted to persuade others to believe, that Kalākaua was using labor immigration as a cover story to gratify his selfish desire to see the world.\n\nThe 1881 year-end retrospective of the \"Pacific Commercial Advertiser\" was focused on Kalākaua's journey. The newspaper took a wait-and-see attitude about what the impact of the tour would be, but looked optimistically towards the kingdom having a more secure future as an independent nation. It gave much credit to Liliʻuokalani for rising to the occasion as a capable ruler who gained respect for her performance as temporary Regent. Kalākaua was acknowledged as having brought Hawaii to the forefront of the world's attention. He was praised for his personal qualities of leadership and personality, as well as for his positive interaction with global leaders. A smaller section in same day's newspaper noted that since the journey, there had been a global increase of literary publications pertaining to Hawaii.\n\n\"Thrum's Hawaiian Almanac and Annual for 1883\" reported Kalākaua's tour expense appropriated by the government as $22,500, although his personal correspondence indicates he exceeded that early on, and exact tallies of the trip are not known. Any non-government private expenses or debts would not necessarily have become public. In a letter to Liliʻuokalani in June, the King stated they were already in danger of running out of funds to complete the trip, and that money was owed to Italy for the education of the young men who had been entrusted to Moreno. The many awards and decorations he bestowed during the trip cost the kingdom more money.\n\nThe elaborate style of European monarchies left a favorable impression on Kalākaua. Construction on Iolani Palace had begun in 1879, and was ongoing when Kalākaua was touring the world, with an appropriation from the legislature of $80,000. Even though it was not fully completed until December 1882, the King was living there prior to his departure on his world tour. The influence of European palaces was reflected in the interior design and expensive furnishings. The final cost was $343,595. Immediately upon completion, the King invited all 120 members of Lodge Le Progres de L'Oceanie to the palace for a lodge meeting.\n\nElectric lighting did not come to Honolulu for another 3 years, when Iolani Palace led the way with the first electric lights in the kingdom. The monarchy invited the public to attend the first-night lighting ceremonies, and 5,000 people showed up. The Royal Hawaiian Band entertained, refreshments were served, and the King on horseback paraded his troops around the grounds.\nHis expenditures in trying to remold Hawaii's monarchy into the European model added to the public debt, helping to increase the kingdom's expenditures on the monarchy by 50%. Kalākaua decided to have the coronation he had previously been denied due to the political climate when he was elected. On the 1883 anniversary of his 9th year in office, an elaborate public coronation ceremony was held at expenses exceeding $50,000. Kalākaua crowned himself. In 1886, Kalākaua's two-week 50th birthday Jubilee added more expense, reported by \"Harper's Weekly\" to be $75,000.\n\nThese expenses were not the sole cause of the 1887 Constitution of the Kingdom of Hawaii, which Kalākaua was forced to sign, but representative of a pattern of excessive spending and grand schemes, under the helm of Walter Murray Gibson, that did lead to it. Gibson was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs for two non-consecutive terms, on May 20, 1882, and again on October 13, 1886. He became Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister of Hawaii on June 30, 1886. Gibson encouraged and approved the King's excessive expenditures, and is thought to have been the driving force behind some of them, not the least of which was the $100,000 purchase of a state steamboat for travel to the Samoan Islands as part of Kalākaua's plan to form a Polynesian Confederation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56367294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56367294", "title": "Lettice Lygon", "text": "Lettice Lygon\n\nLady Lettice Lygon (16 June 1906 – 18 July 1973) was a member of the Bright Young Things.\n\nLady Lettice Lygon was born on 16 June 1906, the daughter of William Lygon, 7th Earl Beauchamp and Lady Lettice Mary Elizabeth Grosvenor.\n\nLady Lettice Lygon was \"one of the tallest and prettiest members of the younger set\". She was \"the tallest débutante of her year\". She was a friend of Daphne Fielding.\n\nOn 16 June 1930 she married Sir Richard Charles Geers Cotterell, 5th Bt. (1907–1978). They had four children: Rose Evelyn Cotterell (1932-2006), Anne Lettice Cotterell (b. 1933), Sir John Henry Geers Cotterell, 6th Bt. (1935-2017), Thomas Richard Geers Cotterell (b. 1939). They divorced in 1958.\n\nShe died on 18 July 1973 aged 67.\n"}
{"id": "603546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603546", "title": "List of Arthurian characters", "text": "List of Arthurian characters\n\nThe Arthurian legend features many characters, including the Knights of the Round Table and members of King Arthur's family. Their names often differ from version to version and from language to language. The following is a list of characters with descriptions. \n\nThe symbol indicates a Knight of the Round Table.\n\n"}
{"id": "4826328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4826328", "title": "List of oldest living Major League Baseball players", "text": "List of oldest living Major League Baseball players\n\nThis list includes the 100 oldest living former Major League Baseball players, listed from oldest to youngest. The primary position of each player is noted after his name.\n\n!scope=\"col\" class=unsortable |Rank\n!scope=\"col\" class=unsortable ! width=14% |Name\n!scope=\"col\" class=unsortable ! width=9%|Age\n!width=14%|Date of birth\n!width=14%|MLB debut\n!width=14%|Final game\n!scope=\"col\" class=unsortable|Team(s)\n<!--Please do not add more than 25 players to this section.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10088016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10088016", "title": "List of professional sportspeople convicted of crimes", "text": "List of professional sportspeople convicted of crimes\n\nThis list includes sports-people who have been convicted of serious crimes (such as felonies in the United States). It comprises both professionals and those amateurs who have competed at the highest levels.\n\nN.B: \"Italics\" indicates retired or inactive.\n"}
{"id": "43414952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43414952", "title": "Navekmisal Hanım", "text": "Navekmisal Hanım\n\nNavekmisal Hanım ( 1838 – 5 August 1854; ) was a consort of Sultan Abdulmejid I of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nNavekmisal Hanım was born in the Biberd family in North Caucasus. Her father was Prince Rüstem Bey Biberd and her mother was Princess Fatma Hanım Kızılbek, the daughter of Prince Batuhan Kızılbek. She had a sister named, Suzidilara Hanım (died 1919). \n\nFatma Hanım's sister, Princess Keşfiraz Hanım, hence a close relative, had been a wetnurse to Princess Refia Sultan, daughter of Sultan Abdulmejid I. For this reasons Navekmisal and her sister were sent to live with her at Istanbul. Navekmisal grew into a young lady in the Imperial Harem. She entered palace service and became lady-in-waiting to Valide Sultan Bezmiâlem Sultan. \n\nNavekmisal married Abdulmejid in 1853. She was given the title of \"Beşinci Ikbal\". She remained childless.\n\nIn early 1854, she had fallen victim to the epidemic of tuberculosis then raging in Istanbul in the nineteenth century. She died on 5 August 1854, at Şemsipaşa Palace located at Üsküdar. She is buried in the Mausoleum of the imperial ladies at the New Mosque, Istanbul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1184487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184487", "title": "Nāga", "text": "Nāga\n\nNaga (IAST: \"nāga\"; Devanāgarī: नाग) or Nagi (f. of nāga; IAST: \"nāgī\"; Devanāgarī: नागी) is a Sanskrit word which basically refers to a \"serpent\" or \"snake\", especially the King cobra. The term \"Naga\" in Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism denotes divine, semi-divine deities, or a semi-divine race of half-human half-serpent beings that resides in the heavenly \"Patala\" (netherworld) and can occasionally take human form. They are principally depicted in three forms: wholly humans with snakes on the heads and necks; common serpents or as half-human half-snake beings. A female naga is a \"nagi\", \"nagin\", or \"nagini\". \"Nagaraja\" is seen as the king of nāgas and nāginis. They are common and hold cultural significance in the mythological traditions of many South Asian and Southeast Asian cultures.\n\nIn Sanskrit, a () is a cobra, the Indian cobra (\"Naja naja\"). A synonym for ' is ' (). There are several words for \"snake\" in general, and one of the very commonly used ones is ' (). Sometimes the word ' is also used generically to mean \"snake\". The word is cognate with English 'snake', Germanic: \"*snēk-a-\", Proto-IE: *(s)nēg-o- (with s-mobile).\n\nThe mythological serpent race that took form as cobras often can be found in Hindu iconography. The nāgas are described as the powerful, splendid, wonderful and proud semidivine race that can assume their physical form either as human, partial human-serpent or the whole serpent. Their domain is in the enchanted underworld, the underground realm filled with gems, gold and other earthly treasures called Naga-loka or Patala-loka. They are also often associated with bodies of waters — including rivers, lakes, seas, and wells — and are guardians of treasure. Their power and venom made them potentially dangerous to humans. However, they often took beneficial protagonist role in Hindu mythology, such as in Samudra manthan mythology, Vasuki, a nāgarāja who abides on Shiva's neck, became the churning rope for churning of the Ocean of Milk. Their eternal mortal enemies are the Garudas, the legendary semidivine birdlike-deity.\nVishnu is originally portrayed in the form sheltered by Śeṣanāga or reclining on Śeṣa, but the iconography has been extended to other deities as well. The serpent is a common feature in Ganesha iconography and appears in many forms: around the neck, use as a sacred thread (Sanskrit: \"\") wrapped around the stomach as a belt, held in a hand, coiled at the ankles, or as a throne. Shiva is often shown garlanded with a snake. Maehle (2006: p. 297) states that \"Patanjali is thought to be a manifestation of the serpent of eternity\".\n\nAs in Hinduism, the Buddhist nāga generally has the form of a great cobra, usually with a single head but sometimes with many. At least some of the nāgas are capable of using magic powers to transform themselves into a human semblance. The nāga is sometimes portrayed as a human being with a snake or dragon extending over his head. One nāga, in human form, attempted to become a monk; and when telling it that such ordination was impossible, the Buddha told it how to ensure that it would be reborn a human, and so able to become a monk.\n\nIn the \"Devadatta\" chapter of the \"Lotus Sutra\", the daughter of the dragon king, an eight year old longnü (), after listening to Mañjuśrī preach the Lotus Sutra, transforms into a male Bodhisattva and immediately reaches full enlightenment. This tale appears to reinforce the viewpoint prevalent in Mahayana scriptures that a male body is required for Buddhahood, even if a being is so advanced in realization that they can magically transform their body at will and demonstrate the emptiness of the physical form itself.\n\nNagas are believed to both live on Mount Meru, among the other minor deities, and in various parts of the human-inhabited earth. Some of them are water-dwellers, living in streams or the ocean; others are earth-dwellers, living in underground caverns.\n\nThe nāgas are the followers of (Pāli: Virūpakkha), one of the Four Heavenly Kings who guards the western direction. They act as a guard upon Mount Sumeru, protecting the dēvas of Trāyastriṃśa from attack by the asūras.\n\nAmong the notable nāgas of Buddhist tradition is Mucalinda, Nāgarāja and protector of the Buddha. In the Vinaya Sutra (I, 3), shortly after his enlightenment, the Buddha is meditating in a forest when a great storm arises, but graciously, King Mucalinda gives shelter to the Buddha from the storm by covering the Buddha's head with his seven snake heads. Then the king takes the form of a young Brahmin and renders the Buddha homage.\n\nIt is noteworthy that the two chief disciples of the Buddha, Sariputta and Moggallāna are both referred to as \"Mahānāga\" or \"Great Nāga\". Some of the most important figures in Buddhist history symbolize nagas in their names such as Dignāga, Nāgāsēna, and, although other etymons are assigned to his name, Nāgārjuna.\n\nIn the Vajrayāna and Mahāsiddha traditions, nagas in their half-human form are depicted holding a naga-jewel, kumbhas of amrita, or a terma that had been elementally encoded by adepts.\n\nAccording to tradition, Prajñapāramita sutras had been given by the Buddha to a great Naga who guarded them in the sea, and were conferred upon Nāgārjuna later.\n\nIn Thailand and Java, the nāga is a wealthy underworld deity. For Malay sailors, nāgas are a type of dragon with many heads. In Laos they are beaked water serpents.\n\nThe seven-headed nagas often depicted as guardian statues, carved as balustrades on causeways leading to main Cambodian temples, such as those found in Angkor Wat. Apparently they represent the seven races within naga society, which has a mythological, or symbolic, association with \"the seven colors of the rainbow\". Furthermore, Cambodian naga possess numerological symbolism in the number of their heads. Odd-headed naga symbolise the Male Energy, Infinity, Timelessness, and Immortality. This is because, numerologically, all odd numbers come from One (1). Even-headed naga are said to be \"Female, representing Physicality, Mortality, Temporality, and the Earth.\"\n\nIn Javanese and Balinese culture, Indonesia, a naga is depicted as a crowned, giant, magical serpent, sometimes winged. It is similarly derived from the Shiva-Hinduism tradition, merged with Javanese animism. Naga in Indonesia mainly derived and influenced by Indic tradition, combined with the native animism tradition of sacred serpents. In Sanskrit the term \"naga\" literally means snake, but in Java it normally refer to serpent deity, associated with water and fertility. In Borobudur, the nagas are depicted in their human form, but elsewhere they are depicted in animal shape.\n\nEarly depictions of circa-9th-century Central Java closely resembled Indic Naga which was based on cobra imagery. During this period, naga serpents were depicted as giant cobras supporting the waterspout of yoni-lingam. The examples of naga sculpture can be found in several Javanese candis, including Prambanan, Sambisari, Ijo, and Jawi. In East Java, the Penataran temple complex contain a \"Candi Naga\", an unusual naga temple with its Hindu-Javanese caryatids holding corpulent nagas aloft.\n\nThe later depiction since the 15th century, however, was slightly influenced by Chinese dragon imagery—although unlike its Chinese counterparts, Javanese and Balinese nagas do not have legs. Naga as the lesser deity of earth and water is prevalent in the Hindu period of Indonesia, before the introduction of Islam.\n\nIn Balinese tradition, nagas are often depicted battling Garuda. Intricately carved naga are found as stairs railings in bridges or stairs, such as those found in Balinese temples, Ubud monkey forest, and Taman Sari in Yogyakarta.\n\nIn a wayang theater story, a snake (naga) god named Sanghyang Anantaboga or Antaboga is a guardian deity in the bowels of the earth. Naga symbolize the nether realm of earth or underworld.\n\nNaga are believed to live in the Laotian stretch of the Mekong or its estuaries. Lao mythology maintains that the naga are the protectors of Vientiane, and by extension, the Lao state. The naga association was most clearly articulated during and immediately after the reign of Anouvong. An important poem from this period \"San Leupphasun\" () discusses relations between Laos and Thailand in a veiled manner, using the naga and the garuda to represent the Lao and the Thai, respectively. The naga is incorporated extensively into Lao iconography, and features prominently in Lao culture throughout the length of the country, not only in Vientiane.\n\nIn Malay and Orang Asli traditions, the lake Chini, located in Pahang is home to a naga called Sri Gumum. Depending on legend versions, her predecessor Sri Pahang or her son left the lake and later fought a naga called Sri Kemboja. Kemboja is the Malay name for Cambodia. Like the naga legends there, there are stories about an ancient empire in lake Chini, although the stories are not linked to the naga legends.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1299938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299938", "title": "Peasant foods", "text": "Peasant foods\n\nPeasant foods are dishes specific to a particular culture, made from accessible and inexpensive ingredients, and usually prepared and seasoned to make them more palatable. They often form a significant part of the diets of people who live in poverty, or have a lower income compared to the average for their society or country.\n\nPeasant foods have been described as being the diet of peasants, that is, tenant or poorer farmers and their farm workers, and by extension, of other cash-poor people. They may use ingredients, such as offal and less-tender cuts of meat, which are not as marketable as a cash crop. Characteristic recipes often consist of hearty one-dish meals, in which chunks of meat and various vegetables are eaten in a savory broth, with bread or other staple food. Sausages are also amenable to varied readily available ingredients, and they themselves tend to contain offal and grains.\n\nPeasant foods often involve skilled preparation by knowledgeable cooks using inventiveness and skills passed down from earlier generations. Such dishes are often prized as ethnic foods by other cultures and by descendants of the native culture who still desire these traditional dishes.\n\nGround meat or meat scraps mixed with grain in approximately equal proportions, then often formed into a loaf, sliced, and fried \n\nGround meat or meat scraps extended with crackers or bread and vegetables, then formed into balls, patties, or loaves and baked.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7260241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7260241", "title": "Porsche family", "text": "Porsche family\n\nThe Porsche family is a prominent Austrian family of industrialists descending from the automotive pioneer Ferdinand Porsche. Its members have full ownership of the Porsche SE automobile company and majority voting rights over Volkswagen AG, the biggest automaker in the world.\n\nFerdinand Porsche was born to a German-speaking family of Maffersdorf, Bohemia, son of Anton Porsche (1845-1908) and Anna Ehrlich. The Sudeten German surname \"Porsche\" can be traced to the 18th century in the area of Reichenberg (now Liberec), Bohemia. The surname originates with the German word \"Bursche\" (\"boy, young man, apprentice, farmhand\") and is on record in northern Bohemia in various spellings (\"Porsch, Borsche, Borsch, Bursche, Bursch, Pursch, Pursche\", etc.) from the early 17th century.\n\n\nThe father of Chris Reitz, the former head of design for Alfa Romeo, was adopted by Dorothea, the wife of Ferry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56557727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56557727", "title": "Qasim Akhgar", "text": "Qasim Akhgar\n\nQasim Akhgar (Dari-Persian: ) was an author, researcher, civil society activist and theorist in Afghanistan.\n\nQasim Akhgar was born in 1951 in Wazirabad area of Kabul.\nHe continued his elementary and secondary school in Kabul, while his education was not over he was arrested and expelled from the school due to participation in political struggles and demonstrations of Leftist groups. \nDuring the Taliban he migrated to neighboring countries, after the fall of the Taliban he returned to Afghanistan and began his political, social and journalistic activities in Kabul.\n\nQasim Akhgar was an ethnic Hazara.\n\nQasim Akhbar died in 28 January 2014 in Kabul due to a heart attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "2980414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2980414", "title": "Ramón de la Cruz", "text": "Ramón de la Cruz\n\nRamón de la Cruz (28 March 1731 – 5 March 1794) was a Spanish neoclassical dramatist.\n\nBorn in Madrid, he was a clerk in the ministry of finance. He is the author of three hundred \"sainetes\", little farcical sketches of city life, written to be played between the acts of a longer play. He published a selection in ten volumes (Madrid, 1786–1791). The best of his pieces, such as \"Las Tertulias de Madrid\", are specimens of satiric observation.\n"}
{"id": "7956634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7956634", "title": "Rayed Mohammed Abdullah Ali", "text": "Rayed Mohammed Abdullah Ali\n\nRayed Mohammed Abdullah Ali (born 1978) is a Saudi Arabian student pilot, notable for having been deported from New Zealand in 2006 after it was realised that he had lived and trained in the USA with Hani Hanjour, one of the hijacking pilots in the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nAli entered New Zealand in February 2006 on a student visa, saying his dream was to become a commercial airline pilot and that he needed an English language qualification to assist. He then moved to Auckland to learn English and then moved to Palmerston North to fly at the Manawatu Aero Club. He told the Palmerston North flight school that he had obtained his private pilot's certificate in the United States and spent several years there before returning to Saudi Arabia to work in his father's textile business. He wanted to pass the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam so he could return home to train for his commercial pilot's licence.\n\nOn May 29, 2006, New Zealand authorities raided Ali's Palmerston North home, and on May 30 he was deported back to Saudi Arabia under escort. On June 10, 2006 the New Zealand government released a statement saying that Ali was deported because he \"posed a threat to national security\" and confirmed that he had lived and trained in Phoenix, Arizona, USA with fellow Saudi Hani Hanjour in the months leading up to the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nIt was only the second time that section 72 of the New Zealand Immigration Act has been used to deport someone. Its use requires the consent of the Governor-General, and there is no right of appeal. It was used for the deportation of Soviet spy Anvar Kadyrov, a former KGB operative who was apprehended by New Zealand authorities in 1991 while attempting to obtain a New Zealand passport using a copy of a birth certificate of a deceased. Section 72 provides that where the Immigration Minister certifies that the continued presence in New Zealand of a person constitutes a threat to national security, the Governor-General may, by order in council, order that person's deportation.\n\nNew Zealand Police seized Ali's flight logbook from the flight school, where he had flown several times in a Cessna aircraft accompanied by the flight school instructors. Immigration authorities also stated that Ali used a variation of his name when entering the country. In 2004, the \"Arizona Daily Star\" reported him as Rayed Mohammed Abdullah. \n\nNew Zealand Immigration Minister David Cunliffe said that Ali \"was directly associated with persons responsible for the terrorist attacks in the United States on Sept. 11, 2001\" He also quoted excerpts from the U.S. government's 9/11 Commission Report on the attacks regarding Rayed Mohammed Abdullah Ali. The report says Ali lived and trained in Phoenix, Arizona with Hani Hanjour, the Saudi Arabian believed to have piloted Flight 77 into the Pentagon, on September 11, 2001. Abdullah was a leader at the Islamic Cultural Centre in Phoenix where, the FBI says, he \"reportedly gave extremist speeches at the mosque\". Immigration Minister David Cunliffe also said that he could not comment on what happened after Ali returned to Saudi Arabia nor could he comment on what information he had on him or where it came from. \"We're satisfied he is the right man.\"\n\nThe 9/11 Commission Report also says Abdullah attended the same Phoenix flight school as Hanjour and records show the pair used a flight simulator together on June 23, 2001.\n\nFlight instructors at the Manawatu Aero Club say Ali wore a baseball cap, smart shirts and baggy trousers and favoured burgers and fries over halal food. One of the instructors, Captain Singh, a former Indian Air Force officer trained in intelligence, who accompanied Ali on several flights in a Cessna 152 aircraft, says Ali had a Yemeni passport and he was naturally suspicious at first. \"At the time of September 11 he would have been in the US. I asked him some very direct questions about his US flying experience and found he was quite intelligent and a moderate person. He was not at all fundamentalist - he was against those people.\" \"I found his standard to be very good\", \"He wanted to fly in Saudi Arabia or the [Arab] Emirates and was doing instrument training in the US before September 11 but said that since then everyone had treated him suspiciously. I'm 99 per cent sure he was genuine.\"\nAli told Captain Singh he was born and raised in Saudi Arabia but travelled on a Yemeni passport because his father was from Yemen and Saudi Arabia had refused to give him citizenship. When he returned to Palmerston North, he told Captain Singh he had missed an application deadline and been unable to sit the IELTS exam in Auckland. He planned to re-apply in Palmerston North for the IELTS course, where it was cheaper to fly than in Auckland.\n\nOn July 13, 2006, the \"New Zealand Herald\" newspaper reported that New Zealand's security agencies discovered the identity of Rayed Mohammad Abdullah Ali after a tip off from Ardmore Flying School, which is approximately 20 kilometres south of Auckland City.\n\nThe New Zealand Herald reported: \"A month later, on April 12, Ali visited Ardmore Flying School and attempted to enrol in a flying course - an action which school general manager Craig Hunter believes may have been the beginning of the end of Ali's time in New Zealand. The school would not let Ali fly as he did not want to follow rules established to protect overseas student.\" \"He was not the least bit interested in complying with the rules, in terms of we would have made him pay a third of his total fee and he would have been granted an eight-month visa and we would have made him reapply for a student visa with the Ardmore Flying School as his training provider\", the Herald reported.\n\nPrime Minister Helen Clark defended on her government's decision to deport Ali \"When you have someone who clearly has been a close associate of a terrorist who took a plane into the Pentagon, it's clearly not useful to be providing them with pilot training in New Zealand\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39394272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39394272", "title": "Religious thought of Edmund Burke", "text": "Religious thought of Edmund Burke\n\nThe religious thought of Edmund Burke includes published works by Edmund Burke and commentary on the same. Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society. He sharply criticized deism and atheism, and emphasized Christianity as a vehicle of social progress. Born in Ireland to a Protestant father and Catholic mother, Burke vigorously defended the Church of England but also demonstrated sensitivity to Catholic concerns. He linked the conservation of a state religion with the preservation of citizens’ constitutional liberties and highlighted Christianity’s benefits not only to the believer’s soul but also to political arrangements.\n\nEdmund Burke’s early essays “Religion of No Efficacy Considered as a State Engine” and “Religion” criticize contemporary efforts to reduce religion to a social and political instrument. “The Principle of Religion,” Burke wrote, “is that God attends to our actions to reward and punish them.” Religion then, according to Burke, is ultimately something mysterious. It cannot exist without a personal God who places responsibilities on his creation. Burke claimed that, “Moral Duties are included in Religion, and enforced by it. Burke’s identification of religion as the source of morality is a reoccurring theme throughout his work.\n\nIan Harris has observed that Burke “emphasized the social benefits of Christianity, rather than its truth.” Burke considered Christianity the source of civilization and appealed to the Christian tradition for both eternal salvation and human welfare in this life. However, although Burke “presumed the truth of Christianity,” he did not try to explain its central doctrines. This was consistent with Burke’s overall approach to religion, which was essentially political and philosophical rather than theological.\n\nBurke’s view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility. His first published book, \"A Vindication of Natural Society\", satirizes the deism of his contemporary Viscount Bolingbroke. Drawing a distinction between revealed religions (those that believe in divinely inspired scripture) and natural religion or deism, Burke’s pseudo-Bolingbroke argues that revealed religion and civil society are similarly peppered with evils. If the remedy to revealed religion is natural religion, than the solution to civil society is natural society. By connecting natural religion with a primitive state of nature, Burke suggests the anti-social and degenerating implications of deism.\nBurke considered religion and morality “sublime principles” and called for “religious establishments...that many continually revive and support them.” In this way, Burke envisioned Christianity as “contributing directly to the cohesion and improvement of society.” Burke argued that “ the consecration of the state by a state religious establishment” was necessary to secure the freedom of Englishmen. Only a state sanctioned religion, according to Burke, could effectively instill citizens with a sense of awe and responsibility for their actions. A religion connected with the state was essential to making people realize that “they are to account for their conduct...to the one great Master, Author and Founder of society.” \n\nAlthough Burke was a forceful defender of the Church of England, his view that a revealed religion was indispensable to a society’s progress was not limited to Christianity. In a speech before the House of Commons, Burke commended the “Hindoo (sic) Religion” for contributing to the “flourishing” of India. Similarly, he lauded Islamic governments for having the “double sanction of law and religion.” Ian Harris cautions that these praises do not imply that Burke “entertained relativism about religious truth.” Instead, Harris argues that these statements suggest Burke believed “that the religion which has become bound up with a society is the one that suits it.\" \nBurke also spoke in support of Catholics and dissenters from the Church of England. He argued that because the church was “built up with the strong and stable matter of the gospel of liberty” it had nothing to fear from allowing other Christian groups to worship as they wished. Burke asserted that the Church of England’s “security of her own doctrines” made it possible to establish legal acceptance for Protestants and Catholics. “Toleration,” Burke argued, “so far from being an attack upon Christianity, becomes the best and surest support that possibly can be given to it.” However, Burke fiercely defended the Church Establishment from attacks from within the Church of England. He publicly opposed the petition of several clergymen from the Church of England who asked to be relieved from subscription to the articles of the Act of Uniformity of 1662. Burke advocated allowing English dissenters to practice Christianity the way they saw fit, but he briskly opposed efforts to subvert church authorities.\n\nBurke’s criticisms of the French Revolution reiterated his longstanding view that revealed religion is an integral part of a civilized society. He sharply condemned the confiscation of Church property by the revolutionaries and claimed that their nonreligious views were “against, not only our reason, but our instincts.” Burke predicted that if France rejected Catholicism, “some uncouth, pernicious, and degrading superstition might take the place of it.”\n\nHarris observes that Burke discerned clear religious features in the French Revolution. As the Revolution turned more radical and entered its international phrase, Burke thought of it “as no mere exercise in extending French rule, but instead as a crusade to destroy Christianity in Europe.” “In a drunken delirium,” Burke wrote, France risked “uncover[ing] our nakedness.” The practice of a natural religion without revelation implied retrogression to “a savage and incoherent mode of life.” \nBurke’s mature thought on religion reveals a remarkable consistency throughout his long career. For Burke, the French Revolution was a vivid example of the catastrophic consequences of deism, which he had ridiculed in \"A Vindication of Natural Society\" more than thirty years before. The inadequacy of natural religion for both personal salvation and civil society are enduring themes of Burke’s thought. Burke believed that only revealed religions, especially Christianity, offer the possibility of social and political improvement. Linking morality and religion, Burke believed that the former could not exist without the latter. According to Burke, only institutional churches can effectively uphold these sublime principles and enable the fulfillment of man’s obligations both to his neighbors and to God.\n\n"}
{"id": "52113219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52113219", "title": "René Cormier", "text": "René Cormier\n\nRené Cormier (born April 27, 1956) is a Canadian Acadian artist and activist from New Brunswick. On October 27, 2016, Cormier was named to the Senate of Canada by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to sit as an independent. Cormier assumed his seat on November 10, 2016.\n\nA Francophone, he is president of the (SNA), the primary organization championing Acadian artists. Following his appointment to the Senate, Cormier stated that he plans to continue with his work with the SNA, while avoiding any conflicts of interest. He formerly served as president for the Commission internationale du theatre francophone, director of the , president of the , and as a member of the board for the Canadian Conference of the Arts.\n"}
{"id": "36761337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36761337", "title": "Richard Todwong", "text": "Richard Todwong\n\nRichard Todwong is a Ugandan politician. He is the Minister Without Portfolio in the Ugandan Cabinet. He was appointed to that position on 15 August 2012. He replaced Nasser Sebaggala who was appointed in May 2011, but was rejected by parliament. Richard Todwong is also the elected Member of Parliament for \"Nwoya County\", Nwoya District.\n\nHe was born on 24 November 1973 in Anaka, Nwoya District.\n\nRichard Todwong holds the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Social Sciences (B.A.Soc.Scs.), obtained from Makerere University, Uganda's oldest and largest public university, His degree of Master of Arts in International Relations (M.A.Int.Rel.) was also obtained from Makerere. His Diploma in Management (Dip.Mgnt.) was obtained from the Uganda Management Institute. He also holds the postgraduate Diploma in Revenue and Tax Administration from the Uganda Revenue Authority (URA).\n\nFrom 1999 until 2000, Todwong worked as a Revenue Officer at the Uganda Revenue Authority, the Uganda government body responsible for tax collection. From 2000 until 2003, he served as Commissioner at the Constitutional Revenue Commission. Between 2006 and 2010, he served as a Special Advisor to the President of Uganda. In 2011, he entered elected politics by contesting for the \"Nwoya County\" Constituency in the Parliament of Uganda. He ran on the National Resistance Movement (NRM) political party ticket. He won and is the incumbent.\n\nIn 2012, he was appointed Minister Without Portfolio. In 2013, he was given responsibility by he NRM political party to assist the Secretary General in mobilization activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8621051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8621051", "title": "Splat Pack", "text": "Splat Pack\n\nThe Splat Pack is a collection of independent filmmakers who, since 2002, have directed, written and produced numerous R-rated horror films, notable for their low budgets and extreme ultra-violence.\n\nThe term was coined by Alan Jones of \"Total Film\". The group has been credited with bringing back ultra-violent movies, as well as moving away from PG-13 rated movies and into the R-rated spectrum, all while operating with low budgets. The members have repeatedly clashed with the MPAA board over the content of their work but nevertheless continue to find substantial box-office success. In 2011 a documentary on the Splat Pack was made featuring extensive interviews with members Alexandre Aja, Adam Green, Eli Roth, Darren Lynn Bousman, Neil Marshall, and Greg McLean.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15855628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855628", "title": "The Balfa Brothers", "text": "The Balfa Brothers\n\nThe Balfa Brothers (or Les Frères Balfa) were an American cajun music ensemble. Its members were five brothers; Dewey on fiddle, Will on fiddle, Rodney on guitar, harmonica, and vocals, Burkeman on triangle and spoons, and Harry on Cajun accordion.\n\nThe brothers first played together at family gatherings in the 1940s. Their father, Charles Balfa, a sharecropper, had played fiddle and was a singer. Along with Hadley Fontenot, an accordionist and acquaintance of the family, they made their first recordings in 1951. The 78rpm single was \"La Valse de Bon Baurche\" b/w \"Le Two Step de Ville Platte\", recorded at their house. After this Dewey went on to a successful solo career, recording on his own and with many ensembles.\n\nAdopting the name Balfa Brothers in 1967, Dewey, Rodney, Will, Hadley Fontenot, and Dewey's daughter Nelda started touring folk festivals and European venues, playing Cajun music at a time in which its impact on American music had largely been forgotten. They made their first new recordings that year, and played at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City.\n\nThey released several albums and appeared in the 1972 documentary \"Spend it All\". Over time they experimented with blending traditional Cajun music with more modern orchestral sounds. They continued together until 1979; that year Rodney and Will died in an auto accident. In 1980 Dewey's wife died of trichinosis. Following further lineup changes, the group continued under the name a few years later, and an ensemble continued to perform even after Dewey died in 1992.\n\nThe Balfa Brothers together with Marc Savoy appear playing \"Parlez-nous à Boire\" towards the end of the 1981 Walter Hill film Southern Comfort. Their song \"La Danse de Mardi Gras\" appears on the soundtracks for the 1992 film \"Passion Fish\" and the 2012 film \"Beasts of the Southern Wild\". It also appeared in a commercial for Carling Black Label Lager.\n\nTwo of the Balfa Brothers along with the late Cajun accordionist Danny Poulard are briefly in the movie \"Garlic is as good as ten mothers,\" a 1980 documentary film about garlic directed by Les Blank.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "351873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=351873", "title": "Theresa May", "text": "Theresa May\n\nTheresa Mary May (; ; born 1 October 1956) is a British politician serving as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Leader of the Conservative Party since 2016. She served as Home Secretary from 2010 to 2016. May was first elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Maidenhead in 1997. Ideologically, she identifies herself as a one-nation conservative.\n\nMay grew up in Oxfordshire and attended St Hugh's College, Oxford. From 1977 until 1983, she worked for the Bank of England, and from 1985 until 1997 at the Association for Payment Clearing Services, also serving as a councillor for Durnsford in Merton. After unsuccessful attempts to be elected to the House of Commons in 1992 and 1994, she was elected as the MP for Maidenhead in the 1997 general election. From 1999 to 2010, May held a number of roles in the Shadow Cabinets of William Hague, Iain Duncan Smith, Michael Howard, and David Cameron, including Shadow Transport Secretary and Shadow Work and Pensions Secretary. She was also Chairman of the Conservative Party from 2002 to 2003.\n\nAfter the formation of a coalition government following the 2010 general election, May was appointed Home Secretary and Minister for Women and Equalities, giving up the latter role in 2012. Reappointed after the Conservative victory in the 2015 general election, she went on to become the longest-serving Home Secretary in over 60 years. During her tenure she pursued reform of the Police Federation, implemented a harder line on drugs policy including the banning of khat, oversaw the introduction of elected Police and Crime Commissioners, the deportation of Abu Qatada, the creation of the National Crime Agency and brought in additional restrictions on immigration.\n\nFollowing Cameron's resignation, May won a leadership election in July 2016, becoming the second female Prime Minister, following Margaret Thatcher. As Prime Minister, May began the process of withdrawing the UK from the European Union, triggering Article 50 in March 2017 then, the following month, announcing a snap general election in June, with the aim of strengthening her hand in Brexit negotiations. This resulted in a hung parliament, in which the number of Conservative seats fell from 330 to 317, despite the party winning their highest vote share since 1983, prompting her to broker a confidence and supply deal with the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) to support a minority government. May is currently orchestrating the Brexit negotiations with the European Union, adhering to the Chequers Agreement, agreed in 2018.\n\nBorn on 1 October 1956 in Eastbourne, Sussex, May is the only child of Zaidee Mary (née Barnes; 1928–1982) and Hubert Brasier (1917–1981). Her father was a Church of England clergyman (and an Anglo-Catholic) who was chaplain of an Eastbourne hospital. He later became vicar of Enstone with Heythrop and finally of St Mary's at Wheatley, to the east of Oxford. May's mother was a strong supporter of the Conservative Party.\n\nShe initially attended Heythrop Primary School, a state school in Heythrop, followed by St. Juliana's Convent School for Girls, a Roman Catholic independent school in Begbroke, which closed in 1984.\n\nWhen she was 13, May won a place at the former Holton Park Girls' Grammar School, a state school in Wheatley. During her time as a pupil, the Oxfordshire education system was reorganised and the school became the new Wheatley Park Comprehensive School. May later attended the University of Oxford where she read geography at St Hugh's College, graduating with a second class BA degree in 1977.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1983 May worked at the Bank of England, and from 1985 to 1997 as a financial consultant and senior advisor in International Affairs at the Association for Payment Clearing Services. She married Philip May in September 1980. Her father died in a car accident in 1981 and her mother of multiple sclerosis the following year. May later stated she was \"sorry they [her parents] never saw me elected as a Member of Parliament\".\n\nMay served as a councillor for Durnsford ward on the London Borough of Merton from 1986 to 1994, where she was Chairman of Education (1988–90) and Deputy Group Leader and Housing Spokesman (1992–94). In the 1992 general election May stood unsuccessfully for the safe Labour seat of North West Durham, coming second to incumbent MP Hilary Armstrong by 12,747 votes (27.6%) to 26,734 (57.8%), with future Liberal Democrat leader Tim Farron coming third. May then stood at the 1994 Barking by-election, which was prompted by the death of Labour MP Jo Richardson. The seat had been continuously held by Labour since it was created in 1945 and Labour candidate Margaret Hodge was expected to win easily, which she did, with 13,704 votes (72.1%). May came a distant third with 1,976 votes (10.4%). Ahead of the 1997 general election, May was selected as the Conservative candidate for Maidenhead, a new seat which was created from parts of the seats of Windsor and Maidenhead and Wokingham. She was elected with 25,344 votes (49.8%), almost double the total of second-placed Andrew Terence Ketteringham of the Liberal Democrats, who took 13,363 votes (26.3%).\n\nHaving entered Parliament, May became a member of William Hague's front-bench Opposition team, as Shadow Spokesman for Schools, Disabled People and Women (1998–1999). She became the first of the 1997 MPs to enter the Shadow Cabinet when in 1999 she was appointed Shadow Education and Employment Secretary. After the 2001 election the new Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith kept her in the Shadow Cabinet, moving her to the Transport portfolio.\n\nMay was appointed the first female Chairman of the Conservative Party in July 2002. During her speech at the 2002 Conservative Party Conference, she explained why, in her view, her party must change: \"You know what people call us? The Nasty Party\". In 2003, she was sworn of the Privy Council and appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Transport after Michael Howard's election as Conservative Party and Opposition Leader in November that year.\n\nIn June 2004 she was moved to become Shadow Secretary of State for the Family. Following the 2005 general election she was also made Shadow Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. David Cameron appointed her Shadow Leader of the House of Commons in December 2005 after his accession to the leadership. In January 2009, May was made Shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.\n\nOn 6 May 2010, May was re-elected MP for Maidenhead with an increased majority of 16,76960% of the vote. This followed an earlier failed attempt to unseat her in 2005 as one of the Liberal Democrats' leading \"decapitation-strategy\" targets.\n\nOn 12 May 2010, when May was appointed Home Secretary and Minister for Women and Equality by Prime Minister David Cameron as part of his first Cabinet, she became the fourth woman to hold one of the British Great Offices of State, after Margaret Thatcher (Prime Minister), Margaret Beckett (Foreign Secretary) and Jacqui Smith (Home Secretary). As Home Secretary, May was also a member of the National Security Council. She was the longest-serving Home Secretary for over 60 years, since James Chuter Ede who served over six years and two months from August 1945 to October 1951. May's appointment as Home Secretary was somewhat unexpected, with Chris Grayling having served as shadow Home Secretary in opposition.\n\nMay's debut as Home Secretary involved overturning several of the previous Labour government's measures on data collection and surveillance in England and Wales. By way of a government bill which became the Identity Documents Act 2010, she brought about the abolition of the Labour government's National Identity Card and database scheme and reformed the regulations on the retention of DNA samples for suspects and controls on the use of CCTV cameras. In May 2010, May announced the adjournment of the deportation to the United States of alleged computer hacker Gary McKinnon. She also suspended the registration scheme for carers of children and vulnerable people, with May saying that the measures were \"draconian. You were assumed to be guilty until you were proven innocent, and told you were able to work with children.\" On 4 August 2010, it was reported that May was scrapping the former Labour government's proposed \"go orders\" scheme to protect women from domestic violence by banning abusers from the victim's home.\n\nIn June 2010, May faced her first major national security incident as Home Secretary with the Cumbria shootings. She delivered her first major speech in the House of Commons as Home Secretary in a statement on this incident, later visiting the victims with the Prime Minister. Also in June 2010, May banned the Indian Muslim preacher Zakir Naik from entering the United Kingdom.\n\nAccording to \"The Daily Telegraph\", a Home Office official who disagreed with this decision was suspended. In late June 2010, May announced plans for a temporary cap on UK visas for non-EU migrants. The move raised concerns about the impact on the British economy.\n\nIn August 2013, May supported the detention of David Miranda, partner of \"Guardian\" journalist Glenn Greenwald, under the Terrorism Act 2000, saying that critics of the Metropolitan Police action needed to \"think about what they are condoning\". Lib Dem peer and former Director of Public Prosecutions Ken Macdonald accused May of an \"ugly and unhelpful\" attempt to implicate those who were concerned about the police action of \"condoning terrorism\". The High Court subsequently acknowledged there were \"indirect implications for press freedom\" but ruled the detention legal.\n\nMay also championed legislation popularly dubbed the Snooper's Charter, requiring internet and mobile service providers to keep records of internet usage, voice calls, messages and email for up to a year in case police requested access to the records while investigating a crime. The Liberal Democrats had blocked the first attempt, but after the Conservative Party obtained a majority in the 2015 general election May announced a new Draft Investigatory Powers Bill similar to the Draft Communications Data Bill, although with more limited powers and additional oversight.\n\nSpeaking at the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) conference in June 2010, May announced radical cuts to the Home Office budget, likely to lead to a reduction in police numbers. In July 2010, May presented the House of Commons with proposals for a fundamental review of the previous Labour government's security and counter-terrorism legislation, including \"stop and search\" powers, and her intention to review the 28-day limit on detaining terrorist suspects without charge.\n\nIn July 2010, May announced a package of reforms to policing in England and Wales in the House of Commons. The previous Labour Government's central crime agency, Soca (Serious Organised Crime Agency), was to be replaced by a new National Crime Agency. In common with the Conservative Party 2010 general election manifesto's flagship proposal for a \"Big Society\" based on voluntary action, May also proposed increasing the role of civilian \"reservists\" for crime control. The reforms were rejected by the Opposition Labour Party.\n\nFollowing the actions of some members of Black Bloc in vandalising allegedly tax-avoiding shops and businesses on the day of the March 2011 TUC march, the Home Secretary unveiled reforms curbing the right to protest, including giving police extra powers to remove masked individuals and to police social networking sites to prevent illegal protest without police consent or notification.\n\nIn 2012, despite inquiries by both Scotland Yard and the Independent Police Complaints Commission ruling that there was no new evidence to warrant further investigation, after discussions with Dame Doreen Lawrence, May commissioned Mark Ellison to review Scotland Yard's investigations into alleged police corruption. The report was presented to Parliament by May on 6 March 2014. Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police said the report, which has prompted an inquiry into undercover policing, was \"devastating\".\n\nIn July 2013, May welcomed the fact that crime had fallen by more than 10% under the coalition government, while still being able to make savings. She said that this was partly due to the government removing red tape and scrapping targets to allow the police to concentrate on crime fighting.\n\nIn 2014, May delivered a speech to the Police Federation, in which she criticised aspects of the culture of the police force. In the speech, she said:\n\nOn 9 December 2010, in the wake of violent student demonstrations in central London against increases to higher-education tuition fees, May praised the actions of the police in controlling the demonstrations but was described by \"The Daily Telegraph\" as \"under growing political pressure\" due to her handling of the protests.\n\nIn December 2010, May declared that deployment of water cannon by police forces in mainland Britain was an operational decision which had been \"resisted until now by senior police officers.\" She rejected their use following the widespread rioting in summer 2011 and said: \"the way we police in Britain is not through use of water cannon. The way we police in Britain is through consent of communities.\" May said: \"I condemn utterly the violence in Tottenham... Such disregard for public safety and property will not be tolerated, and the Metropolitan Police have my full support in restoring order.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of the riots May urged the identification of as many as possible of the young criminals involved. She said: \"when I was in Manchester last week, the issue was raised to me about the anonymity of juveniles who are found guilty of crimes of this sort. The Crown Prosecution Service is to order prosecutors to apply for anonymity to be lifted in any youth case they think is in the public interest. The law currently protects the identity of any suspect under the age of 18, even if they are convicted, but it also allows for an application to have such restrictions lifted, if deemed appropriate.\" May added that \"what I've asked for is that CPS guidance should go to prosecutors to say that where possible, they should be asking for the anonymity of juveniles who are found guilty of criminal activity to be lifted\".\n\nIn July 2010, May proposed to review the previous Labour Government's anti-social behaviour legislation signalling the abolition of the \"Anti-Social Behaviour Order\" (ASBO). She identified the policy's high level of failure with almost half of ASBOs breached between 2000 and 2008, leading to \"fast-track\" criminal convictions. May proposed a less punitive, community-based approach to tackling social disorder. May suggested that anti-social behaviour policy \"must be turned on its head\", reversing the ASBO's role as the flagship crime control policy legislation under Labour. Former Labour Home Secretaries David Blunkett (who introduced ASBOs) and Alan Johnson expressed their disapproval of the proposals.\n\nIn July 2013, May decided to ban the stimulant khat, against the advice of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD). The council reached the conclusion that there was \"insufficient evidence\" it caused health problems. Explaining the change in the classification May said: \"The decision to bring khat under control is finely balanced and takes into account the expert scientific advice and these broader concerns\", and pointed out that the product had already been banned in the majority of other EU member states, as well as most of the G8 countries including Canada and the US. A report on khat use by the ACMD published in January 2013 had noted the product had been associated with \"acute psychotic episodes\", \"chronic liver disease\" and family breakdown. However, it concluded that there is no risk of harm for most users, and recommended that khat remain uncontrolled due to lack of evidence for these associations.\n\nLiberal Democrat minister Norman Baker accused May of suppressing proposals to treat rather than prosecute minor drug offenders from a report into drug policy commissioned by the Home Office. The Home Office denied that its officials had considered this as part of their strategy. Baker cited difficulties in working with May as the reason for his resignation from the Home Office in the run-up to the 2015 general election.\n\nIn 2010, May promised to bring the level of net migration down to less than 100,000. \"The Independent\" reported in February 2015, \"The Office for National Statistics (ONS) announced a net flow of 298,000 migrants to the UK in the 12 months to September 2014—up from 210,000 in the previous year.\" In total, 624,000 people migrated to the UK in the year ending September 2014 and 327,000 left in the same period. Statistics showed \"significant increases in migration among both non-EU citizens—up 49,000 to 292,000—and EU citizens, which rose by 43,000 to 251,000.\"\n\nIn May 2012 she told the Daily Telegraph of her intention \"to create here in Britain a really hostile environment for illegal migration,”\n\nMay rejected the European Union's proposal of compulsory refugee quotas. She said that it was important to help people living in war-zone regions and refugee camps but \"not the ones who are strong and rich enough to come to Europe\". In May 2016, \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that she had tried to save £4m by rejecting an intelligence project to use aircraft surveillance to detect illegal immigrant boats.\n\nIn June 2012, Theresa May announced that new restrictions would be introduced to reduce the number of non-European Economic Area family migrants. The changes were mostly intended to apply to new applicants after 9 July 2012.\n\nThe newly introduced rules came into effect on 9 July 2012 allowing only those British citizens earning more than £18,600 to bring their spouses or their children to live with them in the UK. This figure would rise significantly in cases where visa applications are also made for children. They also increased the current two-year probationary period for partners to 5 years. The rules also prevent any adult and elderly dependents from settling in the UK unless they can demonstrate that, as a result of age, illness or disability, they require a level of long-term personal care that can only be provided by a relative in the UK.\n\nThe House of Lords was concerned about the immigration issue and therefore addressed the PM in Parliament as to whether she had examined the impact on communities and families on modest incomes, but it received no direct response. The human rights group Liberty concluded that the new rules showed scant regard to the impact they would have on genuine families. The All-Party Parliamentary Group on Migration conducted an evidence based inquiry into the impact of the rules and concluded in their report that the rules were causing very young children to be separated from their parents and could exile British citizens from the UK.\n\nAt the Conservative Party Conference in October 2011, while arguing that the Human Rights Act needed to be amended, May gave the example of a foreign national who the Courts ruled was allowed to remain in the UK, \"because—and I am not making this up—he had a pet cat\". In response, the Royal Courts of Justice issued a statement, denying that this was the reason for the tribunal's decision in that case, and stating that the real reason was that he was in a genuine relationship with a British partner, and owning a pet cat was simply one of many pieces of evidence given to show that the relationship was \"genuine\". The Home Office had failed to apply its own rules for dealing with unmarried partners of people settled in the UK. Amnesty International said May's comments only fuelled \"myths and misconceptions\" about the Human Rights Act and Justice Secretary Kenneth Clarke subsequently called May's comments \"laughable and childlike.\"\n\nIn June 2012, May was found in contempt of court by Judge Barry Cotter, and stood accused of \"totally unacceptable and regrettable behaviour\", being said to have shown complete disregard for a legal agreement to free an Algerian from a UK Immigration Detention Centre. As she eventually allowed the prisoner to be freed, May avoided further sanctions including fines or imprisonment.\n\nMay responded to a Supreme Court decision in November 2013 to overturn her predecessor Jacqui Smith's revocation of Iraqi-born terror suspect Al Jedda's British citizenship by ordering it to be revoked for a second time, making him the first person to be stripped twice of British citizenship.\n\nMay was accused by Lord Roberts of being willing to allow someone to die \"to score a political point\" over the deportation of mentally ill Nigerian man Isa Muazu. According to Muazu's solicitor, May had arranged for the asylum seeker, who was said to be \"near death\" after a 100-day hunger strike, to be deported by a chartered private jet.\nTo strengthen the Home Office's tough stance an \"end of life\" plan was reportedly offered to Muazu, who was one of a number of hunger strikers at the Harmondsworth Immigration Removal Centre.\n\nOn 7 July 2013, Abu Qatada, a radical cleric arrested in 2002, was deported to Jordan after a decade-long battle that had cost the nation £1.7 million in legal fees, and numerous prior Home Secretaries had been unable to resolve. The deportation was the result of a treaty negotiated by May in April 2013, under which Jordan agreed to give Qatada a fair trial, by not using evidence that may have been obtained through torture against him.\n\nMay has frequently pointed to Qatada's deportation as a triumph, guaranteeing in September 2013 that \"he will not be returning to the UK\", and declaring in her 2016 leadership campaign announcement that she was told that she \"couldn't deport Abu Qatada\" but that she \"flew to Jordan and negotiated the treaty that got him out of Britain for good\". The Qatada deportation also shaped May's views on the European Convention on Human Rights and European Court of Human Rights, saying that they had \"moved the goalposts\" and had a \"crazy interpretation of our human rights laws\", as a result, May has since campaigned against the institutions, saying that British withdrawal from them should be considered.\n\nIn August 2013, the Home Office engaged in an advertising campaign directed at illegal immigrants. The advertisements, in the form of mobile advertising hoardings on the back of lorries, told illegal immigrants to \"go home or face arrest\", with an image of a person in handcuffs, and were deployed in six London boroughs with substantial ethnic minority populations. They were widely criticized as creating a hostile atmosphere for members of ethnic minority groups. The shadow Home Secretary, Yvette Cooper, described their language as being reminiscent of that used by the National Front in the 1970s. An adjudication by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) said that \"the claim [that 106 arrests were made last week] was misleading and had not been substantiated\" was followed by the advertisements being withdrawn after being banned by the ASA.\n\nIn mid 2014, the Passport Office faced a backlog in developing processing passport applications, with around 30,000 applications hit by delays. David Cameron suggested this had come about due to the Passport Office's receiving an \"above normal\" 300,000-rise in applications. It was revealed, however, that May had been warned the year before, in July 2013, that a surge of 350,000 extra applications could occur owing to the closure of processing overseas under Chancellor Osborne's programme of cuts. Around £674,000 was paid to staff who helped clear the backlog.\n\nIn April 2018, May's hostile environment policy became the focus of British politics in what came to be known as the Windrush scandal, in which members of the Windrush generation of Afro-Caribbean Britons were threatened with deportation by the Home Office. The scandal led to the removal of Amber Rudd as Home Secretary and her replacement by Sajid Javid. Responding to questions in Parliament on the Windrush scandal on 25 April, May maintained that the hostile environment policy would remain government policy.\n\nIn June 2014, an inflamed public argument arose between Home Office and Education Ministers about responsibility for alleged extremism in Birmingham schools. Prime Minister David Cameron intervened to resolve the row, insisting that May sack her Special Advisor Fiona Cunningham (now Hill) for releasing on May's website a confidential letter to May's colleagues, and that Michael Gove, the Education Secretary, apologise to the Home Office's head of Security and Counter-Terrorism, Charles Farr, for uncomplimentary briefings of him appearing on the front page of \"The Times\".\n\nMay held the office of Minister for Women and Equality in parallel to her office of Home Secretary from 2010 to September 2012, when this role was taken over by Maria Miller.\n\nMay's appointment as Minister for Women and Equality was criticised by some members of the LGBT rights movement, because she had voted against lowering the age of consent (in 1998) and against greater adoption rights for homosexuals (in 2002), though she had voted in favour of civil partnerships. May later stated, during an appearance on the BBC's \"Question Time\" in 2010, that she had \"changed her mind\" on gay adoption. Writing for \"PinkNews\" in June 2010, May clarified her proposals for improving LGBT rights including measures to tackle homophobia in sport, advocating British society's need for \"cultural change\".\n\nOn 2 July 2010, May stated she would be supporting the previous Labour Government's Anti-Discrimination Laws enshrined in the Equality Act 2010 despite having opposed it before. The Equality Act came into effect in England, Wales and Scotland on 1 October 2010. She did however announce that a clause she dubbed \"Harman's Law\" which would have required public bodies to consider how they can reduce socio-economic inequalities when making decisions about spending and services would be scrapped on the grounds that it was \"unworkable\".\n\nOn 30 June 2016, May announced her candidacy for the leadership of the Conservative Party to replace David Cameron, who resigned following the outcome of the European Union membership referendum in which 52% of voters voted in favour of leaving the EU. May emphasised the need for unity within the party regardless of positions on leaving the EU, saying she could bring \"strong leadership\" and a \"positive vision\" for the country's future. Despite having backed a vote to remain in the EU, she insisted that there would be no second referendum, saying: \"The campaign was fought... and the public gave their verdict. There must be no attempts to remain inside the EU, no attempts to rejoin it through the back door... Brexit means Brexit\". An opinion poll that day found 47% of people choosing May as their preferred candidate to be Prime Minister.\n\nMay's supporters included a number of Cabinet ministers, such as Amber Rudd, Chris Grayling, Justine Greening, Jeremy Hunt, Michael Fallon and Patrick McLoughlin. She won the first round of voting on 5 July, receiving support from 165 MPs, with rivals Andrea Leadsom receiving 66 votes and Michael Gove 48. After the results were announced, May said she was \"pleased\" and \"grateful\" for the support of other MPs and confirmed that she wanted to unite the party and the UK, to negotiate the \"best possible deal as we leave the EU\", and to \"make Britain work for everyone\". The two candidates with the fewest votes, Liam Fox and Stephen Crabb, immediately announced their support for May. May came in first place in the second ballot on 7 July with an overwhelming majority of 199 MPs, compared with 84 for Leadsom and 46 for Gove, who was eliminated. Afterwards, May stated that she was delighted with her support among MPs, and she progressed to a vote of the Conservative Party membership against Leadsom.\n\nOn 11 July, Leadsom announced her withdrawal from the leadership contest hours after May had made her first official campaign speech, saying her lack of support amongst Conservative MPs compared to May would be too great a hindrance to becoming a credible Prime Minister. As the sole remaining candidate, May was formally declared Leader of the Conservative Party that evening.\n\nOn 13 July 2016, two days after becoming Leader of the Conservative Party, May was appointed Prime Minister by Queen Elizabeth II, becoming only the second female British Prime Minister after Margaret Thatcher, and the first female British Prime Minister of the 21st century. Addressing the world's media outside 10 Downing Street, May said that she was \"honoured and humbled\" to become Prime Minister. On becoming Prime Minister, May became the first woman to have held two of the Great Offices of State.\n\nResponding to some calls for an early general election, \"sources close to Mrs May\" said there was no need for such an election. In a speech after her appointment, May emphasised the term \"Unionist\" in the name of the Conservative Party, reminding all of \"the precious, precious bond between England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.\" By 15 July, May had travelled to Edinburgh to meet with First Minister Nicola Sturgeon to reinforce the bond between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom. \"I'm coming here to show my commitment to preserving this special union that has endured for centuries,\" she explained.\n\nMay's first Cabinet appointment was described by Reuters as \"one of the most sweeping government reshuffles for decades\", and called \"a brutal cull\" by \"The Daily Telegraph\". Nine of Cameron's ministers, including several prominent members, were sacked or resigned from their posts. The early appointments were interpreted both as an effort to reunite the Conservative Party in the wake of the UK's vote to leave the EU and as \"a shift to the right,\" according to \"The Guardian\". ITV's Political Editor Robert Peston commented: \"Her rhetoric is more left-wing than Cameron's was, her cabinet is more right-wing than his was.\" Although May had supported remaining in the EU, she appointed several of the most prominent advocates of Brexit to key Cabinet positions responsible for negotiating the United Kingdom withdrawal from the European Union, including Boris Johnson as Foreign Secretary, David Davis as Brexit Secretary, and Liam Fox as International Trade Secretary, the latter two being new positions. Other key appointees included Amber Rudd as Home Secretary and Philip Hammond as Chancellor of the Exchequer.\n\nThe First May ministry delayed the final approval for the Hinkley Point C nuclear power station in July 2016, a project which May had objected to when she was Home Secretary. Her political adviser Nick Timothy wrote an article in 2015 to oppose China's involvement in sensitive sectors. He said that the government was \"selling our national security to China\" without rational concerns and \"the Government seems intent on ignoring the evidence and presumably the advice of the security and intelligence agencies\".\n\nIn July 2016, when George Kerevan asked her whether she would be prepared to authorise the killing of a hundred thousand innocent persons by a nuclear strike; during the \"Trident debate\" inside the House of Commons, May said \"Yes. And I have to say to the honourable gentleman: the whole point of a deterrent is that our enemies need to know that we would be prepared to use it. Unlike some suggestions that we could have a nuclear deterrent but not actually be willing to use it, which come from the Labour Party frontbench.\"\n\nOn 20 July, May attended her first Prime Minister's Questions since taking office, then afterwards made her first overseas trip as prime minister, visiting Berlin for talks with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. During the visit, May said that she would not trigger Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon—the process for withdrawing from the European Union—before 2017, suggesting it would take time for the UK to negotiate a \"sensible and orderly departure\" from the EU. However, although Merkel said it was right for the UK to \"take a moment\" before beginning the process, she urged May to provide more clarity on a timetable for negotiations. Shortly before travelling to Berlin, May had also announced that in the wake of the referendum, Britain would relinquish the presidency of the Council of the European Union, which passes between member states every six months on a rotation basis, and that the UK had been scheduled to hold in the second half of 2017.\n\nMay supported the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen and defended selling arms to Saudi Arabia, which is accused of committing war crimes in Yemen, insisting that Britain's close relationship with Saudi Arabia was \"helping keep people on the streets of Britain safe\".\nOn 21 January 2017, following the inauguration of Donald Trump as US President, the White House announced that May would meet the President on 27 January, making her the first foreign leader to meet Trump since he took office on 20 January. In a joint press conference, May indicated an interest in increased trade between the United States and the United Kingdom. She also affirmed a desire to maintain an American involvement in NATO. May was criticised by members of major parties, including her own, for refusing to condemn Trump's Executive Order 13769, as well as for inviting Trump to a state visit with Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn January 2017, when it came to light that a Trident test had malfunctioned in June 2016, May refused to confirm whether she knew about the incident when she addressed parliament.\nIn May's and Hammond's 2017 budget continued government policies of freezing benefits.\n\nOn 18 April, May announced that she would call a parliamentary vote to hold an early general election on 8 June, saying that it was the \"only way to guarantee certainty and security for years ahead\". May had previously ruled out an early election on five occasions over nine months. The election was the first snap election held under the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011 after MPs gave May the two-thirds super-majority required.\n\nUnveiling the Conservative manifesto in Halifax on 18 May, May promised a \"mainstream government that would deliver for mainstream Britain\". It proposed to balance the budget by 2025, raise spending on the NHS by £8bn per annum and on schools by £4bn per annum by 2022, remove the ban on new grammar schools, means-test the winter fuel allowance, replace the state pension \"triple lock\" with a \"double lock\" and require executive pay to be approved by a vote of shareholders. It dropped the 2015 pledge to not raise income tax or national insurance contributions but maintained a commitment to freeze VAT. New sovereign wealth funds for infrastructure, rules to prevent foreign takeovers of \"critical national infrastructure\" and institutes of technology were also proposed. The manifesto was noted for its intervention in industry, lack of tax cuts and increased spending commitments on public services. On Brexit it committed to leaving the single market and customs union while seeking a \"deep and special partnership\" and promised a vote in parliament on the final agreement.\n\nThe manifesto also proposed reforms to social care in England that would raise the threshold for free care from £23,250 to £100,000 while including property in the means test and permitting deferred payment after death. After attracting substantial media attention, four days after the manifesto launch May stated that the proposed social care reforms would now include an \"absolute limit\" on costs in contrast to the rejection of a cap in the manifesto. She criticised the \"fake\" portrayal of the policy in recent days by Labour and other critics who had termed it a \"dementia tax\". \"Evening Standard\" editor George Osborne called the policy change a \"U-turn\". \"The Financial Times\" contrasted her \"Strong and Stable\" leadership slogan with her own record of nine rapid U-turns claiming she was \"making a habit of retreating from policies.\"\n\nThe general election in June resulted in a hung parliament, prompting her to broker a deal with Northern Ireland's Democratic Unionist Party (DUP), involving £1 billion of additional public funding for Northern Ireland.\n\nLess than 2 weeks after the 2017 State Opening of Parliament, May ordered a full public inquiry into the contaminated blood scandal. For this she was widely praised as successive governments going back to the 1980s had refused such an inquiry, some though speculated that May had simply been forced to announce the inquiry after a group legal action and news of fresh evidence were brought by Jason Evans. Additionally, Andy Burnham had threatened to take evidence to the police if an inquiry were not announced. With over 1,000 core participants, the Infected Blood Inquiry is the biggest public inquiry ever held in the UK.\nIn November 2017, May said the actions of Myanmar Army and police against the Rohingya Muslim minority in Myanmar “looks like ethnic cleansing”. According to May, \"it is something for which the Burmese authorities – and especially the military – must take full responsibility.\" From the 2017 general election to December 2017, May suffered no defeats in whipped votes in the House of Commons. On 13 December 2017, May lost a vote on the EU Withdrawal Bill by 309 votes to 305, due to 11 Conservatives voting against the government, including Stephen Hammond who was then Vice-Chairman of the Conservative Party.\n\nMay accused Russia of \"threatening the international order\", \"seeking to weaponise information\" and \"deploying its state-run media organisations to plant fake stories\". She mentioned Russia's meddling in German federal election in 2017, after German government officials and security experts said there was no Russian interference.\n\nMay promised to confront China on human rights but was praised in Communist Party-controlled media for 'sidestepping' human rights in China during her first official visit to the country. The \"Global Times\" said: \"For the Prime Minister, the losses outweigh the gains if she appeases the British media at the cost of the visit’s friendly atmosphere.\"\n\nIn May 2018, during a three-day state visit to the UK by Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, May declared that Britain is a \"true friend\" of Turkey, but she added that \"It is important that in defense of democracy, which has been facing extraordinary pressures from the failed coup, instability across the border from Syria and from Kurdish terrorism, Turkey does not lose sight of the values it is seeking to defend.\"\n\nMay had a high approval rating during her first week as Prime Minister. The results of an Ipsos MORI survey released in July 2016 indicated that 55% of those surveyed believed that May was a suitable PM while only 23% believed that the Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn would make a good Prime Minister.\n\nA \"ComRes\" poll taken in September 2016 after her election suggested May was seen as substantially more \"in touch with ordinary British people\" than her predecessor David Cameron and a majority of voters saw her as \"the right person to unite the country\".\n\nAt the beginning of 2017, nearly six months after becoming Prime Minister, a ComRes found May was the most popular UK politician with a net rating of +9 which was described as the longest honeymoon period enjoyed by any sitting Conservative Prime Minister since the end of the Second World War.\n\nThe Conservative Party had a 21-point lead over Labour in a poll released the day before May announced a snap election but this lead narrowed substantially. In mid-June, following the election, a YouGov poll showed that May's popularity had dropped to a rating of −34. In April 2018, May had a higher approval rating than Corbyn for the first time since the general election, leading him by -13 to -23.\n\nMay has identified herself with the one-nation conservative position within her party.\n\nSince coming into prominence as a front-bench politician, May's public image has divided media opinion, especially from some in the traditionalist right-wing press. Commenting on May's debut as Home Secretary, Anne Perkins of \"The Guardian\" observed that \"she'll be nobody's stooge\", while Cristina Odone of \"The Daily Telegraph\" predicted her to be \"the rising star\" of the Coalition Government. Allegra Stratton, then with \"The Guardian\", praised May as showing managerial acumen.\n\nDescribing her as a liberal Conservative, the \"Financial Times\" characterised May as a \"non-ideological politician with a ruthless streak who gets on with the job\", in doing so comparing her to German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Conversely, in \"The Independent\", Rebecca Glover of the Policy Innovation Research Unit contrasted May to Boris Johnson, claiming that she was \"staunchly more conservative, more anti-immigration, and more isolationist\" than he was.\n\nDuring her leadership campaign, May said that \"We need an economy that works for everyone\", pledging to crack down on executive pay by making shareholders' votes binding rather than advisory and to put workers onto company boards (although she later claimed that the last pledge was not to be mandatory), policies that \"The Guardian\" describes as going further than the Labour Party's 2015 general election manifesto.\n\nAfter she became Prime Minister, May's first speech espoused the left, with a promise to combat the \"burning injustice\" in British society and to create a union \"between all of our citizens\" and promising to be an advocate for the \"ordinary working-class family\" and not for the affluent in the UK. \"The government I lead will be driven not by the interests of the privileged few but by yours. We will do everything we can to give you more control over your lives ... When we take the big calls, we’ll think not of the powerful, but you. When we pass new laws we’ll listen not to the mighty, but to you. When it comes to taxes we’ll prioritise not the wealthy but you.\"\n\nMay has described herself as a personal supporter of fox hunting with hounds, saying that foxes' numbers had to be controlled and that hunting them with dogs was the most humane way to do it. The Conservative manifesto for the 2017 election included a pledge to hold a parliamentary vote to repeal the Hunting Act 2004, which prohibits a range of hunting activities.\n\nAfter the Conservatives' manifesto for the 2017 election was released, some people, including Fraser Nelson of \"The Spectator\", called her a \"red Tory\", saying that she had moved her party to the left in politics. \"Politico\" called her policies \"Mayism\", saying that Mayism was \"a working-class conservatism openly critical of the “cult of individualism” and globalization\".\n\nIn 1998 May voted against lowering the age of consent for homosexual acts, and was absent for the vote on the repeal of Section 28 in 2003. In May 2012, however, May expressed support for the introduction of same-sex marriage by recording a video for the Out4Marriage campaign, in which she stated \"I believe if two people care for each other, if they love each other, if they want to commit to each other... then they should be able to get married and marriage should be for everyone\". In May 2013, May voted in favour of the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Bill, which legalised same-sex marriage in England and Wales.\n\nMay publicly stated her support for the UK remaining in the EU during the 2016 referendum campaign, but did not campaign extensively in the referendum and criticised aspects of the EU in a speech. It was speculated by political journalists that May had sought to minimise her involvement in the debate to strengthen her position as a future candidate for the Conservative party leadership. Some in David Cameron's ministry likened May to a \"submarine\" on the issue of Brexit due to her perceived indifference towards the referendum and the EU.\n\nIn a leaked recording prior to the Brexit referendum, May said,\nMay also said Britain was more secure as part of the EU due to the European arrest warrant and Europe-wide information sharing among other factors. She said, \"There are definitely things we can do as members of the European Union that I think keep us more safe\".\nMay's public reticence during the referendum campaign resulted in tensions with David Cameron and his pro-EU team. Following the referendum and her election as party leader, May signalled that she would support full withdrawal from the EU and prioritise immigration controls over remaining within the single market, leading some to contrast this with her earlier remarks on the earlier economic arguments. She later went on to say before the 2017 UK general election that she would be willing to leave the EU without a deal, saying that \"no deal is better than a bad deal. We have to be prepared to walk out\". The Lib Dem leader, Tim Farron, said it was \"disappointing that Theresa May lacked the political courage to warn the public as she did a bunch of bankers in private about the devastating economic effects of Brexit. More disappointing is that now she is supposedly in charge, she is blithely ignoring her own warnings and is prepared to inflict an act of monumental self-harm on the UK economy by pulling Britain out of the single market.\" Phil Wilson for the Open Britain group said, \"It's good to know that privately Theresa May thinks what many of us have been saying publicly for a long time, leaving the single market would be bad for businesses and for our economy. Now she is prime minister, Theresa May is in an unrivalled position to act on her previous concerns, starting by putting membership of the single market at the heart of her government's negotiating position.\"\n\nOn 22 September 2017, May officially made public the details of her Brexit proposal during a speech in Florence, urging the European Union to maintain a transitional period of two years after Brexit during which trade terms remain unaltered. During this period, the UK would also continue to honor its budget commitments of about €10 billion per annum, and accept immigration from Europe. Her speech was criticised by leading Eurosceptic Nigel Farage. The European Union's Brexit negotiator Michel Barnier welcomed May's proposal as \"constructive,\" but said it also \"must be translated into negotiating positions to make meaningful progress.\"<br> In late October 2018 the National Audit Office warned her that it was already too late to prepare the necessary Irish border security checks in the event of a No-deal scenario -a weakness that organised crime would be quick to exploit.\n\nMay has been married to Philip May, an investment banker currently employed by Capital International, since 6 September 1980; the couple have no children. It is widely believed that former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto introduced the two during their time at Oxford. May has expressed regret that she and her husband were not able to have children. The Mays are passionate hikers, and they regularly spend their holidays hiking in the Swiss Alps. May is also a cricket fan, claiming Geoffrey Boycott was one of her sporting heroes. She also likes cooking, and has said that she owns 100 cookery books. Philip has said that she \"is a very good cook\".\n\nMay is a member of the Church of England and regularly worships at church on Sunday. The daughter of an Anglican priest, the Reverend Hubert Brasier, May has said that her Christian faith \"is part of me. It is part of who I am and therefore how I approach things\".\n\nMay is known for a love of fashion, and in particular of distinctive shoes; she wore leopard-print shoes at her 'Nasty Party' speech in 2002, as well as her final Cabinet meeting as Home Secretary in 2016. On \"Desert Island Discs\" in 2014 she chose a subscription to \"Vogue\" as her luxury item. However, she has been critical of the media focusing on her fashion instead of her achievements as a politician.\n\nMay was diagnosed with diabetes mellitus of type 1 in November 2012. She is treated with daily insulin injections.\n\nPrior to and since her appointment to Government, May has actively supported a variety of campaigns on policy issues in her constituency and at the national level of politics. She has spoken at the Fawcett Society promoting the cross-party issue of gender equality. May was nominated as one of the Society's Inspiring Women of 2006.\n\nShe is the Patron of Reading University Conservative Association, in Berkshire (the county of her Maidenhead constituency).\n\nIn February 2013, BBC Radio 4's \"Woman's Hour\" already described her as Britain's second-most powerful woman after Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nIn April 2017, during an official trip to Saudi Arabia, May was appointed to the Order of King Abdulaziz. That September she was listed by \"Forbes\" as the second most powerful woman in the world, behind Angela Merkel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438228", "title": "Urvashi", "text": "Urvashi\n\nUrvashi (Sanskrit: उर्वशी, lit. \"she who can control heart of others. (\"Ur\" means heart and \"vash\" means to control\") is an Apsara (nymph) in Hindu legend. Monier Monier-Williams proposes a different etymology in which the name means 'widely pervasive' and suggests that in its first appearances in Vedic texts it is a name for the dawn goddess. She was a celestial maiden in Indra's court and was considered the most beautiful of all the Apsaras.\n\nShe is the mother of Rishyasringa, the great saint of the Ramayana era of ancient India from Vibhandaka, who later played crucial role in birth of Rama and was married to Shanta, the elder sister of Rama.\n\nShe became the wife of king \"Pururavas\" (', from '+\"\" \"crying much or loudly\"), an ancient chief of the lunar race. ShBr 11.5.1, and treated in Kalidasa's drama \"Vikramōrvaśīyam\".\n\nShe is perennially youthful and infinitely charming but always elusive. She is a source as much of delight as of dolour.\n\nThere are many legends about the birth of Urvashi but the following one is most prevalent.\n\nOnce the revered sages Nara-narayana were meditating in the holy shrine of Badrinath Temple situated in the Himalayas. Indra, the king of the Gods, did not want the sage to acquire divine powers through meditation and sent two apsaras to distract him. The sage struck his thigh and created a woman so beautiful that Indra’s apsaras were left matchless. This was Urvashi, named from ur, the Sanskrit word for thigh. After his meditation was complete the sage gifted Urvashi to Indra, and she occupied the pride of place in Indra’s court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34219499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34219499", "title": "Zacharias Longuelune", "text": "Zacharias Longuelune\n\nZacharias Longuelune (1669—November 30, 1748) was a French architect and master builder who worked in the second half of his life for the royal court in Dresden. His design style was French Baroque and Classicism.\n\nLonguelune was born in Paris. After working in Berlin and Potsdam for Frederick I of Prussia and travelling to Italy, he settled in Dresden in 1713 where he became Senior State Architect (\"Oberlandbaumeister\") in 1731 for the Elector of Saxony, Augustus II the Strong. His works include the park at Grosssedlitz (1719–1732), the Riverside Palace and the water stairs at Pillnitz Castle (1720–1725) and part of the Japanisches Palais (from 1729 with court architect Matthäus Daniel Pöppelmann).\n\nHe died in Dresden in 1748.\n"}
{"id": "25627198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627198", "title": "Zodwa Nsibande", "text": "Zodwa Nsibande\n\nZodwa Nsibande is the General Secretary of the Abahlali baseMjondolo youth league. She has been critical of the impact of the FIFA 2010 World Cup on shack dwellers in Durban.\n\nIn 2006 she was badly burnt in a shack fire. In 2009 she had to go into hiding following threats and attacks against her and various other Abahlali baseMjondolo leaders.\n\n\n\n\n"}
