{"id": "52328772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52328772", "title": "1888–1893 Uprisings of Hazaras", "text": "1888–1893 Uprisings of Hazaras\n\nThe 1888–1893 Uprisings of Hazaras occurred when the Treaty of Gandomak was signed and the Second Anglo-Afghan War ended in 1880, causing Abdur Rahman Khan to set out on a goal to bring Hazarajat and Kafiristan under his control. He launched several campaigns in Hazarajat due to resistance from the Hazaras in which his forces committed atrocities. The southern part of Hazarajat was spared as they accepted his rule, while the other parts of Hazarajat rejected Abdur Rahman and instead supported his uncle, Sher Ali Khan. In response to this Abdur Rahman waged a war against tribal leaders who rejected his policies and rule. Abdur Rahman arrested Syed Jafar, chief of the Sheikh Ali Hazara tribe, and jailed him in Mazar-e-Sharif. \n\nThe first Hazara uprising against Abdur Rahman Khan took place between 1888 and 1890. When Emir Abdur Rahman's cousin, Mohammad Eshaq, revolted against him, tribal leaders of the Sheikh Ali Hazaras joined the revolt. The revolt was short lived as the Emir extended his control over large parts of Hazarajat.\n\nAfter all of Sheikh Ali Hazaras' chiefs were sent to Kabul, opposition within the leadership of Sawar Khan and Syed Jafar Khan continued against the government troops, but at last were defeated. Taxes were imposed and Afghan administrators were sent to occupied places, where they subjugated the people with abuses. People were disarmed, villages were looted, local tribal chiefs were imprisoned or executed, and the better lands were confiscated and given to Afghan nomads (Kuchis).\n\nThe second uprising occurred in the Spring of 1892. According to Syed Askar Mousavi, the cause of the uprising was an assault on the wife of a Hazara Chieftain by Afghan soldiers. The families of both the man and his wife, deciding that death was one hundred times better than such humiliation, killed the soldiers involved and attacked the local garrison, from whence they recovered their confiscated arms\". Several other tribal chiefs who supported Abdur Rahman now turned against him and joined the rebellion which rapidly spread through the entire Hazarajat. In response to the rebellion, the Emir declared a \"jihad\" against the Shias and raised an army of up to 40, 000 soldiers, 10, 000 mounted troops, and 100,000 armed civilians (most of which were Pashtun nomads). He also brought in British military advisers to assist his army.\n\nThe third uprising of Hazara was in response to the harsh repression; the Hazara revolted again by early 1893. This revolt took the government forces by surprise and the Hazara managed to take most of Hazarajat back. However, after months of fighting, they were eventually defeated due to a shortage of food. Small pockets of resistance continued to the end of the year as government troops committed atrocities against civilians and deported entire villages.\n\nAbdur Rahman's subjugation of the Hazara due to fierce rebellion against the Afghan king gave birth to strong hatred between the Pahstun and Hazara for years to come. Massive forced displacements, especially in Oruzgan and Daychopan, continued as lands were confiscated and populations were expelled or fled. Some 35,000 families fled to northern Afghanistan, Mashhad (Iran) and Quetta (Pakistan). Hazara farmers were often forced to give up their property to Pashtuns and as a result many Hazara families had to leave seasonally to the major cities in Afghanistan, Iran, or Pakistan in order to find jobs and a source of income. Quetta in Pakistan is home to the third largest settlements of Hazara outside Afghanistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1242905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242905", "title": "A Mathematician's Apology", "text": "A Mathematician's Apology\n\nA Mathematician's Apology is a 1940 essay by British mathematician G. H. Hardy. It concerns the aesthetics of mathematics with some personal content, and gives the layman an insight into the mind of a working mathematician.\n\nIn the book's title, Hardy uses the word \"apology\" in the sense of a formal justification or defence (as in Plato's \"Apology of Socrates\"), not in the sense of a plea for forgiveness.\n\nHardy felt the need to justify his life's work in mathematics at this time mainly for two reasons. Firstly, at age 62, Hardy felt the approach of old age (he had survived a heart attack in 1939) and the decline of his mathematical creativity and skills.\nBy devoting time to writing the Apology, Hardy was admitting that his own time as a creative mathematician was finished. In his foreword to the 1967 edition of the book, C. P. Snow describes the Apology as\n\"a passionate lament for creative powers that used to be and that will never come again\".\nIn Hardy's words, \"Exposition, criticism, appreciation, is work for second-rate minds. [...] It is a melancholy experience for a professional mathematician to find himself writing about mathematics. The function of a mathematician is to do something, to prove new theorems, to add to mathematics, and not to talk about what he or other mathematicians have done.\"\n\nSecondly, at the start of the World War II, Hardy, a committed pacifist, wanted to justify his belief that mathematics should be pursued for its own sake rather than for the sake of its applications. He wanted to write a book in which he would explain his mathematical philosophy to the next generation of mathematicians; that would defend mathematics by elaborating on the merits of pure mathematics solely, without having to resort to the attainments of applied mathematics in order to justify the overall importance of mathematics; and that would inspire the upcoming generations of pure mathematicians. Hardy was an atheist, and makes his justification not to God but to his fellow man.\n\nOne of the main themes of the book is the beauty that mathematics possesses, which Hardy compares to painting and poetry. For Hardy, the most beautiful mathematics was that which had no practical applications in the outside world (pure mathematics) and, in particular, his own special field of number theory. Hardy contends that if useful knowledge is defined as knowledge which is likely to contribute to the material comfort of mankind in the near future (if not right now), so that mere intellectual satisfaction is irrelevant, then the great bulk of higher mathematics is useless. He justifies the pursuit of pure mathematics with the argument that its very \"uselessness\" on the whole meant that it could not be misused to cause harm. On the other hand, Hardy denigrates much of the applied mathematics as either being \"trivial\", \"ugly\", or \"dull\", and contrasts it with \"real mathematics\", which is how he ranks the higher, pure mathematics.\n\nHardy expounds by commenting about a phrase attributed to Carl Friedrich Gauss that \"Mathematics is the queen of the sciences and number theory is the queen of mathematics.\" Some people believe that it is the extreme non-applicability of number theory that led Gauss to the above statement about number theory; however, Hardy points out that this is certainly not the reason. If an application of number theory were to be found, then certainly no one would try to dethrone the \"queen of mathematics\" because of that. What Gauss meant, according to Hardy, is that the underlying concepts that constitute number theory are deeper and more elegant compared to those of any other branch of mathematics.\n\nAnother theme is that mathematics is a \"young man's game\", so anyone with a talent for mathematics should develop and use that talent while they are young, before their ability to create original mathematics starts to decline in middle age. This view reflects Hardy's increasing depression at the wane of his own mathematical powers. For Hardy, real mathematics was essentially a creative activity, rather than an explanatory or expository one.\n\nHardy's opinions were heavily influenced by the academic culture of the universities of Cambridge and Oxford between World War I and World War II.\n\nSome of Hardy's examples seem unfortunate in retrospect. For example, he writes, \"No one has yet discovered any warlike purpose to be served by the theory of numbers or relativity, and it seems unlikely that anyone will do so for many years.\" Since then number theory was used to crack German enigma codes and much later, figure prominently in public-key cryptography. However, Hardy's more prominent examples of elegant mathematical discoveries with no use (proofs of the infinitude of primes and of the irrationality of the square root of two) still hold up.\n\nThe applicability of a mathematical concept is not the reason that Hardy considered applied mathematics somehow inferior to pure mathematics, though; it is the simplicity and prosiness that belong to applied mathematics that led him to describe them as he did.\n\nHe considers that Rolle's theorem for example, though it is of some importance for calculus, cannot be compared to the elegance and preeminence of the mathematics produced by Évariste Galois and other pure mathematicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17511358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17511358", "title": "Agasha Temple of Wisdom", "text": "Agasha Temple of Wisdom\n\nThe Agasha Temple of Wisdom is a spiritualist group founded in 1943 by Richard Zenor. After the publication of James Crenshaw's book \"Telephone Between Two Worlds\" in 1950, in which both Zenor and the temple were prominently featured, the temple became more popular. Upon Zenor's death in 1978, Geary Salvat was chosen to lead the group.\n\nGeary Salvat is a follower of both Richard Zenor and of Ayuibbi Tobabu, and he has written a journal of quotes, \"Getting Into Gear\". He died in 2002.\n\nThe group focuses on communicating with the dead through mediums, placing particular attention on receiving and studying the teachings of \"master teachers\" such as Zenor's \"Agasha\". These teachings can be summarized by some universal spiritual precepts, including \"as you sow, so shall you reap\" and the Golden Rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "21925193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21925193", "title": "Alatrism", "text": "Alatrism\n\nAlatrism or alatry (Greek: from the privative ἀ- + λατρεία (\"latreia\") = worship) is the recognition of the existence of one or more gods, but with a deliberate lack of worship of any deity. Typically, it includes the belief that religious rituals have no supernatural significance, and that gods ignore all prayers and worship.\n\nAlatrism is not the same as Deism, which holds that one or more gods may exist, but do not intervene. Deism does not exclude worship, and alatrism does not exclude the possibility that gods intervene; alatrists usually believe that any divine intervention occurs only for the deity's/deities' own reasons, unconnected to any encouragement by devotees.\n\nHistorical alatrist groups include the Neopythagoreans.\n\n"}
{"id": "44651411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44651411", "title": "Burkitt Medal", "text": "Burkitt Medal\n\nThe Burkitt Medal is awarded annually by the British Academy \"in recognition of special service to Biblical Studies\". Awards alternate between Hebrew Bible studies (odd years) and New Testament studies (even years). It was established in 1923 and has been awarded to many notable theologians. It is named in honour of Francis Crawford Burkitt.\n\nThe first recipient of the Burkitt medal was R. H. Charles (1925). Below is a full list of recipients:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185692", "title": "Civil religion", "text": "Civil religion\n\nCivil religion, also referred to as a civic religion, is the implicit religious values of a nation, as expressed through public rituals, symbols (such as the national flag), and ceremonies on sacred days and at sacred places (such as monuments, battlefields, or national cemeteries). It is distinct from churches, although church officials and ceremonies are sometimes incorporated into the practice of civil religion. Countries described as having a civil religion include France, South Korea, and the former Soviet Union. As a concept, it originated in French political thought and became a major topic for U.S. sociologists since its use by Robert Bellah in 1960.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau coined the term in chapter 8, book 4 of \"The Social Contract\" (1762), to describe what he regarded as the moral and spiritual foundation essential for any modern society. For Rousseau, civil religion was intended simply as a form of social cement, helping to unify the state by providing it with sacred authority. In his book, Rousseau outlines the simple dogmas of the civil religion:\nThe Italian historian Emilio Gentile has studied the roots and development of the concept and proposed a division of two types of religions of politics: a civil religion and a political religion.\n\nIn the sociology of religion, civil religion is the folk religion of a nation or a political culture.\n\nCivil religion stands somewhat above folk religion in its social and political status, since by definition it suffuses an entire society, or at least a segment of a society; and is often practiced by leaders within that society. On the other hand, it is somewhat less than an establishment of religion, since established churches have official clergy and a relatively fixed and formal relationship with the government that establishes them. Civil religion is usually practiced by political leaders who are laypeople and whose leadership is not specifically spiritual.\n\nSuch civil religion encompasses such things as:\nand similar religious or quasi-religious practices.\n\nProfessional commentators on political and social matters writing in newspapers and magazines sometimes use the term civil religion or civic religion to refer to ritual expressions of patriotism of a sort practiced in all countries, not always including religion in the conventional sense of the word.\n\nAmong such practices are the following:\n\nThese two conceptions (sociological and political) of civil religion substantially overlap. In Britain, where church and state are constitutionally joined, the monarch's coronation is an elaborate religious rite celebrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In France, secular ceremonies are separated from religious observances to a greater degree than in most countries. In the United States, a president being inaugurated is told by the Constitution to choose between saying \"I do solemnly swear...\" (customarily followed by \"so help me God\", although those words are not Constitutionally required) and saying \"I do solemnly affirm...\" (in which latter case no mention of God would be expected).\n\nPractically all the ancient and prehistoric reigns suffused politics with religion. Often the leaders, such as the Pharaoh or the Chinese Emperor were considered manifestations of a Divinity. Tribal world-view was often Pantheistic, the tribe being an extension of its surrounding nature and the leaders having roles and symbols derived from the animal hierarchy and significant natural phenomena (such as storm).\n\nThe religion of the Athenian polis was a secular polytheism focused on the Olympian Gods and was celebrated in the civic festivals. Religion was a matter of state and the Athenian Ecclesia deliberated on matters of religion. Atheism and the introduction of foreign gods were forbidden in Athens and punishable by death. For example, the Athenian ecclesia charged that Socrates worshiped gods other than those sanctioned by the polis and condemned him to death.\n\nRome also had a civil religion, whose first Emperor Augustus officially attempted to revive the dutiful practice of classical paganism. Greek and Roman religion were essentially local in character; the Roman Empire attempted to unite its disparate territories by inculcating an ideal of Roman piety, and by a syncretistic identifying of the gods of conquered territories with the Greek and Roman pantheon. In this campaign, Augustus erected monuments such as the \"Ara Pacis\", the Altar of Peace, showing the Emperor and his family worshiping the gods. He also encouraged the publication of works such as Virgil's \"Æneid\", which depicted \"pious Æneas\", the legendary ancestor of Rome, as a role model for Roman religiosity. Roman historians such as Livy told tales of early Romans as morally improving stories of military prowess and civic virtue. The Roman civil religion later became centered on the person of the Emperor through the Imperial cult, the worship of the \"genius\" of the Emperor.\n\nThe phrase \"civil religion\" was first discussed extensively by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his 1762 treatise \"The Social Contract\". Rousseau defined \"civil religion\" as a group of religious beliefs he believed to be universal, and which he believed governments had a right to uphold and maintain: belief in a deity; belief in an afterlife in which virtue is rewarded and vice punished; and belief in religious tolerance. He said the dogmas of civil religion should be simple, few in number, and stated in precise words without interpretations or commentaries. Beyond that, Rousseau affirmed that individuals' religious opinions should be beyond the reach of governments. For Rousseau civil religion was to be constructed and imposed from the top down as an artificial source of civic virtue.\n\nWallace studies Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), the French sociologist who analysed civil religion, especially in comparative terms, and stressed that the public schools are critical in implementing civil religion. Although he never used the term he laid great stress on the concept.\n\nSecular states in Europe by the late 19th century were building civil religion based on their recent histories. In France's case, Baylac argues, the French government:\nIn contemporary South Korea, the predominating civil religion has been described as consisting of anti-Japanese sentiment coupled with a pan-Korean racial nationalism. This has been criticized by some scholars as being detrimental to South Korean national security as it encourages North Korean provocations against the country in the guise that South Koreans will not adequately defend their country's security as they feel a certain racial and ethnic solidarity with North Korea. One scholar argued that South Korea should retire this sort of racialized civil religion for one more rooted in civic principles, like was found in West Germany during the 20th century.\n\nThe Soviet Union made Marxism–Leninism into a civil religion, with sacred texts and many statues of Marx, Lenin, and Stalin. Stalin personally supervised the cult of Lenin and his own cult, which took advantage of the historic semi-religious adulation Russian peasants had shown toward the tsars. The Lenin icons were put into storage when communism fell in 1991. The Stalin statues had been removed in the 1950s and mention of him was erased from encyclopedias and history books. However under Vladimir Putin in the 21st century the memory of Stalin has been partly rehabilitated in search of a strong leader who made the nation powerful. For example, school textbooks were rewritten to portray \"the mass terror of the Stalin years as essential to the country's rapid modernization in the face of growing German and Japanese military threats, and amid the inaction or duplicity of the Western democracies.\"\n\nCivil religion is an important component of public life in America, especially at the national level for its celebration of nationalism. Sociologists report that its \"feast days\" are Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, and Memorial Day. Its rituals include salutes to the flag and singing \"God Bless America\". Soldiers and veterans play a central role of standing ready to sacrifice their lives to preserve the nation. Bellah noted the veneration of veterans. The historian Conrad Cherry called the Memorial Day ceremonies \"a modern cult of the dead\" and says that it \"affirms the civil religious tenets.\"\n\nThe American Revolution was the main source of the civil religion that has shaped patriotism ever since. According to the sociologist Robert Bellah:\nAlbanese argues that the American Revolution was the main source of the non-denominational American civil religion that has shaped patriotism and the memory and meaning of the nation's birth ever since. Battles are not central (as they are for the Civil War) but rather certain events and people have been celebrated as icons of certain virtues (or vices). As historians have noted, the Revolution produced a Moses-like leader (George Washington), prophets (Thomas Jefferson, Tom Paine) and martyrs (Boston Massacre, Nathan Hale), as well as devils (Benedict Arnold), sacred places (Valley Forge, Bunker Hill), rituals (Boston Tea Party), emblems (the new flag), sacred holidays (July 4) and a holy scripture whose every sentence is carefully studied and applied in current law cases (the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights).\n\nAlthough \"God\" is not mentioned in the Constitution of the United States of America, mention is specifically made of \"Nature's God\" in the opening sentence of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, scholars such as Robert N. Bellah and Martin E. Marty studied civil religion as a cultural phenomenon, attempting to identify the actual tenets of civil religion in the United States, or to study civil religion as a phenomenon of cultural anthropology. Within this American context, Marty wrote that Americans approved of \"religion in general\" without being particularly concerned about the content of that faith, and attempted to distinguish \"priestly\" and \"prophetic\" roles within the practice of American civil religion, which he preferred to call the \"public theology\". In the 1967 essay \"Civil Religion in America\", Bellah wrote that civil religion in its priestly sense is \"an institutionalized collection of sacred beliefs about the American nation.\" Bellah describes the prophetic role of civil religion as challenging \"national self-worship\" and calling for \"the subordination of the nation to ethical principles that transcend it in terms of which it should be judged.\" Bellah identified the American Revolution, the Civil War, and the Civil Rights Movement as three decisive historical events that impacted the content and imagery of civil religion in the United States.\n\nThe application of the concept of civil religion to the United States was in large part the work of sociologist Robert Bellah. He identified an elaborate system of practices and beliefs arising from America's unique historic experience and religiosity. Civil religion in the US was originally Protestant but brought in Catholics and Jews after World War II. Having no association with any religious sect, Civil religion was used in the 1960s to justify civil rights legislation. Americans ever since the colonial era talk of their obligation both collective and individual to carry out God's will on earth. George Washington was a sort of high priest, and the documents of the Founding Fathers have been treated as almost sacred texts. With the Civil War, says Bellah, came a new theme of death, sacrifice and rebirth, as expressed through Memorial Day rituals. Unlike France, the American civil religion was never anticlerical or militantly secular.\n\nThis assertive civil religion of the United States is an occasional cause of political friction between the US and Europe, where the literally religious form of civil religion has largely faded away in recent decades. In the United States, civil religion is often invoked under the name of \"Judeo-Christian ethics\", a phrase originally intended to be maximally inclusive of the several religions practiced in the United States, assuming that these faiths all share the same values. Alvin J. Schmidt argues that since the 1700s, expressions of civil religion in the United States have shifted from a deistic to a polytheistic stance.\n\nSome scholars have argued that the American flag can be seen as a main totem of a national cult, while others have argued that modern punishment is a form of civil religion. Arguing against mob violence and lynching, Abraham Lincoln declared in his 1838 Lyceum speech that the Constitution and the laws of the United States ought to become the \"political religion\" of each American.\n"}
{"id": "7159198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7159198", "title": "Compensationism", "text": "Compensationism\n\nCompensationism is one of several theological doctrines, opposed to Probabilism.\n\nCompensationism maintains that a doubtful law is not devoid of all binding force, and that there must be a compensating reason, proportionate to the probability and gravity of the law, to justify the performance of the action which is probably forbidden. This teaching is based on an analogy with an act which has two effects, one good and the other bad. It is not lawful to perform such an act unless there is a justifying cause proportionate to the evil. In the case of a doubtful law the bad effect is the danger of material sin, and the good effect is the benefit, which arises from the performance of the action which is probably forbidden. Hence in this as in the former case, a compensating cause, proportionate to the probable evil, is required to justify the performance of the action.\n\nProbabilists reply that this moral system leads to Tutiorism, because it implies that if no compensating benefit exists, it is not lawful to perform an action so long as it certainly is not forbidden. Again, Probabilists say that the preservation of liberty is of itself a sufficient compensating reason when there is question of a law which is not certain. Finally, Probabilists are prepared to admit that, as a point of expediency though not of obligation, it is advisable to look for a compensating cause over and above the preservation of liberty when a confessor is directing penitents in the use of probable opinions. If no such compensating reason exists, the penitent can be advised, though not under pain of sin, to abstain from the performance of the action which is probably forbidden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5104141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5104141", "title": "Criticism of Judaism", "text": "Criticism of Judaism\n\nCriticism of Judaism refers to criticism of Jewish religious doctrines, texts, laws and practices. Early criticism originated in inter-faith polemics between Christianity and Judaism. Important disputations in the Middle Ages gave rise to widely publicized criticisms. Modern criticisms also reflect the inter-branch Jewish schisms between Orthodox Judaism, Conservative Judaism, and Reform Judaism.\n\nBaruch Spinoza, Mordecai Kaplan, and prominent atheists have criticized Judaism because its theology and religious texts describe a personal God who has conversations with important figures from ancient Israel (Moses, Abraham, etc.) and forms relationships and covenants with the Jewish people. Spinoza and Kaplan instead believed God is abstract, impersonal, or a force of nature. Theologian and philosopher Franz Rosenzweig suggested that the two viewpoints are both valid and are complementary within Judaism.\n\nMost branches of Judaism consider Jews to be the \"chosen people\" in the sense that they have special role to \"preserve God's revelations\" or to \"affirm our common humanity\". This attitude is reflected, for example, in the policy statement of Reform Judaism which holds that Jews have a responsibility to \"cooperate with all men in the establishment of the kingdom of God, of universal brotherhood, Justice, truth and peace on earth.\" Some secular and critics affiliated with other religions claim the concept implies favoritism or superiority, as have some Jewish critics, such as Baruch Spinoza. \nMany Jews find the concept of chosenness problematic or an anachronism, and such concerns led to the formation of Reconstructionist Judaism, whose founder, Mordecai Kaplan, rejected the concept of the Jews as the chosen people and argued that the view of the Jews as the chosen people was ethnocentric.\n\nConservative Judaism is criticized by some leaders of Orthodox Judaism for not properly following Halakha (Jewish religious law). It is also criticized by some leaders of Reform Judaism for being at odds with the principles of its young adult members on issues such as intermarriage, patrilineal descent, and the ordination of homosexuals — all issues that Conservative Judaism opposes and Reform Judaism supports. (The Conservative movement has since moved in the direction of allowing for gay rabbis and the \"celebration of same-sex commitment ceremonies.\")\n\nThe reform movement grew out of dissatisfaction with several aspects of traditional Judaism or Rabbinic Judaism, as documented in polemics and other 19th- and early-20th-century writings. Louis Jacobs, a prominent Masorti Rabbi, described the polemics between the Orthodox and the Reform movements as follows: \nDavid Einhorn, an American Reform rabbi, calls Reform Judaism a \"liberation\" of Judaism : \n\nThe criticisms of traditional Judaism included criticisms asserting that the Torah's laws are not strictly binding; criticisms asserting that many ceremonies and rituals are not necessary; criticisms asserting that Rabbinical leadership is too authoritarian; criticisms asserting that there was too much superstition; criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism leads to isolation from other communities; and criticisms asserting that traditional Judaism over-emphasized the exile.\n\nSome of these criticisms were anticipated in a much earlier time, by philosopher Uriel da Costa (1585–1640) who criticized the Rabbinic authorities and the Talmud for lack of authenticity and spirituality.\n\nPaul criticizes Jews for their failure to believe that Jesus was the Messiah (Romans 9:30–10:13) and for their view about their favored status and lack of equality with gentiles (Roman 3:27). In Romans 7–12, one criticism of Judaism made by Paul is that it is a religion based in law instead of faith. In many interpretations of this criticism made prior to the mid 20th century, Judaism was held to be fundamentally flawed by the sin of self-righteousness. The issue is complicated by differences in the versions of Judaism extant at the time. Some scholars argue that Paul's criticism of Judaism are correct, others suggest that Paul's criticism is directed at Hellenistic Judaism, the forms with which Paul was most familiar, rather than Rabbinic Judaism, which eschewed the militant line of Judaism which Paul embraced prior to his conversion. There is also the question as to whom Paul was addressing. Paul saw himself as an apostle to the Gentiles, and it is unclear as to whether the text of Romans was directed to Jewish followers of Jesus (as was Paul), to Gentiles, or to both. If adherence to Jewish law were a requirement for salvation, then salvation would be denied to Gentiles without a conversion to Judaism. Krister Stendahl argues along similar lines that according to Paul, Judaism's rejection of Jesus as a savior is what allows salvation of non-Jews, that this rejection is part of God's overall plan, and that Israel will also be saved (per Romans 11:26–27).\nSome scholars argue that the fundamental issue underlying Paul's criticism of Judaism hinges on his understanding of Judaism's relationship to Jewish law. E. P. Sanders, for example, argues that the view held by many New Testament scholars from Weber on, represent a caricature of Judaism and that this interpretation of Paul's criticism is thus flawed by the misunderstanding of the tenets of Judaism. Sanders' interpretation asserts Judaism is instead best understood as a \"covenantal nominism\", in which God's grace is given and affirmed in the covenant, to which the appropriate response is to live within the bounds established in order to preserve the relationship. James Dunn agrees with Sanders' view that Paul would not have criticized Judaism for claiming that salvation comes from adherence to the law or the performance of good works, since those are not tenets of Judaism, but argues against Sanders that Paul's criticism of Judaism represents a rebuttal of the \"xenophobic\" and ethnocentric form of Judaism to which Paul had previously belonged. Dunn argues that Paul does not see his position as a betrayal of Judaism, but rather represents development of an open Judaism. A similar argument is presented by George Smiga, who claims that criticism of Judaism found in the New Testament are best understood as varieties of religious polemic, intended as a call to conversion rather than criticism in the sense of common usage.\n\nThe idea that Judaism, and the Jewish people collectively, are responsible for the death of Jesus, often represented in the claim that \"Jews killed Jesus\", figures prominently in anti-Semitic writings. It was initially stated by Paul in the New Testament (). The Roman Catholic church formally disavowed its long complicity in anti-Semitism by issuing a proclamation in 1965 repudiating the notion that the Jewish people bore any guilt for Jesus's death.\n\nA prominent place in the Qur'anic polemic against the Jews is given to the conception of the religion of Abraham. The Qur'an presents Muslims as neither Jews nor Christians but followers of Abraham who was in a physical sense the father of the Jews and the Arabs and lived before the revelation of Torah. In order to show that the religion practiced by the Jews is not the pure religion of Abraham, the Qur'an mentions the incident of worshiping of the calf, argues that Jews do not believe in part of the revelation given to them, and that their taking of usury shows their worldliness and disobedience of God. Furthermore, the Quran claims they attribute to God what he has not revealed. According to the Qur'an, the Jews exalted a figure named Uzair as the \"son of God\" (see the Quranic statements about perceived Jewish exaltation). The character of Ezra, who was presumed to be the figure mentioned by the Qur'an (albeit with no corroborative evidence to suggest Ezra and Uzair to be the same person) became important in the works of the later Andalusian Muslim scholar Ibn Hazm, who explicitly accused Ezra of being a liar and a heretic who falsified and added interpolations into the Biblical text. In his polemic against Judaism, Ibn Hazm provided a list of what he said were chronological and geographical inaccuracies and contradictions; theological impossibilities (anthropomorphic expressions, stories of fornication and whoredom, and the attributing of sins to prophets), as well as lack of reliable transmission (tawatur) of the text. Heribert Busse writes \"The only explanation is the presumption that Muhammad, in the heat of debate, wanted to accuse the Jews of heretical doctrine on a par with the heresy of the Christian doctrine that teaches the divine nature of Jesus. In doing so, he could take advantage of the high esteem granted Ezra in Judaism.\"\n\nPhilosophical criticism of Judaism is either part of religious criticism in general, or specifically focused on aspects unique to the Jewish religion. Immanuel Kant is an example of the latter. Kant believed that Judaism fails to \"satisfy the essential criteria of [a] religion\" by requiring external obedience to moral laws, having a secular focus, and lacking a concern for immortality.\n\nKosher slaughter has historically attracted criticism from non-Jews as allegedly being inhumane and unsanitary, in part as an antisemitic canard that eating ritually slaughtered meat caused degeneration, and in part out of economic motivation to remove Jews from the meat industry. Sometimes, however, these criticisms were directed at Judaism as a religion. In 1893, animal advocates campaigning against kosher slaughter in Aberdeen attempted to link cruelty with Jewish religious practice. In the 1920s, Polish critics of kosher slaughter claimed that the practice actually had no basis in scripture. In contrast, Jewish authorities argue that the slaughter methods are based directly upon (), and that \"these laws are binding on Jews today.\"\n\nMore recently, kosher slaughter has attracted criticism from some groups concerned with animal welfare, who contend that the absence of any form of anesthesia or stunning prior to the severance of the animal's jugular vein causes unnecessary pain and suffering. Calls for the abolition of kosher slaughter have been made in 2008 by Germany's federal chamber of veterinarians, and in 2011 by the Party for Animals in the Dutch parliament. In both incidents, Jewish groups responded that the criticisms were attacks against their religion.\n\nSupporters of kosher slaughter counter that Judaism requires the practice precisely because it is considered humane. Research conducted by Temple Grandin and Joe M. Regenstein shows that, practiced correctly with proper restraint systems, kosher slaughter results in little pain and suffering, and notes that behavioral reactions to the incision made during kosher slaughter are less than those to noises such as clanging or hissing, inversion or pressure during restraint.\n\nThe Jewish practice of brit milah, or circumcision of infant males, has been criticized in both ancient and modern times as painful and cruel, or tantamount to genital mutilation due to its being conducted without the boy's consent.\n\nHellenistic culture found circumcision to be repulsive, circumcision was regarded as a physical deformity, and circumcised men were forbidden to participate in the Olympic Games. Some Hellenistic Jews practised epispasm. In the Roman Empire, circumcision was regarded as a barbaric and disgusting custom. According to the Talmud, the consul Titus Flavius Clemens was condemned to death by the Roman Senate in 95 CE for circumcising himself and converting to Judaism. The emperor Hadrian (117-138) forbade circumcision.\nPaul expressed similar sentiments about circumcision, calling it \"mutilation\" in Philippians 3. \"Watch out for those dogs, those evildoers, those mutilators of the flesh.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2671343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2671343", "title": "Criticism of religion", "text": "Criticism of religion\n\nCriticism of religion is criticism of the ideas, the truth, or the practice of religion, including its political and social implications.\n\nHistorical records of criticism of religion goes back to at least 5th century BCE in ancient Greece, with Diagoras \"the Atheist\" of Melos. In ancient Rome, an early known example is Lucretius' \"De Rerum Natura\" from the 1st century BCE.\n\nEvery exclusive religion on Earth that promotes exclusive truth claims necessarily denigrates the truth claims of other religions. Critics of religion in general often regard religion as outdated, harmful to the individual, harmful to society, an impediment to the progress of science, a source of immoral acts or customs and a political tool for social control.\n\nIn his work \"De Rerum Natura\", the 1st century BCE Roman poet Titus Lucretius Carus wrote: \"But 'tis that same religion oftener far / Hath bred the foul impieties of men\". A philosopher of the Epicurean school, Lucretius, believed the world was composed solely of matter and void and that all phenomena could be understood as resulting from purely natural causes. Despite believing in Gods, Lucretius, like Epicurus, felt that religion was born of fear and ignorance, and that understanding the natural world would free people of its shackles. He was not against religion in and of itself, but against traditional religion which he saw as superstition for teaching that gods interfered with the world.\n\nAt the beginning of the 16th century, Niccolò Machiavelli said: \"We Italians are irreligious and corrupt above others... because the church and her representatives have set us the worst example\". To Machiavelli, religion was merely a tool, useful for a ruler wishing to manipulate public opinion.\n\nIn the 18th century, Voltaire was a deist and was strongly critical of religious intolerance. Voltaire complained about Jews killed by other Jews for worshiping a golden calf and similar actions, he also condemned how Christians killed other Christians over religious differences and how Christians killed Native Americans for not being baptised. Voltaire claimed the real reason for these killings was that Christians wanted to plunder the wealth of those killed. Voltaire was also critical of Muslim intolerance.\n\nAlso in the 18th century, David Hume criticised teleological arguments for religion. Hume claimed that natural explanations for the order in the universe were reasonable, see design argument. An important aim of Hume's writings was demonstrating the unsoundness of the philosophical basis for religion.\nIn the early 21st century, the New Atheists became focal polemicists in modern criticism of religion. The four authors come from widely different backgrounds and have published books which have been the focus of criticism of religion narratives, with over 100 books and hundreds of scholarly articles commenting on and critiquing the four Horsemen's works. Their books and articles have spawned debate in multiple fields of inquiry and are heavily quoted in popular media (online forums, YouTube, television and popular philosophy). In \"The End of Faith\", philosopher Sam Harris focuses on violence among other toxic qualities of religion. In \"\", philosopher Daniel Dennett focuses on the question of \"why we believe strange things\". In \"The God Delusion\", biologist Richard Dawkins covers almost every facet of religion injecting both snarky irony and humor. In \"God Is Not Great\", journalist and polemicist Christopher Hitchens focused on how religious forces attacks human dignity and the corruption of religious organizations. In the \"Oxford Handbook of Atheism\", according to Thomas Zenc the four books were published during a time of intense debate on political, religious and sociological questions. The works share many common themes yet notably differ in scope, style and content. While according to Zenc the beginnings of a broader narrative (New Atheism) seems to have emerged it does not, stand up to the full definition of a movement.\n\nToday, religion is broadly conceived as an abstraction which entails beliefs, doctrines and sacred places—even though the ancient and medieval cultures that produced religious texts, like the Bible or the Quran, did not have such conceptions or ideas in their languages, cultures, or histories. However, there is still no scholarly consensus over what a religion is.\n\nBefore the 17th century religion was conflated with every day life. Religion as a modern Western concept developed from the 17th century onwards. For example, in Asia, no one before the 19th century self-identified as a \"Hindu\" or other similar identities.\n\nWith the existence of diverse modern categories of religion such as monotheism, polytheism, pantheism, nontheism and diverse specific religions such as Christianity, Judaism, Islam, Taoism, Buddhism and many others, it is not always clear to whom the criticisms are aimed at or to what extent they are applicable to other religions.\n\nSome criticisms of monotheistic religions have been:\n\nDennett and Harris have asserted that theist religions and their scriptures are not divinely inspired, but man made to fulfill social, biological and political needs. Dawkins balances the benefits of religious beliefs (mental solace, community building and promotion of virtuous behavior) against the drawbacks. Such criticisms treat religion as a social construct and thus just another human ideology.\n\nDavid Hume argued that religion developed as a source of comfort in the face of the adversity, not as an honest grappling with verifiable truth. Religion is therefore an unsophisticated form of reasoning.\n\nDaniel Dennett has argued that, with the exception of more modern religions such as Raëlism, Mormonism, Scientology and the Bahá'í Faith, most religions were formulated at a time when the origin of life, the workings of the body, and the nature of the stars and planets were poorly understood. These narratives were intended to give solace and a sense of relationship with larger forces. As such, they may have served several important functions in ancient societies. Examples include the views many religions traditionally had towards solar and lunar eclipses and the appearance of comets (forms of astrology). Given current understanding of the physical world, where human knowledge has increased dramatically, Dawkins and French atheist philosopher Michel Onfray contend that continuing to hold on to these belief systems is irrational and no longer useful.\n\nAccording to Karl Marx, the father of \"scientific socialism\", religion is a tool used by the ruling classes whereby the masses can shortly relieve their suffering via the act of experiencing religious emotions. It is in the interest of the ruling classes to instill in the masses the religious conviction that their current suffering will lead to eventual happiness. Therefore, as long as the public believes in religion, they will not attempt to make any genuine effort to understand and overcome the real source of their suffering, which in Marx's opinion was their capitalist economic system. In this perspective, Marx saw religion as escapism.\n\nMarx also viewed the Christian doctrine of original sin as being deeply anti-social in character. Original sin, he argued, convinces people that the source of their misery lies in the inherent and unchangeable \"sinfulness\" of humanity rather than in the forms of social organization and institutions, which Marx argued can be changed through the application of collective social planning.\n\nIn his 1976 book \"The Selfish Gene\", Richard Dawkins coined the term memes to describe informational units that can be transmitted culturally, analogous to genes. He later used this concept in the essay \"Viruses of the Mind\" to explain the persistence of religious ideas in human culture.\n\nBoth the religious and non religious are critical of Dawkin's meme theory which has mostly been abandoned. John Bowker criticized the idea that \"God\" and \"Faith\" are viruses of the mind, suggesting that Dawkins' \"account of religious motivation [...] is [...] far removed from evidence and data\" that it is unreasonable to extract certain behaviours solely through religious memes. Alister McGrath has responded by arguing that \"memes have no place in serious scientific reflection\", that there is strong evidence that such ideas are not spread by random processes, but by deliberate intentional actions, that \"evolution\" of ideas is more Lamarckian than Darwinian and that there is no evidence (and certainly none in the essay) that epidemiological models usefully explain the spread of religious ideas. McGrath also points out that it is surveys in the United States report a high life satisfaction rate among the religious is not comparable with a virus.\n\nSam Harris compares religion to mental illness, saying it \"allows otherwise normal human beings to reap the fruits of madness and consider them \"holy\"\". According to a retrospective study on Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, and the Apostle Paul, they may have had psychotic disorders that contributed inspiration for their revelations. They conclude that people with such disorders have had a monumental influence on civilization.\n\nPsychological studies into the phenomenon of mysticism link disturbing aspects of certain mystics' experiences to childhood abuse. Clifford A. Pickover found evidence suggesting that temporal lobe epilepsy may be linked to a variety of so-called spiritual or \"other worldly\" experiences, such as spiritual possession, originating from altered electrical activity in the brain. Carl Sagan, in his last book \"The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark\", presented his case for the miraculous sightings of religious figures and modern sightings of UFOs coming from the same mental disorder. Vilayanur S. Ramachandran suggests \"It's possible that many great religious leaders had temporal lobe seizures and this predisposes them to having visions, having mystical experiences\". Michael Persinger stimulated the temporal lobes of the brain artificially with a magnetic field using a device nicknamed the \"God helmet\" and was able to artificially induce religious experiences along with near-death experiences and ghost sightings. According to John Bradshaw \"Some forms of temporal lobe tumours or epilepsy are associated with extreme religiosity.\" In his research recent brain imaging of religious subjects praying or meditating show identical activity in the respective human section of the brain which Ramachandran calls God-spots.\n\nPsilocybin from mushrooms affect regions of the brain includingthe serotonergic system, which generating a sense of strong religious meaning, unity and ecstasy. Certain physical rituals may generate similar feelings.\n\nIn Michael Shermer's book \"Why People Believe Strange Things\" he theorizes on how emerging mankind imposed made-up explanations and bizarre rituals for natural phenomena they didn't and couldn't understand. This is similar to the arguments made by Daniel Dennett in \"\" however Shermer's argument goes further in that the peculiar and at times frightening rituals of religion are but one of many forms of strange customs that survive to this day.\n\nPhilosopher Auguste Comte posited that many societal constructs pass through three stages and that religion corresponds to the two earlier, or more primitive stages by stating: \"From the study of the development of human intelligence, in all directions, and through all times, the discovery arises of a great fundamental law, to which it is necessarily subject, and which has a solid foundation of proof, both in the facts of our organization and in our historical experience. The law is this: that each of our leading conceptions – each branch of our knowledge – passes successively through three different theoretical conditions: the theological, or fictitious; the metaphysical, or abstract; and the scientific, or positive\".\n\nIn his book \"Is Religion Dangerous?\", Keith Ward notes that not all false opinions are delusions and that belief in God is different as many great minds and people who live ordinary lives and believe in God are not irrational people. Hyperreligiosity or even \"intensely professed atheism\" can emerge from emotional disturbances involving temporal lobe epilepsy.\n\nSome have criticized the effects of adherence to dangerous practices such as self-sacrifice.\n\nA detailed study in 1998 found 140 instances of deaths of children due to religion-based medical neglect. Most of these cases involved Christian parents relying on prayer to cure the child's disease and withholding medical care.\n\nJerusalem has loaned its name to a unique psychological phenomenon where Jewish or Christian individuals who develop obsessive religious themed ideas or delusions (sometimes believing themselves to be Jesus Christ or another prophet) will feel compelled to travel to Jerusalem.\n\nDuring a period of 13 years (1980–1993) for which admissions to the Kfar Shaul Mental Health Centre in Jerusalem were analyzed, it was reported that 1,200 tourists with severe, Jerusalem-themed mental problems, were referred to this clinic. Of these, 470 were admitted to hospital. On average, 100 such tourists have been seen annually, 40 of them requiring admission to hospital. About 2 million tourists visit Jerusalem each year. Kalian and Witztum note that as a proportion of the total numbers of tourists visiting the city, this is not significantly different from any other city. The statements of these claims has however been disputed, with the arguments that experiencers of the Jerusalem syndrome already were mentally ill.\n\nHonor killings once well known in the Western are now extremely rare however they still occur in other parts of the world. An honor is when a person is killed by family for bringing dishonor or shame upon the family.\n\nStoning is a form of capital punishment whereby a group throws stones at a person until death ensues. As of September 2010, stoning is a punishment that is included in the laws in some countries including Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Yemen, the United Arab Emirates, and some states in Nigeria as punishment for zina al-mohsena (\"adultery of married persons\"). While stoning may not be codified in the laws of Afghanistan and Somalia, both countries have seen several incidents of stoning to death.\n\nUntil the early 2000s, stoning was a legal form of capital punishment in Iran. In 2002, the Iranian judiciary officially placed a moratorium on stoning. In 2005, judiciary spokesman Jamal Karimirad stated that \"in the Islamic republic, we do not see such punishments being carried out\", further adding that if stoning sentences were passed by lower courts, they were overruled by higher courts and \"no such verdicts have been carried out\". In 2008, the judiciary decided to fully scrap the punishment from the books in legislation submitted to parliament for approval. In early 2013, Iranian parliament published official report about excluding stoning from penal code and it accused Western media for spreading \"noisy propaganda\" about the case.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, female genital mutilation has no health benefits and is a violation of basic human rights. Though no first tier religious texts prescribe the practice, some practitioners do believe there is religious support for it. While it is mostly found in Muslim countries it is also practiced by some Christian and Animist countries mostly in Africa. GFA is not widely practiced in some Muslim countries making it difficult to separate religion from culture. Some religious leaders promote it, some consider it irrelevant to religion, and others contribute to its elimination\". The practice is illegal in all Western countries and it is also illegal to transport a girl to another country to carry out FGM. Multiple parents have been charged for committing this crime in the United Kingdom with those charged being exclusively from Muslim countries.\n\nMale circumcision is a cost effective way for disease prevention and helps reduce medical costs overall. The health benefits of male circumcision exceed the health risks by at least 100 to 1 and there are no long-term adverse effect in terms of sexual function or pleasure. As such, some have argued that failure to circumcise a baby boy may be unethical because it diminishes his right to good health.\n\nA metareview of 850 research papers on Religion in the United States concluded that \"the majority of well-conducted studies found that higher levels of religious involvement are positively associated with indicators of psychological well-being (life satisfaction, happiness, positive affect and higher morale and with lower rates of depression, suicidal thoughts and behavior and drug/alcohol use/abuse\". In addition, various surveys done by major opinion poll organizations in the United States including Gallup, a review of 200 papers, a meta analysis of 35 surveys another review of 498 papers and the handbook of religion. Surveys suggest a strong link between faith and altruism. and a meta analysis of 34 recent studies showing that membership of religious groups in the United States was positively correlated with membership of voluntary organizations, higher level of commitment, better self-esteem, are twice as likely to have a more satisfying sex life and lower risk of suicide, higher levels self-esteem, self-actualization and life satisfaction.\n\nA cross-national investigation on subjective well-being has noted that, globally, religious people are usually happier than nonreligious people, though nonreligious people also reach high levels of happiness.\n\nIt should be noted almost all of these studies were conducted within the United States and deal with subjectively reported life happiness. There is no significant correlation between religiosity and individual happiness in Denmark and the Netherlands, countries that have lower rates of religion, lower discrimination against atheists and where both the religious and non-religious are normative. The 2013 World Happiness Report mentions that once crude factors are taken into account, there are no differences in life satisfaction between religious and less religious countries.\n\nDespite honor killings occurring in multiple cultures and religions Islam is frequently blamed for their institution and persistence. Professor Tahira Shaid Khan notes that there is nothing in the Qur'an that permits or sanctions honor killings. attributes it to broader attitudes that view women as property with no rights as the explanation for honor killings. Khan also argues that this view results in violence against women and their being turned \"into a commodity which can be exchanged, bought and sold\".\n\nSome aspects of religion are criticized on the basis that they damage society as a whole. Steven Weinberg, for example, states it takes religion to make good people do evil. Bertrand Russell and Richard Dawkins cite religiously inspired or justified violence, resistance to social change, attacks on science, repression of women and homophobia.\n\nHartung has claimed that major religious moral codes can lead to \"us vs. them\" group solidarity and mentality which can dehumanise or demonise individuals outside their group as \"not fully human\", or less worthy. Results can vary from mild discrimination to outright genocide. A poll by \"The Guardian\" noted that 82% of the British people believe that religion is socially divisive and that this effect is harmful despite the observation that non-believers outnumber believers 2 to 1.\n\nAccording to one study, membership of a religious group can accentuate biases in behavior toward in group versus out group members, which may explain the lower number of interracial friends and greater approval of torture among church members.\n\nWhile terrorism is a complex subject it is argued that terrorists are partially reassured by their religious views of God's support and reward for their actions.\n\nThese conflicts are among the most difficult to resolve, particularly where both sides believe that God is on their side and has endorsed the moral righteousness of their claims. One of the most infamous quotes associated with religious fanaticism was made in 1209 during the siege of Béziers, a Crusader asked the Papal Legate Arnaud Amalric how to tell Catholics from Cathars when the city was taken, to which Amalric replied:\"Tuez-les tous; Dieu reconnaitra les siens\", or \"Kill them all; God will recognize his own\".\n\nTheoretical physicist Michio Kaku considers religious terrorism as one of the main threats in humanity's evolution from a Type 0 to Type 1 civilization.\n\nJohn William Draper and Andrew Dickson White, authors of the conflict thesis, have argued that when a religion offers a complete set of answers to the problems of purpose, morality, origins, or science, it often discourages exploration of those areas by suppressing curiosity, denies its followers a broader perspective and can prevent social, moral and scientific progress. Examples cited in their writings include the trial of Galileo and Giordano Bruno's execution.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the conflict thesis developed. According to this model, any interaction between religion and science must inevitably lead to open hostility, with religion usually taking the part of the aggressor against new scientific ideas. The historical conflict thesis was a popular historiographical approach in the history of science during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but its original form is almost entirely discarded by scholars today. Despite that, conflict theory remains a popular view among the general public and has been publicized by the success of books such as \"The God Delusion\".\n\nHistorians of science including John Hedley Brooke and Ronald Numbers consider the \"religion vs. science\" concept an oversimplification, and prefer to take a more nuanced view of the subject. These historians cite, for example, the Galileo affair and the Scopes trial; and assert that these were not purely instances of conflict between science and religion as personal and political factors also weighed heavily in the development of each. In addition, some historians contend that religious organizations figure prominently in the broader histories of many sciences, with many of the scientific minds until the professionalization of scientific enterprise (in the 19th century) being clergy and other religious thinkers. Some historians contend that many scientific developments such as Kepler's laws and the 19th century reformulation of physics in terms of energy were explicitly driven by religious ideas.\n\nRecent examples of tensions have been the creation-evolution controversy, controversies over the use of birth control, opposition to research into embryonic stem cells, or theological objections to vaccination, anesthesia and blood transfusion.\n\nSome studies show some positive links in the relationship between religiosity and moral behavior and altruism. Some studies have shown similar correlations between religiosity and giving.\n\nSome argue that religious violence confuses religious moral rules and behaviour with non-religious factors. This includes the claim that events like terrorist bombings are more politically motivated than religious. Mark Juergensmeyer argues that religion \"does not ordinarily lead to violence. That happens only with the coalescence of a peculiar set of circumstances—political, social, and ideological—when religion becomes fused with violent expressions of social aspirations, personal pride, and movements for political change\". and that it is unreasonable to attempt to differentiate \"religious violence\" and \"secular violence\" as separate categories. While others assert religion is not inherently violent and while the two are compatible they are not essential and that religious violence can be compared with non-religious violence.\n\nC. S. Lewis suggests that all religions by definition involve faith, or a belief in concepts that cannot be proven or disproven by the sciences. Not all religious people subscribe to the idea that religion and science are mutually exclusive (non-overlapping magisteria) as do some atheists including Stephen Jay Gould . Biologist Richard Dawkins has said that religious practitioners often do not believe in the view of non-overlapping magisteria.\n\nAccording to a survey most religious groups in the United States have no general epistemological conflict with science or with the seeking out of scientific knowledge even if there are epistemic or moral conflicts with their faith. Strict creationists tend to have very favorable views on many of the different sciences. A study on a national sample of United States college students found that the majority of undergraduates in both the natural and social sciences do not see conflict between science and religion. Cross-national studies polled from 1981–2001 on views of science and religion have noted that countries with higher religiosity have stronger trust in science.\n\nRichard Dawkins contends that theistic religions devalue human compassion and morality. In his view, the Bible contains many injunctions against following one's conscience over scripture and positive actions are supposed to originate not from compassion, but from the fear of punishment. Albert Einstein stated that no religious basis is needed in order to display ethical behavior.\n\nSurvey research suggests that believers do tend to hold different views than non-believers on a variety of social, ethical and moral questions. According to a 2003 survey conducted in the United States by The Barna Group, those who described themselves as believers were less likely than those describing themselves as atheists or agnostics to consider the following behaviors morally acceptable: cohabitating with someone of the opposite sex outside of marriage, enjoying sexual fantasies, having an abortion, sexual relationships outside of marriage, gambling, consuming marijuana, looking at pictures of nudity or explicit sexual behavior, getting drunk and \"having a sexual relationship with someone of the same sex\".\n\nIn the 19th century, philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer argued that teaching some ideas to children at a young age could foster resistance to doubting those ideas later on.\n\nIslam has permitted the child marriage of older men to girls as young as 9 years of age. Baptist pastor Jerry Vines denounced Mohammed as a pedophile for marying and having had sex with a nine-year-old, referring to Muhammad as a \"demon-possessed paedophile\".\n\nFor example, one organisation cites the case of a 10-year-old girl who was forced to marry and was raped in Yemen (Nujood Ali), a 13-year-old Yemeni girl dying of internal bleeding three days after marriage and a 12-year-old girl dying in childbirth after marriage. Yemen currently does not have a minimum age for marriage.\n\nLatter Day Saint church founder Joseph Smith married girls as young as 13 and 14 and other Latter Day Saints married girls as young as 10. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints eliminated underaged marriages in the 19th century, but several branches of Mormonism continue the practice.\n\nHomosexuality is unambiguously condemned in Abrahamic religions where prohibition and execution of those who engage in male homosexual activity are found in the Old testament of the bible and in the Koran. Homosexuals are also condemned in the New Testament several times but without obligatory punishment. In the United States, conservative Christian right groups such as the Christian Legal Society and the Alliance Defense Fund have filed numerous lawsuits against public universities, aimed at overturning policies that protect homosexuals from discrimination and hate speech. These groups argue that such policies infringe their right to freely exercise religion as guaranteed by the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.\n\nMost secularised Christian countries have legalised homosexual activity and several have legalised same-sex marriage. However, not all historically Christian countries have done so such as Russia and Uganda which have introduces discriminatory laws ranging from anti-propaganda laws to corporal punishment. Homosexuality is still illegal in most Muslim countries and several of these countries impose the death penalty for homosexual behavior. In July 2005, two Iranian men aged sixteen and eighteen were, supposedly, hanged for homosexuality, causing an international outcry.\nThey were executed after being convicted by the court of having raped a 13-year-old boy. The case attracted international media attention. The British lesbian, gay and bisexual group OutRage!, alleged that the teenagers were executed for consensual homosexual acts and not rape.\n\nIn line with other findings suggesting that religious humanitarianism is largely directed at in-group members, greater religious identification, greater extrinsic religiosity and greater religious fundamentalism were associated with racial prejudice. This is congruent with the fact that 50% of religious congregations in the US are racially segregated, and only 12% have a degree of diversity.\n\nReligion has been used by some as justification for advocating racism. The Christian Identity movement has been associated with racism. However, there are arguments that these positions may be as much reflections of contemporary social views as of what has been called scientific racism.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints had excluded African Americans from the priesthood from 1860 to 1978. Most fundamentalist Mormon sects within the Latter Day Saint movement, rejected the Church's 1978 decision to allow African Americans to hold the priesthood and continue to deny activity in the church due to race. Due to these beliefs, in its Spring 2005 \"Intelligence Report\" the Southern Poverty Law Center added the Church to its \"hate group\" listing because of the church's teachings on race, which include a strong condemnation of interracial relationships.\n\nThe content of the holy books of Abrahamic religions contain severe restrictions on the rights of women ranging from prohibiting women from certain behaviour and activities to requiring women to submit to the will of their father and or husband.\n\nAccording to Polly Toynbee, religion interferes with bodily autonomy for both genders and fosters particularly negative attitudes towards women's bodies. Toynbee writes: \"Women's bodies are always the issue - too unclean to be bishops, and dangerous enough to be covered up by Islam and mikvahed by Judaism\".\n\nIt is argued that religious sexual discrimination leads to unequal relations in marriage, creating norms which subordinate the wife to the husband. The word (\"ba`al\"), Hebrew for \"husband\", used throughout the Bible, is synonymous with \"owner\" and \"master\". This mirrors the abrahamic view of God as an omnipotent, perfect power, where this power is one of domination, which is persistently associated with the characteristics of ideal masculinity. Sheila Jeffreys argues: \"Religion gives authority to traditional, patriarchal beliefs about the essentially subordinate nature of women and their naturally separate roles, such as the need for women to be confined to the private world of the home and family, that women should be obedient to their husbands, that women's sexuality should be modest and under the control of their menfolk, and that women should not use contraception or abortion to limit their childbearing. The practice of such ancient beliefs interferes profoundly with women's abilities to exercise their human rights\".\n\nFeminist Julie Bindel argues that religions encourage the domination of men over women and that Islam promotes the submission of women to their husbands and encourages practices such as child marriage. She wrote that religion \"promotes inequality between men and women\", that Islam's message for a woman includes that \"she will be subservient to her husband and devote her life to pleasing him\" and that \"Islam's obsession with virginity and childbirth has led to gender segregation and early marriage.\n\nIslamic laws have been criticized by human rights organizations for exposing women to mistreatment and violence, preventing women from reporting rape and contributing to the discrimination of women. The United Nations say that Islam is used to justify unnecessary and harmful female genital mutilation, when the purposes range from deprivation of sexual satisfaction to discourage adultery, insuring virginity to their husbands, or generating appearance of virginity. Maryam Namazie argues that women are victimized under Sharia law, both in criminal matters (such as punishment for improper veiling) and in civil matters; and also that women have judicial hurdles that are lenient or advantageous for men.\n\nAccording to Phyllis Chesler, Islam is connected to violence against women, especially in the form of honor killings. She rejects the argument that honor killings are not related to Islam and claims that while fundamentalists of all religions place restrictions on women, in Islam not only are these restrictions harsher, but Islam also reacts more violently when these rules are broken.\n\nChristianity has been criticized for painting women as sinful, untrustful, deceiving and desiring to seduce and incite men into sexual sin. Katharine M. Rogers argues that Christianity is misogynistic and that the \"dread of female seduction\" can be found in St. Paul's epistles. K. K. Ruthven argues that the \"legacy of Christian misogyny was consolidated by the so-called 'Fathers' of the Church, like Tertullian, who thought a woman was not only 'the gateway of the devil' but also 'a temple built over a sewer'\". Jack Holland argues the concept of fall of man is misogynistic as \"a myth that blames woman for the ills and sufferings of mankind\".\n\nChristian religious figures have been involved in the Middle Ages and early modern period witch trials, which were generally used to punish assertive or independent women such as midwives since witchcraft was often not in evidence, or activists.\n\nKosher slaughter has historically attracted criticism from non-Jews as allegedly being inhumane and unsanitary, in part as an antisemitic canard that eating ritually slaughtered meat caused degeneration and in part out of economic motivation to remove Jews from the meat industry. Sometimes these criticisms were directed at Judaism as a religion. In 1893, animal advocates campaigning against kosher slaughter in Aberdeen attempted to link cruelty with Jewish religious practice. In the 1920s, Polish critics of kosher slaughter claimed that the practice actually had no basis in Scripture. In contrast, Jewish authorities argue that the slaughter methods are based directly upon Genesis IX:3 and that \"these laws are binding on Jews today\".\n\nWhile supporters of kosher slaughter counter that Judaism requires the practice precisely because it is considered humane, Research conducted by Temple Grandin and Joe M. Regenstein in 1994 concluded that—practiced correctly with proper restraint systems—kosher slaughter results in little pain and suffering and notes that behavioral reactions to the incision made during kosher slaughter are less than those to noises such as clanging or hissing, inversion or pressure during restraint. those who practice and subscribe religiously and philosophically to Jewish vegetarianism disagree, stating that such slaughter is not required while a number, including medieval scholars of Judaism such as Joseph Albo and Isaac Arama, regard vegetarianism as a moral ideal, not just out of a concern for animal welfare, but also the slaughterer.\n\nOther forms of ritual slaughter, such as Islamic ritual slaughter, have also come under controversy. Writing for PETA, Logan Scherer said that animals sacrificed according to Islamic law can not be stunned before they are killed. Muslims are only allowed to eat meat that has been killed according to Sharia law and they say that Islamic law on ritual slaughter is designed to reduce the pain and distress that the animal suffers.\n\nAccording to the Farm Animal Welfare Committee, halal and kosher practices should be banned because when animals are not stunned before death, they suffer needless pain for up to 2 minutes despite some Muslims and Jews arguing that loss of blood from slash to the throat renders the animals unconscious relatively quickly.\n\nNot all religions are hostile to homosexuality. Both Reform Judaism and the Unitarian Universalist Association have advocated for equal rights for gay and lesbian people since the 1970s. Hinduism does not view homosexuality as an issue.\n\nMany Christians have made efforts toward establishing racial equality, contributing to the civil rights movement. \"The African American Review\" sees as important the role Christian revivalism in the black church played in the civil rights movement. Martin Luther King Jr., an ordained Baptist minister, was a leader of the American civil rights movement and president of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, a Christian civil rights organization.\n\nThe term \"dominionism\" is often used to describe a political movement among fundamentalist Christians. Critics view dominionism as an attempt to improperly impose Christianity as the national faith of the United States. It emerged in the late 1980s inspired by the book, film and lecture series \"Whatever Happened to the Human Race?\" by Francis A. Schaeffer and C. Everett Koop. Schaeffer's views influenced conservatives like Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson, Tim LaHaye, John W. Whitehead and although they represent different theological and political ideas, dominionists believe they have a Christian duty to take \"control of a sinful secular society\", either by putting fundamentalist Christians in office, or by introducing biblical law into the secular sphere. Social scientists have used the word \"dominionism\" to refer to adherence to dominion theology as well as to the influence in the broader Christian right of ideas inspired by dominion theology.\n\nIn the early 1990s, sociologist Sara Diamond and journalist Frederick Clarkson defined \"dominionism\" as a movement that while including dominion theology and Christian reconstructionism as subsets, it is much broader in scope, extending to much of the Christian right. Beginning in 2004 with essayist Katherine Yurica, a group of authors including journalist Chris Hedges Marion Maddox, James Rudin, Sam Harris and the group TheocracyWatch, began applying the term to a broader spectrum of people than have sociologists such as Diamond.\n\nThere are few full adherents to reconstructionism are limited to conservative Christians. The terms \"dominionist\" and \"dominionism\" are rarely used for self-description and their usage has been attacked from several quarters noting that the term is vague, unfairly links evangelicals to extremism, is highly exaggerated and are more akin to conservative smeer in the likes of a conspiracy theory. Journalist Anthony Williams charged that its purpose is \"to smear the Republican Party as the party of domestic Theocracy, facts be damned\". Kurtz also complained about a perceived link between average Christian evangelicals and extremism such as Christian reconstructionism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14307365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14307365", "title": "Dini Ya Msambwa", "text": "Dini Ya Msambwa\n\nDini ya Misambwa (Religion of the Ancestor) is an African traditional religion that has been labeled an anti-colonial religion. It is practiced primarily among the Luhya speaking people of Western Kenya.\n\nThe use of religions to fight injustice is not new. Dini ya Misambwa, an African traditional religion, stood against colonialism during the British colonial rule of Kenya. Among other things, it criticized the undermining, by the British colonial government, of elder authority and of the cultural values that had held Kenyan peoples together for ages. \nThe undermining of cultural values was potentially more damaging than even the plunder of resources that's felt within the African continent today. We know that autonomous, purposive actors with the necessary capabilities and instruments often attempt to influence others to operate in an equilibrium in which degree of reciprocity and extent of influence establish the relative distribution of behavioral power within the international system (Ward & House, 1998).\n\nThe old authority of the tribal elders had been undermined with the advent of colonial rule. It was the elders in turn who had lent power to the old tribal religion or African traditional religion and hence it too was also undermined. Left in a spiritual vacuum, many Bukusu and luhya, insecure in the rapidly-changing world, gravitated naturally into Christianity (Reed, 1954). Masinde being an elder did not roll-over and run, he should not have been expected to.\n\nLooking at most African countries, one realizes major damage caused by the undermining of traditional elder leadership and the traditional African traditional religions on the social imaginaries which make Africans who they are, continue to be an issue in every society. It is even more rampant when one thinks of the role religion plays in determining who they are, what they believe and how they should act and react. It’s clear, imported religions have their origin and this origin cannot be disassociated from the belief inherent in the religions. There is a need to free the mind of its conditionings that give priority to religion and may, therefore, serve to exclude other sources of identity derived from collective histories and collective experiences. The illusion into which religion plunges Africans is often the reason for the problems of identity which most African societies struggle with today. An awareness of this illusion and a new understanding of identity as derived from a shared African experience will go a long way in resolving the problem of identity in Africa (Muyingi, 2015). That is why it is important that anyone editing or deleting this post should provide authoritative citation and proof that they are not just trying to rewrite history.\n\nWe know from Max Weber that, the state is a relation of men dominating men, a relationship supported using legitimate (i.e. considered to be legitimate) violence (Schriften, Uni, Gerth, & Mills, 1946). Dini Ya Misambwa was therefore not anti-white but an anti-colonial rule, Reed (1954) reports that colonial rule undermined traditional rulers and the values, assumptions, beliefs, and expectations they stood for leaving a vacuum that Dini ya Msambwa tried to fill.\n\nReed (1954) also reports that the first European to reach Bukusu was Joseph Thomson, who arrived in 1883, he found the Bukusu living in fortified villages surrounded by moats. These were a protection against raids from the Uasin Gishu Masai and the Teso tribe of Uganda. British administration was established in North Nyanza in 1894. The following year the Bukusu killed 25 soldiers of the Sudanese garrison and a punitive expedition was undertaken against them. Their fortified villages were stormed by Sudanese troops and Africans from other tribes, and the fighting ended when the Bukusu acknowledged British rule and promised to abandon their villages. Today they live in scattered homesteads (Reed, 1954).\n\nAlthough he reports ethnocentrically, we can glean from his writing that the country he found was not desperate, and there was no racism, but terms like “progress” implying adoption of “European way” are telling as for why they might have been resentment!\n\nIt was founded by Elijah Masinde in 1936. After Kenyan independence 1968 Dini ya Msambwa was made illegal and Masinde was arrested for fomenting Christian religion hatred.\n“The essence of neo-colonialism is that the State which is subject to it is, in theory, independent and has all the outward trappings of international sovereignty. In reality, its economic system and thus its political policy is directed from outside” - Osagyefo Dr. Kwame Nkrumah (1909–1972). That was the objection that leads to Dini ya Misambwa being banned in post-colonial Kenya not hatred to white people (Bonsu & Ed, 2016). Secondly, a point must be made that\nWestern scholars were the first to write about ATR. Thus they dominated the study of African traditional religions. Their writings were borne out of prejudice or probably out of the impatience of the researchers to look at the universal meaning of the terms they used to describe the religious life of African people cited from Asukwo, Adaka & Dimgba, (2013) by (Bonsu & Ed, 2016). African traditional religions (ATR) practices have suffered from various racial and is leading terminologies. These terminologies which include, but not limited to paganism, heathenism, fetishism, savage, ancestral worship, juju and animism have been used widely by Euro-American\nmissionaries and researchers in an attempt to belittle African people and religion (Bonsu & Ed, 2016).\nDini Ya Misambwa is, therefore, an African traditional religion; its followers worshiping in Nyasaye/Were, God is an English word, it has other words in other languages Nyasaye or Were is God in Luhya. Through Ancestral Spirits (Misambwa) in shrines. Just like Abraham, Joseph, Muhamed are ancestors of Christians or Muslims, the people who come before you play a big role in value formation; so it happens in African traditional religions (Bonsu & Ed, 2016)\n\n"}
{"id": "19395812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395812", "title": "Disputationes", "text": "Disputationes\n\nDisputationes (full title: Disputationes de Controversiis Christianae Fidei adversus hujus temporis Haereticos, also referred to as De Controversiis) is a work on dogmatics by Robert Bellarmine. It has been described as \"the definitive defence of papal power\". After its publication, Bellarmine was regarded as Rome's foremost apologist on doctrine and papal power.\n\nIt was written while Bellarmine was lecturing at the Roman College, and was first published at Ingolstadt in three volumes (1581, 1582, 1593) or four. This work was the earliest attempt to systematize the various controversies of the time, and made an immense impression throughout Europe, the strength of its arguments against Protestantism so acutely felt in Germany and England that special chairs were founded in order to provide replies to it. Thomas Hobbes, Theodore Beza and John Rainolds were among those who wrote counter-arguments against the work.\n\nThe first volume treats of the Word of God, of Christ, and of the pope; the second of the authority of ecumenical councils, and of the Church, whether militant, suffering, or triumphant; the third of the sacraments; and the fourth of Divine grace, free will, justification, and good works.\n\nAs much as Protestants disliked Bellarmine's theories, he was in fact moderate in his defence of papal power. In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, or very nearly had, the first volume placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying temporal hegemony to the papacy. Bellarmine's reasoning was that though the pope is the vicar of Christ, since Christ did not \"exercise\" his temporal power, nor may the pope.\n\nThe most important part of the work is contained in the five books regarding the pope. In these, after a speculative introduction on forms of government in general, holding monarchy to be relatively the best, Bellarmine says that a monarchical government and the related temporal power are necessary for the Church, to preserve unity and order in it.\n\nSuch power Bellarmine considers to have been established by the commission of Christ to Saint Peter. He then proceeds to demonstrate that this power has been transmitted to the successors of Peter, admitting that a heretical pope may be freely judged and deposed by the Church since by the very fact of his heresy he would cease to be pope, or even a member of the Church.\n\nThe third section discusses the Antichrist. Bellarmine gives in full the theory set forth by the Church Fathers, of a personal Antichrist to come just before the end of the world and to be accepted by the Jews and enthroned in the Temple in Jerusalem—thus endeavoring to dispose of the Protestant exposition which saw in the pope the Antichrist.\n\nThe fourth section sets forth the pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the pope may err in questions of fact which may be known by ordinary human knowledge, and also when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian. Bellarmine took in particular the example of Pope Honorius I, who had been anathemized by the Third Council of Constantinople as holding to monothelitism. He claimed that although monothelitism had been rightly condemned, Honorius was however orthodox as he had not really held these views, and that papal authority did not extend itself to the factual interpretation of what was to be found in Honorius or not.\n\nThough several books of this work have been translated into English in the past, only recently is it seeing its first complete translation project in full, in an English translation made by Ryan Grant. Several parts of the work have been translated, and the whole project will be resumed to after the translation project of Theologia Moralis by Saint Alphonsus Liguori is completed.\n"}
{"id": "48732817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48732817", "title": "Diurnal offices", "text": "Diurnal offices\n\nIn Anglican and Methodist Christianity, the Diurnal offices (Ecclesiastical Latin: \"horæ diurnæ\") are the canonical hours prayed during the daytime. These offices include Terce, Sext, and None. The diurnal offices stand in contrast to the Major Hours, which include Matins (Morning Prayer), Lauds and Vespers, as well as the Nighttime Hours, which include Compline and Vigil.\n\n"}
{"id": "5194532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194532", "title": "Earthseed", "text": "Earthseed\n\nEarthseed is a religion based on the idea that \"God is Change.\" It is the creation of Octavia E. Butler, as revealed by her character Lauren Oya Olamina in the books: \"Parable of the Sower\" and \"Parable of the Talents\". (A third book of the trilogy, \"Parable of the Trickster\", was not completed before Butler's death.)\n\n\"Parable of the Sower\" is a futuristic, dystopian, science-fiction novel. In its reality, the United States has devolved into states and/or city-states warring for the few remaining resources. Life is cheap, and the economy is becoming reborn as company towns.\n\nThe main character in \"Parable of the Sower\", Lauren Olamina, is the daughter of a Baptist minister who serves their walled-in neighborhood. Because of her mother's addiction to a prescription drug, Olamina suffers from \"hyperempathy\", which causes her to share pain or perceived pain with any living creature she sees. When her community is attacked, burned, and looted, seventeen-year-old Olamina barely escapes with her life. She travels, at great danger, into northern California in search of a haven where she and others can build the first Earthseed community.\n\nThe beliefs of Earthseed are recorded in the fictional book \"Earthseed: The Books of the Living\". Olamina \"writes\" in short, poetic passages. Portions of this text are presented at the beginning of each section, some chapters, and occasionally throughout the text. The philosophy of Earthseed also underlies the motivations of some of the characters in these novels.\n\nThe word \"Earthseed\" comes from the idea that the seeds of all life on Earth can be transplanted, and through adaptation will grow, in many different types of situations or places. \"The Books of the Living\" is chosen in direct contrast to many other religions' use of the phrase \"The Books of the Dead\". Earthseed is a religion of the present and the future, of the living, not of the dead or the past.\n\nAlthough Olamina is raised as a Baptist, she does not feel comfortable with \"her father's God.\" Instead, she develops ideas that seem to better fit the reality she knows.\n\nBecause \"God is Change\", humans are able to direct God's malleability. Believers are enjoined to \"shape God\". By shaping themselves, they can save themselves. Believers are to accept the central tenet that \"God is Change\" primarily so that they will recognize their own power to affect and direct Change/God. Only by conscious effort can they avoid being God's victims.\n\nEarthseed also promotes the belief that \"The Destiny of Earthseed / Is to take root among the stars\" (\"The Parable of the Sower\", Octavia E. Butler). The Destiny is necessary because, eventually, we will outgrow Earth (i.e., use up its natural resources).\n\nThe central verse of Earthseed is given in the following:\n\nThe central paradox of Earthseed is:\n\nWhile the religion began as fiction, it has inspired several real-world movements.\n\nThe Terasem Movement seeks the development of humanity through technology, and to bridge the gap between science and religion. \"Terasem\" comes from the Latin \"Terra\" ('earth') and \"sēmen\" ('seed'). Like the fictional Earthseed, Terasem Movement attempts to \"shape God\", but through technology.\n\nThere is also a humanistic pagan website called Earthseed, and a social movement named SolSeed.\n\n"}
{"id": "17796289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17796289", "title": "Equanimity", "text": "Equanimity\n\nEquanimity (Latin: \"æquanimitas\", having an even mind; \"aequus\" even; \"animus\" mind/soul) is a state of psychological stability and composure which is undisturbed by experience of or exposure to emotions, pain, or other phenomena that may cause others to lose the balance of their mind. The virtue and value of equanimity is extolled and advocated by a number of major religions and ancient philosophies.\nFrom Fr. \"équanimité\", from L. \"aequanimitatem\" (nom. \"aequanimitas\") \"evenness of mind, calmness,\" from \"aequus\" \"even, level\" (see equal) + \"animus\" \"mind, spirit\" (see animus). Meaning \"evenness of temper\" in English is from 1610s.\n\nIn Hinduism the term for equanimity is समत्व \"samatvam\" (also rendered \"samatva\" or \"samata\"). \n\nIn Chapter Two, Verse 48 of the \"Bhagavad Gita\" one reads: \"yoga-sthaḥ kuru karmāṇi saṅgaṁ tyaktvā dhanañ-jaya siddhy-asiddhyoḥ samo bhūtvā samatvaṁ yoga ucyate\". Srila Prabhupada translates this as: Perform your duty equipoised, O Arjuna, abandoning all attachment to success or failure. Such equanimity is called yoga.\nIn his book \"Samatvam - The Yoga of Equanimity\", Swami Sivananda states: \n\n\"An aspirant who treads the path to \"samatvam\" must make every effort to acquire the following essential qualities: \"Viveka\", discrimination; \"vairagya\", dispassion; \"shadsampat\", the six virtues (\"shama\", mental calmness and control; \"dama\", restraint of the senses; \"uparati\", sense withdrawal or \"pratyahara\"; \"titiksha\", endurance; \"shraddha\", faith and \"samadhana\", mental balance); and an intense desire for liberation, \"mumukshutva\". In order to possess the virtue of \"Samatvam\", he will also need to dedicate himself to steadying the mind every moment of his yoga career...\"\n\nAnother Sanskrit term for equanimity is \"upekṣhā\". This is the term used by Patanjali in his \"Yoga Sutras\" (1.33), Here \"upekṣhā\" is considered to be one of the four sublime attitudes, along with loving-kindness (\"maitri\"), compassion (\"karuṇā\"), and joy (\"mudita\"). It is related to the idea of Vairagya or \"dispassion\". The Upeksha Yoga school foregrounds equanimity as the most important tenet of a yoga practice.\n\nIn many Yoga traditions, the virtue of equanimity can be one of the results attained through regular meditation, combined with regular practice of pranayama, asanas and mental disciplines, which clear the mind and bring one inexorably toward a state of health and balance.\n\nEquanimity is a central concept in Stoic ethics and psychology. The Greek stoics use the word \"apatheia\" or \"ataraxia\" whereas the Roman stoics used the Latin word \"aequanimitas\". The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's \"Meditations\" detail a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration. His adoptive father Antoninus Pius's last word was uttered when the tribune of the night-watch came to ask him for the night's password — Pius decided upon \"aequanimitas\" (equanimity). \n\nIn Pyrrhonism the term used for equanimity is \"ataraxia\", which means to be unperturbed. Ataraxia the goal of Pyrrhonist practice. \n\nIn Buddhism, equanimity (\"upekkhā\", \"upekṣhā\") is one of the four sublime attitudes and is considered:\n\nEquanimity can also be cultivated through meditation\n\nMany Jewish thinkers highlight the importance of equanimity (Menuhat ha-Nefesh or Yishuv ha-Da'at) as a necessary foundation for moral and spiritual development. The virtue of equanimity receives particular attention in the writings of rabbis such as Rabbi Yisroel Bal Shem Tov and Rabbi Simcha Zissel Ziv.\n\nSamuel Johnson defined equanimity as \"evenness of mind, neither elated nor depressed.\" In Christian philosophy, equanimity is considered essential for carrying out the theological virtues of gentleness, contentment, temperance, and charity.\n\nThe word “Islam” is derived from the Arabic word \"aslama\", which denotes the peace that comes from total surrender and acceptance. A Muslim may experientially behold that everything happening is meant to be, and stems from the ultimate wisdom of God; hence, being a Muslim can therefore be understood to mean that one is in a state of equanimity.\n\nThe voluminous Writings of the Baha'i Faith are filled with thousands of references to divine attributes, of which equanimity is one. Similar in intent and more frequently used than \"equanimity\" in the Baha'i Writings are \"detachment\" and \"selflessness\" which dispose human beings to free themselves from inordinate reactions to the changes and chances of the world. Humanity is called upon to show complete and sublime detachment from aught else but God, from all that is in the heavens and all that is on earth, from the material world and from the promptings of their own interests and passions. Related concepts include faith, the concept of growing through suffering and being tested, fortitude under trials, dignity, patience, prudence, moderation, freedom from material things, radiant acquiescence, wisdom and evanescence. Baha'u'llah, the Central Personage of the Baha'i Faith, wrote: \"Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the radiance of the living God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the place of detachment from self, that the anthems of eternity may be upraised. Do all ye can to become wholly weary of self, and bind yourselves to that Countenance of Splendours; and once ye have reached such heights of servitude, ye will find, gathered within your shadow, all created things. This is boundless grace; this is the highest sovereignty; this is the life that dieth not. All else save this is at the last but manifest perdition and great loss.\"\n\nThe highly revered Son of Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha, was an exile and prisoner along with His Father, for more than forty years facing a torrent of various hardships. It is written about him: \"So imperturbable was ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s equanimity that, while rumors were being bruited about that He might be cast into the sea, or exiled to Fizán in Tripolitania, or hanged on the gallows, He, to the amazement of His friends and the amusement of His enemies, was to be seen planting trees and vines in the garden of His house, whose fruits when the storm had blown over, He would bid His faithful gardener, Ismá’íl Áqá, pluck and present to those same friends and enemies on the occasion of their visits to Him.\" When in London He was asked about His time in prison and said: \"Freedom is not a matter of place. It is a condition. I was thankful for the prison, and the lack of liberty was very pleasing to me, for those days were passed in the path of service, under the utmost difficulties and trials, bearing fruits and results...Unless one accepts dire vicissitudes, he will not attain...When one is released from the prison of self, that is indeed release, for that is the greater prison...The afflictions which come to humanity sometimes tend to centre the consciousness upon the limitations, and this is a veritable prison. Release comes by making of the will a Door through which the confirmations of the Spirit come.\" Asked about this He said: The confirmations of the Spirit are all those powers and gifts which some are born with (and which men sometimes call genius), but for which others have to strive with infinite pains. They come to that man or woman who accepts his life with radiant acquiescence. Radiant acquiescence—that was the quality with which we all suddenly seemed inspired as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá bade us good-bye.\"\n\nThe following quote by 'Abdu'l-Baha offers a perspective aimed at cultivating equanimity. He wrote: \"Grieve thou not over the troubles and hardships of this nether world, nor be thou glad in times of ease and comfort, for both shall pass away. This present life is even as a swelling wave, or a mirage, or drifting shadows. Could ever a distorted image on the desert serve as refreshing waters? No, by the Lord of Lords! Never can reality and the mere semblance of reality be one, and wide is the difference between fancy and fact, between truth and the phantom thereof. Know thou that the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing more; it is but images reflected in water, and seeming as pictures to the eye. Rely upon God. Trust in Him. Praise Him, and call Him continually to mind. He verily turneth trouble into ease, and sorrow into solace, and toil into utter peace. He verily hath dominion over all things. If thou wouldst hearken to my words, release thyself from the fetters of whatsoever cometh to pass. Nay rather, under all conditions thank thou thy loving Lord, and yield up thine affairs unto His Will that worketh as He pleaseth. This verily is better for thee than all else, in either world.\" \n"}
{"id": "312809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312809", "title": "Ethics in religion", "text": "Ethics in religion\n\nEthics involves systematizing, defending, and recommending concepts of right and wrong behavior. A central aspect of ethics is \"the good life\", the life worth living or life that is simply satisfying, which is held by many philosophers to be more important than traditional moral conduct.\n\nMost religions have an ethical component, often derived from purported supernatural revelation or guidance. Some assert that religion is necessary to live ethically. Blackburn states that there are those who \"would say that we can only flourish under the umbrella of a strong social order, cemented by common adherence to a particular religious tradition\".\n\nEthics in Buddhism are traditionally based on the enlightened perspective of the Buddha, or other enlightened beings who followed him. Moral instructions are included in Buddhist scriptures or handed down through tradition. Most scholars of Buddhist ethics thus rely on the examination of Buddhist scriptures, and the use of anthropological evidence from traditional Buddhist societies, to justify claims about the nature of Buddhist ethics.\n\nAccording to traditional Buddhism, the foundation of Buddhist ethics for laypeople is the Pancasila: no killing, stealing, lying, sexual misconduct, or intoxicants. In becoming a Buddhist, or affirming one's commitment to Buddhism, a layperson is encouraged to vow to abstain from these negative actions. Buddhist monks and nuns take hundreds more such vows (see vinaya).\n\nThe sole reliance on traditional formulae or practices, however, can be questioned by Western Buddhists whose main concern is the practical solution of complex moral problems in the modern world. To find a justifiable approach to such problems it may be necessary not just to appeal to the precepts or the \"vinaya\", but to use more basic Buddhist teachings (such as the Middle Way) to aid interpretation of the precepts and find more basic justifications for their usefulness relevant to all human experience. This approach avoids basing Buddhist ethics solely on faith in the Buddha's enlightenment or Buddhist tradition, and may allow more universal non-Buddhist access to the insights offered by Buddhist ethics.\n\nThe Buddha provided some basic guidelines for acceptable behavior that are part of the Noble Eightfold Path. The initial percept is non-injury or non-violence to all living creatures from the lowest insect to humans. This precept defines a non-violent attitude toward every living thing. The Buddhist practice of this does not extend to the extremes exhibited by Jainism, but from both the Buddhist and Jain perspectives, non-violence suggests an intimate involvement with, and relationship to, all living things.\n\nTheravada monk Bhikkhu Bodhi has observed:\n\nChristian ethics in general has tended to stress the need for love, grace, mercy, and forgiveness because of sin. With divine assistance, the Christian is called to become increasingly virtuous in both thought and deed, see also the Evangelical counsels. Conversely, the Christian is also called to abstain from vice.\n\nChristian ethical principles are based on the teachings within the Bible. They begin with the notion of inherent sinfulness, which requires essential atonement. Sin is estrangement from God which is the result of not doing God's will. God's will can be summed up by the precept: \"Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself\", commonly called the Great Commandment. Christian ethics are founded upon the concept of grace which transforms a person's life and enable's one to choose and act righteously. As sin is both individual and social, so is grace applied to both the individual and society. Christian ethics has a teleological aspect—all ethical behavior is oriented towards a vision of the Kingdom of God—a righteous society where all live in peace and harmony with God and nature, as envisioned in the Book of Isaiah. Specific ethical behaviors originate in the Old Testament’s Ten Commandments, and are enriched by teachings in the Psalms and morals contained in historical accounts, see also Biblical law in Christianity.\n\nChristian ethics is not substantially different from Jewish ethics, except in the exhortation to love one's enemy. Perhaps the greatest contribution of Christian ethics is this command to love one's enemies. It has been argued (see Ched Myers's \"Binding the Strong Man\", and John Howard Yoder's \"The Politics of Jesus\") that Jesus was waging a non-violent campaign against the Roman oppressors and many of his sayings relate to this campaign--turn the other cheek, go the second mile, etc. Understanding these commands as part of a larger campaign makes it impossible to interpret Christian ethics as an individual ethic. It is both an individual and a social ethic concerned with life here on earth.\n\nOther tenets include maintaining personal integrity and the absence of hypocrisy, as well as honesty and loyalty, mercy and forgiveness, rejection of materialism and the desire for wealth and power, and teaching others in your life through personal joy, happiness and Godly devotion.\n\nThere are several different schema of vice and virtue. Aquinas adopted the four cardinal virtues of Aristotle (justice, courage, temperance and prudence), and added to them the Christian virtues of faith, hope and charity (from St.Paul, ). Other schema include the Seven Deadly Sins and the Seven virtues. For more see Christian philosophy and Biblical law in Christianity.\n\nConfucianism and Neo-Confucianism emphasize the maintenance and propriety of relationships as the most important consideration in ethics. To be ethical is to do what one's relationships require. Notably, though, what you owe to another person is inversely proportional to their distance from you. In other words, you owe your parents everything, but you are not in any way obligated towards strangers. This can be seen as a recognition of the fact that it is impossible to love the entire world equally and simultaneously. This is called relational ethics, or situational ethics. The Confucian system differs very strongly from Kantian ethics in that there are rarely laws or principles which can be said to be true absolutely or universally.\n\nThis is not to say that there has never been any consideration given to universalist ethics. In fact, in Zhou Dynasty China, the Confucians' main opponents, the followers of Mozi argued for universal love (). The Confucian view eventually held sway, however, and continues to dominate many aspects of Chinese thought. Many have argued, for example, that Mao Zedong was more Confucian than Communist.\nConfucianism, especially of the type argued for by Mencius (), argued that the ideal ruler is the one who (as Confucius put it) \"acts like the North Star, staying in place while the other stars orbit around it\". In other words, the ideal ruler does not go out and force the people to become good, but instead leads by example. The ideal ruler fosters harmony rather than laws.\n\nConfucius stresses honesty above all. His concepts of lĭ (), yì (), and rén () can be seen as deeper expressions of honesty () and fidelity () to the ones to whom one owes one's existence (parents) and survival (one's neighbours, colleagues, inferiors in rank). He codified traditional practice and actually changed the meaning of the prior concepts that those words had meant. His model of the Confucian family and Confucian ruler dominated Chinese life into the early 20th century. This had ossified by then into an Imperial hierarchy of rigid property rights, hard to distinguish from any other dictatorship. Traditional ethics had been perverted by legalism.\n\nBuddhism, and specifically Mahayana Buddhism, brought a cohesive metaphysic to Chinese thought and a strong emphasis on universalism. Neo-Confucianism was largely a reaction to Buddhism's dominance in the Tang dynasty, and an attempt at developing a native Confucian metaphysical/analytical system.\n\nLaozi (Lao Tzu) and other Taoist (Daoist) authors argued for an even greater passivity on the part of rulers than did the Confucians. For Laozi, (Lao Tzu) the ideal ruler is one who does virtually nothing that can be directly identified as ruling. Clearly, both Daoism and Confucianism presume that human nature is basically good. The main branch of Confucianism, however, argues that human nature must be nurtured through ritual (\"li\" 禮), culture (\"wen\" 文) and other things, while the Daoists (Taoists) argued that the trappings of society were to be gotten rid of.\n\nTaoist ethics ask for a greater \"sense of being\" and less identification with \"the act of\" \"doing\". Taoist \"passivity\" nurtures, cultivates and prepares an atmosphere that allows \"the majestic\" and \"the real\" to shine, which influences society for the better. - \"If you want to awaken all of humanity, then awaken all of yourself; if you want to eliminate the suffering in the world, then eliminate all that is dark and negative in yourself. Truly, the greatest gift you have to give is that of your own self-transformation.\" - Lao Tzu\n\nEthics is called Nitisastra (Sanskrit: नीतिशास्त्र) in ancient texts of Hinduism. Ethics and virtue are a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. Virtue, right conduct, ethics and morality are part of the complex concept Hindus call Dharma - everything that is essential for people, the world and nature to exist and prosper together, in harmony. As P.V. Kane, the author of the History of Dharmasastra said, the term \"Dharma\" does not have a synonym in English language. While it is often interpreted as meaning \"duty\", it can mean justice, right, moral, good, and much more.\n\nEthics are explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nEthics that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Ethical subjects and questions are debated by various schools of Hinduism, quite extensively, in numerous texts on what is right conduct, when, how and why. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Persian historian Al Biruni who visited and lived in India for 16 years in the early 11th century, describes the concept of ethics and virtuous behavior among Hindus of his times. Of ethical mandates among Hindus, a literal translation of his Persian language manuscript includes (1) A man shall not kill; (2) nor lie; (3) nor steal; (4) nor whore; (5) nor hoard up treasures. These correspond to five \"Yamas\" of ancient Hindu ethics: Ahimsa (non-violence), Satya (truth, non-falsehood), Asteya (non-stealing), Brahmacharya (celibacy if unmarried and non-cheating on one's partner if married), and Aparigraha (non-possessiveness). In addition to these five negative things to abstain from, Hindu ethics also recommends five positive things to strive for as \"Niyamas\": \"Śauca\" (purity in body, speech and mind), \"Santosha\" (contentment, acceptance of circumstances with optimism), \"Tapas\" (perseverance, meditation, austerity), \"Swadhyaya\" (lifelong learning) and \"Pranidhan\" (right attitude, contemplation). An ethical life in Hinduism is essential for a liberated life, one without craving, one that is content, attained through knowledge and by abstaining from evil.\n\nHindu literature variously discuss ethics as one or more of four topics: (1) \"Gunas\" that is inner tendencies of conduct found in every individual (in large measure, psychology); (2) \"Purushartha\" that is proper aims of life for every individual for self-development and happiness (dharma, artha, kama and moksha); (3) \"Ashramas\" that is ethics for an individual in different periods of one's lifetime (ethical expectations for a child are distinguished from those for adults, old age); and (4) \"Varnasramas\" that is ethics and conduct for every individual in relation to society. Ancient literature at the foundation of various Hindu traditions primarily discuss the first three, while the last has attracted greater attention since the 18th century. Some early 20th century literature wondered if ethics was ever a serious topic of study in Hinduism. Later studies have yielded the above four approaches to ethics in different schools of Hinduism, tied together with three common themes: (1) ethics is an essential part of dharma concept, (2) Ahimsa (non-violence) is the foundational premise without which - suggests Hinduism - ethics and any consistent ethical theory is impossible, and (3) Ethics cannot always be dualistically or non-dualistically reduced from first principles, ethics is closely related to moksha (self realization and spiritual freedom) with Vivekacudamani stating, \"individuals with self knowledge and spiritual freedom are inherently self examining and ethical\" and \"ethics, freedom and knowledge require each other\". In addition to the above four topics in Hindu ethics, scholars state that the karma doctrine of Hinduism is part of its ethical theory compendium.\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita—considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong—argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nThe foundational source in the gradual codification of Islamic ethics was the Muslim understanding and interpretations of the mankind has been granted the faculty to discern God's will and to abide by it. This faculty most crucially involves reflecting over the meaning of existence, which, as John Kelsay in the \"Encyclopedia of Ethics\" phrases, \"ultimately points to the reality of God.\" Therefore, regardless of their environment, humans are believed to have a moral responsibility to submit to God's will and to follow Islam (as demonstrated in the Qur'an and the Sunnah, or the sayings of Muhammad) ).\n\nThis natural inclination is, according to the Qur'an, subverted by mankind's focus on material success: such focus first presents itself as a need for basic survival or security, but then tends to manifest into a desire to become distinguished among one's peers. Ultimately, the focus on materialism, according to the Islamic texts, hampers with the innate reflection as described above, resulting in a state of \"jahiliyya\" or \"ignorance.\"\n\nMuslims believe that Muhammad, like other prophets in Islam, was sent by God to remind human beings of their moral responsibility, and challenge those ideas in society which opposed submission to God. According to Kelsay, this challenge was directed against five main characteristics of pre-Islamic Arabia:\n\n\nThese changes lay in the reorientation of society as regards to identity and life of the Muslim belief, world view, and the hierarchy of values. From the viewpoint of subsequent generations, this caused a great transformation in the society and moral order of life in the Arabian Peninsula. For Muhammad, although pre-Islamic Arabia exemplified \"heedlessness,\" it was not entirely without merit. Muhammad approved and exhorted certain aspects of the Arab pre-Islamic tradition, such as the care for one's near kin, for widows, orphans, and others in need and for the establishment of justice. However, these values would be re-ordered in importance and placed in the context of strict monotheism.\n\nFurthermore, a Muslim should not only follow these five main characteristics, but also be more broad about his morals. Therefore, the more the Muslim is applying these rules, the better that person is morally. For example,Islamic ethics can be applied by important verses in the Quran . The most fundamental characteristics of a Muslim are piety and humility. A Muslim must be humble with God and with other people:\n\n“And turn not your face away from people (with pride), nor walk in insolence through the earth. Verily, God likes not each arrogant boaster. And be moderate (or show no insolence) in your walking, and lower your voice. Verily, the harshest of all voices is the voice (braying) of the ass.” (Quran 31:18-19)\n\nMuslims must be in controls of their passions and desires.\n\nA Muslim should not be vain or attached to the ephemeral pleasures of this world. While most people allow the material world to fill their hearts, Muslims should keep God in their hearts and the material world in their hand. Instead of being attached to the car and the job and the diploma and the bank account, all these things become tools to make us better people.\nMorality in Islam addresses every aspect of a Muslim's life, from greetings to international relations. It is universal in its scope and in its applicability. Morality reigns in selfish desires, vanity and bad habits. Muslims must not only be virtuous, but they must also enjoin virtue. They must not only refrain from evil and vice, but they must also forbid them. In other words, they must not only be morally healthy, but they must also contribute to the moral health of society as a whole.\n\n“You are the best of the nations raised up for (the benefit of) men; you enjoin what is right and forbid the wrong and believe in God; and if the followers of the Book had believed it would have been better for them; of them (some) are believers and most of them are transgressors.” (Quran: 3:110)\n\nMuhammad summarized the conduct of a Muslim when he said:\n\n“My Sustainer has given me nine commands: to remain conscious of God, whether in private or in public; to speak justly, whether angry or pleased; to show moderation both when poor and when rich, to reunite friendship with those who have broken off with me; to give to him who refuses me; that my silence should be occupied with thought; that my looking should be an admonition; and that I should command what is right.”\n\nJewish ethics may be said to originate with the Hebrew Bible, its broad legal injunctions, wisdom narratives and prophetic teachings. Most subsequent Jewish ethical claims may be traced back to the texts, themes and teachings of the written Torah.\n\nIn early rabbinic Judaism, the Oral Torah both interprets the Hebrew Bible and delves afresh into many other ethical topics. The best known rabbinic text associated with ethics is the non-legal Mishnah tractate of \"Avot\", popularly translated as \"Ethics of the Fathers\". Generally, ethics is a key aspect of non-legal rabbinic literature, known as aggadah, and ethical teachings are found throughout the more legal (halakhic) portions of the Mishnah, Talmud and other rabbinic literature. This early Rabbinic ethics shows signs of cross-fertilization and polemical exchange with both the Greek (Western philosophical) ethical tradition and early Christian tradition.\n\nIn the medieval period, direct Jewish responses to Greek ethics may be seen in major rabbinic writings. Notably, Maimonides offers a Jewish interpretation of Aristotle (e.g., \"Nicomachean Ethics\"), who enters into Jewish discourse through Islamic writings. Maimonides, in turn, influences Thomas Aquinas, a dominant figure in Catholic ethics and the natural law tradition of moral theology. The relevance of natural law to medieval Jewish philosophy is a matter of dispute among scholars.\n\nEthics in systematic form, and apart from religious belief, is as little found in apocryphal or Judæo-Hellenistic literature as in the Bible. However, Greek philosophy greatly influenced Alexandrian writers such as the authors of IV Maccabees, the Book of Wisdom, and Philo.\n\nMuch progress in theoretical ethics came as Jews came into closer contact with the Hellenic world. Before that period the Wisdom literature shows a tendency to dwell solely on the moral obligations and problems of life as appealing to man as an individual, leaving out of consideration the ceremonial and other laws which concern only the Jewish nation. From this point of view Ben Sira's collection of sayings and monitions was written, translated into Greek, and circulated as a practical guide. The book contains popular ethics in proverbial form as the result of everyday life experience, without higher philosophical or religious principles and ideals.\n\nMore developed ethical works emanated from Hasidean circles in the Maccabean time, such as are contained in Tobit, especially in Chapter IV. Here the first ethical will or testament is found, giving a summary of moral teachings, with the Golden Rule, \"Do that to no man which thou hatest!\" as the leading maxim. There are even more elaborate ethical teachings in the \"Testaments of the Twelve Patriarchs\", in which each of the twelve sons of Jacob, in his last words to his children and children's children, reviews his life and gives them moral lessons, either warning them against a certain vice he had been guilty of, so that they may avoid divine punishment, or recommending them to cultivate a certain virtue he had practised during life, so that they may win God's favor. The chief virtues recommended are love for one's fellow man, industry, especially in agricultural pursuits, simplicity, sobriety, benevolence toward the poor, compassion even for the brute and avoidance of all passion, pride, and hatred. Similar ethical farewell monitions are attributed to Enoch in the Ethiopic Enoch (xciv. et seq.) and the Slavonic Enoch (lviii. et seq.) and to the three patriarchs.\n\nThe Hellenistic Jewish propaganda literature made the propagation of Jewish ethics taken from the Bible its main object for the sake of winning the pagan world to pure monotheism. It was owing to this endeavor that certain ethical principles were laid down as guiding maxims for the Gentiles, first of all the three capital sins, idolatry, murder, and incest, were prohibited (see Sibyllines, iii. 38, 761; iv. 30 et seq.). In later Jewish rabbinic literature these Noachide Laws were gradually developed into six, seven, and ten, or thirty laws of ethics binding upon every human being.\n\nGermanic Neopagans, including followers of both Asatru and Theodism, try to emulate the ethical values of the ancient Germanic peoples (Norse or Anglo-Saxon) through the form of the Nine Noble Virtues.\n\nScientology ethics is based upon the concepts of good and evil. Ethics may be defined as the actions an individual takes on itself to ensure its continued survival across the dynamics.\n\nSecular ethics is a moral philosophy in which ethics are based solely on human faculties such as scientific reason, sociobiological composition, or ethical intuition, and not derived from purported supernatural revelation or guidance. Secular ethics comprise a wide variety of moral and ethical systems including consequentialism, freethinking, humanism, secular humanism, and utilitarianism, among others.\n\nThe majority of secular moral concepts are based on the acceptance of natural rights and social contracts, and on a more individual scale of either some form of attribution of intrinsic value to things, Kantianesque ethical intuitionism or of a logical deduction that establishes a preference for one thing over another, as with Occam's razor. Approaches such as ethical egoism, moral relativism, moral skepticism, and moral nihilism are also considered.\n\nShinto beliefs start with an assumption of the inherent goodness of humans as descendants of the \"kami\". By the 6th century CE, Shinto had drawn from a Chinese idea that good people will adhere to societal norms, and emperors have a divine mandate to bring about the \"desirable and required order\". Shinto adherents are to \"realize and carry out the will of the \"kami\" and the ancestors in the family, the community, and the nation\".\n\nAlthough State Shinto reinforced subordination to the emperor and the state, Shrine Shinto is a situation-based ethical system that emphasizes right actions toward others, versus adherence to a specific belief system. Shrine Shinto also stresses gratefulness for \"blessings of the \"kami\"\", and maintaining harmony with the emperor and the world.\n\nWiccan morality is largely based on the Wiccan Rede: 'An' it harm none, do what ye will' -- old-fashioned language for 'as long as you aren't harming anyone, do as you wish'. While this could be interpreted to mean \"do no harm at all\", it is usually interpreted as a declaration of the freedom to act, along with the necessity of thinking through and taking responsibility for the consequences of one's actions.\n\nAnother element of Wiccan Morality comes from the Law of Threefold Return, which is understood to mean that whatever one does to another person or thing (benevolent or otherwise) returns with triple force.\n\nMany Wiccans also seek to cultivate a set of eight virtues mentioned in Doreen Valiente's \"Charge of the Goddess\", these being mirth, reverence, honour, humility, strength, beauty, power and compassion. In Valiente's poem they are ordered in pairs of complementary opposites, reflecting a dualism that is common throughout Wiccan philosophy.\n\nGoing for Refuge & Taking the Precepts\" (The Wheel Publication No. 282/284). Kandy, Sri Lanka: Buddhist Publication Society. (Originally published 1981 and transcribed for Internet publication in 1994.) Retrieved 2007-11-12 from \"Access to Insight\" at http://www.accesstoinsight.org/lib/authors/bodhi/wheel282.html.\n\n"}
{"id": "46587938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46587938", "title": "Faith-based organization", "text": "Faith-based organization\n\nA Faith-based organization is an organization whose values are based on faith and/or beliefs, which has a mission based on social values of the particular faith, and which most often draws its activists (leaders, staff, volunteers) from a particular faith group. The faith to which the organization is relating to does not have to be academically classified as religion. The term \"faith-based organization\" is more inclusive than the term \"religious organization\" as it refers also to the non-congregation faith beliefs.\n\nFaith-based organizations are grass-root organizations active locally but also on an international scale. Their funding comes from member donations, but they are also eligible for state or international grants.\n\nCurrently, this terminology is widely used in governmental, inter-governmental, and non-governmental settings. World Bank prepared a list of international faith-based organizations.\n"}
{"id": "23124223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124223", "title": "Haizidao", "text": "Haizidao\n\nHaizidao () is a new religious movement in Taiwan, based on Taoism.\n"}
{"id": "1410955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410955", "title": "His Holiness", "text": "His Holiness\n\nHis Holiness is a style and form of address (in the variant form Your Holiness) for some supreme religious leaders. The title is most notably used by the Pope, Oriental Orthodox Patriarchs, and Dalai Lama.\n\n\"His Holiness\" () is the official style used to address the Roman Catholic Pope and Oriental Orthodox Patriarchs. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople has the title of \"His All-Holiness\" (abbreviation HAH).\n\nIn February 2013, the Holy See announced that former Pope Benedict XVI would retain the style \"His Holiness\" after resigning and becoming Pope Emeritus.\nThe term is sometimes abbreviated to \"HH\" or \"H.H.\" when confusion with \"His/Her Highness\" is unlikely. The associated form of address is \"Your Holiness\".\n\nLater, it is also used for certain other Eastern Patriarchs, notably those who head a church or rite which recognizes neither Rome's nor Constantinople's primacy.\n\nThe English language honorific \"His Holiness\", and as female version \"Her Holiness\", has commonly been used for religious leaders from other traditions, including Buddhism (for figures such as the Dalai Lama, the Karmapa, and the Je Khenpo in Bhutan), Shinto in Ahmadiyya Islam for the Caliph and in Dawoodi Bohra sect of Ismaili Shia for esteemed office of Da'i Al-Mutlaq, Syedna.\nIt is also used in certain new religious movements such as Hare Krishnas of Hinduism.\n"}
{"id": "602114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602114", "title": "History of theology", "text": "History of theology\n\nThis is an overview of the history of theology in Greek thought and its relationship with Abrahamic religions.\n\nVarious forms of systematic and philosophical reflection on Ancient Greek religion and Greek mythology arose in the classical period—from Hesiod's attempts to organize the diverse materials of mythology into a unified \"Theogony\" to the more properly philosophical analysis reportedly carried out by Socrates.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nPhilosophical reflection on the gods, on religion, and on the origins and governance of the Universe, flourished in the Hellenistic period among both Greek- and Latin-speaking thinkers. Among the very diverse movements of Hellenistic philosophy in which theological reflection could be found were Skepticism, Cynicism, Stoicism, Epicureanism, Middle Platonism, and Neoplatonism. The Skeptics were to have a larger impact on Western reasoning than the Cynics; but this would not occur until after its having been reified during the middle years of the Roman Empire when it passed into the mainstream of Western thought.\n\nInfluential texts include:\n\nHellenistic theology, which could be deemed to last until the suppression of the Athenian Academy in 529 by Justinian I, overlaps with early Jewish and early Christian theology (see below), and several strands of thought important particularly to early Christian thought arise within Hellenistic circles: attempts to explain the apparent caprice of the gods, Atheism, the development of monotheism, the idea of God as first cause or form of the Good, the dualism of spirit and matter in humanity, and redemption (the release of the spirit from its material prison to a higher spiritual world) through knowledge.\n\nTwo strands of Jewish theology develop in the 1st and 2nd centuries. On the one hand, there are those oral traditions of Rabbinic exegesis (Midrash) and legal discussion (Mishnah and Tosefta) that eventually began to be written down towards the end of the 2nd century AD.\n\nImportant figures (known as Tannaim) include\n\nOn the other hand, there is the attempt to accommodate traditional Jewish exegesis of the Jewish Scriptures and tradition with Greek philosophy—a strand of thought of which Philo (c. 20 BC to 40 AD) is the best known proponent. The destruction of the Jerusalem temple in 70 AD and the dispersion of many Jews from Israel had a profound effect on Jewish Theology.\n\nIn the centuries after its compilation, discussion and commentary upon the Mishnah flourished in Jewish academies in Israel and in Babylon. Collections of opinions from these discussions, known as Gemara were eventually edited together and placed with the Mishnah itself, in both Israel (around 350 AD – the Jerusalem Talmud) and Babylon (around 550 AD, with further editing in the two centuries that followed – the Babylonian Talmud).\n\nImportant figures (known as Amoraim) include\n\nThe New Testament contains evidence of some of the earliest forms of reflection upon the meanings and implications of Christian faith, mostly in the form of guidance offered to Christian congregations on how to live a life consistent with their convictions – notably in the Pauline corpus and Johannine corpus.\n\nA huge quantity of theological reflection emerged in the early centuries of the Christian church – in a wide variety of genres, in a variety of contexts, and in several languages – much of it the product of attempts to discuss how Christian faith should be lived in cultures very different from the one in which it was born. So, for instance, a good deal of the Greek language literature can be read as an attempt to come to terms with Hellenistic culture. The period sees the slow emergence of orthodoxy (the idea of which seems to emerge from the conflicts between catholic Christianity and Gnostic Christianity), the establishment of a Biblical canon, debates about the doctrine of the Trinity (most notably between the councils of Nicaea in 325 and Constantinople in 381), about Christology (most notably between the councils of Constantinople in 381 and Chalcedon in 451), about the purity of the Church (for instance in the debates surrounding the Donatists), and about grace, free will and predestination (for instance in the debate between Augustine of Hippo and Pelagius).\n\nInfluential texts and writers in the 2nd century include:\n\nInfluential texts and writers between c. 200 and 325 (the First Council of Nicaea) include:\nTexts from patristic authors before 325 AD are collected in the Ante-Nicene Fathers.\n\nInfluential texts and writers between 325 AD and c. 500 AD include:\nTexts from patristic authors after 325 AD are collected in the Nicene and Post-Nicene Fathers. Important theological debates also surrounded the various Ecumenical Councils – Nicaea in 325, Constantinople in 381, Ephesus in 431 and Chalcedon in 451\nSee also main articles on Patristics and Church Fathers.\n\nWhile the Western Roman Empire declined and fell, the Eastern Roman Empire, centred on Constantinople, remained standing until 1453, and was the home of a wide range of theological activity that was seen as standing in strong continuity with the theology of the Patristic period; indeed the division between Patristic and Byzantine theology would not be recognised by many Orthodox theologians and historians.\n\n\n\n\nWhen the Western Roman Empire fragmented under the impact of various 'barbarian' invasions, the Empire-wide intellectual culture that had underpinned late Patristic theology had its interconnections cut. Theology tended to become more localised, more diverse, more fragmented. The classically clothed Christianity preserved in Italy by men like Boethius and Cassiodorus was different from the vigorous Frankish Christianity documented by Gregory of Tours which was different again from the Christianity that flourished in Ireland and Northumbria in the 7th and 8th centuries. Throughout this period, theology tended to be a more monastic affair, flourishing in monastic havens where the conditions and resources for theological learning could be maintained.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nBoth because it made communication between different Christian centres easier, and because there was a concerted effort by its rulers to encourage educational and religious reforms and to develop greater uniformity in Christian thought and practice across their territories, the establishment of the Carolingian Empire saw an explosion of theological inquiry, and theological controversy. Controversy flared, for instance, around 'Spanish Adoptionism, around the views on predestination of Gottschalk, or around the eucharistic views of Ratramnus.\n\nImportant writers include:\n\nWith the division and decline of the Carolingian Empire, notable theological activity was preserved in some of the Cathedral schools that had begun to rise to prominence under it – for instance at Auxerre in the 9th century or Chartres in the 11th. Intellectual influences from the Arabic world (including works of classical authors preserved by Islamic scholars) percolated into the Christian West via Spain, influencing such theologians as Gerbert of Aurillac, who went on to become Pope Sylvester II and mentor to Otto III. (Otto was the fourth ruler of the Germanic Ottonian Holy Roman Empire, successor to the Carolingian Empire). With hindsight, one might say that a new note was struck when a controversy about the meaning of the eucharist blew up around Berengar of Tours in the 11th century: hints of a new confidence in the intellectual investigation of the faith that perhaps foreshadowed the explosion of theological argument that was to take place in the 12th century.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nAnselm of Canterbury is sometimes misleadingly called the 'Father of Scholasticism' because of the prominent place that reason has in his theology; instead of establishing his points by appeal to authority, he presents arguments to demonstrate why it is that the things he believes on authority must be so. His particular approach, however, was not very influential in his time, and he kept his distance from the Cathedral Schools. We should look instead to the production of the gloss on Scripture associated with Anselm of Laon, the rise to prominence of dialectic (middle subject of the medieval trivium) in the work of Abelard, and the production by Peter Lombard of a collection of Sentences or opinions of the Church Fathers and other authorities. Scholasticism proper can be thought of as the kind of theology that emerges when, in the Cathedral schools and their successors, the tools of dialectic are pressed into use to comment upon, explain, and develop the gloss and the sentences.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\nThe 13th century saw the attempted suppression of various groups perceived as heterodox, such as the Cathars and Waldensians and the associated rise of the mendicant orders (notably the Franciscans and Dominicans), in part intended as a form of orthodox alternative to the heretical groups. Those two orders quickly became contexts for some of the most intense scholastic theology, producing such 'high scholastic' theologians as Alexander of Hales (Franciscan) and Thomas Aquinas (Dominican), or the rather less obviously scholastic Bonaventure (Franciscan). The century also saw a flourishing of mystical theology, with women such as Mechthild of Magdeburg playing a prominent role. In addition, the century can be seen as period in which the study of natural philosophy that could anachronistically be called 'science' began once again to flourish in theological soil, in the hands of such men as Robert Grosseteste and Roger Bacon.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nScholastic theology continued to develop as the 13th century gave way to the fourteenth, becoming ever more complex and subtle in its distinctions and arguments. The 14th century saw in particular the rise to dominance of the nominalist or voluntarist theologies of men like William of Ockham. The 14th century was also a time in which movements of widely varying character worked for the reform of the institutional church, such as conciliarism, Lollardy and the Hussites. Spiritual movements such as the Devotio Moderna also flourished.\n\nNotable authors include:\n\n\nIslamic theology or \"Kalam\", in the sense of ordered, rational reflection upon Allah and his Qur'an, is commonly held to begin at the end of the 7th century – the 1st century A.H. – with debates about divine and human freedom.\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" were those who defended a fairly strong view of human freedom, and included\n\n'The \"Jabriyyah\" were their opponents, and included\n\nThe \"Qadariyyah\" evolved into \"Mu‘tazilah\" which for some time was the dominant form of \"kalam\", imposed as official orthodoxy under the Abbasid dynasty, until the accession of Al-Mutawakkil in 847, after which it was suppressed. For the five principal doctrines of Mutazilism, see the main article. Prominent Mutazilite theologians include:\n\nFrom the late 10th century onwards, \"Mutazilite kalam\", opposition to which had hitherto been almost indistinguishable from opposition to \"kalam\" itself, found a new opponent \"within\" \"kalam\": \"Ash'ari kalam\". \"Asharite kalam\" rose to become the dominant form of Islamic \"kalam\", and helped distinguish \"kalam\" from \"falasafa\"—from philosophy (a distinction which is less clear when considering \"Mutazilite\" thought).\n\nProminent Asharites include:\n\n\nNote should also be taken of the variant of Asharism known as \"Maturidism\". Prominent Maturidi authors include:\n\nWhilst the boundaries are sometimes rather porous, scholars of Islamic thought often make a distinction between \"Falasafa\" (Islamic philosophy) and \"Kalam\" (Islamic theology). Prominent writers normally held to stand on the Falasafa side of the divide include:\n\nRenaissance Platonists, most notably from Florentine circles (from Boccaccio and Petrarch, to Landino and Politian), appealed to \"poetic theology\" (theologia poetica) as a mythical theology independent of Biblical revelation and thus, too, of Christian medieval theology. The paradigmatic \"poet theologian\" was Orpheus, a mythical legislator capable of subduing or civilizing beast-like men with his songs. Renaissance philosophers would adopt mythical \"personae\" such as that of Orpheus to carry out their civilizing function, as philosophical mediators between \"sacred\" authority and the \"profane\" lives subject to it. Thus, e.g., Politian would emerge as a \"new Orpheus\", a philosopher in poetic garb.\n\nThe Renaissance judicious appeal to theologia poetica would find its historical consummation in the works of Giambattista Vico, whose discussions on \"poet theologians\" (Scienza Nuova) echoed Renaissance counterparts both literally and allegorically.\n\nThe Renaissance yielded scholars the ability to read the scriptures in their original languages and this in part stimulated the Reformation, a theological movement that protested the outlawing of their faith at the Second Diet of Speyer. Its main themes were Justification by faith, the Bible as the only source of Christian teaching, and the Priesthood of all believers, and. Important figures include Luther, Melanchthon, Bucer, Zwingli, Calvin, and the Anabaptists. Calvinist theology was developed by successors such as Beza, the English Puritans and Turretin. Lutheran theology entered a period of doctrinal unity with the adoption of the Book of Concord and preserved it through the work of theologians such as Chemnitz and Gerhard.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Counter-Reformation spearheaded by the Jesuits under Ignatius Loyola took their theology from the decisions of the Council of Trent and developed Second Scholasticism, which they pitted against Lutheran and Reformed scholasticism. The overall result of the Reformation was to highlight distinctions of belief that had previously co-existed uneasily.\n\nThe Fall of Constantinople in the East, 1453, led to a significant shift of gravity to the rising state of Russia, the \"Third Rome\". The Renaissance stimulated a program of reforms by patriarchs of prayer books. A movement called the \"Old Believers\" consequently resulted and influenced Russian Orthodox Theology in the direction of conservatism and Erastianism.\n\nAfter the Reformation protestant groups continued to splinter, leading to a range of new theologies. The \"Enthusiasts\" were so named because of their emotional zeal. These included the Methodists, the Quakers and Baptists. Another group sought to reconcile Christian faith with \"Modern\" ideas, sometimes causing them to reject beliefs they considered to be illogical, including the Nicene creed and Chalcedonian Creed. these included Unitarians and Universalists. A major issue for Protestants became the degree to which Man contributes to his salvation. The debate is often viewed as synergism versus monergism, though the labels Calvinist and Arminian are more frequently used, referring to the conclusion of the Synod of Dort.\n\nThe 19th century saw the rise of biblical criticism, new knowledge of religious diversity in other continents and above all the growth of science. This led many church men to espouse a form of Deism. This, along with concepts such as the brotherhood of man and a rejection of miracles led to what is called \"Classical liberalism\". Immensely influential in its day, classic liberalism suffered badly as a result of the two world wars and fell prey to the criticisms of postmodernism.\n\nVladimir Lossky is a famous Eastern Orthodox theologian writing in the 20th century for the Greek church.\n\nPostmodern theology seeks to respond to the challenges of post modern and deconstructionist thought, and has included the death of God movement, process theology, feminist theology and queer theology and most importantly Neo-orthodox theology. Karl Barth, Rudolf Bultmann and Reinhold Niebuhr were Neo-Orthodoxy's main representatives. In particular Barth labeled his theology \"dialectical theology\", a reference to existentialism.\n\nThe predominance of classic liberalism resulted in many reactionary movements amongst conservative believers. Evangelical theology, Pentecostal or Renewal theology and fundamentalist theology, often combined with dispensationalism, all moved from the fringe into the academy. Marxism stimulated the significant rise of liberation theology which can be interpreted as a rejection of Academic Theology that fails to challenge the establishment and help the poor.\n\nFrom the late 19th century to the early twentieth groups established themselves that derived many of their beliefs from Protestant evangelical groups but significantly differed in doctrine. These include the Jehovah's Witnesses, the Latter Day Saints and others. Many of these groups use the Protestant version of the bible and typically interpret it in a fundamentalist fashion, adding, however, special prophecy or scriptures, and typically denying the trinity and the full deity of Jesus Christ.\n\nEcumenical theology sought to discover a common consensus on theological matters that could bring the many Christian denominations together. As a movement it was successful in helping to provide a basis for the establishment of the World Council of Churches and for some reconciliation between more established denominations. But ecumenical theology was nearly always the concern of liberal theologians, especially Protestant ones. The movement for ecumenism was opposed especially by fundamentalists and viewed as flawed by many neo-orthodox and confessional Lutheran theologians.\n\nThe pattern of challenge from a changing world, liberal response from official representatives and orthodox backlash from conservatives is found also in the history of Islam and Judaism. Reform Judaism represents a liberal interpretation as against Orthodox Judaism, and moderate or liberal Islam continues to be theologically distinct from Islamic fundamentalism, notably its Wahabi and Deobandi Schools.\n"}
{"id": "148545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148545", "title": "Holy Land", "text": "Holy Land\n\nThe Holy Land (Hebrew: , ; Arabic: or ) is an area roughly located between the Jordan River and the Mediterranean Sea that also includes the Eastern Bank of the Jordan River. Traditionally, it is synonymous with both the biblical Land of Israel and historical Palestine. The term usually refers to a territory roughly corresponding to the modern State of Israel, the Palestinian territories, western Jordan, and parts of southern Lebanon and southwestern Syria. It is considered holy by Jews, Christians, and Muslims.\n\nPart of the significance of the land stems from the religious significance of Jerusalem, the holiest city to Judaism, the historical region of Jesus' ministry, and the site of the Isra and Mi'raj event in Islam.\n\nThe holiness of the land to Christianity was part of the motivation for the Crusades, as European Christians sought to win back the Holy Land from the Muslims, who had conquered it from the Christian Byzantine Empire.\n\nMany sites in the Holy Land have long been pilgrimage destinations for adherents of the Abrahamic religions, including Jews, Christians, Muslims, and Bahá'ís. Pilgrims visit the Holy Land to touch and see physical manifestations of their faith, confirm their beliefs in the holy context with collective excitation, and connect personally to the Holy Land.\n\nJews do not commonly refer to the Land of Israel as \"Holy Land\" (Hebrew: ). The Tanakh explicitly refers to it as \"holy land\" in only one passage. The term \"holy land\" is further used twice in the deuterocanonical books. The holiness of the Land of Israel is generally implied in the Tanakh by the Land being given to the Israelites by God, that is, it is the \"promised land\", an integral part of God's covenant. In the Torah many mitzvot commanded to the Israelites can only be performed in the Land of Israel, which serves to differentiate it from other lands. For example, in the Land of Israel, \"no land shall be sold permanently\" (Lev. 25:23). Shmita is only observed with respect to the land of Israel, and the observance of many holy days is different, as an extra day is observed in the Jewish diaspora.\n\nAccording to Eliezer Schweid:\nFrom the perspective of the 1906 Jewish Encyclopedia, the holiness of Israel had been concentrated since the sixteenth century, especially for burial, in the \"Four Holy Cities\": Jerusalem, Hebron, Safed and Tiberias - as Judaism's holiest cities. Jerusalem, as the site of the Temple, is considered especially significant. Sacred burials are still undertaken for diaspora Jews who wish to lie buried in the holy soil of Israel.\n\nAccording to Jewish tradition, Jerusalem is Mount Moriah, the location of the binding of Isaac. The Hebrew Bible mentions the name \"Jerusalem\" 669 times, often because many mitzvot can only be performed within its environs. The name \"Zion\", which usually refers to Jerusalem, but sometimes the Land of Israel, appears in the Hebrew Bible 154 times.\n\nThe Talmud mentions the religious duty of colonising Israel. So significant in Judaism is the act of purchasing land in Israel, the Talmud allows for the lifting of certain religious restrictions of Sabbath observance to further its acquisition and settlement. Rabbi Johanan said that \"Whoever walks four cubits in Eretz Yisrael is guaranteed entrance to the World to Come\". A story says that when R. Eleazar b. Shammua' and R. Johanan HaSandlar left Israel to study from R. Judah ben Bathyra, they only managed to reach Sidon when \"the thought of the sanctity of Palestine overcame their resolution, and they shed tears, rent their garments, and turned back\". Due to the Jewish population being concentrated in Israel, emigration was generally prevented, which resulted in a limiting of the amount of space available for Jewish learning. However, after suffering persecutions in Israel for centuries after the destruction of the Temple, Rabbis who had found it very difficult to retain their position moved to Babylon, which offered them better protection. Many Jews wanted Israel to be the place where they died, in order to be buried there. The sage Rabbi Anan said \"To be buried in Israel is like being buried under the altar.\" The saying \"His land will absolve His people\" implies that burial in Israel will cause one to be absolved of all one's sins.\n\nFor Christians, the Land of Israel is considered holy because of its association with the birth, ministry, crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus, whom Christians regard as the Savior or Messiah, and because it is the land of the Jewish people (according to the Bible). Christian books, including editions of the Bible, often had maps of the Holy Land (considered to be Galilee, Samaria, Judea). For instance, the \"Itinerarium Sacrae Scripturae\" (Travel book through Holy Scripture) of Heinrich Bünting (1545-1606), a German Protestant pastor, featured such a map. His book was very popular, and it provided \"the most complete available summary of biblical geography and described the geography of the Holy Land by tracing the travels of major figures from the Old and New testaments.\"\n\nAs a geographic term, the description \"Holy Land\" loosely encompasses modern-day Israel, the Palestinian territories, Lebanon, western Jordan and south-western Syria.\n\nIn the Qur'an, the term (, ) is used in a passage about Musa (Moses) proclaiming to the Children of Israel: \"O my people! Enter the holy land which Allah hath assigned unto you, and turn not back ignominiously, for then will ye be overthrown, to your own ruin.\" () The Quran also refers to the land as being 'Blessed'.\n\nJerusalem (referred to as \"Al-Quds\" (, \"The Holy\")) has particular significance in Islam. The Quran refers to Muhammad's experiencing the Isra and Mi'raj as \"a Journey by night from \"Al-Masjidil-Haram\" to \"Al-Masjidil-Aqsa\", whose precincts We did bless ...\" (17:1). \"Ahadith\" infer that the \"Farthest Masjid\" is in Al-Quds; for example, as narrated by Abu Hurairah: \"On the night journey of the Apostle of Allah, two cups, one containing wine and the other containing milk, were presented to him at Al-Quds (Jerusalem). He looked at them and took the cup of milk. Angel Gabriel said, \"Praise be to Allah, who guided you to Al-Fitrah (the right path); if you had taken (the cup of) wine, your \"Ummah\" would have gone astray\". However, some modern scholars argue that the 'Farthest Mosque' was a building or prayer-site just outside Medina. The present building of Al-Masjid Al-Aqsa in Jerusalem had not been built in Muhammad's day, and the Quran does not contain any other reference to Jerusalem, apart from the reference to the change of the \"Qiblah\" from Jerusalem to Mecca. Jerusalem was Islam's first \"Qiblah\" (direction of prayer) in Muhammad's lifetime, however, this was later changed to the Kaaba in the Hijazi city of Mecca, following a revelation to Muhammad by the Archangel Jibril, by which it is understood by scholars that it was in answer to the rejection by the Jews of Muhammed's Prophetship.\n\nThe exact region referred to as being 'blessed' in the Qur'an, in verses like [17:1], [21:71] and [34:18], has been interpreted differently by various scholars. Abdullah Yusuf Ali likens it to a wide land-range including Syria and Lebanon, especially the cities of Tyre and Sidon; Az-Zujaj describes it as, \"Damascus, Palestine, and a bit of Jordan\"; Muadh ibn Jabal as, \"the area between al-Arish and the Euphrates\"; and Ibn Abbas as, \"the land of Jericho\". This overall region is referred to as \"Ash-Shām\" ().\n\nBahá'ís consider Acre and Haifa sacred as Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, was exiled to the prison of Acre from 1868 and spent his life in its surroundings until his death in 1892. In his writings he set the slope of Mount Carmel to host the Shrine of the Báb which his appointed successor `Abdu'l-Bahá erected in 1909 as a beginning of the terraced gardens there. The Head of the religion after him, Shoghi Effendi, began building other structures and the Universal House of Justice continued the work until the Bahá'í World Centre was brought to its current state as the spiritual and administrative centre of the religion. Its gardens are highly popular places to visit and Mohsen Makhmalbaf's 2012 film \"The Gardener\" featured them. The holiest places currently for Bahá'í pilgrimage are the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh in Acre and the Shrine of the Báb in Haifa which are UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4240818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240818", "title": "Infallibilism", "text": "Infallibilism\n\nInfallibilism, in epistemology, is the idea that propositional knowledge is incompatible with a chance of being wrong, where this is typically understood as one's evidence or justification providing one's belief with such strong grounds that it must be true and perhaps cannot be rationally doubted. Other beliefs may be rationally justified, but they do not rise to the level of \"knowledge\" unless absolutely certain given one's evidence. Infallibilism's opposite, fallibilism, is the position that a justified true belief may be considered knowledge, even if one's evidence does not guarantee its truth, or can, given one's evidence, rationally doubt it. \n\nFallibilism is not to be confused with skepticism, which is the belief that knowledge is unattainable for rational human beings. René Descartes, an early proponent of infallibilism argued, “my reason convinces me that I ought not the less carefully to withhold belief from what is not entirely certain and indubitable, than from what is manifestly false” Infallibilism can be expressed in logic as \"if I know that p, then I can't be mistaken about p\". \n\nFallibilism is endorsed by most contemporary epistemologists, though many in epistemology have recently presented significant arguments against fallibilism, and for infalliblism.\n\nIn religion, infallibilism is the belief that certain texts or persons are incapable of being in the wrong. The most famous example of this is probably the Catholic doctrine of papal infallibility, under which the Pope is considered infallible in certain matters of doctrine, when his decisions are promulgated \"ex cathedra\". Since 1870, the Catholic Church has officially declared that its earthly head, the Pope, in certain circumstances, is so grounded in the mission of the church that he teaches \"infallibly\". Papal infallibility also belongs to the body of bishops as a whole, when, in doctrinal unity with the pope, they solemnly teach a doctrine as true.\n\n"}
{"id": "216613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216613", "title": "Invisible Pink Unicorn", "text": "Invisible Pink Unicorn\n\nThe Invisible Pink Unicorn (IPU) is the goddess of a parody religion used to satirize theistic beliefs, taking the form of a unicorn that is paradoxically both invisible and pink. She is a rhetorical illustration used by atheists and other religious skeptics as a contemporary version of Russell's teapot, sometimes mentioned in conjunction with the Flying Spaghetti Monster.\n\nThe IPU is used to argue that supernatural beliefs are arbitrary by, for example, replacing the word \"God\" in any theistic statement with \"Invisible Pink Unicorn\". The mutually exclusive attributes of pinkness and invisibility, coupled with the inability to disprove the IPU's existence, satirize properties that some theists attribute to a theistic deity.\n\nRussell's teapot is an analogy first coined by the philosopher Bertrand Russell (1872–1970) to illustrate that the philosophic burden of proof lies upon a person making scientifically unfalsifiable claims rather than shifting the burden of proof to others, specifically in the case of religion. Russell wrote that, if he claims that a teapot orbits the Sun somewhere in space between the Earth and Mars, it is nonsensical for him to expect others to believe him on the ground that they cannot prove him wrong. Russell's teapot is still referred to in discussions concerning the existence of God.\n\nThe IPU seems to have become notable primarily through online culture: in addition to alt.atheism, where IPU still frequently comes up in discussions, there are now a number of web sites dedicated to her. An early documented reference to the IPU was on July 7, 1990, on the Usenet discussion group alt.atheism. Other sources concerning IPU state that she was \"revealed to us\" on alt.atheism.\n\nThe concept was further developed by a group of college students from 1994 to 1995 on the ISCA Telnet-based BBS. The students created a manifesto that detailed a nonsensical (yet internally consistent) religion based on a multitude of invisible pink unicorns. It is from this document that the most famous quotation concerning IPUs originated:\n\nIt is common when discussing the Invisible Pink Unicorn to point out that because she is invisible, no one can prove that she does not exist (or indeed that she is not pink). This is a parody of similar theistic claims about God—that God, as creator of the universe, is not subject to its laws and thus not physically detecting him tells us nothing about his existence or lack thereof. The Invisible Pink Unicorn is an illustration which attempts to demonstrate the absurdity of citing attributes and a lack of evidence as proof of a deity's existence. Her two defining attributes, invisibility and color (pink), are inconsistent and contradictory; this is part of the satire. The paradox of something being invisible yet having visible characteristics (e.g., color) is reflected in some East Asian cultures, wherein an invisible red string is said to connect people who have a shared or linked destiny.\n\nThere are humorous mock debates amongst her \"followers\" concerning her other attributes, such as whether she is completely invisible, or invisible to most, but visible to those who have faith in her (bearing similarities to \"The Emperor's New Clothes\"). Some arguments are quite elaborate and tortuous, satirizing the disputatiousness and intricacy of the theological debates that occur in many religions.\n\nThe Invisible Pink Unicorn is also used to de-deify religious texts. The goal is to have the reader experience the text without heavily loaded concepts that many readers will associate with omnipotence, or will read with an unquestioned faith. It is argued that when someone re-reads the same text with all direct references to God replaced with the Invisible Pink Unicorn, the reader may see the text in a new and more critical way: \nIn 1996, a unicorn that no one can see was adapted as a teaching device at Camp Quest, the first free-thought summer camp for children established in the United States, by Dr. L. Wilson. As reported years later in the July 21, 2006 \"Cincinnati Enquirer\", \"Campers must try to prove that imaginary unicorns—as a metaphor for God—don't exist.\"\nRichard Dawkins alluded to unicorns in this connection in his 2006 book \"The God Delusion\", writing that \"Russell's teapot, of course, stands for an infinite number of things whose existence is conceivable and cannot be disproved. [...] A philosophical favorite is the invisible, intangible, inaudible unicorn.\"\n\nIn the essay \"The Dragon in my Garage\" from the book \"The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle In the Dark\", Carl Sagan uses the example of an invisible dragon breathing heatless fire that someone claims lives in his garage. The supposed dragon cannot be seen, heard, or sensed in any way, nor does it leave footprints. There is no reason to believe this purported dragon exists.\n\nIn the \"South Park\" episode \"The Poor Kid\", a strict agnostic couple tell their foster children that God \"might\" exist, but then again, it's equally possible that there might be a \"giant reptilian bird in charge of everything\". At the end of the episode, the bird actually does appear and eats Kenny.\n\nThe Church of the Invisible Pink Unicorn often faces criticism from monotheistic religions for comparing their sacred beings with a fantastic invented character as well as trying to masquerade it as a religion while lacking the scripture, principles, ideologies, and broader social community necessary to be considered a legitimate religion. Many followers have responded to these critiques by improvising new literature, rituals, and customs, frequently written as farcical narrative that parodies not only scripture and rites itself but also the perceived importance or relevance of such scripture and customs. Invisible Pink Unicorn scripture and customs seek to evoke the mysticism of the unicorn and to simultaneously lampoon similar literature in other faiths per the IPU's main tenet.\n\n"}
{"id": "15624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15624", "title": "Judaism", "text": "Judaism\n\nJudaism (originally from Hebrew , \"Yehudah\", \"Judah\"; via Latin and Greek) is the religion of the Jewish people. It is an ancient, monotheistic, Abrahamic religion with the Torah as its foundational text. It encompasses the religion, philosophy, and culture of the Jewish people. Judaism is considered by religious Jews to be the expression of the covenant that God established with the Children of Israel. Judaism encompasses a wide corpus of texts, practices, theological positions, and forms of organization. The Torah is part of the larger text known as the Tanakh or the Hebrew Bible, and supplemental oral tradition represented by later texts such as the Midrash and the Talmud. With between 14.5 and 17.4 million adherents worldwide, Judaism is the tenth largest religion in the world.\n\nWithin Judaism there are a variety of movements, most of which emerged from Rabbinic Judaism, which holds that God revealed his laws and commandments to Moses on Mount Sinai in the form of both the Written and Oral Torah. Historically, this assertion was challenged by various groups such as the Sadducees and Hellenistic Judaism during the Second Temple period; the Karaites and Sabbateans during the early and later medieval period; and among segments of the modern non-Orthodox denominations. Modern branches of Judaism such as Humanistic Judaism may be nontheistic. Today, the largest Jewish religious movements are Orthodox Judaism (Haredi Judaism and Modern Orthodox Judaism), Conservative Judaism, and Reform Judaism. Major sources of difference between these groups are their approaches to Jewish law, the authority of the Rabbinic tradition, and the significance of the State of Israel. Orthodox Judaism maintains that the Torah and Jewish law are divine in origin, eternal and unalterable, and that they should be strictly followed. Conservative and Reform Judaism are more liberal, with Conservative Judaism generally promoting a more traditionalist interpretation of Judaism's requirements than Reform Judaism. A typical Reform position is that Jewish law should be viewed as a set of general guidelines rather than as a set of restrictions and obligations whose observance is required of all Jews. Historically, special courts enforced Jewish law; today, these courts still exist but the practice of Judaism is mostly voluntary. Authority on theological and legal matters is not vested in any one person or organization, but in the sacred texts and the rabbis and scholars who interpret them.\n\nThe history of Judaism spans more than 3,000 years. Judaism has its roots as an organized religion in the Middle East during the Bronze Age. Judaism is considered one of the oldest monotheistic religions. The Hebrews and Israelites were already referred to as \"Jews\" in later books of the Tanakh such as the Book of Esther, with the term Jews replacing the title \"Children of Israel\". Judaism's texts, traditions and values strongly influenced later Abrahamic religions, including Christianity, Islam and the Baha'i Faith. Many aspects of Judaism have also directly or indirectly influenced secular Western ethics and civil law. Hebraism was just as important a factor in the ancient era development of Western civilization as Hellenism, and Judaism, as the background of Christianity, has considerably shaped Western ideals and morality since Early Christianity.\n\nJews are an ethnoreligious group including those born Jewish, in addition to converts to Judaism. In 2015, the world Jewish population was estimated at about 14.3 million, or roughly 0.2% of the total world population. About 43% of all Jews reside in Israel and another 43% reside in the United States and Canada, with most of the remainder living in Europe, and other minority groups spread throughout Latin America, Asia, Africa, and Australia.\n\nUnlike other ancient Near Eastern gods, the Hebrew God is portrayed as unitary and solitary; consequently, the Hebrew God's principal relationships are not with other gods, but with the world, and more specifically, with the people he created. Judaism thus begins with ethical monotheism: the belief that God is one and is concerned with the actions of mankind. According to the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), God promised Abraham to make of his offspring a great nation. Many generations later, he commanded the nation of Israel to love and worship only one God; that is, the Jewish nation is to reciprocate God's concern for the world. He also commanded the Jewish people to love one another; that is, Jews are to imitate God's love for people. These commandments are but two of a large corpus of commandments and laws that constitute this covenant, which is the substance of Judaism.\n\nThus, although there is an esoteric tradition in Judaism (Kabbalah), Rabbinic scholar Max Kadushin has characterized normative Judaism as \"normal mysticism\", because it involves everyday personal experiences of God through ways or modes that are common to all Jews. This is played out through the observance of the Halakha (Jewish law) and given verbal expression in the Birkat Ha-Mizvot, the short blessings that are spoken every time a positive commandment is to be fulfilled.\nWhereas Jewish philosophers often debate whether God is immanent or transcendent, and whether people have free will or their lives are determined, Halakha is a system through which any Jew acts to bring God into the world.\n\nEthical monotheism is central in all sacred or normative texts of Judaism. However, monotheism has not always been followed in practice. The Jewish Bible (Tanakh) records and repeatedly condemns the widespread worship of other gods in ancient Israel. In the Greco-Roman era, many different interpretations of monotheism existed in Judaism, including the interpretations that gave rise to Christianity.\n\nMoreover, some have argued that Judaism is a non-creedal religion that does not require one to believe in God. For some, observance of Jewish law is more important than belief in God \"per se\". In modern times, some liberal Jewish movements do not accept the existence of a personified deity active in history. The debate about whether one can speak of authentic or normative Judaism is not only a debate among religious Jews but also among historians.\n\nScholars throughout Jewish history have proposed numerous formulations of Judaism's core tenets, all of which have met with criticism. The most popular formulation is Maimonides' thirteen principles of faith, developed in the 12th century. According to Maimonides, any Jew who rejects even one of these principles would be considered an apostate and a heretic. Jewish scholars have held points of view diverging in various ways from Maimonides' principles.\n\nIn Maimonides' time, his list of tenets was criticized by Hasdai Crescas and Joseph Albo. Albo and the Raavad argued that Maimonides' principles contained too many items that, while true, were not fundamentals of the faith.\n\nAlong these lines, the ancient historian Josephus emphasized practices and observances rather than religious beliefs, associating apostasy with a failure to observe Jewish law and maintaining that the requirements for conversion to Judaism included circumcision and adherence to traditional customs. Maimonides' principles were largely ignored over the next few centuries. Later, two poetic restatements of these principles (\"\"Ani Ma'amin\" and \"Yigdal\"\") became integrated into many Jewish liturgies, leading to their eventual near-universal acceptance.\n\nIn modern times, Judaism lacks a centralized authority that would dictate an exact religious dogma. Because of this, many different variations on the basic beliefs are considered within the scope of Judaism. Even so, all Jewish religious movements are, to a greater or lesser extent, based on the principles of the Hebrew Bible and various commentaries such as the Talmud and Midrash. Judaism also universally recognizes the Biblical Covenant between God and the Patriarch Abraham as well as the additional aspects of the Covenant revealed to Moses, who is considered Judaism's greatest prophet. In the Mishnah, a core text of Rabbinic Judaism, acceptance of the Divine origins of this covenant is considered an essential aspect of Judaism and those who reject the Covenant forfeit their share in the World to Come.\n\nEstablishing the core tenets of Judaism in the modern era is even more difficult, given the number and diversity of the contemporary Jewish denominations. Even if to restrict the problem to the most influential intellectual trends of the nineteenth and twentieth century, the matter remains complicated. Thus for instance, Joseph Soloveitchik's (associated with the Modern Orthodox movement) answer to modernity is constituted upon the identification of Judaism with following the halakha whereas its ultimate goal is to bring the holiness down to the world. Mordecai Kaplan, the founder of the Reconstructionist Judaism, abandons the idea of religion for the sake of identifying Judaism with civilization and by means of the latter term and secular translation of the core ideas, he tries to embrace as many Jewish denominations as possible. In turn, Solomon Schechter's Conservative Judaism was identical with the tradition understood as the interpretation of Torah, in itself being the history of the constant updates and adjustment of the Law performed by means of the creative interpretation. Finally, David Philipson draws the outlines of the Reform movement in Judaism by opposing it to the strict and traditional rabbinical approach and thus comes to the conclusions similar to that of the Conservative movement.\n\nThe following is a basic, structured list of the central works of Jewish practice and thought.\n\nMany traditional Jewish texts are available online in various Torah databases (electronic versions of the Traditional Jewish Bookshelf). Many of these have advanced search options available.\n\nThe basis of Jewish law and tradition (halakha) is the Torah (also known as the Pentateuch or the Five Books of Moses). According to rabbinic tradition, there are 613 commandments in the Torah. Some of these laws are directed only to men or to women, some only to the ancient priestly groups, the Kohanim and Leviyim (members of the tribe of Levi), some only to farmers within the Land of Israel. Many laws were only applicable when the Temple in Jerusalem existed, and only 369 of these commandments are still applicable today.\n\nWhile there have been Jewish groups whose beliefs were based on the written text of the Torah alone (e.g., the Sadducees, and the Karaites), most Jews believe in the oral law. These oral traditions were transmitted by the Pharisee school of thought of ancient Judaism and were later recorded in written form and expanded upon by the rabbis.\n\nAccording to Rabbinical Jewish tradition, God gave both the Written Law (the Torah) and the Oral law to Moses on Mount Sinai. The Oral law is the oral tradition as relayed by God to Moses and from him, transmitted and taught to the sages (rabbinic leaders) of each subsequent generation.\n\nFor centuries, the Torah appeared only as a written text transmitted in parallel with the oral tradition. Fearing that the oral teachings might be forgotten, Rabbi Judah haNasi undertook the mission of consolidating the various opinions into one body of law which became known as the \"Mishnah\".\n\nThe Mishnah consists of 63 tractates codifying Jewish law, which are the basis of the \"Talmud.\" According to Abraham ben David, the \"Mishnah\" was compiled by Rabbi Judah haNasi after the destruction of Jerusalem, in anno mundi 3949, which corresponds to 189 CE.\n\nOver the next four centuries, the Mishnah underwent discussion and debate in both of the world's major Jewish communities (in Israel and Babylonia). The commentaries from each of these communities were eventually compiled into the two Talmuds, the Jerusalem Talmud (\"Talmud Yerushalmi\") and the Babylonian Talmud (\"Talmud Bavli\"). These have been further expounded by commentaries of various Torah scholars during the ages.\n\nIn the text of the Torah, many words are left undefined and many procedures are mentioned without explanation or instructions. Such phenomena are sometimes offered to validate the viewpoint that the Written Law has always been transmitted with a parallel oral tradition, illustrating the assumption that the reader is already familiar with the details from other, i.e., oral, sources.\n\nHalakha, the rabbinic Jewish way of life, then, is based on a combined reading of the Torah, and the oral tradition—the Mishnah, the halakhic Midrash, the Talmud and its commentaries. The Halakha has developed slowly, through a precedent-based system. The literature of questions to rabbis, and their considered answers, is referred to as responsa (in Hebrew, \"Sheelot U-Teshuvot\".) Over time, as practices develop, codes of Jewish law are written that are based on the responsa; the most important code, the Shulchan Aruch, largely determines Orthodox religious practice today.\n\nJewish philosophy refers to the conjunction between serious study of philosophy and Jewish theology. Major Jewish philosophers include Solomon ibn Gabirol, Saadia Gaon, Judah Halevi, Maimonides, and Gersonides. Major changes occurred in response to the Enlightenment (late 18th to early 19th century) leading to the post-Enlightenment Jewish philosophers. Modern Jewish philosophy consists of both Orthodox and non-Orthodox oriented philosophy. Notable among Orthodox Jewish philosophers are Eliyahu Eliezer Dessler, Joseph B. Soloveitchik, and Yitzchok Hutner. Well-known non-Orthodox Jewish philosophers include Martin Buber, Franz Rosenzweig, Mordecai Kaplan, Abraham Joshua Heschel, Will Herberg, and Emmanuel Lévinas.\n\nOrthodox and many other Jews do not believe that the revealed Torah consists solely of its written contents, but of its interpretations as well. The study of Torah (in its widest sense, to include both poetry, narrative, and law, and both the Hebrew Bible and the Talmud) is in Judaism itself a sacred act of central importance. For the sages of the Mishnah and Talmud, and for their successors today, the study of Torah was therefore not merely a means to learn the contents of God's revelation, but an end in itself. According to the Talmud,\nIn Judaism, \"the study of Torah can be a means of experiencing God\". Reflecting on the contribution of the Amoraim and Tanaim to contemporary Judaism, Professor Jacob Neusner observed:\nTo study the Written Torah and the Oral Torah in light of each other is thus also to study \"how\" to study the word of God.\n\nIn the study of Torah, the sages formulated and followed various logical and hermeneutical principles. According to David Stern, all Rabbinic hermeneutics rest on two basic axioms:\nThese two principles make possible a great variety of interpretations. According to the Talmud,\nObservant Jews thus view the Torah as dynamic, because it contains within it a host of interpretations\n\nAccording to Rabbinic tradition, all valid interpretations of the written Torah were revealed to Moses at Sinai in oral form, and handed down from teacher to pupil (The oral revelation is in effect coextensive with the Talmud itself). When different rabbis forwarded conflicting interpretations, they sometimes appealed to hermeneutic principles to legitimize their arguments; some rabbis claim that these principles were themselves revealed by God to Moses at Sinai.\n\nThus, Hillel called attention to seven commonly used hermeneutical principles in the interpretation of laws (baraita at the beginning of Sifra); R. Ishmael, thirteen (baraita at the beginning of Sifra; this collection is largely an amplification of that of Hillel). Eliezer b. Jose ha-Gelili listed 32, largely used for the exegesis of narrative elements of Torah. All the hermeneutic rules scattered through the Talmudim and Midrashim have been collected by Malbim in \"Ayyelet ha-Shachar\", the introduction to his commentary on the Sifra. Nevertheless, R. Ishmael's 13 principles are perhaps the ones most widely known; they constitute an important, and one of Judaism's earliest, contributions to logic, hermeneutics, and jurisprudence. Judah Hadassi incorporated Ishmael's principles into Karaite Judaism in the 12th century. Today R. Ishmael's 13 principles are incorporated into the Jewish prayer book to be read by observant Jews on a daily basis.\n\nThe term \"Judaism\" derives from \"Iudaismus\", a Latinized form of the Ancient Greek \"Ioudaismos\" (Ἰουδαϊσμός) (from the verb , \"to side with or imitate the [Judeans]\"). Its ultimate source was the Hebrew יהודה, \"Yehudah\", \"Judah\", which is also the source of the Hebrew term for Judaism: יַהֲדוּת, \"Yahadut\". The term \"Ἰουδαϊσμός\" first appears in the Hellenistic Greek book of 2 Maccabees in the 2nd century BCE. In the context of the age and period it meant \"seeking or forming part of a cultural entity\" and it resembled its antonym \"hellenismos\", a word that signified a people's submission to Hellenic (Greek) cultural norms. The conflict between \"iudaismos\" and \"hellenismos\" lay behind the Maccabean revolt and hence the invention of the term \"iudaismos\".\n\nShaye J. D. Cohen writes in his book \"The Beginnings of Jewishness\":\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" the earliest citation in English where the term was used to mean \"the profession or practice of the Jewish religion; the religious system or polity of the Jews\" is Robert Fabyan's \"The newe cronycles of Englande and of Fraunce\" (1516). \"Judaism\" as a direct translation of the Latin \"Iudaismus\" first occurred in a 1611 English translation of the apocrypha (Deuterocanon in Catholic and Eastern Orthodoxy), 2 Macc. ii. 21: \"Those that behaved themselves manfully to their honour for Iudaisme.\"\n\nAccording to Daniel Boyarin, the underlying distinction between religion and ethnicity is foreign to Judaism itself, and is one form of the dualism between spirit and flesh that has its origin in Platonic philosophy and that permeated Hellenistic Judaism. Consequently, in his view, Judaism does not fit easily into conventional Western categories, such as religion, ethnicity, or culture. Boyarin suggests that this in part reflects the fact that much of Judaism's more than 3,000-year history predates the rise of Western culture and occurred outside the West (that is, Europe, particularly medieval and modern Europe). During this time, Jews experienced slavery, anarchic and theocratic self-government, conquest, occupation, and exile. In the Diaspora, they were in contact with, and influenced by, ancient Egyptian, Babylonian, Persian, and Hellenic cultures, as well as modern movements such as the Enlightenment (see Haskalah) and the rise of nationalism, which would bear fruit in the form of a Jewish state in their ancient homeland, the Land of Israel. They also saw an elite population convert to Judaism (the Khazars), only to disappear as the centers of power in the lands once occupied by that elite fell to the people of Rus and then the Mongols. Thus, Boyarin has argued that \"Jewishness disrupts the very categories of identity, because it is not national, not genealogical, not religious, but all of these, in dialectical tension.\"\n\nIn contrast to this point of view, practices such as Humanistic Judaism reject the religious aspects of Judaism, while retaining certain cultural traditions.\n\nAccording to Rabbinic Judaism, a Jew is anyone who was either born of a Jewish mother or who converted to Judaism in accordance with Jewish Law. Reconstructionist Judaism and the larger denominations of worldwide Progressive Judaism (also known as Liberal or Reform Judaism) accept the child as Jewish if one of the parents is Jewish, if the parents raise the child with a Jewish identity, but not the smaller regional branches. All mainstream forms of Judaism today are open to sincere converts, although conversion has traditionally been discouraged since the time of the Talmud. The conversion process is evaluated by an authority, and the convert is examined on his or her sincerity and knowledge. Converts are called \"ben Abraham\" or \"bat Abraham\", (son or daughter of Abraham). Conversions have on occasion been overturned. In 2008, Israel's highest religious court invalidated the conversion of 40,000 Jews, mostly from Russian immigrant families, even though they had been approved by an Orthodox rabbi.\n\nRabbinical Judaism maintains that a Jew, whether by birth or conversion, is a Jew forever. Thus a Jew who claims to be an atheist or converts to another religion is still considered by traditional Judaism to be Jewish. According to some sources, the Reform movement has maintained that a Jew who has converted to another religion is no longer a Jew, and the Israeli Government has also taken that stance after Supreme Court cases and statutes. However, the Reform movement has indicated that this is not so cut and dried, and different situations call for consideration and differing actions. For example, Jews who have converted under duress may be permitted to return to Judaism \"without any action on their part but their desire to rejoin the Jewish community\" and \"A proselyte who has become an apostate remains, nevertheless, a Jew\".\n\nKaraite Judaism believes that Jewish identity can only be transmitted by patrilineal descent. Although a minority of modern Karaites believe that Jewish identity requires that both parents be Jewish, and not only the father. They argue that only patrilineal descent can transmit Jewish identity on the grounds that all descent in the Torah went according to the male line.\n\nThe question of what determines Jewish identity in the State of Israel was given new impetus when, in the 1950s, David Ben-Gurion requested opinions on \"mihu Yehudi\" (\"Who is a Jew\") from Jewish religious authorities and intellectuals worldwide in order to settle citizenship questions. This is still not settled, and occasionally resurfaces in Israeli politics.\n\nHistorical definitions of Jewish identity have traditionally been based on \"halakhic\" definitions of matrilineal descent, and halakhic conversions. Historical definitions of who is a Jew date back to the codification of the Oral Torah into the Babylonian Talmud, around 200 CE. Interpretations of sections of the Tanakh, such as Deuteronomy 7:1–5, by Jewish sages, are used as a warning against intermarriage between Jews and Canaanites because \"[the non-Jewish husband] will cause your child to turn away from Me and they will worship the gods (i.e., idols) of others.\" says that the son in a marriage between a Hebrew woman and an Egyptian man is \"of the community of Israel.\" This is complemented by , where Israelites returning from Babylon vow to put aside their gentile wives and their children. A popular theory is that the rape of Jewish women in captivity brought about the law of Jewish identity being inherited through the maternal line, although scholars challenge this theory citing the Talmudic establishment of the law from the pre-exile period. Since the anti-religious \"Haskalah\" movement of the late 18th and 19th centuries, \"halakhic\" interpretations of Jewish identity have been challenged.\n\nThe total number of Jews worldwide is difficult to assess because the definition of \"who is a Jew\" is problematic; not all Jews identify themselves as Jewish, and some who identify as Jewish are not considered so by other Jews. According to the \"Jewish Year Book\" (1901), the global Jewish population in 1900 was around 11 million. The latest available data is from the World Jewish Population Survey of 2002 and the Jewish Year Calendar (2005). In 2002, according to the Jewish Population Survey, there were 13.3 million Jews around the world. The Jewish Year Calendar cites 14.6 million. Jewish population growth is currently near zero percent, with 0.3% growth from 2000 to 2001.\n\nRabbinic Judaism (or in some Christian traditions, Rabbinism) (Hebrew: \"Yahadut Rabanit\" – יהדות רבנית) has been the mainstream form of Judaism since the 6th century CE, after the codification of the Talmud. It is characterised by the belief that the Written Torah (Written Law) cannot be correctly interpreted without reference to the Oral Torah and the voluminous literature specifying what behavior is sanctioned by the Law.\n\nThe Jewish Enlightenment of the late 18th century resulted in the division of Ashkenazi (Western) Jewry into religious movements or denominations, especially in North America and Anglophone countries. The main denominations today outside Israel (where the situation is rather different) are Orthodox, Conservative, and Reform.\n\nWhile traditions and customs (see also \"Sephardic law and customs\") vary between discrete communities, it can be said that Sephardi and Mizrahi Jewish communities do not generally adhere to the \"movement\" framework popular in and among Ashkenazi Jewry. Historically, Sephardi and Mizrahi communities have eschewed denominations in favour of a \"big tent\" approach. This is particularly the case in contemporary Israel, which is home to the largest communities of Sephardi and Mizrahi Jews in the world. (However, individual Sephardi and Mizrahi Jews may be members of or attend synagogues that do adhere to one Ashkenazi-inflected movement or another.) \n\nSephardi and Mizrahi observance of Judaism tends toward the conservative, and prayer rites are reflective of this, with the text of each rite being largely unchanged since their respective inception. Observant Sephardim may follow the teachings of a particular rabbi or school of thought; for example, the Sephardic Chief Rabbi of Israel.\n\nMost Jewish Israelis classify themselves as \"secular\" (\"hiloni\"), \"traditional\" (\"masorti\"), \"religious\" (\"dati\") or \"Haredi\". The term \"secular\" is more popular as a self-description among Israeli families of western (European) origin, whose Jewish identity may be a very powerful force in their lives, but who see it as largely independent of traditional religious belief and practice. This portion of the population largely ignores organized religious life, be it of the official Israeli rabbinate (Orthodox) or of the liberal movements common to diaspora Judaism (Reform, Conservative).\n\nThe term \"traditional\" (\"masorti\") is most common as a self-description among Israeli families of \"eastern\" origin (i.e., the Middle East, Central Asia, and North Africa). This term, as commonly used, has nothing to do with the Conservative Judaism, which also names itself \"Masorti\" outside North America. There is a great deal of ambiguity in the ways \"secular\" and \"traditional\" are used in Israel: they often overlap, and they cover an extremely wide range in terms of worldview and practical religious observance. The term \"Orthodox\" is not popular in Israeli discourse, although the percentage of Jews who come under that category is far greater than in the diaspora. What would be called \"Orthodox\" in the diaspora includes what is commonly called \"dati\" (religious) or \"haredi\" (ultra-Orthodox) in Israel. The former term includes what is called \"Religious Zionism\" or the \"National Religious\" community, as well as what has become known over the past decade or so as \"haredi-leumi\" (nationalist \"haredi\"), or \"Hardal\", which combines a largely \"haredi\" lifestyle with nationalist ideology. (Some people, in Yiddish, also refer to observant Orthodox Jews as \"frum\", as opposed to \"frei\" (more liberal Jews)).\n\n\"Haredi\" applies to a populace that can be roughly divided into three separate groups along both ethnic and ideological lines: (1) \"Lithuanian\" (non-hasidic) \"haredim\" of Ashkenazic origin; (2) Hasidic \"haredim\" of Ashkenazic origin; and (3) Sephardic \"haredim\".\n\nKaraite Judaism defines itself as the remnants of the non-Rabbinic Jewish sects of the Second Temple period, such as the Sadducees. The Karaites (\"Scripturalists\") accept only the Hebrew Bible and what they view as the Peshat (\"simple\" meaning); they do not accept non-biblical writings as authoritative. Some European Karaites do not see themselves as part of the Jewish community at all, although most do.\n\nThe Samaritans, a very small community located entirely around Mount Gerizim in the Nablus/Shechem region of the West Bank and in Holon, near Tel Aviv in Israel, regard themselves as the descendants of the Israelites of the Iron Age kingdom of Israel. Their religious practices are based on the literal text of the written Torah (Five Books of Moses), which they view as the only authoritative scripture (with a special regard also for the Samaritan Book of Joshua).\n\n\"See also: Haymanot; Beta Israel.\"\n\nHaymanot (meaning \"religion\" in Ge'ez and Amharic) refers the Judaism practiced by Ethiopian Jews. This version of Judaism differs substantially from Rabbinic, Karaite, and Samaritan Judaisms, Ethiopian Jews having diverged from their coreligionists earlier. Sacred scriptures (the Orit) are written in Ge'ez, not Hebrew, and dietary laws are based strictly on the text of the Orit, without explication from ancillary commentaries. Holidays also differ, with some Rabbinic holidays not observed in Ethiopian Jewish communities, and some additional holidays, like Sigd.\n\nJewish ethics may be guided by halakhic traditions, by other moral principles, or by central Jewish virtues. Jewish ethical practice is typically understood to be marked by values such as justice, truth, peace, loving-kindness (chesed), compassion, humility, and self-respect. Specific Jewish ethical practices include practices of charity (tzedakah) and refraining from negative speech (lashon hara). Proper ethical practices regarding sexuality and many other issues are subjects of dispute among Jews.\n\nTraditionally, Jews recite prayers three times daily, Shacharit, Mincha, and Ma'ariv with a fourth prayer, Mussaf added on Shabbat and holidays. At the heart of each service is the \"Amidah\" or \"Shemoneh Esrei\". Another key prayer in many services is the declaration of faith, the \"Shema Yisrael\" (or \"Shema\"). The \"Shema\" is the recitation of a verse from the Torah (Deuteronomy 6:4): \"Shema Yisrael Adonai Eloheinu Adonai Echad\"—\"Hear, O Israel! The Lord is our God! The Lord is One!\"\n\nMost of the prayers in a traditional Jewish service can be recited in solitary prayer, although communal prayer is preferred. Communal prayer requires a quorum of ten adult Jews, called a \"minyan\". In nearly all Orthodox and a few Conservative circles, only male Jews are counted toward a \"minyan\"; most Conservative Jews and members of other Jewish denominations count female Jews as well.\n\nIn addition to prayer services, observant traditional Jews recite prayers and benedictions throughout the day when performing various acts. Prayers are recited upon waking up in the morning, before eating or drinking different foods, after eating a meal, and so on.\n\nThe approach to prayer varies among the Jewish denominations. Differences can include the texts of prayers, the frequency of prayer, the number of prayers recited at various religious events, the use of musical instruments and choral music, and whether prayers are recited in the traditional liturgical languages or the vernacular. In general, Orthodox and Conservative congregations adhere most closely to tradition, and Reform and Reconstructionist synagogues are more likely to incorporate translations and contemporary writings in their services. Also, in most Conservative synagogues, and all Reform and Reconstructionist congregations, women participate in prayer services on an equal basis with men, including roles traditionally filled only by men, such as reading from the Torah. In addition, many Reform temples use musical accompaniment such as organs and mixed choirs.\n\nA \"kippah\" (Hebrew: כִּפָּה, plural \"kippot\"; Yiddish: יאַרמלקע, \"yarmulke\") is a slightly rounded brimless skullcap worn by many Jews while praying, eating, reciting blessings, or studying Jewish religious texts, and at all times by some Jewish men. In Orthodox communities, only men wear kippot; in non-Orthodox communities, some women also wear kippot. \"Kippot\" range in size from a small round beanie that covers only the back of the head to a large, snug cap that covers the whole crown.\n\n\"Tzitzit\" (Hebrew: צִיציִת) (Ashkenazi pronunciation: \"tzitzis\") are special knotted \"fringes\" or \"tassels\" found on the four corners of the \"tallit\" (Hebrew: טַלִּית) (Ashkenazi pronunciation: \"tallis\"), or prayer shawl. The \"tallit\" is worn by Jewish men and some Jewish women during the prayer service. Customs vary regarding when a Jew begins wearing a tallit. In the Sephardi community, boys wear a tallit from bar mitzvah age. In some Ashkenazi communities, it is customary to wear one only after marriage. A \"tallit katan\" (small tallit) is a fringed garment worn under the clothing throughout the day. In some Orthodox circles, the fringes are allowed to hang freely outside the clothing.\n\nTefillin (Hebrew: תְפִלִּין), known in English as phylacteries (from the Greek word φυλακτήριον, meaning \"safeguard\" or \"amulet\"), are two square leather boxes containing biblical verses, attached to the forehead and wound around the left arm by leather straps. They are worn during weekday morning prayer by observant Jewish men and some Jewish women.\n\nA \"kittel\" (Yiddish: קיטל), a white knee-length overgarment, is worn by prayer leaders and some observant traditional Jews on the High Holidays. It is traditional for the head of the household to wear a kittel at the Passover seder in some communities, and some grooms wear one under the wedding canopy. Jewish males are buried in a \"tallit\" and sometimes also a \"kittel\" which are part of the \"tachrichim\" (burial garments).\n\nJewish holidays are special days in the Jewish calendar, which celebrate moments in Jewish history, as well as central themes in the relationship between God and the world, such as creation, revelation, and redemption.\n\n\"Shabbat\", the weekly day of rest lasting from shortly before sundown on Friday night to nightfall on Saturday night, commemorates God's day of rest after six days of creation. It plays a pivotal role in Jewish practice and is governed by a large corpus of religious law. At sundown on Friday, the woman of the house welcomes the Shabbat by lighting two or more candles and reciting a blessing. The evening meal begins with the Kiddush, a blessing recited aloud over a cup of wine, and the Mohtzi, a blessing recited over the bread. It is customary to have challah, two braided loaves of bread, on the table. During Shabbat, Jews are forbidden to engage in any activity that falls under 39 categories of \"melakhah\", translated literally as \"work\". In fact the activities banned on the Sabbath are not \"work\" in the usual sense: They include such actions as lighting a fire, writing, using money and carrying in the public domain. The prohibition of lighting a fire has been extended in the modern era to driving a car, which involves burning fuel and using electricity.\n\nJewish holy days (\"chaggim\"), celebrate landmark events in Jewish history, such as the Exodus from Egypt and the giving of the Torah, and sometimes mark the change of seasons and transitions in the agricultural cycle. The three major festivals, Sukkot, Passover and Shavuot, are called \"regalim\" (derived from the Hebrew word \"regel\", or foot). On the three regalim, it was customary for the Israelites to make pilgrimages to Jerusalem to offer sacrifices in the Temple.\n\nThe High Holidays (\"Yamim Noraim\" or \"Days of Awe\") revolve around judgment and forgiveness.\n\nPurim (Hebrew: \"Pûrîm\" \"lots\") is a joyous Jewish holiday that commemorates the deliverance of the Persian Jews from the plot of the evil Haman, who sought to exterminate them, as recorded in the biblical Book of Esther. It is characterized by public recitation of the Book of Esther, mutual gifts of food and drink, charity to the poor, and a celebratory meal (Esther 9:22). Other customs include drinking wine, eating special pastries called hamantashen, dressing up in masks and costumes, and organizing carnivals and parties.\n\nPurim has celebrated annually on the 14th of the Hebrew month of Adar, which occurs in February or March of the Gregorian calendar.\n\nHanukkah (, \"dedication\") also known as the Festival of Lights, is an eight-day Jewish holiday that starts on the 25th day of Kislev (Hebrew calendar). The festival is observed in Jewish homes by the kindling of lights on each of the festival's eight nights, one on the first night, two on the second night and so on.\n\nThe holiday was called Hanukkah (meaning \"dedication\") because it marks the re-dedication of the Temple after its desecration by Antiochus IV Epiphanes. Spiritually, Hanukkah commemorates the \"Miracle of the Oil\". According to the Talmud, at the re-dedication of the Temple in Jerusalem following the victory of the Maccabees over the Seleucid Empire, there was only enough consecrated oil to fuel the eternal flame in the Temple for one day. Miraculously, the oil burned for eight days – which was the length of time it took to press, prepare and consecrate new oil.\n\nHanukkah is not mentioned in the Bible and was never considered a major holiday in Judaism, but it has become much more visible and widely celebrated in modern times, mainly because it falls around the same time as Christmas and has national Jewish overtones that have been emphasized since the establishment of the State of Israel.\n\nTisha B'Av ( or , \"the Ninth of Av\") is a day of mourning and fasting commemorating the destruction of the First and Second Temples, and in later times, the expulsion of the Jews from Spain.\n\nThere are three more minor Jewish fast days that commemorate various stages of the destruction of the Temples. They are the 17th Tamuz, the 10th of Tevet and Tzom Gedaliah (the 3rd of Tishrei).\n\nThe modern holidays of Yom Ha-shoah (Holocaust Remembrance Day), Yom Hazikaron (Israeli Memorial Day) and Yom Ha'atzmaut (Israeli Independence Day) commemorate the horrors of the Holocaust, the fallen soldiers of Israel and victims of terrorism, and Israeli independence, respectively.\n\nThere are some who prefer to commemorate those who were killed in the Holocaust on the 10th of Tevet.\n\nThe core of festival and Shabbat prayer services is the public reading of the Torah, along with connected readings from the other books of the Tanakh, called Haftarah. Over the course of a year, the whole Torah is read, with the cycle starting over in the autumn, on Simchat Torah.\n\nSynagogues are Jewish houses of prayer and study. They usually contain separate rooms for prayer (the main sanctuary), smaller rooms for study, and often an area for community or educational use. There is no set blueprint for synagogues and the architectural shapes and interior designs of synagogues vary greatly. The Reform movement mostly refer to their synagogues as temples. Some traditional features of a synagogue are:\n\nIn addition to synagogues, other buildings of significance in Judaism include yeshivas, or institutions of Jewish learning, and mikvahs, which are ritual baths.\n\nThe Jewish dietary laws are known as \"kashrut\". Food prepared in accordance with them is termed kosher, and food that is not kosher is also known as \"treifah\" or \"treif\". People who observe these laws are colloquially said to be \"keeping kosher\".\n\nMany of the laws apply to animal-based foods. For example, in order to be considered kosher, mammals must have split hooves and chew their cud. The pig is arguably the most well-known example of a non-kosher animal. Although it has split hooves, it does not chew its cud. For seafood to be kosher, the animal must have fins and scales. Certain types of seafood, such as shellfish, crustaceans, and eels, are therefore considered non-kosher. Concerning birds, a list of non-kosher species is given in the Torah. The exact translations of many of the species have not survived, and some non-kosher birds' identities are no longer certain. However, traditions exist about the \"kashrut\" status of a few birds. For example, both chickens and turkeys are permitted in most communities. Other types of animals, such as amphibians, reptiles, and most insects, are prohibited altogether.\n\nIn addition to the requirement that the species be considered kosher, meat and poultry (but not fish) must come from a healthy animal slaughtered in a process known as \"shechitah\". Without the proper slaughtering practices even an otherwise kosher animal will be rendered \"treif\". The slaughtering process is intended to be quick and relatively painless to the animal. Forbidden parts of animals include the blood, some fats, and the area in and around the sciatic nerve.\n\nJewish law also forbids the consumption of meat and dairy products together. The waiting period between eating meat and eating dairy varies by the order in which they are consumed and by community, and can extend for up to six hours. Based on the Biblical injunction against cooking a kid in its mother's milk, this rule is mostly derived from the Oral Torah, the Talmud and Rabbinic law. Chicken and other kosher birds are considered the same as meat under the laws of \"kashrut\", but the prohibition is Rabbinic, not Biblical.\n\nThe use of dishes, serving utensils, and ovens may make food \"treif\" that would otherwise be kosher. Utensils that have been used to prepare non-kosher food, or dishes that have held meat and are now used for dairy products, render the food \"treif\" under certain conditions.\n\nFurthermore, all Orthodox and some Conservative authorities forbid the consumption of processed grape products made by non-Jews, due to ancient pagan practices of using wine in rituals. Some Conservative authorities permit wine and grape juice made without rabbinic supervision.\n\nThe Torah does not give specific reasons for most of the laws of \"kashrut\". However, a number of explanations have been offered, including maintaining ritual purity, teaching impulse control, encouraging obedience to God, improving health, reducing cruelty to animals and preserving the distinctness of the Jewish community. The various categories of dietary laws may have developed for different reasons, and some may exist for multiple reasons. For example, people are forbidden from consuming the blood of birds and mammals because, according to the Torah, this is where animal souls are contained. In contrast, the Torah forbids Israelites from eating non-kosher species because \"they are unclean\". The Kabbalah describes sparks of holiness that are released by the act of eating kosher foods, but are too tightly bound in non-kosher foods to be released by eating.\n\nSurvival concerns supersede all the laws of \"kashrut\", as they do for most halakhot.\n\nThe Tanakh describes circumstances in which a person who is \"tahor\" or ritually pure may become \"tamei\" or ritually impure. Some of these circumstances are contact with human corpses or graves, seminal flux, vaginal flux, menstruation, and contact with people who have become impure from any of these. In Rabbinic Judaism, Kohanim, members of the hereditary caste that served as priests in the time of the Temple, are mostly restricted from entering grave sites and touching dead bodies. During the Temple period, such priests (Kohanim) were required to eat their bread offering (Terumah) in a state of ritual purity, which laws eventually led to more rigid laws being enacted, such as hand-washing which became a requisite of all Jews before consuming ordinary bread.\n\nAn important subcategory of the ritual purity laws relates to the segregation of menstruating women. These laws are also known as \"niddah\", literally \"separation\", or family purity. Vital aspects of halakha for traditionally observant Jews, they are not usually followed by Jews in liberal denominations.\n\nEspecially in Orthodox Judaism, the Biblical laws are augmented by Rabbinical injunctions. For example, the Torah mandates that a woman in her normal menstrual period must abstain from sexual intercourse for seven days. A woman whose menstruation is prolonged must continue to abstain for seven more days after bleeding has stopped. The Rabbis conflated ordinary \"niddah\" with this extended menstrual period, known in the Torah as \"zavah\", and mandated that a woman may not have sexual intercourse with her husband from the time she begins her menstrual flow until seven days after it ends. In addition, Rabbinical law forbids the husband from touching or sharing a bed with his wife during this period. Afterwards, purification can occur in a ritual bath called a mikveh.\n\nTraditional Ethiopian Jews keep menstruating women in separate huts and, similar to Karaite practice, do not allow menstruating women into their temples because of a temple's special sanctity. Emigration to Israel and the influence of other Jewish denominations have led to Ethiopian Jews adopting more normative Jewish practices.\n\nLife-cycle events, or rites of passage, occur throughout a Jew's life that serves to strengthen Jewish identity and bind him/her to the entire community.\n\nThe role of the priesthood in Judaism has significantly diminished since the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE when priests attended to the Temple and sacrifices. The priesthood is an inherited position, and although priests no longer have any but ceremonial duties, they are still honored in many Jewish communities. Many Orthodox Jewish communities believe that they will be needed again for a future Third Temple and need to remain in readiness for future duty.\n\nFrom the time of the Mishnah and Talmud to the present, Judaism has required specialists or authorities for the practice of very few rituals or ceremonies. A Jew can fulfill most requirements for prayer by himself. Some activities—reading the Torah and \"haftarah\" (a supplementary portion from the Prophets or Writings), the prayer for mourners, the blessings for bridegroom and bride, the complete grace after meals—require a \"minyan\", the presence of ten Jews.\n\nThe most common professional clergy in a synagogue are:\n\nJewish prayer services do involve two specified roles, which are sometimes, but not always, filled by a rabbi or hazzan in many congregations. In other congregations these roles are filled on an ad-hoc basis by members of the congregation who lead portions of services on a rotating basis:\n\nMany congregations, especially larger ones, also rely on a:\n\nThe three preceding positions are usually voluntary and considered an honor. Since the Enlightenment large synagogues have often adopted the practice of hiring rabbis and hazzans to act as \"shatz\" and \"baal kriyah\", and this is still typically the case in many Conservative and Reform congregations. However, in most Orthodox synagogues these positions are filled by laypeople on a rotating or ad-hoc basis. Although most congregations hire one or more Rabbis, the use of a professional hazzan is generally declining in American congregations, and the use of professionals for other offices is rarer still.\n\n\nAt its core, the Tanakh is an account of the Israelites' relationship with God from their earliest history until the building of the Second Temple (c. 535 BCE). Abraham is hailed as the first Hebrew and the father of the Jewish people. As a reward for his act of faith in one God, he was promised that Isaac, his second son, would inherit the Land of Israel (then called Canaan). Later, the descendants of Isaac's son Jacob were enslaved in Egypt, and God commanded Moses to lead the Exodus from Egypt. At Mount Sinai, they received the Torah—the five books of Moses. These books, together with Nevi'im and Ketuvim are known as \"Torah Shebikhtav\" as opposed to the Oral Torah, which refers to the Mishnah and the Talmud. Eventually, God led them to the land of Israel where the tabernacle was planted in the city of Shiloh for over 300 years to rally the nation against attacking enemies. As time went on, the spiritual level of the nation declined to the point that God allowed the Philistines to capture the tabernacle. The people of Israel then told Samuel the prophet that they needed to be governed by a permanent king, and Samuel appointed Saul to be their King. When the people pressured Saul into going against a command conveyed to him by Samuel, God told Samuel to appoint David in his stead.\n\nOnce King David was established, he told the prophet Nathan that he would like to build a permanent temple, and as a reward for his actions, God promised David that he would allow his son, Solomon, to build the First Temple and the throne would never depart from his children.\n\nRabbinic tradition holds that the details and interpretation of the law, which are called the \"Oral Torah\" or \"oral law\", were originally an unwritten tradition based upon what God told Moses on Mount Sinai. However, as the persecutions of the Jews increased and the details were in danger of being forgotten, these oral laws were recorded by Rabbi Judah HaNasi (Judah the Prince) in the Mishnah, redacted \"circa\" 200 CE. The Talmud was a compilation of both the Mishnah and the Gemara, rabbinic commentaries redacted over the next three centuries. The Gemara originated in two major centers of Jewish scholarship, Palestine and Babylonia. Correspondingly, two bodies of analysis developed, and two works of Talmud were created. The older compilation is called the Jerusalem Talmud. It was compiled sometime during the 4th century in Palestine. The Babylonian Talmud was compiled from discussions in the houses of study by the scholars Ravina I, Ravina II, and Rav Ashi by 500 CE, although it continued to be edited later.\n\nSome critical scholars oppose the view that the sacred texts, including the Hebrew Bible, were divinely inspired. Many of these scholars accept the general principles of the documentary hypothesis and suggest that the Torah consists of inconsistent texts edited together in a way that calls attention to divergent accounts. Many suggest that during the First Temple period, the people of Israel believed that each nation had its own god, but that their god was superior to other gods. Some suggest that strict monotheism developed during the Babylonian Exile, perhaps in reaction to Zoroastrian dualism. In this view, it was only by the Hellenic period that most Jews came to believe that their god was the only god and that the notion of a clearly bounded Jewish nation identical with the Jewish religion formed.\n\nJohn Day argues that the origins of biblical Yahweh, El, Asherah, and Ba'al, may be rooted in earlier Canaanite religion, which was centered on a pantheon of gods much like the Greek pantheon.\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, the United Monarchy was established under Saul and continued under King David and Solomon with its capital in Jerusalem. After Solomon's reign, the nation split into two kingdoms, the Kingdom of Israel (in the north) and the Kingdom of Judah (in the south). The Kingdom of Israel was conquered by the Assyrian ruler Sargon II in the late 8th century BCE with many people from the capital Samaria being taken captive to Media and the Khabur River valley. The Kingdom of Judah continued as an independent state until it was conquered by a Babylonian army in the early 6th century BCE, destroying the First Temple that was at the center of ancient Jewish worship. The Judean elite was exiled to Babylonia and this is regarded as the first Jewish Diaspora. Later many of them returned to their homeland after the subsequent conquest of Babylonia by the Persians seventy years later, a period known as the Babylonian Captivity. A new Second Temple was constructed, and old religious practices were resumed.\n\nDuring the early years of the Second Temple, the highest religious authority was a council known as the Great Assembly, led by Ezra of the Book of Ezra. Among other accomplishments of the Great Assembly, the last books of the Bible were written at this time and the canon sealed.\n\nHellenistic Judaism spread to Ptolemaic Egypt from the 3rd century BCE. After the Great Revolt (66–73 CE), the Romans destroyed the Temple. Hadrian built a pagan idol on the Temple grounds and prohibited circumcision; these acts of ethnocide provoked the Bar Kokhba revolt 132–136 CE after which the Romans banned the study of the Torah and the celebration of Jewish holidays, and forcibly removed virtually all Jews from Judea. In 200 CE, however, Jews were granted Roman citizenship and Judaism was recognized as a \"religio licita\" (\"legitimate religion\") until the rise of Gnosticism and Early Christianity in the fourth century.\n\nFollowing the destruction of Jerusalem and the expulsion of the Jews, Jewish worship stopped being centrally organized around the Temple, prayer took the place of sacrifice, and worship was rebuilt around the community (represented by a minimum of ten adult men) and the establishment of the authority of rabbis who acted as teachers and leaders of individual communities (see Jewish diaspora).\n\nAround the 1st century CE, there were several small Jewish sects: the Pharisees, Sadducees, Zealots, Essenes, and Christians. After the destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, these sects vanished. Christianity survived, but by breaking with Judaism and becoming a separate religion; the Pharisees survived but in the form of Rabbinic Judaism (today, known simply as \"Judaism\"). The Sadducees rejected the divine inspiration of the Prophets and the Writings, relying only on the Torah as divinely inspired. Consequently, a number of other core tenets of the Pharisees' belief system (which became the basis for modern Judaism), were also dismissed by the Sadducees. (The Samaritans practiced a similar religion, which is traditionally considered separate from Judaism.)\n\nLike the Sadducees who relied only on the Torah, some Jews in the 8th and 9th centuries rejected the authority and divine inspiration of the oral law as recorded in the Mishnah (and developed by later rabbis in the two Talmuds), relying instead only upon the Tanakh. These included the Isunians, the Yudganites, the Malikites, and others. They soon developed oral traditions of their own, which differed from the rabbinic traditions, and eventually formed the Karaite sect. Karaites exist in small numbers today, mostly living in Israel. Rabbinical and Karaite Jews each hold that the others are Jews, but that the other faith is erroneous.\n\nOver a long time, Jews formed distinct ethnic groups in several different geographic areas—amongst others, the Ashkenazi Jews (of central and Eastern Europe), the Sephardi Jews (of Spain, Portugal, and North Africa), the Beta Israel of Ethiopia, and the Yemenite Jews from the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula. Many of these groups have developed differences in their prayers, traditions and accepted canons; however, these distinctions are mainly the result of their being formed at some cultural distance from normative (rabbinic) Judaism, rather than based on any doctrinal dispute.\n\nAntisemitism arose during the Middle Ages, in the form of persecutions, pogroms, forced conversions, expulsions, social restrictions and ghettoization.\n\nThis was different in quality from the repressions of Jews which had occurred in ancient times. Ancient repressions were politically motivated and Jews were treated the same as members of other ethnic groups. With the rise of the Churches, the main motive for attacks on Jews changed from politics to religion and the religious motive for such attacks was specifically derived from Christian views about Jews and Judaism. During the Middle Ages, Jewish people who lived under Muslim rule generally experienced tolerance and integration, but there were occasional outbreaks of violence like Almohad's persecutions.\n\nHasidic Judaism was founded by Yisroel ben Eliezer (1700–1760), also known as the \"Ba'al Shem Tov\" (or \"Besht\"). It originated in a time of persecution of the Jewish people when European Jews had turned inward to Talmud study; many felt that most expressions of Jewish life had become too \"academic\", and that they no longer had any emphasis on spirituality or joy. Its adherents favored small and informal gatherings called Shtiebel, which, in contrast to a traditional synagogue, could be used both as a place of worship and for celebrations involving dancing, eating, and socializing. Ba'al Shem Tov's disciples attracted many followers; they themselves established numerous Hasidic sects across Europe. Unlike other religions, which typically expanded through word of mouth or by use of print, Hasidism spread largely owing to Tzadiks, who used their influence to encourage others to follow the movement. Hasidism appealed to many Europeans because it was easy to learn, did not require full immediate commitment, and presented a compelling spectacle. Hasidic Judaism eventually became the way of life for many Jews in Eastern Europe. Waves of Jewish immigration in the 1880s carried it to the United States. The movement itself claims to be nothing new, but a \"refreshment\" of original Judaism. As some have put it: \"they merely re-emphasized that which the generations had lost\". Nevertheless, early on there was a serious schism between Hasidic and non-Hasidic Jews. European Jews who rejected the Hasidic movement were dubbed by the Hasidim as Misnagdim, (lit. \"opponents\"). Some of the reasons for the rejection of Hasidic Judaism were the exuberance of Hasidic worship, its deviation from tradition in ascribing infallibility and miracles to their leaders, and the concern that it might become a messianic sect. Over time differences between the Hasidim and their opponents have slowly diminished and both groups are now considered part of Haredi Judaism.\n\nIn the late 18th century CE, Europe was swept by a group of intellectual, social and political movements known as the Enlightenment. The Enlightenment led to reductions in the European laws that prohibited Jews to interact with the wider secular world, thus allowing Jews access to secular education and experience. A parallel Jewish movement, Haskalah or the \"Jewish Enlightenment\", began, especially in Central Europe and Western Europe, in response to both the Enlightenment and these new freedoms. It placed an emphasis on integration with secular society and a pursuit of non-religious knowledge through reason. With the promise of political emancipation, many Jews saw no reason to continue to observe Jewish law and increasing numbers of Jews assimilated into Christian Europe. Modern religious movements of Judaism all formed in reaction to this trend.\n\nIn Central Europe, followed by Great Britain and the United States, Reform (or Liberal) Judaism developed, relaxing legal obligations (especially those that limited Jewish relations with non-Jews), emulating Protestant decorum in prayer, and emphasizing the ethical values of Judaism's Prophetic tradition. Modern Orthodox Judaism developed in reaction to Reform Judaism, by leaders who argued that Jews could participate in public life as citizens equal to Christians while maintaining the observance of Jewish law. Meanwhile, in the United States, wealthy Reform Jews helped European scholars, who were Orthodox in practice but critical (and skeptical) in their study of the Bible and Talmud, to establish a seminary to train rabbis for immigrants from Eastern Europe. These left-wing Orthodox rabbis were joined by right-wing Reform rabbis who felt that Jewish law should not be entirely abandoned, to form the Conservative movement. Orthodox Jews who opposed the Haskalah formed Haredi Orthodox Judaism. After massive movements of Jews following The Holocaust and the creation of the state of Israel, these movements have competed for followers from among traditional Jews in or from other countries.\n\nCountries such as the United States, Israel, Canada, United Kingdom, Argentina and South Africa contain large Jewish populations. Jewish religious practice varies widely through all levels of observance. According to the 2001 edition of the National Jewish Population Survey, in the United States' Jewish community—the world's second largest—4.3 million Jews out of 5.1 million had some sort of connection to the religion. Of that population of connected Jews, 80% participated in some sort of Jewish religious observance, but only 48% belonged to a congregation, and fewer than 16% attend regularly.\n\nBirth rates for American Jews have dropped from 2.0 to 1.7. (Replacement rate is 2.1.) Intermarriage rates range from 40–50% in the US, and only about a third of children of intermarried couples are raised as Jews. Due to intermarriage and low birth rates, the Jewish population in the US shrank from 5.5 million in 1990 to 5.1 million in 2001. This is indicative of the general population trends among the Jewish community in the Diaspora, but a focus on total population obscures growth trends in some denominations and communities, such as Haredi Judaism. The Baal teshuva movement is a movement of Jews who have \"returned\" to religion or become more observant.\n\nChristianity was originally a sect of Second Temple Judaism, but the two religions diverged in the first century. The differences between Christianity and Judaism originally centered on whether Jesus was the Jewish Messiah but eventually became irreconcilable. Major differences between the two faiths include the nature of the Messiah, of atonement and sin, the status of God's commandments to Israel, and perhaps most significantly of the nature of God himself. Due to these differences, Judaism traditionally regards Christianity as Shituf or worship of the God of Israel which is not monotheistic. Christianity has traditionally regarded Judaism as obsolete with the invention of Christianity and Jews as a people replaced by the Church, though a Christian belief in dual-covenant theology emerged as a phenomenon following Christian reflection on how their theology influenced the Nazi Holocaust.\n\nSince the time of the Middle Ages, the Catholic Church upheld the \"Constitution pro Judæis\" (Formal Statement on the Jews), which stated \n\nUntil their emancipation in the late 18th and the 19th century, Jews in Christian lands were subject to humiliating legal restrictions and limitations. They included provisions requiring Jews to wear specific and identifying clothing such as the Jewish hat and the yellow badge, restricting Jews to certain cities and towns or in certain parts of towns (ghettos), and forbidding Jews to enter certain trades (for example selling new clothes in medieval Sweden). Disabilities also included special taxes levied on Jews, exclusion from public life, restraints on the performance of religious ceremonies, and linguistic censorship. Some countries went even further and completely expelled Jews, for example, England in 1290 (Jews were readmitted in 1655) and Spain in 1492 (readmitted in 1868). The first Jewish settlers in North America arrived in the Dutch colony of New Amsterdam in 1654; they were forbidden to hold public office, open a retail shop, or establish a synagogue. When the colony was seized by the British in 1664 Jewish rights remained unchanged, but by 1671 Asser Levy was the first Jew to serve on a jury in North America.\nIn 1791, Revolutionary France was the first country to abolish disabilities altogether, followed by Prussia in 1848. Emancipation of the Jews in the United Kingdom was achieved in 1858 after an almost 30-year struggle championed by Isaac Lyon Goldsmid with the ability of Jews to sit in parliament with the passing of the Jews Relief Act 1858. The newly united German Empire in 1871 abolished Jewish disabilities in Germany, which were reinstated in the Nuremberg Laws in 1935.\n\nJewish life in Christian lands was marked by frequent blood libels, expulsions, forced conversions and massacres. An underlying source of prejudice against Jews in Europe was religious. Christian rhetoric and antipathy towards Jews developed in the early years of Christianity and was reinforced by ever increasing anti-Jewish measures over the ensuing centuries. The action taken by Christians against Jews included acts of violence, and murder culminating in the Holocaust. These attitudes were reinforced in Christian preaching, art and popular teaching for two millennia, containing contempt for Jews, as well as statutes which were designed to humiliate and stigmatise Jews. The Nazi Party was known for its persecution of Christian Churches; many of them, such as the Protestant Confessing Church and the Catholic Church, as well as Quakers and Jehovah's Witnesses, aided and rescued Jews who were being targeted by the antireligious régime.\n\nThe attitude of Christians and Christian Churches toward the Jewish people and Judaism, have been changed mostly positive since World War II. Pope John Paul II and the Catholic Church have \"upheld the Church's acceptance of the continuing and permanent election of the Jewish people\" as well as a reaffirmation of the covenant between God and the Jews. In December 2015, the Vatican released a 10,000-word document that, among other things, stated that Catholics should work with Jews to fight antisemitism.\n\nBoth Judaism and Islam arose from the patriarch Abraham, and they are therefore considered Abrahamic religions. In both Jewish and Muslim tradition, the Jewish and Arab peoples are descended from the two sons of Abraham—Isaac and Ishmael, respectively. While both religions are monotheistic and share many commonalities, they differ based on the fact that Jews do not consider Jesus or Muhammad to be prophets. The religions' adherents have interacted with each other since the 7th century when Islam originated and spread in the Arabian peninsula. Indeed, the years 712 to 1066 CE under the Ummayad and the Abbasid rulers have been called the Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain. Non-Muslim monotheists living in these countries, including Jews, were known as dhimmis. Dhimmis were allowed to practice their own religions and administer their own internal affairs, but they were subject to certain restrictions that were not imposed on Muslims. For example, they had to pay the jizya, a per capita tax imposed on free adult non-Muslim males, and they were also forbidden to bear arms or testify in court cases involving Muslims. Many of the laws regarding dhimmis were highly symbolic. For example, dhimmis in some countries were required to wear distinctive clothing, a practice not found in either the Qur'an or the hadiths but invented in early medieval Baghdad and inconsistently enforced. Jews in Muslim countries were not entirely free from persecution—for example, many were killed, exiled or forcibly converted in the 12th century, in Persia, and by the rulers of the Almohad dynasty in North Africa and Al-Andalus, as well as by the Zaydi imams of Yemen in the 17th century (see: Mawza Exile). At times, Jews were also restricted in their choice of residence—in Morocco, for example, Jews were confined to walled quarters (mellahs) beginning in the 15th century and increasingly since the early 19th century.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, Jews were expelled from nearly all of the Arab countries. Most have chosen to live in Israel. Today, antisemitic themes including Holocaust denial have become commonplace in the propaganda of Islamic movements such as Hizbullah and Hamas, in the pronouncements of various agencies of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and even in the newspapers and other publications of Refah Partisi.\n\nThere are some movements that combine elements of Judaism with those of other religions. The most well-known of these is Messianic Judaism, a religious movement, which arose in the 1960s, that incorporates elements of Judaism with the tenets of Christianity. The movement generally states that Jesus is the Jewish Messiah, that he is one of the Three Divine Persons, and that salvation is only achieved through acceptance of Jesus as one's savior. Some members of the movement argue that Messianic Judaism is a sect of Judaism. Jewish organizations of every denomination reject this, stating that Messianic Judaism is a Christian sect, because it teaches creeds which are identical to those of Pauline Christianity.\n\nOther examples of syncretism include Semitic neopaganism, a loosely organized sect which incorporates pagan or Wiccan beliefs with some Jewish religious practices; Jewish Buddhists, another loosely organized group that incorporates elements of Asian spirituality in their faith; and some Renewal Jews who borrow freely and openly from Buddhism, Sufism, Native American religions, and other faiths.\n\nThe Kabbalah Centre, which employs teachers from multiple religions, is a New Age movement that claims to popularize the kabbalah, part of the Jewish esoteric tradition.\n\n\n\nJews in Islamic countries:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also Torah database for links to more Judaism e-texts.\n\n\nText study projects at . In many instances, the Hebrew versions of these projects are more fully developed than the English.\n"}
{"id": "11668427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11668427", "title": "Karakia", "text": "Karakia\n\nKarakia are Māori incantations and prayers, used to invoke spiritual guidance and protection.\n\n\"Karakia\" are generally used to increase the spiritual goodwill of a gathering, so as to increase the likelihood of a favourable outcome. They are also considered a formal greeting when beginning a ceremony. According to legend, there was a curse on the Waiapu River which was lifted when George Gage (Hori Keeti) performed \"karakia\". In the Māori religion, \"karakia\" are used to ritually cleanse the homes of the deceased after a burial. \n\nThe missionary Richard Taylor gives a 19th-century view of the traditional role and scope of \"karakia\":\nThe word \"karakia\", which we use for prayer, formerly meant a spell, charm, or incantation [...] [Maori] have spells suited for all circumstances - to conquer enemies, catch fish, trap rats, and snare birds, to make their kumara grow, and even to bind the obstinate will of woman; to find anything lost; to discover a stray dog; a concealed enemy; in fact, for all their wants. These karakias are extremely numerous [...]\nWith the nineteenth-century introduction of Christianity to New Zealand, Māori adopted (or wrote new) karakia to acknowledge the new faith. Modern karakia tend to contain a blend of Christian and traditional influence, and their poetic language may make literal translations into English not always possible.\n\nIn modern Māori society, performances of \"karakia\" frequently open important meetings and ceremonies, both within a Māori context (such as tribal hui, tangi, or the inauguration of new marae), and in a wider New Zealand setting in which both Māori and Pākehā participate (such as the beginning of public meetings or at the departure of official delegations for overseas).\n\n"}
{"id": "22477693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22477693", "title": "Libertas ecclesiae", "text": "Libertas ecclesiae\n\nLibertas ecclesiae (\"freedom of the Church\" in Latin) is the notion of freedom of ecclesiastical authority from secular or the temporal power, which guided the Reform movement which began in the 11th century.\n\nAfter the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen. Unfit to perform theological functions, much less to defend the interests of the Church, these warlords viewed Church property as an extension of their own landholdings.\n\nWhat resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit. This sorry state of the Church prompted enthusiasm for 'freeing' it from the direct control of these milites; Gregory VII helped frame this goal through the specifics of his reform program.\n\nIn addition to calling for spiritually pure figures at the helm of the Church, Gregory VII addressed the practical problems of pluralism (holding more than one church office) and poorly educated clerics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2523646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2523646", "title": "List of apologetic works", "text": "List of apologetic works\n\nThis is a list of books in the field of religious apologetics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46739391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46739391", "title": "Mesopotamian prayer", "text": "Mesopotamian prayer\n\nMesopotamian prayer are the prayers of the place and era known as ancient Mesopotamia. There are nine classifications of poem used within Mesopotamia.\n\nA definition of prayers of Mesopotamia is \"praise to god followed by request\" (this definition is according to \"T. Oshima\").<ref name=\"Review (2012) by Journal of Hebrew Scriptures (designation DOI:10.5508/jhs.2012.v12.r17) of\"></ref>\n\nAccording to one source (Bromiley) the form of the word, known and used to signify prayers during the Mesopotamian era, is described today as šu-il-lá. With regards to šu-il-lá, the scholars \"Lambert\", \"van der Toorn\" and \"Oshima\" posit an alternative use for the term, which they submit is instead with reference to the way in which a prayer is to be recited, not a general signifier (rubric) for prayer itself (a notion expressed by \"Bromiley\").\n\nŠu-il-lá is held to refer to an act of praying, by prayer exhibited by either \"lifting of hands\", \"to lift hands\", or \"to lift the hand\".\n\nPrayers are divided into the following classifications: Incantation prayers, Ershaḫungas, Gottesbriefe, Ikribus, Royal, Tamitas and other queries, Hymns, Šigû, and Namburbi.\n\nTribal specialists in ritual were required to perform incantations to accompany the use of texts known, for example, from Ugarit which are attested to contain ways to aid in the removal of snake-venom. Ugarit is also known to have contained additional health-related incantation texts.\n\nThe term \"Gottesbriefe\" is literally, petition-prayers, or letter prayers. They were mostly in the form of pleas for relief from illness and for the deliverance of personal longevity.\n\nThese prayers were performed for the purposes of divining.\n\nAnother source shows \"ikribū\" were benedictions.\n\nThe rulers' (Kings of Babylonia) prayers were made to a variety of deities, for example Marduk (the god of Babylonia), Nabû, Ŝamaš. The kings had inscribed prayers made onto cylinders made of clay and kept within buildings, in order to fulfill this function. Prayers of this type tended to not be for reason of the seeking of mercy and salvation as is found in \"Šuila\" prayers.\n\nBy study of the prayers, it seems apparent to scholars, that these types of prayers seem to be reformations of earlier topos made, for example, in a similar vein to prayers such as the \"Prayer to the Gods of the Night\".\n\nŠigû are lamentations. Lamentations are either complaints, or expressions of grief or sorrow. Both meanings are related (combined) within šigû.\n\nPrayers of this classification were performed during namburbi rituals. These rituals were undertaken firstly if an omen announced a fate that was evil, and a person wished to counter-act the fate, and secondly to counter witchcraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47827225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47827225", "title": "Montamentu", "text": "Montamentu\n\nMontamentu is an African Caribbean ecstatic religion or spiritual philosophy found in Curaçao.\n\nA modern-day form was introduced in the 1950s by immigrants from Santo Domingo.\n\nThe music which accompanies Montamentu is Tambú.\n"}
{"id": "50876268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50876268", "title": "Multiconfessionalism", "text": "Multiconfessionalism\n\nMulticonfessionalism is a term applied to countries which have a power sharing arrangement between people of different faiths, usually three or more significant confessional groups within the same jurisdiction. Examples of modern countries deemed multiconfessional are Lebanon and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The \"National Pact\" is a formal agreement altering the 1926 Consitution, which laid the foundation of Lebanon as a confessionalist state. Instead of the minority wielding the most power, political power became more representative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51920687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51920687", "title": "Multiple religious belonging", "text": "Multiple religious belonging\n\nMultiple religious belonging refers to the idea that individuals can belong to more than one religious tradition. While this is often seen as a common reality in regions such as Asia with its many religions, religious scholars have begun to discuss multiple religion belonging with respect to religious traditions such as Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.\n\nIn some religions such as Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, those who hold to an exclusivist understanding of religion see multiple religious belonging as problematic. This is in contrast with countries such as China, Japan, Korea, Vietnam, India, Nepal and Sri Lanka, whose cultures have a long history of being influenced by different religions. Moreover, in the postmodern period people tend to question their identity, because of the unlimited choices of religions, which leads to the difficulty in defining their identity.\n\nVan Bragt showed that 79% of Japanese self-identify as Shintoists and 75% self-identify as Buddhists. The reason for the extremely high percentage of both religions is that many Japanese consider themselves as both a Shintoist and a Buddhist and do not consider it a problem to belong to more than one religion. (Whether this statistic is correct is arguable.) This phenomenon, according to Van Bragt, is a \"division of labour\". Van Bragt argued that the cause of this phenomenon is that, different from the Western concept of religion, Shintoism and Buddhism in Japan are defined by their rituals and practices, not by their moral and social authority. Thus, the Japanese can belong to several religions that do not conflict with each other in terms of social and ethical issues.\n\nScholars such as Catherine Cornille, Peter C. Phan, Francis Xavier Clooney, Jan Van Bragt, Aloysius Pieris and Devaka Premawardhana have questioned the possibility of defining oneself into multiple religions. For these scholars, \"religious belonging\" is not an individual's subjective sense of a particular religion but rather, in Cornille's words, \"the recognition of one's religious identity by the tradition itself and the disposition to submit to the conditions for membership as delineated by that tradition.\" For Cornille, the ultimate purpose of a scholarly discussion on multiple religious belonging is to transform one's religion through the understanding of other religions.\n\nBased on Van Bragt's study, scholars have tried to investigate the possibility for adherents of a religion such as Christianity to belong to multiple religions. The approach to Christian multiple religious belonging, according to Devaka Premawardhana, can be divided into two trends: Peter Phan's approach based on a Christological ground, in which he emphasises on Christ's \"asymmetrically superior status\", and Francis Clooney's approach rooted in a methodological ground, which tries to cross boundaries into another religion just as religions must have discrete entities. These two approaches are summarised below.\n\nPhan's approach emphasised the assymmetricality in which Jesus is the Logos made flesh and the climax of God dealing with humankind. In an attempt to resonate with one's cultural identity and tradition, Phan explained that multiple religious belonging is necessary in order for practitioners of multiple belonging to treat other religions as a qualifier of their identity. This approach, according to Phan, does not deny one's Christian identity, which functions as substantive in relation to non-Christian religion. Phan noted that multiple religious belonging is not a new issue in the twenty-first century but rather the common form of life of the first-century Christians recorded in the book of Acts. In Phan's view, the disappearance of this trend was \"a tragic loss to both Judaism and Christianity\", because it led to a subsequent history of bitter hatred, especially from the side of Christianity.\n\nAs a comparative theologian, Clooney writes about the diversity in the world nowadays, especially with respect to the flourishing of different religions. For Clooney, reflecting on one's religion in this pluralistic world is necessary, so that we can \"see the others in light of our own, and our own in light of the other.\" Focusing on the study of scriptural and theological texts, Clooney compares them between Christian traditions and non-Christian religions, to \"cross boundaries\" to other traditions, so that one would re-think his or her theology, which would thus shape his or her identity. After more than 40 years of studying Hinduism, Clooney concluded that he finds the distinctive disciplines of theology and Hinduism are \"mutually enriching\". By applying this approach, according to Clooney, one can start within his or her \"home\" tradition, enter a different tradition and return to his or her tradition, which is enriched and reformulated after crossing boundaries.\n\nWhile scholars studying multiple religious belonging attempt to appreciate other religions' traditions besides their own, the conservative segment of Christianity tends to question the inclusivistic view of multiple religious belonging because it implies that salvation can be found from somewhere else other than Jesus Christ. In a 2010 article, Veli-Matti Kärkkäinen, a systematic theologian, questioned the approach of \"othering\" those that have traditions different from Christians' because God is the one who offers salvation; Christians only witness it. It is out of humility that Christians can say that salvation belongs to God, and God only, in Kärkkäinen's view. On the other hand, scholars studying multiple religious belonging such as John B. Cobb see this as an opportunity rather than a threat: \"I do not see multiple religious belonging as the primary way into the future. The primary way is the transformation of the particular religious traditions, at least in the Christian case, through their new encounter with other traditions.\" For Cobb, engaging in interfaith dialogue helps smooth the tension between Christianity and Judaism and avoid misunderstanding toward Islam.\n\nIn a 2017 article, sociologist Steve Bruce pointed out that most of the published writings in which multiple religious belonging is studied are purely conceptual and offer \"only anecdotes to illustrate theoretical or classificatory discussions\". Bruce argued that the few attempts to gather empirical data on the phenomenon have conflated a variety of different attitudes that should not be given the label of \"multiple religious belonging\", attitudes such as: universalistic re-interpretation of multiple religions, multiple religious association through family ties, multiple religious interest or sympathies, ancillary religious respect for a specific aspect of a religion, and secular equal respect for all religions. Bruce argued that the term \"multiple religious belonging\" should be strictly confined to being \"an observant 'member' of more than one religion (religion here meaning such high level abstractions as Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Sikhism, Buddhism etc)\", and since most religions have strict requirements for and expectations of observant members, sociologists should expect multiple religious belonging, defined in this way, to be \"remarkably rare\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2347090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347090", "title": "Numen", "text": "Numen\n\nNumen, pl. numina, is a Latin term for \"divinity\", or a \"divine presence\", \"divine will.\" The Latin authors defined it as follows. Cicero writes of a \"divine mind\" (\"divina mens\"), a god \"whose numen everything obeys,\" and a \"divine power\" (\"vim divinam\") \"which pervades the lives of men.\" It causes the motions and cries of birds during augury. In Virgil's recounting of the blinding of the one-eyed giant, Polyphemus, from the Odyssey, in his Aeneid, he has Odysseus and his men first \"ask for the assistance of the great numina\" (\"magna precati numina\"). Reviewing public opinion of Augustus on the day of his funeral, the historian Tacitus reports that some thought \"no honor was left to the gods\" when he \"established the cult of himself\" (\"se ... coli vellet\") \"with temples and the effigies of numina\" (\"effigie numinum\"). Pliny the younger in a letter to Paternus raves about the \"power,\" the \"dignity,\" and \"the majesty;\" in short, the \"\"numen\" of history.\" Lucretius uses the expression \"numen mentis\", or \"bidding of the mind,\" where \"bidding\" is \"numen\", not, however, the divine numen, unless the mind is to be considered divine, but as simply human will.\n\nSince the early 20th century, numen has sometimes been treated in the history of religion as a pre-animistic phase; that is, a belief system inherited from an earlier time. \"Numen\" is also used by sociologists to refer to the idea of magical power residing in an object, particularly when writing about ideas in the western tradition. When used in this sense, \"numen\" is nearly synonymous with \"mana\". However, some authors reserve use of \"mana\" for ideas about magic from Polynesia and southeast Asia.\n\nEtymologically, the word means \"a nod of the head\", here referring to a deity as it were \"nodding\", or making its will or its presence known). According to H. J. Rose: \nThe literal meaning is simply \"a nod\", or more accurately, for it is a passive formation, \"that which is produced by nodding\", just as \"flamen\" is \"that which is produced by blowing\", \"i.e.\", a gust of wind. It came to mean \"the product or expression of power\" — not, be it noted, power itself.\n\nThus, \"numen\" (divinity) is not personified (although it can be a personal attribute) and should be distinguished from \"deus\" (god).\n\nNumen was also used in the imperial cult of ancient Rome, to refer to the guardian-spirit, 'godhead' or divine power of a living emperor—in other words, a means of worshiping a living emperor without literally calling him a god.\n\nThe cult of Augustus was promoted by Tiberius, who dedicated the \"Ara Numinis Augusti\".\nIn this context, a distinction can be made between the terms \"numen\" and \"genius\".\n\nThe expression \"Numen inest\" appears in Ovid's \"Fasti\" (III, 296) and has been translated as 'There is a spirit here'. Its interpretation, and in particular the exact sense of \"numen\" has been discussed extensively in the literature.\n\nThe supposition that a \"numinous presence\" in the natural world supposed in the earliest layers of Italic religion, as it were an \"animistic\" element left over in historical Roman religion and especially in the etymology of Latin theonyms, has often been popularly implied, but was criticised as \"mostly a scholarly fiction\" by McGeough (2004).\n\nThe phrase \"numen eris caeloque redux mirabere regna\" appears on line 129 of the poem \"Metrum in Genesin\", attributed to Hilary of Arles.\n\n\nIn modern times, the term (referring to the Christian God) has been used in various expressions:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30712470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30712470", "title": "Open Episcopal Church", "text": "Open Episcopal Church\n\nThe Open Episcopal Church (OEC) is a liberal Christian denomination. It has bishops in England and Wales and clergy throughout the United Kingdom and internationally. It has over 29,000 members.\n\nThe church was the first in Britain to ordain a woman as bishop and to perform religious wedding ceremonies for gay couples.\n\nThe OEC is a member of the International Council of Community Churches, which in turn is a member of The World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nIn 1994 Jonathan Blake, who had been a priest in the Church of England for over 12 years, effected a Deed of Relinquishment, severing his denominational ties. \n\nAs an independent priest he offered sacramental ministry to all. In 1997 he wrote about these experiences in his book, \"For God's Sake Don't Go To Church\". The same year he nailed 95 theses to the door of Canterbury Cathedral, for which he was arrested but not charged.\n\nA lesbian from the north of England arranged to meet Blake after reading his book. She felt a call to the ministry but had been rebuffed by the church over her sexuality and was interested in independent ministry. Following the meeting Blake placed an advert in the \"Church Times\" inviting all those interested in such a ministry to a conference the following March. Over 100 people contacted him, among them Richard Palmer, who had been consecrated as a bishop of the Liberal Catholic Church in 1997, but had resigned in April 1999. \n\nBlake wrote the Founding Principles of the Society for Independent Christian Ministry (SICM), which was inaugurated by a group of Christians reciting the Lord’s Prayer in the Sanctum of the Holy Circle Trust near Ryarsh in Kent at sunrise on 1 January 2000.\n\nIn February 2001, Blake conducted the first gay wedding blessing on Richard and Judy's prime time TV programme \"This Morning\".\n\nBy the time SICM met for the third time in Bournemouth, Palmer required those who had been ordained simply in Dartford to be ordained \"sub conditione\" at this gathering in a full rite of ordination. Blake realized that a new denomination had to be founded and set about writing the necessary canons.\n\nAt Hazlewood Castle, Michael Wilson was consecrated a bishop by Palmer and Blake. The three bishops issued the \"Hazlewood Declaration\" on 10 November 2001, which facilitated the creation of the Open Episcopal Church. The church viewed itself as being in succession from the Old Catholic Church, which had been established in England in 1908 by Arnold Mathew from See of Utrecht and continued through the Liberal Catholic Church.\n\nFor the next year, the Society of Independent Christian Ministry and the Open Episcopal Church coexisted, but the differences between them made this untenable, and at Liverpool in October 2002 it was decided finally that thereafter they should separate, following similar paths, and containing many of the same people, but with two distinct approaches.\n\nThe first significant meeting of the College of Bishops of the Open Episcopal Church took place in London in July 2002, prior to the separation of the Open Episcopal Church and the Society for Independent Christian Ministry at Liverpool in October of that year.\n\nElizabeth Stuart was consecrated as a bishop at the Royal Holloway Chapel, the college chapel of the Royal Holloway and Bedford New College, the University of London, Egham in Surrey, in April 2003. This was the first consecration of a woman as an independent Catholic bishop in the UK. \n\nThe first congress of the church was held at the All Saints Pastoral Centre in June 2004. The church's college of bishops met at Weston Manor in Oxfordshire in January 2005 and Wilson, an evangelical, resigned from the Church. The second congress was held at Whaley Hall at Whaley Bridge in mid 2005. In October, Roger Whatley was consecrated a bishop in the Chapel of the Ammerdown Conference Centre.\n\nThe church has had three archbishops: Richard Palmer, who left the church along with Roger Whatley after the allotted five-years of Palmer's tenure as archbishop ended; Elizabeth Stuart, who left the church in 2006 and was appointed the Archbishop of the Province of Great Britain and Ireland of the more traditionalist Liberal Catholic Church International; and Jonathan Blake, OEC's founder, who was the church's sole remaining bishop after Stuart left.\n\nIn 2008 the Open Episcopal Church became a member of the International Council of Community Churches and through them, a member of the World Council of Churches and Churches Uniting in Christ.\n\nThe church received national and international attention due to the wedding blessing Blake conducted for reality television figures Jade Goody and Jack Tweed, through interviews broadcast after Jade Goody's death, through the prayer released before Jade Goody's funeral, through Blake's response to Michael Parkinson's criticism of Goody, through the launch of Post the Host (an outreach provision to distribute the consecrated Hosts by post), and through David Gillham leading the prayers in the Scottish Parliament.\n\nFollowing Jade Goody's wedding, Christopher Woods, Chaplain and Director of Studies in Theology at Christ's College, Cambridge, called upon the Church of England to speak out against Blake and the OEC. The Church of England declined to comment.\n\nThe church consecrated the first woman as a bishop for Wales in 2007. The bishop of Scotland, David Gillham, ordained Helen Hamilton at St Magnus Cathedral, Kirkwall, Orkney in 2010; Gillham later fell into dispute with the church and left. Hamilton was subsequently consecrated as the first woman bishop for Scotland in June 2012. She made an episcopal visit to Londonderry. In 2013 the church consecrated a female bishop for Northumberland.\n\nBlake contributed to the book \"A Strange Vocation: Independent Bishops Tell Their Stories\" in 2009, and contributed liturgical material to Geoffrey Duncan's anthology \"Courage to Love\" and Leanne Tigert and Maren Tirabassi's compilation \"All Whom God Has Joined\". In 2014 Blake's book \"That Old Devil Called God Again: The Scourge of Religion\" was published.\n\nThe church has clerics from Anglican, Roman Catholic, Pentecostal, Lutheran and Franciscan backgrounds and has grown internationally into America, Egypt, Brazil and Thailand. The church promotes its KITE Awards for young people making a positive difference in the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "33853725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33853725", "title": "Orthodoxy in Azerbaijan", "text": "Orthodoxy in Azerbaijan\n\nOrthodoxy in Azerbaijan is the second largest religious group in the Republic of Azerbaijan (after Islam). According to statistics, the Orthodox Byzantine tradition in Azerbaijan is 2.3% (209.7 thousand people). The territory of Azerbaijan is in the jurisdiction of the Baku-Azerbaijan Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nSerious changes in the Albanian church occurred under the Arab rule, when the Catholicos Nerses I Bakur (688-704) attempted to convert to Chalcedonism, thus recognizing the spiritual authority of Constantinople. He was deposed by the Grand Duke of Albania Shero and other feudal lords who remained faithful to the Albanian church, and cursed at the national church cathedral. In the second half of the 10th century, the population of the left-bank Albania (Hereti) was included in the sphere of influence of the decision of the Chalcedon Council of the Georgian Church, adopted in the 7th century and got a great impact of Georgia.\n\nWhen the territories of Transcaucasia entered the Russian Empire, the Albanian Catholicos of the church in 1813 by the decree of Tsar Nicholas I passed into the status of the metropolite of the Albanian church.\n\nOrthodoxy became wide spread in Azerbaijan at the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nIn 1815, the first Russian Orthodox church appeared in Baku. Later such churches were built in Ganja, Goranboy (Borisi-Russian village, 1842), Shemakha (Alty-Aghadj village, 1834), Lankaran (Vel village, 1838), and Gedabek (Slavyanka village, 1844).\n\nThere were 21 sectarian villages in Baku during 1868.\n\nIn 1905, the Baku Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church was established. During the Soviet era, the authorities repressed the priests of the Baku diocese, but in 1944 two churches were opened.\n\nIn 1998, the Baku-Caspian Diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church was established. On March 22, 2011, the decision of the Holy Synod of the Russian Orthodox Church was changed to the Baku-Caspian diocese in Baku-Azerbaijan.\n\nIn 2011 there were six Christian Orthodox churches in the country. Five of them belong to the Russian Orthodox church (ROC): three of them are located in Baku one in Ganja and one in Khachmaz.\n\nAnother temple belongs to the jurisdiction of the Georgian Orthodox Church - the church of St. George in the village of Gakh-Inguila in the Qakh district, where the Ingiloi Georgians live compactly (about 7,500 people).\n\nIn 2013, November, President Ilham Aliyev participated in the opening ceremony of Orthodox Religious and Cultural Center of Baku and Azerbaijan Eparchy. Firstly The President visited the Holy Myrrhbearers Cathedral.\n\nThere is also the Michael Archangel’s Temple in the capital city Baku.\n\nIn 2001, during his visit to Azerbaijan, Patriarch Alexe II met with representatives of the Udin community who expressed the desire of their people to join the ROC. However, this did not lead to any real results, and the community of Udin remained outside the church's nourishment.\n\nIn May 28, 2003, the Albanian-Udin Christian community was established in Azerbaijan. The Chairman of the community was Robert Mobilea. This was due to the restoration of the ancient Kish temple in Shaki (according to legend, the foundation was laid by the apostle Eliseus). In 2006, the restoration of the second Udin temple, the church in the village of Nijgabalinsky district, was completed. Restoration works are also continued in the village of Gum of the Gakh region and the basilica in the village of Gyumriuk with the intention of restoration of the Albanian basilica which is related to the 5th century.\n\nIn 2006, the bishop of Baku and the Caspian Sea, Alexander (Ishchein), reported that Orthodox worship will be performed in Udin churches, and priests for them are trained in Russian religious schools. The Baku diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church took part in some solemn events, and even held baptisms, but there is no general progress on the involving of Udin into the ROC. Meanwhile, the Albanian-Udin Christian community exists in the form of a separate ethno-religious group with its own ideas about the \"Udin Church\", in which rituals are conducted not by canonical clergymen, but by the members of the community. In particular, the right to baptize was taken over by the Chairman of the AUHO Robert Mobilea and the self-styled \"spiritual figure\" Rafik Danakari.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10120046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10120046", "title": "Political science of religion", "text": "Political science of religion\n\nThe political science of religion (also referred to as politicology of religion or politology of religion) is one of the youngest disciplines in the political sciences that deals with a study of influence that religion has on politics and vice versa with a focus on the relationship between the subjects (actors) in politics in the narrow sense: government, political parties, pressure groups, and religious communities. It was established in the last decades of the twentieth century.\n\nThe basic research areas of the political science of religion are:\n\nThese fields of research are in constant development. The newest area of research in political science of religion is on the subject of religion and international relations.\n\nThe political science of religion or politology of religion was established as an academic discipline in 1993 at the Faculty of Political Science of the University of Belgrade, Serbia. The founder of this discipline is Dr Miroljub Jevtic; http://www.fpn.bg.ac.rs/en/undergraduate-studies/political-department/third-year/ . In 2006, Georgetown University established the Berkley Center for Religion, Peace, and World Affairs as one of the first American university research centers devoted to issues surrounding the political science of religion.\n\nThe \"Politics and Religion Journal\" was founded by the Center for Study of Religion and Religious Tolerance in Belgrade, Serbia in 2007. Its \"spiritus movens\" and editor in chief is Miroljub Jevtić, professor at the Faculty of Political Science, University of Belgrade, Serbia. The journal \"Politics and Religion\", produced by Cambridge Journals, published its first volume in 2008.\n\nThe political science of religion is studied at almost all universities and political science departments in the United States. The American Political Science Association has a religion and politics section.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52266305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52266305", "title": "Ptolemaic cult of Alexander the Great", "text": "Ptolemaic cult of Alexander the Great\n\nThe Ptolemaic cult of Alexander the Great was an imperial cult in ancient Egypt in the Hellenistic period (323–31 BC), promoted by the Ptolemaic dynasty. The core of the cult was the worship of the deified conqueror-king Alexander the Great, which eventually formed the basis for the ruler cult of the Ptolemies themselves. The head priest of the cult was the chief priest in the Ptolemaic Kingdom, and years were dated after the incumbents (eponymous priests).\n\nFollowing the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC, his empire fell apart in the wars of the Diadochi (his generals, the Diadochi or \"Successors\"). One of them, Ptolemy, son of Lagos, secured rule of Egypt and made it the base for his own imperial ambitions. To legitimize his rule as Ptolemy I Soter ( BC), he relied, like the other Diadochi, not only on the right of conquest, but also on the supposed legitimate succession of Alexander. Not only did Ptolemy I portray himself as Alexander's closest friend in his historical work, but in 321 BC, he seized his body while Alexander's funeral procession was on its way to Macedon from Babylon, and brought it to the Egyptian capital at Memphis. This claim was particularly useful in Egypt, where Alexander had been greeted as liberator from the Achaemenid Empire (the so-called \"Twenty-seventh Dynasty\") and had been enthroned as Pharaoh and son of the deity Ammon-Ra, receiving divine honours. During his stay in Egypt, Alexander had also laid the foundations for the city of Alexandria, which became the main Greek colony and capital of the country.\n\nIn the new Ptolemaic Kingdom, the Hellenic element (Macedonians and people from Greek city-states), to which the Ptolemaic dynasty itself belonged, formed the ruling class which succeeded the native Egyptian Pharaohs. While sacred kingship had long been practised in Egypt and other eastern nations, it was almost unheard-of in the Greek world. Driven by his unprecedented conquests, in the last year of his life Alexander had demanded even from his Greek subjects to be treated as a living god (\"apotheōsis\"). This was accepted only reluctantly, and often rejected outright, by the Greek cities, but Alexander's prolific founding of cities alone secured for him a divine status there, since Greek cities traditionally rendered their founder () divine honours. When Ptolemy took over Egypt, he incorporated the heritage of Alexander into his own propaganda to support the claims of his own dynasty. As part of this effort, Alexander was elevated from a simple patron god of Alexandria to the status of a state god for the Greek populations of the entire Ptolemaic empire, even beyond the confines of Egypt.\n\nDuring the early Ptolemaic dynasty (), Ptolemy I began the construction of the Tomb of Alexander the Great in Alexandria (the , \"sēma\", ), and appointed a priest (, \"hiereus\") to conduct religious rites there. This office quickly advanced to become the highest priesthood in the Ptolemaic Kingdom, its prominence underscored by its eponymous character, i.e., each regnal year was named after the incumbent priest, and documents, whether in Koine Greek or Demotic Egyptian, where dated after him. The first priest of Alexander was no less a figure than Ptolemy I's brother Menelaos. The tenure lasted one year, but under Ptolemy I, the priests apparently held the post for longer tenures, while under his successors, with few exceptions, the tenures were reduced to a single year.\n\nUnder Ptolemy II Philadelphus ( BC), Alexander's body was brought to the \"sēma\", and, in contrast to the usual Greek custom of cremation, was entombed in a magnificent golden sarcophagus, which was eventually replaced by a transparent glass coffin to display his preserved body. Not only did the presence of Alexander's body in the Ptolemaic capital enhance the dynasty's prestige, but it also became one of the main attractions and pilgrimage sites in the ancient Mediterranean. Even Roman emperors made the journey to Alexandria to visit the great conqueror's tomb. \n\nThe Ptolemies assigned the deified Alexander a prominent place in the Greek pantheon, associating him with the Twelve Olympians like Zeus and Apollo. Accordingly, in documents Alexander was referred to simply by his name, as the epithet \"theos\" (\"god\") was regarded as superfluous.\n\nWhile Ptolemy I Soter founded the imperial cult of Alexander, his son and successor Ptolemy II completed its connection to the ruler cult around the reigning dynasty itself. The cult of the Ptolemies began in 283/2 BC, when the deceased parents of Ptolemy II were deified as the \"Saviour Gods\" (θεοὶ σωτῆρες, \"theoi sōtēres\"). Statues of the deified couple were installed in the Temple of Alexander, and the priest of the Alexander cult took over the rites for the deified Ptolemies as well. With this gesture, the Ptolemies underlined the superior position of Alexander, and their own subordination to him as \"temple-sharing gods\" (, \"synnanoi theoi\"). Alexander remained the main recipient of rituals and sacrifices, with the Ptolemies only partaking in them.\n\nThe elevation of Alexander over the Ptolemies, and their connection to him, was further deepened through the expansion of the cult. Thus in 269 BC, the female priestly office of \"basket bearer\" (\"kanēphóros\") for the \"Sibling Goddess\" (\"thea adelphos\") Arsinoe II was established, followed in 211 BC by the \"prize-bearer\" priestess (\"athlophoros\") in honour of the \"Benefactor Goddess\" (\"thea euergetis\"), Berenice II, and in 199 BC by a priestess for the \"Father-Loving Goddess\" (\"thea philopatōr\"), Arsinoe III. All these priesthoods were subordinate to the priest of Alexander.\n\nCleopatra III added three further female priesthoods for her own personal cult as \"Benefactor and Mother-Loving Goddess\" (\"thea euergetis philometōr\"): the \"sacred foal\" (\"hieros pōlos\"), the \"crown bearer\" (\"stephanēphoros\"), and the \"light bearer\" (\"phōsphoros\").\n\nThe concept of \"temple-sharing gods\" was underlined under Ptolemy IV Philopator ( BC), who translated the remains of the Ptolemies and their consorts—unlike Alexander, they had been cremated and kept in urns—to the \"sēma\".\n\nPtolemy, son of Castor, is the last priest of Alexander known by name, before the position was merged into the royal office. Since the priesthood of Alexander is first attested in the royal titulature in the second year of the joint reign of Ptolemy IX and Cleopatra III (116/115 BC), it is unclear whether the merge of the offices took place in the last two years of Ptolemy VII's rule, or with the accession of his successors. It is possible that the merger was done at the initiative of Ptolemy IX, as part of an effort to emphasize his precedence over his co-ruling mother, Cleopatra III. As such, the office changed its role and character, from an eponymous priesthood to a propaganda tool: unlike the royal office, which was increasingly shared among siblings or other family members from the early 2nd century BC on, the priesthood of Alexander was indivisible. This must have appealed to Ptolemy IX, eager to set himself apart from his mother, who he hated and who had begun her own priestly cult around her own person.\n\nThis new role of the priesthood of Alexander can be traced in later reigns as well. In the first months of 112/111 BC, an ordinary citizen, Artemidorus, occupied the office. He was probably a partisan of Cleopatra III, who had succeeded to temporarily evict her son from Alexandria. As women could not occupy a supreme priesthood in the Greek world, she had to content herself with placing one of her supporters in the post, as a public sign of her new dominance. After Artemidorus, however, the name of Ptolemy IX was subsequently added in the papyrus, which means that he managed to return to Alexandria in the same year.\n\nIn 107 BC, Cleopatra III managed to expel Ptolemy IX for good from Alexandria, and raised her second son, Ptolemy X, to the throne as her co-ruler and priest of Alexander. As the inter-dynastic rivalry continued, however, in 105 BC she finally decided to assume the priesthood herself, to underline her precedence. Cleopatra probably intended this arrangement to be permanent, but her blatant violation of Greek norms in assuming the priesthood must have damaged her image among the Greeks. The last years of her reign were taken up with her persistent conflict with Ptolemy IX, until she died in 101 BC, probably following an assassination attempt by Ptolemy IX, whereupon Ptolemy X became sole ruler. The priestly and royal offices remained united under Ptolemy X and his successors, although the priestly title was rarely mentioned in the papyri, as the loss of its eponymous character rendered it irrelevant for dating purposes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35432202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35432202", "title": "Purépecha religion", "text": "Purépecha religion\n\nThe Purépecha religion is the religion of the Purépecha people.\n\n"}
{"id": "25414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25414", "title": "Religion", "text": "Religion\n\nReligion may be defined as a cultural system of designated behaviors and practices, worldviews, texts, sanctified places, prophecies, ethics, or organizations, that relates humanity to supernatural, transcendental, or spiritual elements. However, there is no scholarly consensus over what precisely constitutes a religion.\n\nDifferent religions may or may not contain various elements ranging from the divine, sacred things, faith, a supernatural being or supernatural beings or \"some sort of ultimacy and transcendence that will provide norms and power for the rest of life\". Religious practices may include rituals, sermons, commemoration or veneration (of deities), sacrifices, festivals, feasts, trances, initiations, funerary services, matrimonial services, meditation, prayer, music, art, dance, public service, or other aspects of human culture. Religions have sacred histories and narratives, which may be preserved in sacred scriptures, and symbols and holy places, that aim mostly to give a meaning to life. Religions may contain symbolic stories, which are sometimes said by followers to be true, that have the side purpose of explaining the origin of life, the universe, and other things. Traditionally, faith, in addition to reason, has been considered a source of religious beliefs.\n\nThere are an estimated 10,000 distinct religions worldwide, but about 84% of the world's population is affiliated with one of the five largest religion groups, namely Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism or forms of folk religion. The religiously unaffiliated demographic includes those who do not identify with any particular religion, atheists and agnostics. While the religiously unaffiliated have grown globally, many of the religiously unaffiliated still have various religious beliefs.<ref name=\"Pew Global Unaffiliated 12/2012\"></ref>\n\nThe study of religion encompasses a wide variety of academic disciplines, including theology, comparative religion and social scientific studies. Theories of religion offer various explanations for the origins and workings of religion, including the ontological foundations of religious being and belief.\n\n\"Religion\" (from O.Fr. \"religion\" religious community, from L. \"religionem\" (nom. \"religio\") \"respect for what is sacred, reverence for the gods, sense of right, moral obligation, sanctity\", \"obligation, the bond between man and the gods\") is derived from the Latin \"religiō\", the ultimate origins of which are obscure. One possible interpretation traced to Cicero, connects ' read, i.e. \"re\" (again) with \"lego\" in the sense of choose, go over again or consider carefully. The definition of \"religio\" by Cicero is \"cultum deorum\", \"the proper performance of rites in veneration of the gods.\" Julius Caesar used \"religio\" to mean \"obligation of an oath\" when discussing captured soldiers making an oath to their captors. The Roman naturalist Pliny the Elder, used the term \"religio\" on elephants in that they venerate the sun and the moon. Modern scholars such as Tom Harpur and Joseph Campbell favor the derivation from ' bind, connect, probably from a prefixed \"\", i.e. \"re\" (again) + \"ligare\" or to reconnect, which was made prominent by St. Augustine, following the interpretation given by Lactantius in \"Divinae institutiones\", IV, 28. The medieval usage alternates with \"order\" in designating bonded communities like those of monastic orders: \"we hear of the 'religion' of the Golden Fleece, of a knight 'of the religion of Avys'\".\n\nIn the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root \"religio\" was understood as an individual virtue of worship in mundane contexts; never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge. In general, \"religio\" referred to broad social obligations towards anything including family, neighbors, rulers, and even towards God. \"Religio\" was most often used by the ancient Romans not in the context of a relation towards gods, but as a range of general emotions such as hesitation, caution, anxiety, fear; feelings of being bound, restricted, inhibited; which arose from heightened attention in any mundane context. The term was also closely related to other terms like \"scrupulus\" which meant \"very precisely\" and some Roman authors related the term \"supertitio\", which meant too much fear or anxiety or shame, to \"religio\" at times. When \"religio\" came into English around the 1200s as religion, it took the meaning of \"life bound by monastic vows\" or monastic orders. The compartmentalized concept of religion, where religious things were separated from worldly things, was not used before the 1500s. The concept of religion was first used in the 1500s to distinguish the domain of the church and the domain of civil authorities.\n\nIn the ancient Greece, the Greek term \"threskeia\" was loosely translated into Latin as \"religio\" in late antiquity. The term was sparsely used in classical Greece but became more frequently used in the writings of Josephus in the first century CE. It was used in mundane contexts and could mean multiple things from respectful fear to excessive or harmfully distracting practices of others; to cultic practices. It was often contrasted with the Greek word \"deisidaimonia\" which meant too much fear.\n\nThe modern concept of religion, as an abstraction that entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines, is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign cultures with non-European languages.\nSome argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply the term religion to non-Western cultures. Others argue that using religion on non-western cultures distorts what people do and believe.\n\nThe concept of religion was formed in the 16th and 17th centuries, despite the fact that ancient sacred texts like the Bible, the Quran, and others did not have a word or even a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written. For example, there is no precise equivalent of religion in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities. One of its central concepts is \"halakha\", meaning the walk or path sometimes translated as law, which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life. Even though the beliefs and traditions of Judaism are found in the ancient world, ancient Jews saw Jewish identity as being about an ethnic or national identity and did not entail a compulsory belief system or regulated rituals. Even in the 1st century CE, Josephus had used the Greek term \"ioudaismos\", which some translate as Judaism today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs. It was in the 19th century that Jews began to see their ancestral culture as a religion analogous to Christianity. The Greek word \"threskeia\", which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus, is found in the New Testament. \"Threskeia\" is sometimes translated as religion in today's translations, however, the term was understood as worship well into the medieval period. In the Quran, the Arabic word \"din\" is often translated as religion in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed \"din\" as law. \n\nThe Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as religion, also means law. Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions. Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between imperial law and universal or Buddha law, but these later became independent sources of power.\n\nThroughout the Americas, Native Americans never had a concept of \"religion\" and any suggestion otherwise is a colonial imposition by Christians.\n\nThough traditions, sacred texts, and practices have existed throughout time, most cultures did not align with western conceptions of religion since they did not separate everyday life from the sacred. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the terms Buddhism, Hinduism, Taoism, Confucianism, and world religions first entered the English language. No one self-identified as a Hindu or Buddhist or other similar terms before the 1800s. \"Hindu\" has historically been used as a geographical, cultural, and later religious identifier for people indigenous to the Indian subcontinent. Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of religion since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.\n\nAccording to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word religion, the Latin \"religio\", was originally used to mean only reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety (which Cicero further derived to mean diligence). Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history. What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called law.\n\nScholars have failed to agree on a definition of religion. There are however two general definition systems: the sociological/functional and the phenomenological/philosophical.\n\nReligion is a modern Western concept. Parallel concepts are not found in many current and past cultures; there is no equivalent term for religion in many languages. Scholars have found it difficult to develop a consistent definition, with some giving up on the possibility of a definition. Others argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply it to non-Western cultures.\n\nAn increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the essence of religion. They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia). The MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions states:\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a\nAlluding perhaps to Tylor's \"deeper motive\", Geertz remarked that\nThe theologian Antoine Vergote took the term supernatural simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency. He also emphasized the cultural reality of religion, which he defined as\nPeter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity. They define religion as\n"}
{"id": "24210813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210813", "title": "Religion in space", "text": "Religion in space\n\nAstronauts, cosmonauts, and spaceflight participants have observed their religions while in space; sometimes publicly, sometimes privately. Religious adherence in outer space poses unique challenges and opportunities for practitioners. Space travelers have reported profound changes in the way they view their faith related to the overview effect, while some secular groups have criticized the use of government spacecraft for religious activities by astronauts.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, 1968 astronauts Bill Anders, Jim Lovell, and Frank Borman read from the Book of Genesis as Apollo 8 orbited the Moon. A lawsuit by American Atheists founder Madalyn Murray O'Hair alleged that the observance amounted to a government endorsement of religion in violation of the First Amendment, but the case was dismissed.\n\nOn STS-128 astronaut Patrick Forrester brought a fragment of a Missionary Aviation Fellowship aircraft which crashed in Ecuador in 1956.\n\nApollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, a Presbyterian, performed a communion service for himself using a kit provided by his church. Aldrin had told flight director Chris Kraft of his plans and intended to broadcast the service back to Earth but opted not to at the request of Deke Slayton, due to the continuing controversy over Apollo 8's reading.\n\nA microfilm Bible that had been to the surface of the Moon was auctioned off in 2011. It was a King James Version created after three astronauts lost their lives in the Apollo 1 fire. Ed White, one of the astronauts who perished, had wanted to take a Bible to the Moon.\n\nA signed message from Pope Paul VI was included among statements from dozens of other world leaders left on the moon on a silicon disk during the Apollo 11 mission. Following the mission William Donald Borders, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orlando, told the Pope that the 1917 Code of Canon Law placed the moon within his diocese, as the first explorers had departed from Cape Kennedy which was under his jurisdiction.\n\nIn May 2011, Pope Benedict XVI of the Catholic Church talked to the crew of the Space Shuttle \"Endeavour\" while it was in Earth orbit.\n\nRussian Orthodox Christmas was celebrated on the International Space Station, on January 7, 2011. Cosmonauts had the day off, but one of the other crew tweeted, \"Merry Christmas to all Russia.\" The whole crew also celebrated on December 25, two weeks prior.\n\nMuslims in space struggle with fulfilling their religious obligations including kneeling and facing Mecca to pray in microgravity traveling at several kilometres per second. The issue first came up when Sultan bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, a Saudi prince, flew aboard STS-51-G and again when Anousheh Ansari flew as a tourist to the International space station. In preparation for Malaysian Sheikh Muszaphar Shukor's trip to the ISS in 2007, the National Fatwa Council created \"Muslim Obligations in the International Space Station\" outlining permissible modifications to rituals such as kneeling when praying (not required in space), facing Mecca when praying (left to the astronaut's best abilities at the start of prayer), and washing (a wet towel will suffice).\n\nIn February 2014, the General Authority of Islamic Affairs and Endowment (GAIAE) issued a fatwa forbidding devout Muslims from participating as crew members in Mars One's proposed one way mission to Mars. Speaking for the clerical group, Farooq Hamada explained that, \"Protecting life against all possible dangers and keeping it safe is an issue agreed upon by all religions and is clearly stipulated in verse 4/29 of the Holy Quran: Do not kill yourselves or one another. Indeed, Allah is to you ever Merciful.\"\n\nAn example of Judaism in space occurred in 2003, when a microfilm Torah and a written copy of the Shabbat kiddush were brought into orbit by Ilan Ramon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44746378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44746378", "title": "Religion on the Line", "text": "Religion on the Line\n\nReligion on the Line is the name of a number of local talk radio programs, where a variety of clergy members discuss religious and other topics. On WABC in New York, it is hosted by Rabbi Joseph Potasnik and Deacon Kevin McCormack. On KCMO in Kansas City, it is hosted by Reverend Robert Lee Hill, Chancellor George M. Noonan, and Rabbi Emeritus Michael Zedek. On KABC in Los Angeles, it was hosted by Dennis Prager.\n"}
{"id": "38614952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38614952", "title": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service", "text": "Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service\n\nThe Royal Navy Chaplaincy Service provides chaplains to the Royal Navy. The chaplains are commissioned by the Sovereign but do not hold military rank other than that of \"Chaplain Royal Navy\". They are usually addressed as Padre, Reverend or more informally Bish. Chaplains are recruited from a number of Christian denominations.\n\nThe senior chaplain in the Royal Navy is currently Martyn Gough. An Anglican priest, he is also the Archdeacon for the Royal Navy.\n\nChaplains undergo training at Britannia Royal Naval College alongside other Royal Navy officer cadets. After completing the course they may opt to earn their \"Dolphins\" and serve in the Submarine Service or the green beret (upon completion of the All Arms Commando Course) and serve with the Royal Marines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12178732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12178732", "title": "Sacred", "text": "Sacred\n\nSacred is dedicated or set apart for the service or worship of a deity or considered worthy of spiritual respect or devotion; or inspiring awe or reverence among believers. The property is often ascribed to objects (a \"sacred artifact\" that is venerated and blessed), or places (\"sacred ground\").\n\nFrench sociologist Émile Durkheim considered the dichotomy between the sacred and the profane to be the central characteristic of religion: \"religion is a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to \"sacred things\", that is to say, things set apart and forbidden.\" In Durkheim's theory, the sacred represented the interests of the group, especially unity, which were embodied in sacred group symbols, or totems. The profane, on the other hand, involved mundane individual concerns.\n\nAlthough there are similarities between the terms \"sacred\" and \"holy\" and they are sometimes used interchangeably, there are subtle differences. \"Holiness\" is generally the term used in relation to persons and relationship, while \"sacredness\" is used in relation to objects, places, or happenings. Thus a saint may be considered as holy, but he is not viewed as sacred.\n\nThe word \"sacred\" descends from the Latin \"sacer\", that is consecrated, or dedicated to the gods or anything in their power, and to \"sacerdos\" and \"sanctum\", set apart.\n\nAlthough there are similarities between the terms \"sacred\" and \"holy\" and they are sometimes used interchangeably, there are subtle differences. \"Holiness\" is generally the term used in relation to persons and relationship, while \"sacredness\" is used in relation to objects, places, or happenings. Thus a saint may be considered as holy, but he is not viewed as sacred. However, there are things that are both holy and sacred such as the holy bible.\n\nThe English word \"holy\" dates back to at least the 11th century with the Old English word \"hālig\", an adjective derived from \"hāl\" meaning \"whole\" and used to mean \"uninjured, sound, healthy, entire, complete\". The Scottish \"hale\" (\"health, happiness and wholeness\") is the most complete modern form of this Old English root. The word \"holy\" in its modern form appears in Wycliffe's Bible of 1382. In non-specialist contexts, the term \"holy\" is used in a more general way, to refer to someone or something that is associated with a divine power, such as water used for baptism.\n\nWhile both words denote something or someone set apart to the worship of God and therefore worthy of respect and in some cases veneration, \"holy\" (the stronger word) implies an inherent or essential character. Holiness originates in God and is communicated to things, places, times, and persons engaged in His Service. Thus Aquinas Thomas defines \"holiness\" as that virtue by which a man's mind applies itself and all its acts to God; he ranks it among the infused moral virtues, and identifies it with the virtue of religion, but with this difference that, whereas religion is the virtue whereby one offers God due service in the things which pertain to the Divine service, holiness is the virtue by which one makes all one's acts subservient to God. Thus holiness or sanctity is the outcome of sanctification, that Divine act by which God freely justifies a person, and by which He has claimed them for His own.\n\nHierology (Greek ιερος, \"hieros\", \"sacred\" or \"holy\", + -logy) is the study of sacred literature or lore.\n\nMircea Eliade outlines that religion should not be interpreted only as 'belief in deities', but as 'experience of the sacred'. He analyses the dialectic of the sacred. The sacred is presented in relation to the profane. The relation between the sacred and the profane is not of opposition, but of complementarity, as the profane is viewed as a hierophany.\n\nFrench sociologist Émile Durkheim considered the dichotomy between the sacred and the profane to be the central characteristic of religion: \"religion is a unified system of beliefs and practices relative to \"sacred things\", that is to say, things set apart and forbidden.\" In Durkheim's theory, the sacred represented the interests of the group, especially unity, which were embodied in sacred group symbols, or totems. The profane, on the other hand, involved mundane individual concerns. Durkheim explicitly stated that the dichotomy sacred/profane was not equivalent to good/evil. The sacred could be good or evil, and the profane could be either as well.\n\nIn Theravada Buddhism one finds the designation of 'noble person' or \"ariyapuggala\" (Pali). The Buddha described four grades of such person depending on their level of purity. This purity is measured by which of the ten fetters (\"samyojana\") and \"klesha\" have been purified and integrated from the mindstream. These persons are called (in order of increasing sanctity) \"Sotāpanna\", \"Sakadagami\", \"Anāgāmi\" and \"Arahant\".\n\nMore traditional denominations, such as the Anglican, Catholic, Lutheran, and Methodist Churches, believe in Holy Sacraments that the clergy perform, such as Holy Communion and Holy Baptism, as well as strong belief in the Holy Catholic Church, Holy Scripture, Holy Trinity, and the Holy Covenant. They also believe that angels and saints are called to holiness.\n\nCatholicism has inherited much of the Jewish vision of the world in terms of holiness, with certain behaviour appropriate to certain places and times. The calendar gives shape to Catholic practice, which tends to focus on the Eucharist, in which the Real Presence of Christ is manifested. Holy days, celebrating events of the life of Christ and the lives of Catholic saints officially recognized as holy, are celebrated throughout the year.\n\nMany features of the Jewish temple (although now seen as having Christian significance) are imitated in churches, such as the altar, bread, lamp, incense, font, etc., to emphasise the extreme holiness of the Eucharistic elements, which are reserved in a tabernacle. In extension of this focus on the Sacrament as holy, many objects in Catholicism are also considered holy. They are called sacramentals and are usually blessed by a priest. Such items include rosaries, crucifixes, medals, and statues and icons of Jesus, angels and saints (e.g. Virgin Mary). While Catholics believe that holy places and objects (i.e., objects dedicated to God for sacred use) should be respected and not put to profane use, the Catholic Church condemns worshiping the object itself, as any worship given to something other than God is considered idolatry.\n\nPeople in a state of sanctifying grace are also considered holy in Catholicism. A central notion of Catholicism as articulated in contemporary theology is the \"[personal] call to holiness,\" considered to be a vocation shared by every Christian believer. Profound personal holiness has traditionally also been seen as a focus for the kind of contagious holiness primarily associated with the Sacrament. So the communion of saints in Catholicism is not only the acclamation of their piety or morality, but also reverence for the tangible holiness that flows from their proximity to the divine. Hence the places where saints lived, died, performed miracles, or received visions frequently become sites of pilgrimage, and notable objects surviving a saint (including the body or parts of it) are considered relics. The holiness of such places or objects, resulting from contact with a deeply holy person, is often connected with the miraculous long after the death of the saint.\n\nSanctus (Latin for \"holy\") is the name of an important hymn of Christian liturgy. The Trisagion ('Thrice Holy') is a standard hymn of the Divine Liturgy of the Eastern Churches.\n\nThe early Protestant Reformers, who were often scholars of Ancient Greek and also borrowed from Jewish scholarship, recognized that holiness is an attribute of God, and holiness is always part of the presence of God. Yet they also recognized that \"practical holiness\" was the evidence of the presence of God in the converted believer. Martin Luther viewed God's grace (and therefore God's holiness), as an invasion of the life. Actions that demonstrated holiness would spring up, not premeditated, as believers focused more and more on their relationship with Christ. This was the life of faith, according to Luther; a life in which one recognizes that the sin inherent in human nature never departs, yet grace invades each human spirit and draws each person after Christ.\n\nCalvin, on the other hand, formulated a practical system of holiness that even tied in with culture and social justice. All unholy actions, Calvin reasoned, resulted in suffering. Thus he proved out to the city fathers of Geneva that dancing and other social vices always ended with the wealthy oppressing the poor. A holy life, in his outlook, was pietistic and simple, a life that shunned extravagance, excess, and vanity. On a personal level, Calvin believed that suffering would be a manifestation of taking on the Cross of Christ, but suffering was also part of the process of holiness. He expected that all Christians would suffer in this life, not as punishment, but rather as participation in union with Christ, who suffered for them. And yet, socially, Calvin argued that a holy society would end up as a gentle, kindly society (except to criminals) where the poor would be protected from the abuses of the wealthy, the lawyers, and others who normally preyed upon them.\n\nIn Methodism, holiness has acquired the secondary meaning of the reshaping of a person through spiritual rebirth. The term owes its origin to John Wesley, who stressed \"scriptural holiness\", as well as Christian perfection.\n\nThe Holiness movement began within Methodism in the United States, among those who thought the church had lost the zeal and emphasis on personal holiness of Wesley's day. In the latter part of the 19th century revival meetings were held, attended by thousands. In Vineland, N.J in 1867 a camp meeting was begun and the National Holiness Camp Meeting Association went on to establish many holiness camp meetings across the nation. Some adherents to the movement remained within their denominations; others founded new denominations, such as the Free Methodist Church, the Church of the Nazarene, and the Church of God (Anderson). Within a generation another movement, the Pentecostal movement was born, drawing heavily from the Holiness movement. Around the middle of the 20th century, the Conservative Holiness Movement, a conservative offshoot of the Holiness movement, was born. The Higher Life movement appeared in the British Isles during the mid-19th century.\n\nIn the contemporary Holiness movement, the idea that holiness is relational is growing. In this thought, the core notion of holiness is love. Other notions of holiness, such as purity, being set apart, perfection, keeping rules, and total commitment, are seen as contributory notions of holiness. These contributory notions find their ultimate legitimacy when love is at their core (Thomas Jay Oord and Michael Lodahl).\n\nCommonly recognized outward expressions or \"standards\" of holiness among more fundamental adherents frequently include applications relative to dress, hair, and appearance: e.g., short hair on men, uncut hair on women, and prohibitions against shorts, pants on women, make-up and jewelry. Other common injunctions are against places of worldly amusement, mixed swimming, smoking, minced oaths, as well as the eschewing of television and radio.\n\nAmong the names of God in the Qur'an is القدوس (\"Al-Quddus\") : found in and , the closest English translation is \"holy\" or \"sacred\". It shares the same triliteral Semitic root as the Hebrew \"kodesh\" (see below). Another use of the same root is found in the Arabic name for Jerusalem: \"al-Quds\", \"the Holy\".\n\nThe word حرام \"(ħarām)\", often translated as \"prohibited\" or \"forbidden\", is better understood as \"sacred\" or \"sanctuary\" in the context of places considered sacred in Islam, \"e. g.\": the \"Masjid al-Haram\", the Sacred Mosque in Mecca, constituting the immediate precincts of the Ka'aba; \"al-Haramain\" or \"the (two) Sanctuaries\", a reference to the twin holy cities of Mecca and Medina; and the \"Haram ash-Sharif\" or Noble Sanctuary, the precincts of the Dome of the Rock and al-Aqsa Mosque in Jerusalem.\n\nThe Hebrew word קֹדֶשׁ, transliterated as \"qodesh\", has been used in the Torah to mean set-apartness and separateness as well as holiness and sacredness. The Torah describes the Aaronite priests and the Levites as being selected by God to perform the Temple services; they, as well, are called \"holy.\" Some consider that the Hebrew noun for \"holiness,\" \"kedushah\" (), from the adjective \"kodesh\", \"holy,\" has the connotation of \"separateness\".\n\nHowever, holiness is not a single state, but contains a broad spectrum. The Mishnah lists concentric circles of holiness surrounding the Temple in Jerusalem: Holy of Holies, Temple Sanctuary, Temple Vestibule, Court of Priests, Court of Israelites, Court of Women, Temple Mount, the walled city of Jerusalem, all the walled cities of Israel, and the borders of the Land of Israel. Distinctions are made as to who and what are permitted in each area.\n\nLikewise, the Jewish holidays and the Shabbat are considered to be holy in time; the Torah calls them \"holy [days of] gathering\". Work is not allowed on those days, and rabbinic tradition lists 39 categories of activity that are specifically prohibited.\n\nBeyond the intrinsically holy, objects can become sacred through consecration. Any personal possession may be dedicated to the Temple of God, after which its misappropriation is considered among the gravest of sins. The various sacrifices are holy. Those that may be eaten have very specific rules concerning who may eat which of their parts, and time limits on when the consumption must be completed. Most sacrifices contain a part to be consumed by the priests – a portion of the holy to be consumed by God's holy devotees.\n\nThe encounter with the holy is seen as eminently desirable, and at the same time fearful and awesome. For the strongest penalties are applied to one who transgresses in this area – one could in theory receive either the death penalty or the heavenly punishment of \"kareth\", spiritual excision, for mis-stepping in his close approach to God's domain.\n\n"}
{"id": "144178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144178", "title": "Sathya Sai Baba", "text": "Sathya Sai Baba\n\nSathya Sai Baba (born Sathyanarayana Raju; 23 November 192624 April 2011) was an Indian guru, a spiritual leader, and philanthropist. He claimed to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi.\n\nSai Baba's purported materialisations of \"vibhuti\" (holy ash) and other small objects such as rings, necklaces, and watches, were a source of both fame and controversy. Some have analyzed them as being mere sleight of hand; while his devotees considered them signs of his divinity. Innumerable reports of miraculous healings, resurrection, clairvoyance, bilocation, and alleged omnipotence and omniscience have been attributed to Sai Baba by both devotees and non-devotees.\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation, founded by Sai Baba \"to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement\", has over 1,200 Sathya Sai Centres (branches) in 126 countries. Through this organisation, Sai Baba established a network of free hospitals, clinics, drinking water projects, auditoriums, ashrams and schools.\n\nAlmost everything known about Sai Baba's early life stems from the hagiography that grew around him, narratives that hold special meaning to his devotees and are considered by them to be evidence of his divine nature. According to these sources, Sathya Narayana Raju was born to Meesaraganda Eashwaramma and Peddavenkama Raju Ratnakaram in the village of Puttaparthi, to a Raju family, in what was the Madras Presidency of British India. His birth, which his mother Eashwaramma asserted was by miraculous conception, was also said to be heralded by miracles.\n\nSai Baba's siblings included elder brother Ratnakaram Seshama Raju (1911–1985), sisters Venkamma (1918–1993) and Parvathamma (1920–1998), and younger brother Janakiramaiah (1931–2003).\n\nAs a child, he was described as \"unusually intelligent\" and charitable, though not necessarily academically inclined, as his interests were of a more spiritual nature. He was uncommonly talented in devotional music, dance and drama. From a young age, he was alleged to have been capable of materialising objects such as food and sweets out of thin air.\n\nOn 8 March 1940, while living with his elder brother Seshama Raju in Uravakonda, a small town near Puttaparthi, 14 year old Sathya was apparently stung by a scorpion. He lost consciousness for several hours and in the next few days underwent a noticeable change in behaviour. There were \"symptoms of laughing and weeping, eloquence and silence.\" It is claimed that then \"he began to sing Sanskrit verses, a language of which it is alleged he had no prior knowledge.\" Doctors concluded his behaviour to be hysteria. Concerned, his parents brought Sathya back home to Puttaparthi and took him to many priests, doctors and exorcists. One of the exorcists at Kadiri, a town near Puttaparthi, went to the extent of torturing him with the aim of curing him; Sathya seemingly kept calm throughout the torture.\n\nOn 23 May 1940, Sathya called household members and reportedly materialised sugar candy (\"prasad)\" and flowers for them. His father became furious at seeing this, thinking his son was bewitched. He took a stick and threatened to beat him if Sathya did not reveal who he really was, the young Sathya responded calmly and firmly \"I am Sai Baba\", a reference to Sai Baba of Shirdi. This was the first time he proclaimed himself to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi—a saint who became famous in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Maharashtra and had died eight years before Sathya was born.\n\nIn 1944, a mandir for Sai Baba's devotees was built near the village of Puttaparthi. It is now referred to as the \"old mandir\". The construction of Prashanthi Nilayam, the current ashram, began in 1948 and was completed in 1950. In 1954, Sai Baba established a small free general hospital in the village of Puttaparthi. He won fame for mystical powers and the ability to heal. In 1957 Sai Baba went on a North Indian temple tour.\n\nIn 1963, it was asserted that Sai Baba suffered a stroke and four severe heart attacks, which left him paralysed on one side. These events culminated in an event where he apparently healed himself in front of the thousands of people gathered in Prashanthi Nilayam who were then praying for his recovery.\n\nOn recovering, Sai Baba announced that he would one day next be reborn as an incarnation named \"Prema Sai Baba\" in the neighbouring state of Karnataka. He stated, \"I am Shiva-Sakthi, born in the gotra (lineage) of Bharadwaja, according to a boon won by that sage from Siva and Sakthi. Siva was born in the gotra of that sage as Sai Baba of Shirdi; Shiva and Sakthi have incarnated as Myself in his gotra now; Sakthi alone will incarnate as the third Sai (Prema Sai Baba) in the same gotra in Mandya district of Karnataka State.\" He stated he would be born again eight years after his death at the age of 96, but died at the age of 84.\n\nOn 29 June 1968, Sai Baba made his only overseas trip, to Kenya and Uganda. In Nairobi, he spoke of his personal mission: \n\nIn 1968, he established Dharmakshetra or the Sathyam Mandir in Mumbai. In 1973, he established the Shivam Mandir in Hyderabad. On 19 January 1981, in Chennai, he inaugurated the Sundaram Mandir.\n\nIn a 1993 incident, four intruders armed with knives entered his bedroom, either as an assassination attempt or as part of a power struggle between his followers. Sai Baba was unharmed. During the scuffle and the police response, the intruders and two of Sai Baba's attendants were killed. The official investigation left questions unanswered.\n\nIn March 1995, Sai Baba started a project to provide drinking water to 1.2 million people in the drought-prone Rayalaseema region in the Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. In April 1999 he inaugurated the Ananda Nilayam Mandir in Madurai, Tamil Nadu.\n\nIn 2001 he established another free super-speciality hospital in Bangalore to benefit the poor. The \"Vancouver Sun\" in 2001 reported that Sai Baba told his adherents not to browse the Internet after Sai Baba said, \"These teachings (the Vedas) are highly sacred. Today people are ready to believe all that they see on television and internet but do not repose their faith in the Vedic declarations. Internet is like a waste paper basket. Follow the 'innernet,' not the internet.\"\n\nIn 2003, Sai Baba suffered a fractured hip when a student standing on an iron stool slipped and the boy and stool both fell on him. After that he gave darshana from a car or his porte chair. After 2004, Sai Baba used a wheelchair and began to make fewer public appearances.\n\nOn 28 March 2011, Sai Baba was admitted to the Sri Sathya Sai Super Speciality Hospital at Prashantigram at Puttaparthi, following respiration-related problems. After nearly a month of hospitalisation, during which his condition progressively deteriorated, Sai Baba died on Sunday, 24 April at 7:40 IST, aged 84.\n\nSai Baba had predicted that he would die at age 96 and would remain healthy until then. After he died, some devotees suggested that he was referring to that many lunar years, as counted by Telugu-speaking Hindus, rather than solar years, and using the Indian way of accounting for age, which counts the year to come as part of the person's life. Other devotees have spoken of his anticipated resurrection, reincarnation or awakening.\n\nHis body lay in state for two days and was buried with full state honours on 27 April 2011. An estimated 500,000 people attended the burial, among them the Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, then Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi (India's Present Prime Minister), Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and Union Ministers S. M. Krishna and Ambika Soni, as well as other political leaders and prominent figures.\n\nSai Baba's death triggered an outpouring of grief from followers who included Indian politicians, movie stars, athletes and industrialists. Most remembered him as a pious, selfless person who worked to help others with the billions of dollars donated to his charitable trust.\n\nPolitical leaders who offered their condolences included the then Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa and the Dalai Lama. Cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, whose birthday was that day, cancelled his birthday celebrations. \"The Hindu\" newspaper reported that \"Sri Sathya Sai Baba's propagation of spiritualism and preaching of Hindu philosophy never came in the way of his commitment to secular beliefs.\"\n\nThe Government of Karnataka declared 25 and 26 April as days of mourning and Andhra Pradesh declared 25, 26, and 27 April as days of mourning.\n\nOn 17 June 2011, officials from the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust (founded as a charitable Trust in India, and legally separate from religious activities), opened his private residence in the presence of government, bank and tax department officials, including retired Supreme Court Judge A P Mishra and retired judge of Karnataka High Court Vaidyanatha, an assessor approved by the Income Tax Department, and former Chief Justice of India P N Bhagavati. In the private residence, which had been sealed since his death, they inventoried 98 kg of gold ornaments, approximate value Rs 21 crores (US$4.7m), 307 kg of silver ornaments, approximate value Rs 16 million (US$0.36m), and Rs 116 million (US$2.6m) in cash. The cash was deposited into the Sai Trust's account at the State Bank of India with payment of government taxes (thus transferring them from religious gifts to Trust assets.) The gold and other items were inventoried, assessed, and placed in secure storage. In July, district authorities inventoried an additional Rs 7.7 million (US$0.17m) in valuables in another 4 rooms. The total value of these items is believed to exceed 7.8 million US dollars.\n\nAlso inventoried at Yajurmandir were many articles stored and routinely given away as gifts in various ceremonies to devotees and those who performed selfless service, including thousands of pure silk sarees, dhotis, shirts, 500 pairs of shoes, dozens of bottles of perfume and hairspray, watches, a large number of silver and gold \"mangala sutrams\", and precious stones such as diamonds. There were also 750 saffron and white robes of the type Sai Baba wore.\n\nIn July 2011, a similar opening of his Bangalore-area ashram tallied 6 kg of gold coins and jewellery, 245 kg of silver articles and Rs 8 million in cash.\n\nThese items and goods are believed to have been donated over the years by Sai Baba's devotees from all over the world as religious gifts.\n\nOn 2 September 2012, Satyajit Salian, a close aide of Sri Sathya Sai Baba, released to the media a declaration made by Sai Baba, and registered on 23 March 1967, in Bombay saying his relatives had no authority over the Sathya Sai Trust assets. The exact text of the declaration was:\n\nSatyajit Sailan also attached the attestation of Indulal Sha, who is the sole surviving witness to the original document. Satyajit Sailan said he has been in possession of the document since 1998, per the directions of Sai Baba. Officials from the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust stated to the media that they would respect this will.\n\nThe Vahinis are a series of books by Sai Baba.\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation (or Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization) was founded in the 1960s by Sai Baba. The first Sai Centres were started in India under the name of the \"Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi\". The Sathya Sai Organisation originated \"to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement.\" The official mission of the Sathya Sai Organization is \"to help its members realize the innate divinity within\".\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation publishes an official monthly magazine named \"Sanathana Sarathi\", published by the Sri Sathya Sai Books and Publications Trust. The English translation of the word Sanathana Sarathi means 'Eternal Charioteer'.\n\nSai Baba stated that the main objective of the Sathya Sai Organisation \"is to help man recognize the divinity that is inherent in him. So, your duty is to emphasize the One, to experience the One in all you do or speak. Do not give any importance to differences of religion or sect or status or colour. Have the feeling of one-ness permeate every act of yours. Only those who do so have a place in this Organization; the rest can withdraw.\"\n\nThe Sathya Sai Organisation reports that there are an estimated 1,200 Sathya Sai Baba Centres in 114 countries.\nHowever, the number of active Sai Baba followers is hard to determine. Estimates vary from 6 million up to nearly 100 million. In India itself, Sai Baba drew followers predominantly from the upper-middle-class, the urban sections of society who have the \"most wealth, education and exposure to Western ideas.\" In 2002, he claimed to have followers in 178 countries.\n\nSai Baba founded a large number of schools and colleges, hospitals, and other charitable institutions in India and abroad, the total cost of which is usually estimated at Rs. 400 billion (US$9 billion). However, estimates as high as 1.4 trillion rupees (about US$31.5bn) have also been made. After his death, questions about the manner in which the finances of the organisation were going to be managed led to speculations of impropriety, with some reports suggesting that suitcases containing cash and/or gold had been removed from his personal lodgings.\n\nSai Baba's educational institutions aim to impart character education along with excellence in academics with emphasis on human values and ethics.\n\nSri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning (Deemed to be University), established in 1981, called Sri Sathya Sai University for some years, of which Sai Baba was the Chancellor, has four campuses, one at Puttaparthi for men, one at Whitefield, Bangalore for men, one at Anantapur for women, and one at Muddenahalli for men.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Higher Secondary School was founded by Bhagawan Sri Sathya Sai Baba on 15 June 1981 in 'Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Giri' complex of Prasanthi Nilayam, Puttaparthi. This is a boarding school with separate hostel for boys and girls. The school caters to classes I to XII of the Central Board of Secondary Education, New Delhi [CBSE]. For 2014, it was ranked in the top 10 CBSE schools of India.\n\nSathya Sai Baba chaired the Sri Sathya Sai loka Seva institutions, Alike and Muddenahalli Karnataka from Madiyal Narayana Bhat, Currently it is headed by U Gangadhar Bhat. In addition, a Sathya Sai Baba University and Medical School also a hospital and research institute are being constructed on over . Baba said that the campus will be modelled after Puttaparthi and will infuse spirituality with academics.\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust runs several general hospitals, two speciality hospitals, eye hospitals and mobile dispensaries and conducts medical camps in rural and slum areas in India.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai General Hospital, Whitefield was opened in Whitefield, Bangalore, in 1977 and provides complex surgery, food and medicines free of cost. The hospital has treated over 2 million patients.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Puttaparthi is a 300-bed facility which provides free surgical and medical care and which was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narasimha Rao on 22 November 1991. The hospital was financed and its construction supervised by Isaac Tigrett, founder of the Hard Rock Cafe and House of Blues.\n\nThe hospital is equipped 11 surgical theatres, five intensive care units, two cardiac catheterisation laboratories, medical and surgical wards, and a 24-hour emergency unit. \"Leading doctors specialising in the fields of Cardiology, Cardio Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, Urology, Ophthalmology etc. come from different parts of the World on their own and render their services free of cost.\"\n\nThe hospital has a unique history of its own. On 23 November 1990, during his birthday discourse, Sri Sathya Sai Baba while talking about the inability of healthcare access to the poor declared within one year a tertiary care hospital will come up in the village of Puttaparthi, which will provide high-end care completely free to all the patients. The hospital was constructed in a record time of exactly one year and the first cardiothoracic operations were carried out successfully.\n\nAfter the success of the first super speciality hospital, the Karnataka government offered Sai Baba 53 acres of land to establish another super speciality hospital in Whitefield.\n\nThe Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Whitefield is a 333-bed hospital, which was inaugurated on 19 January 2001 by Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee. The estimated cost of this second hospital was Rs 2000 million. The hospital has provided free medical care to over 250,000 patients.\n\nIn November 1995, Sai Baba expressed his concern about the lack of drinking water in Rayalseema. In March 1995, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust commenced work on a project to supply pure drinking water to villages in the district of Anantapur. The project was completed in 1996 supplies water to 1.2 million people in about 750 villages in the drought-prone Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Chennai drinking water project, completed in 2004, supplies water to Chennai through a rebuilt waterway named \"Sathya Sai Ganga Canal\". Tamil Nadu Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi praised the Chennai water project and Sai Baba's involvement. Other completed water projects include the Medak District Project benefiting 450,000 people in 179 villages and the Mahbubnagar District Project benefiting 350,000 people in 141 villages. In January 2007, the Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust said it would start a drinking water project in Latur, Maharashtra.\n\nTelugu-Ganga Project\n\nThe Telugu-Ganga project is a water supply scheme implemented by Andhra Pradesh, India to provide drinking water to Chennai city in Tamil Nadu. The source of water is the river Krishna in Andhra Pradesh and the Poondi reservoir near Chennai is the destination with water planned to be routed through a series of interlinked canals.\n\nThe water initially supplied by the canal was disappointing, delivering less than 500 million cubic feet (14×10 m). In 2002, Sri Sathya Sai Baba announced a scheme of restoration and lining of the canal; as his own undertaking. With an extensive rebuilding of the canal and several reservoirs, the project was completed in 2004, when Poondi reservoir received Krishna water for the first time. The supply of water to Chennai city in 2006 was 3.7 billion cubic feet (100×10 m). After the re-lining and reconstruction, the Kandaleru-Poondi part of the canal was renamed Sai Ganga.\n\nIn 2008, two million people in the state of Odisha were affected by floods. As a relief measure, the Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization built 699 houses as part of their first phase in 16 villages by March 2009.\n\nSai Baba's \"Educare\" programme seeks to found schools throughout the world with the goal of educating children in the five human values. According to the Sai Educare site, schools have been founded in 33 countries, including Australia, Mexico, the United Kingdom and Peru. The Times of Zambia states, \"The positive influence of Sathya Sai is unprecedented in the annals of education in Zambia. Sai Baba's education ideals as embodied in his human values-based approach in education are an eye-opener to educationists in Zambia.\"\n\nIn Canada, the Fraser Institute, an independent Canadian research and educational organisation, ranked the Sathya Sai School of Canada as one of the top 37 elementary schools in Ontario.\n\nOn 23 November 2001, the digital radio network Radio Sai Global Harmony was launched through the World Space Organization, United States. Michael Oleinikof Nobel (distant relative to Alfred Nobel and one of the patrons for the radio network) said that the radio network would spread Sai Baba's message of global harmony and peace.\n\nOn 23 November 1999, the Department of Posts, Government of India, released a postage stamp and a postal cover in recognition of the service rendered by Sai Baba in addressing the problem of providing safe drinking water to the rural masses.\n\nIn January 2007, an event was held in Chennai Nehru Stadium organised by the Chennai Citizens' Conclave to thank Sai Baba for the 2 billion water project which brought water from the River Krishna in Andhra Pradesh to Chennai city. Four chief ministers attended the function.\n\nIndian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, a Sikh, said the country would remember Sai Baba as someone who \"inspired millions to lead a moral and meaningful life.\"\n\nThe Indian Department of Post released a commemorative stamp on the spiritual guru on the occasion of what would have been his 88th birthday during November 2013.\n\nPuttaparthi, where Sai Baba was born and lived, was originally a small, remote South Indian village in Andhra Pradesh. Now there is an extensive university complex, a speciality hospital, and two museums: the \"Sanathana Samskruti\" or Eternal Heritage Museum, sometimes called the Museum of All Religions, and the \"Chaitanya Jyoti\", devoted exclusively to the life and teachings of Sai Baba; the latter has won several international awards for its architectural design. There is also a planetarium, a railway station, a hill-view stadium, an administrative building, an airport, an indoor sports stadium and more. High-ranking Indian politicians such as the former president A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Andhra Pradesh former chief minister Konijeti Rosaiah and Karnataka chief minister B. S. Yeddyurappa have been official guests at the ashram in Puttaparthi. It was reported that well over a million people attended Sai Baba's 80th birthday celebration, including 13,000 delegates from India and 180 other countries.\n\nSai Baba resided much of the time in his main ashram, \"Prashanthi Nilayam\" (Abode of Highest Peace), at Puttaparthi. In the summer he often left for his other ashram, \"Brindavan\", in Kadugodi, Whitefield, a town on the outskirts of Bangalore. Occasionally he visited his Sai Shruti ashram in Kodaikanal.\n\nSai Baba established three primary mandirs (spiritual centres) in India. The first mandir, founded in Mumbai in 1968, is referred to as either the \"Dharmakshetra\" or \"Sathyam\". The second centre, established in Hyderabad in 1973, is referred to as \"Shivam\". The third, inaugurated on 19 January 1981 in Chennai, is called \"Sundaram\".\nThe Dharmakshetra was established on the occasion of the first world conference (of SSSO).\nMany people from various of parts of the world attended the conference which was held at Bharatiya vidya Bhavan campus at versova, Bombay. It consists of various service centers for devotees like a hospital and eye care center. The educational center consists of various training centers. As a part of Bal Vikas the technical training is provided freely to the children from poor backgrounds by the youth wing of the organization.\n\nReliable sources often describe Sai Baba’s following as a \"movement\". A CIA study states “A worldwide mass religious movement is growing around the Indian holy man and miracle worker, Sathya Sai Baba.” Later noting, “The Sai Baba movement is likely to eventually become another worldwide religion.” Among scholars, we find it referred to often as either a “New Religious Movement” (NRM) or as a cult, it appears it is not immune to what Robbins and Zablocki, two social science researchers, call “the divisive polarization, which, at least until recently, has plagued the academic study of religious movements.” referencing a wide divide of two camps within academia, each preferring one term over the other (i.e. NRM or cult) for such groups'; It's been noted by Eugene Gallagher, that in more modern times \"'New Religious movement', on the other hand, is a classification preferred by most academics, who see 'cult' as a pejorative term and intend to replace it with a more neutral label.” It is regarded by most scholars to be of Hindu persuasion.\n\nSai Baba claimed to be the reincarnation of Sai Baba of Shirdi, and his followers considered him to be the Avatar of Shiva. Sai Baba of Shirdi was known to combine Islamic and Hindu teachings; still Charles S. J. White, of The American University at Washington D.C., noted of Sathya Sai Baba in 1972, that \"there is no discernible Muslim influence.\" Stephanie Tallings, in The Harvard international Review, noted Sai Baba’s following is drawn from people of all religions, ethnicities, and social classes. Lawrence A. Babb, of the Amherst College in Massachusetts, labelled Sai Baba movement as a cult in the 1980s, calling it \"deeply and authentically Hindu...\" and noted, \" The most striking feature of this cult, however, is the extremely strong emphasis given to the miraculous.\" However, a scholarly review claims Babb misapplies the word “cult”, responding, \"the so-called 'cult' of Satya Sai Baba seems to possess all such characteristics which are, according to the author, central to a religious movement.\" Deborah A. Swallow, of the University of Cambridge, referred to it as a cult and said that the \"ritual and theology, then, unlike Sai Baba [of Shirdi]'s, is distinctly Hindu in form and content.\" But John D. Kelly, a professor of anthropology at the University of Chicago, wrote about Hindu missions in Fiji that the Sathya Sai Organization (which is part of the movement) rejected the label Hindu. According to Kelly, they see their founder as the \"living synthesis of the world's religious traditions\" and prefer to be classified as an interfaith movement. But he observed that Sai Baba mission is a Hindu mission as active as Christian or Muslim missions. In a 2001 scholarly book Tulasi Srinivas, notes, “The Sathya Sai global civil religious movement incorporates Hindu and Muslim practices, Buddhist, Christian, and Zoroastrian influences, and \"New Age\"-style rituals and beliefs.’ And in the appendix of the book (p. 349) lists 10 scholarly authors/researchers in both Europe and America who all refer to it as a New Religious Movement (NRM).\n\nSai Baba was known for his quote \"Love All, Serve All. Help Ever, Hurt Never.\" Internationally, his devotees gather daily, or weekly on Sundays or Thursdays or both, for devotional songs, prayer, spiritual meditation, service to the community (Seva), and to participate in \"Education in Human Values\" (SSEHV) known as \"Bal Vikas\" (Blossoming of the Child).\n\nFollowers believed in seeking the spiritual benefit of Sai Baba's \"darshan\", scheduled for morning and afternoon each day. Sai Baba would interact with people, accept letters, materialise and distribute vibhuti (sacred ash) or call groups or individuals for interviews. Devotees considered it a great privilege to have an interview and sometimes a single person, group or family was invited for a private interview for answers to spiritual questions and general guidance.\n\nAccusations against Sai Baba by his critics over the years have included sleight of hand, sexual abuse, money laundering, fraud in the performance of service projects, and murder.\n\nIn 1972 Abraham Kovoor made the first public criticism of Sai Baba when he looked into a claim publicly narrated by one devotee that Sai Baba had created a new model of a Seiko watch, and found the claim to be untrue.\n\nIn April 1976, Hossur Narasimhaiah, a physicist, rationalist and then vice-chancellor of Bangalore University, founded and chaired a committee \"to rationally and scientifically investigate miracles and other verifiable superstitions\". Narasimhaiah wrote Sai Baba three widely publicised letters challenging him to perform his miracles under controlled conditions. The letters were ignored. Sai Baba said that he ignored Narasimhaiah's challenge because he felt his approach was improper, adding that \"Science must confine its inquiry only to things belonging to the human senses, while spiritualism transcends the senses. If you want to understand the nature of spiritual power you can do so only through the path of spirituality and not science. What science has been able to unravel is merely a fraction of the cosmic phenomena ...\" Narasimhaiah's committee was dissolved in August 1977. According to Erlendur Haraldsson, the committee's formal challenge came to a dead end because of its negative attitude and perhaps because of the fanfare surrounding it. Narasimhaiah held the fact that Sai Baba ignored his letters to be one of several indications that his miracles were fraudulent. As a result of this episode, a public debate raged for several months in Indian newspapers.\n\nIndian rationalist Basava Premanand, who began campaigning against Sai Baba in 1976, unsuccessfully attempted to sue him in 1986 for violations of the Gold Control Act, citing Sai Baba's purported materialisations of gold objects. When the case was dismissed, Premanand unsuccessfully appealed on the grounds that claimed spiritual power is not a defence recognised in law.\n\nA 1995 TV documentary \"Guru Busters\", produced by filmmaker Robert Eagle for the UK's Channel 4, accused Sai Baba of faking his materialisations. The clip from the film was mentioned in the \"Deccan Chronicle\", on 23 November 1992, in a front-page headline \"DD Tape Unveils Baba Magic\". But Haraldsson stated that, on investigating the DD video, researchers did not find evidence of fake materialisation. According to Haraldsson, the video was taken to a company that investigates corporate fraud, which found that it did not provide firm evidence of sleight of hand.\n\nIn 1998, British journalist Mick Brown stated in his book \"The Spiritual Tourist\" that in his opinion claims of Sai Baba resurrecting American devotee Walter Cowan in 1971 were probably untrue. His opinion was based on letters from the attending doctors presented in the magazine \"Indian Skeptic\", published by Basava Premanand. Brown also related, in the same book, his experiences with manifestations of \"vibuthi\" from Sai Baba's pictures in houses in London, which he felt were not fraudulent or the result of trickery. Brown wrote with regards to Sai Baba's claims of omniscience, that \"sceptics have produced documentation clearly showing discrepancies between Baba's reading of historical events and biblical prophecies, and the established accounts.\"\n\nIn January 2002, a documentary produced by Denmark's national television and radio broadcast company, Danmarks Radio (DR), named \"Seduced By Sai Baba\", analysed videos of public manifestations of Sai Baba, and suggested that they could be explained as sleight of hand. The documentary also presented interviews with Alaya Rahm, former devotee of the cult, where he alleged sexual abuse by Sai Baba. As a result, in 2002 the Parliament of the United Kingdom discussed the possible danger to male children of British families intending to visit the ashram of Sathya Sai Baba in case of individual audiences with the guru.\n\nIn 2004, the BBC produced a documentary titled \"The Secret Swami\", as part of its series \"The World Uncovered\". One central theme of the BBC documentary was again Alaya Rahm's sexual abuse allegations against Sai Baba. This documentary interviewed him together with Mark Roche, who had spent 25 years of his life since 1969 in the movement and alleged abuse by Sai Baba. The show also featured allegations from Sai Baba critic Basava Premanand. Premanand stated in the documentary that, in his opinion, Sai Baba faked his materialisations. Here, he claimed that Sai Baba was \"not just a fraud, but a dangerous sexual abuser\". According to his interview, he had stories which spanned 30 years, and he stated that his stories were similar, a common practice being the rubbing of genitals with oil by the spiritual leader. Among his claims were that one ex-devotee claimed Sai Baba \"put the oil on his hands, told me to drop my pants and rubbed my genitals with the oil\". Premanand theorised that many Indian boys were abused but were never heard from because they were too afraid to speak out, alleging Sai Baba was well-connected with the elite and powerful of India.\n\nSai Baba and his followers reject any allegations of misconduct. Devotee Bill Aitken was quoted by \"The Week\" as saying that Sai Baba's reputation had not been harmed by the negative stories published about him. He said that the more detractors railed against Sai Baba, the more new devotees went to see him.\n\nIn the article \"Divine Downfall\", published in the \"Daily Telegraph\", Anil Kumar, the ex-principal of the Sathya Sai Educational Institute, said that he believed that the controversy was part of Baba's divine plan and that all great religious teachers had to face criticism during their lives. Anil Kumar also said that allegations had been levelled at Sai Baba since childhood, but with every criticism he had become more and more triumphant.\n\nIn the book \"Redemptive Encounters: Three Modern Styles in the Hindu Tradition\", Lawrence A. Babb wrote of Sai Baba, \"Whoever he is, he is certainly more than the mere parlour magician many of his critics claim that he is.\"\n\nSai Baba publicly responded to the allegations on 25 December 2000:\n\"The Times of India\" on 26 December 2000 quoted Sai Baba as saying: \n\nIn an official letter made public in December 2001, Atal Bihari Vajpayee (then Prime Minister of India and a devotee of Sai Baba), P.N. Bhagwati (Former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India), Ranganath Misra (Chair Person, National Human Rights Commissioner of India and Former Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India), Najma Heptulla (President of the Inter-Parliamentary Union; UNDP Distinguished Human Development Ambassador) and Shivraj Patil (Member of Parliament, India; Formerly of the Lok Sabha & Union Minister) all signed the following statement:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1806711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1806711", "title": "Section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nSection 2 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\" (\"Charter\") is the section of the Constitution of Canada that lists what the \"Charter\" calls \"fundamental freedoms\" theoretically applying to everyone in Canada, regardless of whether they are a Canadian citizen, or an individual or corporation. These freedoms can be held against actions of all levels of government and are enforceable by the courts. The fundamental freedoms are freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom of thought, freedom of belief, freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association.\n\nSection 1 of the \"Charter\" permits Parliament or the provincial legislatures to enact laws that place certain kinds of limited restrictions on the freedoms listed under section 2. Additionally, these freedoms can be temporarily invalidated by section 33, the \"not with standing clause\", of the \"Charter\".\n\nAs a part of the \"Charter\" and of the larger \"Constitution Act, 1982\", section 2 took legal effect on April 17, 1982. However, many of its rights have roots in Canada in the 1960 \"Canadian Bill of Rights\" (although this law was of limited effectiveness), and in traditions under a theorized Implied Bill of Rights. Many of these exemptions, such as freedom of expression, have also been at the centre of federalistic disputes.\n\nUnder the heading of \"Fundamental Freedoms\" the section states:\nAccording to Beverley McLachlin, freedom of religion in Canada may have originated as early as 1759, when French Canadian Roman Catholics were allowed rights of worship by their British conquerors; this was later reconfirmed in 1774 in the \"Quebec Act\". Later the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" provided for denominational school rights (these are reaffirmed by section 29 of the \"Charter\"). Discussions of church-state relations also took place in the Guibord case of 1874. In 1955, the Supreme Court ruled in \"Chaput v Romain\", regarding Jehovah's Witnesses, that different religions have rights, based upon tradition and the rule of law (at the time no statutes formed the basis for this argument).\n\nReligious freedom was later included in the \"Canadian Bill of Rights\". However, its effectiveness was limited. When Sunday closing laws compelling respect for the Christian Sabbath were challenged in \"R v Robertson and Rosetanni\", Justice Ritchie of the Supreme Court found that non-Christians merely lost money when denied rights to work on Sunday and were otherwise free to believe in and observe their own religions.\n\nFreedom of religion under section 2(a) of the \"Charter\" was first seriously considered by the Supreme Court in \"R v Big M Drug Mart Ltd\". In that case, Chief Justice Brian Dickson wrote that this freedom at least includes freedom of religious speech, including \"the right to entertain such religious beliefs as a person chooses, the right to declare religious beliefs openly and without fear of hindrance or reprisal, and the right to manifest religious belief by worship and practice or by teaching and dissemination.\" Freedom of religion would also prohibit imposing religious requirements. The immediate consequence of section 2, in this case, was the abolishment of federal Sunday closing laws.\n\nIn \"Syndicat Northcrest v Amselem\", the Supreme Court drew up a definition of freedom of religion under the \"Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms\", mindful of the overlap with section 2(a). The majority found freedom of religion encompasses a right to religious practices if the individual has a sincere belief that the practice is connected to religion. It would not matter whether the practice was needed according to religious authority. If courts can believe an individual is telling the truth in saying a practice is connected to religion, the courts then ask whether the infringement of freedom of religion is severe enough to trigger section 2. The Court also said religious beliefs are vacillating, so courts trying to determine an individual belief should be mindful that beliefs may change. Following this test in \"Multani v Commission scolaire Marguerite‑Bourgeoys\", the Court found freedom of religion should protect a non-violent Sikh student's right to wear a \"kirpan\" (dagger) in school.\n\nIn \"R v NS\", the Supreme Court sought to find a middle ground on the issue of whether a witness can wear a face-covering niqāb while testifying in a criminal trial. The court found that the right to religious freedom must be balanced against the right of the accused to a fair trial.\n\nIn addition to freedom of religion, section 2(a) also guarantees freedom of conscience. Professor Peter Hogg speculated this would include a right to atheism, despite the preamble to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which recognizes the \"supremacy of God\". The right has not spawned a great deal of case law, although Justice Bertha Wilson did rely on it in her opinion in \"R v Morgentaler\". Finding laws against abortion to be a breach of the rights to liberty and security of the person under section 7 of the \"Charter\", Wilson then argued this infringement could not be justified as being consistent with fundamental justice. The legal protections found under fundamental justice could be defined as including other rights under the \"Charter\", and in particular abortion laws breached freedom of conscience. As she wrote, the \"decision whether or not to terminate a pregnancy is essentially a moral decision, a matter of conscience\". She then said, \"[C]onscientious beliefs which are not religiously motivated are equally protected by freedom of conscience in s. 2(a).\" No other judges joined Wilson's opinion.\n\nJean Chrétien, who was the attorney general during negotiations of the \"Charter\", later recalled in his memoirs that freedom of conscience was nearly excluded from the \"Charter\". The federal and provincial negotiators found the right too difficult to define, and Chrétien eventually agreed to remove it. A legal advisor for the federal government, Pierre Genest, then kicked Chrétien's chair, prompting Chrétien to joke, \"I guess we leave it in. Trudeau's spy just kicked me in the ass.\"\n\nFreedom of expression, section 2(b), is perhaps one of the most significant \"Charter\" rights in influencing Canadian society. The right is expressly named in the charter because although \"Canadian criminal law uses the standard of the reasonable person as a ... definition for the threshold of criminality\", the \"Charter\" expressly limits some forms of expression. Justice Peter Cory wrote that it \"is difficult to imagine a guaranteed right more important to a democratic society\". The section has been at the centre of a great amount of case law.\n\nFreedom of speech had a limited background in Canada. It has been an issue in federalism disputes, as provincial legislation infringing upon free speech has been taken as criminal legislation, which only the Parliament of Canada can validly create under section 91(27) of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\". \"Switzman v Elbling\" is an example of a case in which this was discussed. An Implied Bill of Rights theory further stated governments were limited in their abilities to infringe upon free speech by virtue of the preamble of the \"Constitution Act, 1867\". This preamble states Canada's constitution would be based upon Britain's, and Britain had limited free speech in 1867. Furthermore, free speech is considered to be necessary for a parliamentary government to function.\n\nFree speech was later included in the \"Canadian Bill of Rights\".\n\nThe meaning of \"expression\" within section 2(b) has been read broadly as including any activity that conveys, or attempts to convey, meaning to the exception of acts of violence and threats of violence. However, the Courts have tried to maintain content neutrality by not considering the value of the expression. Instead, the content is only examined during the section 1 analysis.\n\nFreedom of expression is primarily seen as a negative right. In \"Native Women's Association of Canada v Canada\", the Court considered a claim that the government had to financially support an interest group in constitutional negotiations, as it had supported others. Section 28 (sexual equality under the \"Charter\") was used to reinforce this argument, since the rights claimants were an interest group. Still, while the Supreme Court agreed discussions with the government is \"unquestionably\" a form of expression, the government did not seem to be guilty of suppressing any expression and thus the claim was dismissed.\n\nA law will be found to violate the freedom of expression where the law either has the purpose or effect of violating the right.\n\nA law's purpose can limit the right either through limiting the content or form of expression. Limits on content are where the meaning of the expression is specifically forbidden by the law, such as hate-speech law, and is the most easily identifiable form of limitation. Limiting the form of the expression can often invoke section 2(b) as it will often have the effect of limiting the content as well.\n\nWhere a law does not intend to limit the freedom of expression it may still infringe section 2(b) through its effects. A law will be found to restrict expression if it has the effect of frustrating \"the pursuit of truth, participation in the community, or individual self-fulfillment and human flourishing\".\n\nCommercial expression is recognized as an activity protected under section 2(b). This includes advertising and any other similar means of expression used to sell goods and services. In fact, even false or misleading advertising is protected. The value of the expression does not come into play until the section 1 analysis.\n\nThe protection of commercial expression was first established in \"Ford v Quebec (AG)\", where the Court struck down a Quebec law requiring all signs to be exclusively in French. This was soon followed by \"Irwin Toy\", where the Court found that Quebec law prohibiting advertising to children to violate section 2(b) but was saved under section 1.\n\nThe Supreme Court has also found that restrictions on advertising by professionals to be protected. As well, even communications for the purpose of prostitution was found to be protected as commercial expression.\n\nProtesting by labour groups and trade unions have long been recognized as a protected form of expression.\n\nThere are not many instances of limiting primary picketing. Typically, the debate has been over whether secondary picketing can be restricted; the practice of picketing businesses not directly involved in a labour dispute has in the past been banned under the common law. The most significant decision on limiting primary picketing is \"British Columbia Government Employees' Union v British Columbia (AG)\", where employees at the British Columbia Supreme Court, who were protesting as part of a province-wide public service employee strike, were ordered back to work by the Chief Justice of the court. The order was found to clearly violate section 2(b) but the Supreme Court upheld it on section 1.\n\nSection 2(b) guarantees freedom of thought, belief and opinion in addition to freedom of expression. However, some have argued that freedoms of thought, belief and opinion in the \"Charter\" have had little practical consequence, and question whether governments have the capacity to stifle unspoken thoughts in any case.\n\nThe need to protect freedom of expression is considered a guiding principle of interpretation in civil cases between individuals. In \" Crookes v. Newton\", for example, the Supreme Court of Canada found that section 2(b) must be considered in determining the extent to which common law libel restrictions should apply to new technologies such as internet hyperlinks.\n\nFreedom of peaceful assembly under section 2(c) has not had a major impact on the case law. In \"Reference Re Public Service Employee Relations Act (Alta)\", the Supreme Court found that despite being written as a separate right, it was closely related to freedom of expression. The Nova Scotia Supreme Court defined it in \"Fraser et al v AGNS et al\" (1986) as including rights to meet as part of a committee or as workers. If there are membership fees to attend a meeting, prohibitions on being able to spend money for membership would be an abridgement of the right to peaceful assembly. In 2011, Occupy Canada's protests in public parks raised questions of whether their eviction was prohibited by freedom of assembly, as well as expression and association.\n\nFreedom of association is guaranteed under section 2(d). This right provides individuals the right to establish, belong to and maintain to any sort of organization, unless that organization is otherwise illegal. Generally, this is used in the labour context where employees are given the right to associate with certain unions or other similar group to represent their interests in labour disputes or negotiations.\n\nIt is important to note that this right only protects the right of individuals to form associations and not associations themselves. Consequently, government legislation affecting the powers of established labour associations do not necessarily invoke section 2(d). It is only where legislation restricts the associative nature of an activity will section 2 be invoked. However, in the landmark \"Health Services and Support – Facilities Subsector Bargaining Association v British Columbia\", the Supreme Court ruled that freedom of association guaranteed by section 2(d) includes a procedural right to collective bargaining. The Court ruled in this case that legislation that \"substantially interferes\" with the process of collective bargaining is a section 2(d) infringement. The test for \"substantial interference\" is twofold: (1) the importance of the matter affected to the process of collective bargaining, and more specifically, the capacity of union members to come together and pursue collective goals in concert; and (2) the manner in which the measure impacts on the collective right to good faith negotiation and consultation. It is not certain whether the decision in \"Health Services\" overturns jurisprudence arising from the so-called \"labour trilogy\" cases of 1987 which found that section 2(d) did not include a right to collective bargaining.\n\nThe Supreme Court has since found in \"Ontario (AG) v Fraser\", that the right to collective bargaining does not require government to take an active role in promoting and fostering collective bargaining, but merely to refrain from excessive interference with the collective bargaining process. In effect, the right to collective bargaining \"guarantees a process, not a result\". \"Fraser\" was affirmed and expanded upon by the Court of Appeal for Ontario in 2012 in \"Association of Justice Counsel v Canada (AG)\".\n\nTypically, where a union is denied a right it does not preclude the employees from forming a separate association. In \"Delisle v Canada (Deputy AG)\", members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police were excluded from the public services legislation. The Supreme Court held that they were not precluded from forming their own association outside of the impugned legislation. However, in contrast the decision of \"Dunmore v Ontario (AG)\" indicated that agricultural workers who were excluded from provincial labour relations legislation were entitled to be included because individually they were unable to form their own associations, and consequently, this imposed a duty upon the government to include them.\n\nThe freedom of association also includes the freedom not to associate. In certain employment circumstances, employees are required to contribute to a union as conditions of their employment (see Rand formula). However, mandatory associations do not invoke section 2(d) in and of themselves. In \"Lavigne\", the Court found that the right not to be associated extended only to where the association supported causes that went beyond what is necessary for employee representation. More generally, the Supreme Court had stated that the right is violated only when the mandatory association imposes \"ideological conformity\". Such violations have also mostly been found by the Supreme Court to be justified under section 1, resulting in a right not to associate that has more theoretical than practical effects.\n\nIn \"Advance Cutting & Coring\", the Supreme Court was called to examine the constitutional validity of a Quebec law that required all persons working in the province's construction industry to join a designated union. Eight of nine judges (Justice Claire L'Heureux-Dubé dissenting) confirmed that section 2 includes, to at least some degree, the negative right to \"not\" associate. With a majority of five judges to four, the Court determined that the law at issue violated this right. But with the same majority (judge Frank Iacobucci \"switching camps\" on the two issues and citing a \"unique and complex historical context\" in Quebec), the Court deemed the law to be \"justified in a free and democratic society\" under section 1 and thus constitutional.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9485267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9485267", "title": "Singleness of heart", "text": "Singleness of heart\n\nSingleness of heart (also called singleheartedness) is the ideal of having sole devotion to a task or endeavour. It is normally employed in a religious or spiritual context. In antiquity it was thought of as a counteraction to the divisive effects of civilization on the soul. It is especially associated with the practices of Christian monasticism.\n\nReferring to the desert landscape inhabited by the earliest Christian monks, Peter Brown, in \"A History of Private Life\", explains:\nThe bleak, asocial landscape of the desert was a distant image of Paradise -- the first, the true home of humankind, where Adam and Eve had dwelt in full majesty, before the subtle and overpowering onset of the doublehearted cares of human life in settled society, before marriage, physical greed, the labor of the earth, and the grinding cares of present human society robbed them of their original serenity. Totally singlehearted, therefore joined with the angelic hosts in unfailing and undivided praise of God, the life of the monk mirrored on earth the life of the angels. \nSøren Kierkegaard expressed a similar concept in his maxim \"Purity of heart is to will one thing\" and his sermon-form essay bearing that title.\n"}
{"id": "32261537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32261537", "title": "Sirotci", "text": "Sirotci\n\nThe Sirotci (\"Orphans\"; ), officially Orphans' Union (), were followers of a radical wing of the Hussites in Bohemia. This force, founded in 1423 originally under the name Lesser Tábor, consisted mostly of poorer burghers and some members of the lower aristocracy, who joined with commander Jan Žižka and the eastern Bohemian Hussites, the so-called Orebites (\"Orebité\").\n\nAfter the Žižka's death (1424) \"orphaned\" combatants adopted their new name. From 1424 till 1428 they were led by the priest Ambrož of Hradec, subsequently by another priest Prokop the Lesser. \"Hejtman\" Jan Čapek of Sány was elected as their military commander (1431–34).\n\nAll towns are in Bohemia, unless otherwise noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "707043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=707043", "title": "Skeptic (US magazine)", "text": "Skeptic (US magazine)\n\nSkeptic, colloquially known as Skeptic magazine, is a quarterly science education and science advocacy magazine published internationally by The Skeptics Society, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting scientific skepticism and resisting the spread of pseudoscience, superstition, and irrational beliefs. Founded by Michael Shermer, founder of the Skeptics Society, the magazine was first published in the spring of 1992 and is published through Millennium Press.\nShermer remains the Publisher and Editor-in-Chief of the magazine and the magazine’s Co-publisher and Art Director is Pat Linse. Other noteworthy members of its editorial board include, or have included, Oxford University evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, Pulitzer Prize-winning scientist Jared Diamond, magician and escape artist turned educator James “The Amazing” Randi, actor, comedian, and \"Saturday Night Live \" alumna Julia Sweeney, professional mentalist Mark Edward, science writer Daniel Loxton, Lawrence M. Krauss and Christof Koch.\n\"Skeptic\" has an international circulation with over 50,000 subscriptions and is on newsstands in the U.S. and Canada as well as Europe, Australia, and other countries.\n\nThe cover story of the magazine's very first issue paid tribute to scientist and science-fiction writer Isaac Asimov.\n\nEvery issue of the magazine opens with a description of The Skeptics Society and its mission statement, which is to explore subjects such as creationism, pyramid power, Bigfoot, pseudohistorical claims (as in the examples of Holocaust denial and extreme Afrocentrism), the use or misuse of theory and statistics, conspiracy theories, urban myths, witch-hunts, mass hysterias, genius and intelligence, and cultural influences on science, as well as controversies involving protosciences at the leading edge of established science, and even fads like cryonics and low-carb diets. In addition to publishing the magazine, the Society also:\n\n\nIn 2011, the magazine had three regular columnists: James Randi wrote \"’Twas Brillig…,\" Harriet A. Hall wrote \"The Skep Doc\" and Karen Stollznow wrote \"Bad Language\".\nThe magazine's page count was between approximately 100 and 110 pages until the 2010s. It was reduced to approximately 80 pages with Vol. 16 No. 3 (2011). , the magazine had two regular columnists: Harriet A. Hall and Carol Tavris.\n\nEach issue features an editorial. In the past this was provided by James Randi, and was often a reaction to stories from mainstream news media such as the 2005 story by the ABC newsmagazine \"Primetime Live\" featuring a Brazilian faith healer, João Teixeira. Other times Randi wrote about topics he had investigated in the past, such as alleged dowsers, alleged psychics like Sylvia Browne, and UFOs.\n\nThe magazine also features a large correspondence section called \"Forum\". This includes not only letters from lay readers but also in-depth comments and rebuttals from professionals, contributing to extended academic debate across issues raised in past editions.\n\nThe bulk of the magazine treats a variety of topics. Cover stories have ranged from examination of alleged UFOs in religious icons and theories of the likelihood of artificial intelligence to tributes to luminaries such as Isaac Asimov and Ernst Mayr. Some editions feature special sections devoted to a particular topic or theme that is examined through multiple articles by different authors, such as intelligent design - a frequently recurring topic in the magazine, given the ongoing creation vs. evolution controversy.\n\nBound into most issues is a 10-page young-readers' section called \"Junior Skeptic\". Heralded by a cover printed on glossy paper (the rest of the magazine is printed on non-glossy stock), \"Junior Skeptic\" focuses on one topic, or provides practical instruction written and illustrated in a style more appealing to children.\n\nDaniel Loxton is the Editor of \"Junior Skeptic\". He writes and illustrates most issues.\n\nThe first edition of \"Junior Skeptic\" appeared in volume 6, #2 of \"Skeptic\" (2000).\nIn April 2006, an independent, skeptical talk program called \"Skepticality\" was relaunched as \"Skepticality: The Official Podcast of Skeptic Magazine\". New episodes of the show are released on a biweekly basis. The show is produced by the original, continuing show hosts (Robynn McCarthy and Derek Colanduno) in collaboration with staff of \"Skeptic\" magazine.\n\nIn 2009, a second official podcast was added. \"MonsterTalk\" critically examines the science behind cryptozoological and legendary creatures, such as Bigfoot, the Loch Ness Monster and\nwerewolves. \"Monster Talk\" is hosted by Blake Smith, Ben Radford and Dr. Karen Stollznow. Blake Smith produces the show.\n\n\nThe editorial board is composed of the following people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1342185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342185", "title": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration", "text": "Towards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration\n\nTowards a Global Ethic: An Initial Declaration expresses the ethical commitments held in common by the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions.\n\nAt the request of the Council for a Parliament of the World's Religions, Hans Küng, President of the Foundation for a Global Ethic (\"Stiftung Weltethos\"), wrote an initial draft in consultation with fellow scholars and religious leaders. The Council's leaders and Trustees then worked on the final draft in consultation with Küng and their own, extensive network of leaders and scholars from various religions and regions. Most notable in leading this effort were Daniel Gómez-Ibáñez, the Executive Director of the Council, and Thomas A. Baima, a member of the Board of Trustees.\n\nThe declaration identifies two fundamental ethical demands as its foundation. First: the Golden Rule: \"What you wish done to yourself, do to others,\" \"a principle which is found and has persisted in many religious and ethical traditions of humankind of thousands of years.\" Second: every human being must be treated humanely—an insight the beginnings of which exists in every great religious or ethical traditions.\n\nThe two fundamental ethical demands are made concrete in four directives, which are \"convincing and practical for all women and men of good will, religious and non-religious\". These directives are elaborated in the \"Global Ethic\". They are:\n\nThe \"Global Ethic\" acknowledges that some significant differences exist between, and among, the religions. Still, these differences need not, it insists, stop them \"from proclaiming publicly those things\" that they already hold in common and that they jointly affirm. Each tradition holds those things to be true on the basis of their own religious or ethical grounds.\n\nBecause its goal was to express those things about which the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions agree, no religious or theological terms appear in \"the Global Ethic\". Some religions such as Buddhism do not have a god while other religions such as Hinduism have many.\n\nIn his account of the writing of the \"Global Ethic\", Küng describes several working parameters: It should 1) make a clear distinction between the ethical level and the purely legal or political level, 2) not duplicate the Universal Declaration of Human Rights because an ethic is more than rights, 3) avoid political declarations, 4) not devolve into casuistry, 5) forego any attempt to become a philosophical treatise, and, 6) set aside enthusiastic religious proclamations. On a positive programmatic level, the declaration must: 1) penetrate to the deep ethical level of binding values, irrevocable criteria, and basic inner attitudes, 2) be capable of securing moral unanimity and steer clear of statements rejected by the religions, 3) offer constructive criticism, 4) relate to the world as it really is, 5) use language familiar to newspaper readers (no technical jargon!), 6) have a religious foundation since, for the religions, an ethic must have a religious foundation.\n\nIn the summer of 1993, \"The \"Global Ethic\"\" was ratified as an official document of the Parliament of the World's Religions by a vote of its Trustees. It was then signed by more than 200 leaders from 40+ different faith traditions and spiritual communities during the international gathering organized by the Parliament in 1993 in Chicago, Illinois · USA. The majority of participants attending the gathering also endorsed \"the \"Global Ethic\"\" by acclamation. Since 1993 leaders and individuals around the world continue to endorse the \"Global Ethic\" with their signatures. It has served as a common ground for people to discuss, to agree, and to cooperate for the good of all.\n\nSince 1993, agreement has emerged among the world's religious, spiritual, and cultural traditions on issues tied to the environment. Aware of this shift, and because the \"Global Ethic\" was intended from the start to be a living document, the Parliament of the World's Religions decided to expand the \"Global Ethic\" with a fifth directive. Led by Myriam Renaud, the Parliament's Global Ethic Project Director, a task force wrote an initial draft. After soliciting and reflecting on 100+ pages of comments offered by scholars and religious leaders from many of the world's faith traditions and regions, the task force prepared and then submitted a final draft to the Trustees for their vote. The \"Global Ethic\", expanded with a fifth directive, became official in July 2018:\n\nHumanity's shared home was mentioned in the 1993 draft of the \"Global Ethic\". Its first directive states that the lives of animals and plants deserve protection and care and that people, especially with a view to future generations, have a special responsibility for the Earth's air, water and soil. The fifth directive sets out in greater detail what this responsibility entails—for example: \"Caring and prudent use of resources is based on fairness in consumption and takes into account limits on what ecosystems can bear.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21128296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21128296", "title": "United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom", "text": "United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom\n\nThe United States Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom is the ambassador-at-large who heads the Office of International Religious Freedom in the U.S. Department of State.\n\nThe position was created by the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998. The first ambassador-at-large was Bob Seiple who served from 1999 to 2001. He was succeeded by John Hanford who served from May 2002 until January 2009. Suzan Johnson Cook served in the role from May 2011 to October 2013. On July 28, 2014, President Barack Obama nominated Rabbi David Saperstein for the position. On December 15, 2014 the Senate confirmed him to the office, making him the first non-Christian to hold this post. \n\nOn July 26, 2017, the White House announced the nomination of Sam Brownback, then-Governor of Kansas to fill the vacancy in the office. Five months later, the Senate had yet to hold a confirmation vote, so per Senate rules, he was required to be nominated again in 2018 in order for a vote to be held. He was confirmed to the position on January 24, 2018, on a 49-49 vote of the Senate, with Vice President Mike Pence breaking the tie in favor of Brownback. \n\n"}
{"id": "4618857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4618857", "title": "Zindīq", "text": "Zindīq\n\nZindīq is a medieval Islamic term applied by Muslims to individuals who are considered to hold views or follow practices that are contrary to central Islamic dogmas. \n\nThe Arabic \"zindīq\" is a loan word from pre-Islamic Middle Persian 𐭦𐭭𐭣𐭩𐭪 \"zandik\", a Zoroastrian term of uncertain etymology and meaning (for a discussion of the term in a pre-Islamic context, see \"zandik\").\n\nUnder the 8th-century Abbasids, Arabic \"zindīq\" and the adjectival \"zandaqa\" could \"denote many different things, though it seems primarily (or at least initially) to have signified a follower of Manichaeism.\" However, many of those persecuted for \"zandaqa\" under the Abbasids claimed to be Muslims, and when applied to Muslims, the accusation was that the accused secretly harbored Manichaean beliefs. \"The proof for such an accusation was sought, if at all, in an indication of some kind of dualism, or if that individual openly flouted Islamic beliefs or practices.\" As such, certain Muslim poets of early Abbasid times could thus also be accused of \"zandaqa\" as much as an actual Manichaean might.\n\nThe charge of \"zandaqa\" was a serious one, and could cost the accused his/her life. A history of the time states cites the \"Spiller\" caliph Abu al-'Abbas as having said \"tolerance is laudable, except in matters dangerous to religious belief, or to the sovereign's dignity.\" The third Abbasid caliph, Al-Mahdi, ordered the composition of polemnical works to refute freethinkers and other heretics, and for years he tried to exterminate them absolutely, hunting them down and exterminating freethinkers in large numbers, putting to death anyone on mere suspicion of being a \"zindiq\". Al-Mahdi's successors, the caliphs al-Hadi and Harun al-Rashid, continued the pogroms, although with diminished intensity during the reign of the latter and was later abolished by him. This policy in turn influenced the Mihna policy of al-Ma'mun which targeted those Muslim religious scholars and officials who refused to accept the doctrine of created nature of Quran.\n\nThe reason for these persecutions are not easy to determine. \"Zandaqa\" was viewed as a threat to Islam, to Muslim society, and to the state. In the 8th century, Islamic norms were still under development and had not yet crystallized, and Muslims were still a small minority in the vast territories ruled by the caliphate, and even those who had converted were perceived to have been only \"imperfectly\" Islamized. Many of these converts had previously been Manichaeans, and Manichaeaism with its well developed missionary ideals had undergone a slight resurgence during early caliphate rule. As such, the Manichaeans were perceived as a threat to the security of the Muslim religious elite and to the Abbasid state. The threat was perceived to be especially evident in the quasi-scientific manner in which the Manichaeans posed unsettling questions, their skill at creating a favourable impression in public debate, and their ability in defending their own intellectually-appealing world-view.\n\nIn time, Muslim theologians came to apply \"zindiq\" to \"the criminal dissident—the professing Muslim who holds beliefs or follows practices contrary to the central dogmas of Islam and is therefore to be regarded as an apostate and an infidel. The jurists differ as to the theoretical formulation of the point of exclusion, but in fact usually adopt the practical criterion of open rebellion.\" \n\nIn modern times, the term \"zindiq\" is occasionally used to denote members of religions, sects or cults that originated in a Muslim society but are considered heretical or independent faiths by mainstream Muslims. In this sense, a \"zindiq\" is perceived to be incorrigibly disloyal to the tenets of Islam.\n\n"}
