{"id": "38291146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38291146", "title": "1991 in philosophy", "text": "1991 in philosophy\n\n1991 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4463070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4463070", "title": "Abstractionism", "text": "Abstractionism\n\nAbstractionism is the theory that the mind obtains some or all of its concepts by abstracting them from concepts it already has, or from experience. One may, for example, abstract 'green' from a set of experiences which involve green along with other properties. Also, for example, one may abstract a generic concept like 'vegetable' from the already possessed concepts of its instances (carrot, broccoli, onion, etc.). This view was criticized by George Berkeley and Peter Geach.\n\nAbstractionism has its roots in Aristotle's writings, particularly those rejecting the Platonic theory of Forms. They were adopted and developed further by the Scholastics so that the doctrine became entrenched in the seventeenth century. John Locke also developed his own theory of abstract ideas although it was against the Scholastic theory of essences. For him, ideas originate through the senses and the materials or the sensory data provided by these become the basis of the way we form general ideas of classes of things. His theory contradicts the empiricist standpoint due to its focus on intuitive and demonstrative knowledge as demonstrated in Locke's recognition that pure mathematics and pure morals are founded on intuition and demonstration.\n\nThere are several modern versions of abstractionism and these include those developed by theorists such as Noam Chomsky and Jerry Fodor, who proposed that concepts are preformed at birth and that we learn to match the words of our language onto the pre-existing concepts. Chomsky, for instance, explained the \"deep structure\" of the Internet or the grammar of meaning hidden beneath the surface of words by citing that \"linguists isolate from an essentially heterogeneous linguistic reality a standard and homogeneous system, thus grounding abstraction.\" \n\nBerkeley's opposition to abstractionism is considered to be primarily directed at Locke's claim that words are made general through the mediation of general ideas. This is due to the view that Locke's argument is tantamount to claiming that the word \"triangle\" can be applied to many different triangles because the abstract general idea of the form is used as a template or standard when identifying new instances as being of the same sort.\n"}
{"id": "3721217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3721217", "title": "Agathism", "text": "Agathism\n\nAgathism, from the Greek ἀγαθός \"agathos\" (good) is, according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", \"The doctrine that all things tend towards ultimate good, as distinguished from optimism, which holds that all things are now for the best\". An agathist accepts that evil and misfortune will ultimately happen, but that the eventual outcome leads towards the good. In other words, an agathist may see the world as essentially good but a place in which bad things can and do happen to good people.\n\nAgathism is offered as an apologetic in theodicy to address the problem of reconciling a benevolent God with the existence of evil in the world. A form of agathism is found in Muslim thought and in some Christian beliefs. The Seventh-day Adventist Church believes that even the punishment of a soul in hell is not eternal, but that the wicked perish. In theologies which hold human history to be a narrative authored by God, agathism forms the basis for the development of Messianism.\n\n"}
{"id": "4036813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4036813", "title": "Agathos kai sophos", "text": "Agathos kai sophos\n\nAgathos kai sophos () is a phrase coined by Plato, which literally means \"wise and good\" in Greek. The Athenians used this phrase to describe the qualities of an honest man.\n\nPlato apparently derived this phrase from an earlier \"kalos kagathos\"—literally, \"beautiful and good\". The Greeks believed that external beauty (kalos) was associated with inner beauty, morality and virtue, suggesting that a beautiful face was the outward expression of a beautiful soul. To avoid this association, which often led to confusion, Plato reinvented the expression as \"agathos kai sophos\", separating external beauty from the beauty of the soul.\n"}
{"id": "30758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30758", "title": "Age of Enlightenment", "text": "Age of Enlightenment\n\nThe Enlightenment (also known as the Age of Enlightenment or the Age of Reason) was an intellectual and philosophical movement that dominated the world of ideas in Europe during the 18th century, the \"Century of Philosophy\".\n\nFrench historians traditionally place the Enlightenment between 1715 (the year that Louis XIV died) and 1789 (the beginning of the French Revolution). International historians begin the period in the 1620s, with the start of the scientific revolution. \"\" () of the period widely circulated their ideas through meetings at scientific academies, Masonic lodges, literary salons, coffee houses and in printed books and pamphlets. The ideas of the Enlightenment undermined the authority of the monarchy and the Church and paved the way for the political revolutions of the 18th and 19th centuries. A variety of 19th-century movements, including liberalism and neo-classicism, trace their intellectual heritage to the Enlightenment.\n\nThe Enlightenment included a range of ideas centered on reason as the primary source of authority and legitimacy and came to advance ideals like liberty, progress, tolerance, fraternity, constitutional government and separation of church and state. In France, the central doctrines of the Enlightenment philosophers were individual liberty and religious tolerance, in opposition to an absolute monarchy and the fixed dogmas of the Roman Catholic Church. The Enlightenment was marked by an emphasis on the scientific method and reductionism, along with increased questioning of religious orthodoxy—an attitude captured by the phrase \"Sapere aude\", \"Dare to know\".\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was preceded by and closely associated with the scientific revolution. Earlier philosophers whose work influenced the Enlightenment included Bacon, Descartes, Locke, and Spinoza. The major figures of the Enlightenment included Beccaria, Diderot, Hume, Kant, Montesquieu, Rousseau, Adam Smith, and Voltaire. Some European rulers, including Catherine II of Russia, Joseph II of Austria and Frederick II of Prussia, tried to apply Enlightenment thought on religious and political tolerance, which became known as enlightened absolutism. Benjamin Franklin visited Europe repeatedly and contributed actively to the scientific and political debates there and brought the newest ideas back to Philadelphia. Thomas Jefferson closely followed European ideas and later incorporated some of the ideals of the Enlightenment into the Declaration of Independence (1776). One of his peers, James Madison, incorporated these ideals into the United States Constitution during its framing in 1787.\n\nThe most influential publication of the Enlightenment was the \"\" (\"Encyclopaedia\"). Published between 1751 and 1772 in thirty-five volumes, it was compiled by Diderot, d'Alembert (until 1759) and a team of 150 scientists and philosophers. It helped spread the ideas of the Enlightenment across Europe and beyond. Other landmark publications were Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" (\"Philosophical Dictionary\"; 1764) and \"Letters on the English\" (1733); Rousseau's \"Discourse on Inequality\" (1754) and \"The Social Contract\" (1762); Adam Smith's \"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\" (1759) and \"The Wealth of Nations\" (1776); and Montesquieu's \"The Spirit of the Laws\" (1748). The ideas of the Enlightenment played a major role in inspiring the French Revolution, which began in 1789. After the Revolution, the Enlightenment was followed by the intellectual movement known as Romanticism.\n\nRené Descartes' rationalist philosophy laid the foundation for enlightenment thinking. His attempt to construct the sciences on a secure metaphysical foundation was not as successful as his method of doubt applied in philosophic areas leading to a dualistic doctrine of mind and matter. His skepticism was refined by John Locke's Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1690) and David Hume's writings in the 1740s. His dualism was challenged by Spinoza's uncompromising assertion of the unity of matter in his Tractatus (1670) and Ethics (1677).\n\nThese laid down two distinct lines of Enlightenment thought: first, the moderate variety, following Descartes, Locke and Christian Wolff, which sought accommodation between reform and the traditional systems of power and faith, and second, the radical enlightenment, inspired by the philosophy of Spinoza, advocating democracy, individual liberty, freedom of expression and eradication of religious authority. The moderate variety tended to be deistic, whereas the radical tendency separated the basis of morality entirely from theology. Both lines of thought were eventually opposed by a conservative Counter-Enlightenment, which sought a return to faith.\n\nIn the mid-18th century, Paris became the center of an explosion of philosophic and scientific activity challenging traditional doctrines and dogmas. The philosophic movement was led by Voltaire and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who argued for a society based upon reason rather than faith and Catholic doctrine, for a new civil order based on natural law, and for science based on experiments and observation. The political philosopher Montesquieu introduced the idea of a separation of powers in a government, a concept which was enthusiastically adopted by the authors of the United States Constitution. While the \"Philosophes\" of the French Enlightenment were not revolutionaries and many were members of the nobility, their ideas played an important part in undermining the legitimacy of the Old Regime and shaping the French Revolution.\n\nFrancis Hutcheson, a moral philosopher, described the utilitarian and consequentialist principle that virtue is that which provides, in his words, \"the greatest happiness for the greatest numbers\". Much of what is incorporated in the scientific method (the nature of knowledge, evidence, experience and causation) and some modern attitudes towards the relationship between science and religion were developed by his protégés David Hume and Adam Smith. Hume became a major figure in the skeptical philosophical and empiricist traditions of philosophy.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority, as well as map out a view of the public sphere through private and public reason. Kant's work continued to shape German thought and indeed all of European philosophy, well into the 20th century. Mary Wollstonecraft was one of England's earliest feminist philosophers. She argued for a society based on reason and that women as well as men should be treated as rational beings. She is best known for her work \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1791).\n\nScience played an important role in Enlightenment discourse and thought. Many Enlightenment writers and thinkers had backgrounds in the sciences and associated scientific advancement with the overthrow of religion and traditional authority in favour of the development of free speech and thought. Scientific progress during the Enlightenment included the discovery of carbon dioxide (fixed air) by the chemist Joseph Black, the argument for deep time by the geologist James Hutton and the invention of the steam engine by James Watt. The experiments of Lavoisier were used to create the first modern chemical plants in Paris and the experiments of the Montgolfier Brothers enabled them to launch the first manned flight in a hot-air balloon on 21 November 1783 from the Château de la Muette, near the Bois de Boulogne.\n\nBroadly speaking, Enlightenment science greatly valued empiricism and rational thought and was embedded with the Enlightenment ideal of advancement and progress. The study of science, under the heading of natural philosophy, was divided into physics and a conglomerate grouping of chemistry and natural history, which included anatomy, biology, geology, mineralogy and zoology. As with most Enlightenment views, the benefits of science were not seen universally: Rousseau criticized the sciences for distancing man from nature and not operating to make people happier. Science during the Enlightenment was dominated by scientific societies and academies, which had largely replaced universities as centres of scientific research and development. Societies and academies were also the backbone of the maturation of the scientific profession. Another important development was the popularization of science among an increasingly literate population. Philosophes introduced the public to many scientific theories, most notably through the \"Encyclopédie\" and the popularization of Newtonianism by Voltaire and Émilie du Châtelet. Some historians have marked the 18th century as a drab period in the history of science. However, the century saw significant advancements in the practice of medicine, mathematics and physics; the development of biological taxonomy; a new understanding of magnetism and electricity; and the maturation of chemistry as a discipline, which established the foundations of modern chemistry.\n\nScientific academies and societies grew out of the Scientific Revolution as the creators of scientific knowledge in contrast to the scholasticism of the university. During the Enlightenment, some societies created or retained links to universities, but contemporary sources distinguished universities from scientific societies by claiming that the university's utility was in the transmission of knowledge while societies functioned to create knowledge. As the role of universities in institutionalized science began to diminish, learned societies became the cornerstone of organized science. Official scientific societies were chartered by the state in order to provide technical expertise. Most societies were granted permission to oversee their own publications, control the election of new members and the administration of the society. After 1700, a tremendous number of official academies and societies were founded in Europe and by 1789 there were over seventy official scientific societies. In reference to this growth, Bernard de Fontenelle coined the term \"the Age of Academies\" to describe the 18th century.\n\nThe influence of science also began appearing more commonly in poetry and literature during the Enlightenment. Some poetry became infused with scientific metaphor and imagery, while other poems were written directly about scientific topics. Sir Richard Blackmore committed the Newtonian system to verse in \"Creation, a Philosophical Poem in Seven Books\" (1712). After Newton's death in 1727, poems were composed in his honour for decades. James Thomson (1700–1748) penned his \"Poem to the Memory of Newton\", which mourned the loss of Newton, but also praised his science and legacy.\n\nHume and other Scottish Enlightenment thinkers developed a \"science of man\", which was expressed historically in works by authors including James Burnett, Adam Ferguson, John Millar and William Robertson, all of whom merged a scientific study of how humans behaved in ancient and primitive cultures with a strong awareness of the determining forces of modernity. Modern sociology largely originated from this movement and Hume's philosophical concepts that directly influenced James Madison (and thus the U.S. Constitution) and as popularised by Dugald Stewart, would be the basis of classical liberalism.\n\nIn 1776, Adam Smith published \"The Wealth of Nations\", often considered the first work on modern economics as it had an immediate impact on British economic policy that continues into the 21st century. It was immediately preceded and influenced by Anne-Robert-Jacques Turgot, Baron de Laune drafts of \"Reflections on the Formation and Distribution of Wealth\" (Paris, 1766). Smith acknowledged indebtedness and possibly was the original English translator.\n\nCesare Beccaria, a jurist, criminologist, philosopher and politician and one of the great Enlightenment writers, became famous for his masterpiece \"Of Crimes and Punishments\" (1764), later translated into 22 languages, which condemned torture and the death penalty and was a founding work in the field of penology and the Classical School of criminology by promoting criminal justice. Another prominent intellectual was Francesco Mario Pagano, who wrote important studies such as \"Saggi Politici\" (Political Essays, 1783), one of the major works of the Enlightenment in Naples; and \"Considerazioni sul processo criminale\" (Considerations on the criminal trial, 1787), which established him as an international authority on criminal law.\n\nThe Enlightenment has long been hailed as the foundation of modern Western political and intellectual culture. The Enlightenment brought political modernization to the West, in terms of introducing democratic values and institutions and the creation of modern, liberal democracies. This thesis has been widely accepted by Anglophone scholars and has been reinforced by the large-scale studies by Robert Darnton, Roy Porter and most recently by Jonathan Israel.\n\nJohn Locke, one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers, based his governance philosophy in social contract theory, a subject that permeated Enlightenment political thought. The English philosopher Thomas Hobbes ushered in this new debate with his work \"Leviathan\" in 1651. Hobbes also developed some of the fundamentals of European liberal thought: the right of the individual; the natural equality of all men; the artificial character of the political order (which led to the later distinction between civil society and the state); the view that all legitimate political power must be \"representative\" and based on the consent of the people; and a liberal interpretation of law which leaves people free to do whatever the law does not explicitly forbid.\n\nBoth Locke and Rousseau developed social contract theories in \"Two Treatises of Government\" and \"Discourse on Inequality\", respectively. While quite different works, Locke, Hobbes and Rousseau agreed that a social contract, in which the government's authority lies in the consent of the governed, is necessary for man to live in civil society. Locke defines the state of nature as a condition in which humans are rational and follow natural law, in which all men are born equal and with the right to life, liberty and property. However, when one citizen breaks the Law of Nature both the transgressor and the victim enter into a state of war, from which it is virtually impossible to break free. Therefore, Locke said that individuals enter into civil society to protect their natural rights via an \"unbiased judge\" or common authority, such as courts, to appeal to. Contrastingly, Rousseau's conception relies on the supposition that \"civil man\" is corrupted, while \"natural man\" has no want he cannot fulfill himself. Natural man is only taken out of the state of nature when the inequality associated with private property is established. Rousseau said that people join into civil society via the social contract to achieve unity while preserving individual freedom. This is embodied in the sovereignty of the general will, the moral and collective legislative body constituted by citizens.\n\nLocke is known for his statement that individuals have a right to \"Life, Liberty and Property\" and his belief that the natural right to property is derived from labor. Tutored by Locke, Anthony Ashley-Cooper, 3rd Earl of Shaftesbury wrote in 1706: \"There is a mighty Light which spreads its self over the world especially in those two free Nations of England and Holland; on whom the Affairs of Europe now turn\". Locke's theory of natural rights has influenced many political documents, including the United States Declaration of Independence and the French National Constituent Assembly's Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" argued that the establishment of a contractual basis of rights would lead to the market mechanism and capitalism, the scientific method, religious tolerance and the organization of states into self-governing republics through democratic means. In this view, the tendency of the \"philosophes\" in particular to apply rationality to every problem is considered the essential change.\n\nAlthough much of Enlightenment political thought was dominated by social contract theorists, both David Hume and Adam Ferguson criticized this camp. Hume's essay \"Of the Original Contract\" argues that governments derived from consent are rarely seen and civil government is grounded in a ruler's habitual authority and force. It is precisely because of the ruler's authority over-and-against the subject, that the subject tacitly consents and Hume says that the subjects would \"never imagine that their consent made him sovereign\", rather the authority did so. Similarly, Ferguson did not believe citizens built the state, rather polities grew out of social development. In his 1767 \"An Essay on the History of Civil Society\", Ferguson uses the four stages of progress, a theory that was very popular in Scotland at the time, to explain how humans advance from a hunting and gathering society to a commercial and civil society without \"signing\" a social contract.\n\nBoth Rousseau and Locke's social contract theories rest on the presupposition of natural rights, which are not a result of law or custom, but are things that all men have in pre-political societies and are therefore universal and inalienable. The most famous natural right formulation comes from John Locke in his \"Second Treatise\", when he introduces the state of nature. For Locke, the law of nature is grounded on mutual security or the idea that one cannot infringe on another's natural rights, as every man is equal and has the same inalienable rights. These natural rights include perfect equality and freedom, as well as the right to preserve life and property. Locke also argued against slavery on the basis that enslaving yourself goes against the law of nature because you cannot surrender your own rights, your freedom is absolute and no one can take it from you. Additionally, Locke argues that one person cannot enslave another because it is morally reprehensible, although he introduces a caveat by saying that enslavement of a lawful captive in time of war would not go against one's natural rights.\n\nAs a spillover of the Enlightenment, nonsecular beliefs expressed first by Quakers and then by Protestant evangelicals in Britain and the United States emerged. To these groups, slavery became \"repugnant to our religion\" and a \"crime in the sight of God.\" These ideas added to those expressed by Enlightenment thinkers, leading many in Britain to believe that slavery was \"not only morally wrong and economically inefficient, but also politically unwise.\" As these notions gained more adherents, Britain was forced to end its participation in the slave trade.\n\nThe leaders of the Enlightenment were not especially democratic, as they more often look to absolute monarchs as the key to imposing reforms designed by the intellectuals. Voltaire despised democracy and said the absolute monarch must be enlightened and must act as dictated by reason and justice – in other words, be a \"philosopher-king\".\n\nIn several nations, rulers welcomed leaders of the Enlightenment at court and asked them to help design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger states. These rulers are called \"enlightened despots\" by historians. They included Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catherine the Great of Russia, Leopold II of Tuscany and Joseph II of Austria. Joseph was over-enthusiastic, announcing many reforms that had little support so that revolts broke out and his regime became a comedy of errors and nearly all his programs were reversed. Senior ministers Pombal in Portugal and Johann Friedrich Struensee in Denmark also governed according to Enlightenment ideals. In Poland, the model constitution of 1791 expressed Enlightenment ideals, but was in effect for only one year before the nation was partitioned among its neighbors. More enduring were the cultural achievements, which created a nationalist spirit in Poland.\n\nFrederick the Great, the king of Prussia from 1740 to 1786, saw himself as a leader of the Enlightenment and patronized philosophers and scientists at his court in Berlin. Voltaire, who had been imprisoned and maltreated by the French government, was eager to accept Frederick's invitation to live at his palace. Frederick explained: \"My principal occupation is to combat ignorance and prejudice ... to enlighten minds, cultivate morality, and to make people as happy as it suits human nature, and as the means at my disposal permit\".\n\nThe Enlightenment has been frequently linked to the French Revolution of 1789. One view of the political changes that occurred during the Enlightenment is that the \"consent of the governed\" philosophy as delineated by Locke in \"Two Treatises of Government\" (1689) represented a paradigm shift from the old governance paradigm under feudalism known as the \"divine right of kings\". In this view, the revolutions of the late 1700s and early 1800s were caused by the fact that this governance paradigm shift often could not be resolved peacefully and therefore violent revolution was the result. Clearly a governance philosophy where the king was never wrong was in direct conflict with one whereby citizens by natural law had to consent to the acts and rulings of their government.\n\nAlexis de Tocqueville proposed the French Revolution as the inevitable result of the radical opposition created in the 18th century between the monarchy and the men of letters of the Enlightenment. These men of letters constituted a sort of \"substitute aristocracy that was both all-powerful and without real power\". This illusory power came from the rise of \"public opinion\", born when absolutist centralization removed the nobility and the bourgeoisie from the political sphere. The \"literary politics\" that resulted promoted a discourse of equality and was hence in fundamental opposition to the monarchical regime. De Tocqueville \"clearly designates  ... the cultural effects of transformation in the forms of the exercise of power\".\n\nEnlightenment era religious commentary was a response to the preceding century of religious conflict in Europe, especially the Thirty Years' War. Theologians of the Enlightenment wanted to reform their faith to its generally non-confrontational roots and to limit the capacity for religious controversy to spill over into politics and warfare while still maintaining a true faith in God. For moderate Christians, this meant a return to simple Scripture. John Locke abandoned the corpus of theological commentary in favor of an \"unprejudiced examination\" of the Word of God alone. He determined the essence of Christianity to be a belief in Christ the redeemer and recommended avoiding more detailed debate. In the \"Jefferson Bible\", Thomas Jefferson went further and dropped any passages dealing with miracles, visitations of angels and the resurrection of Jesus after his death, as he tried to extract the practical Christian moral code of the New Testament.\n\nEnlightenment scholars sought to curtail the political power of organized religion and thereby prevent another age of intolerant religious war. Spinoza determined to remove politics from contemporary and historical theology (e.g., disregarding Judaic law). Moses Mendelssohn advised affording no political weight to any organized religion, but instead recommended that each person follow what they found most convincing. They believed a good religion based in instinctive morals and a belief in God should not theoretically need force to maintain order in its believers, and both Mendelssohn and Spinoza judged religion on its moral fruits, not the logic of its theology.\n\nA number of novel ideas about religion developed with the Enlightenment, including deism and talk of atheism. According to Thomas Paine, deism is the simple belief in God the Creator, with no reference to the Bible or any other miraculous source. Instead, the deist relies solely on personal reason to guide his creed, which was eminently agreeable to many thinkers of the time. Atheism was much discussed, but there were few proponents. Wilson and Reill note: \"In fact, very few enlightened intellectuals, even when they were vocal critics of Christianity, were true atheists. Rather, they were critics of orthodox belief, wedded rather to skepticism, deism, vitalism, or perhaps pantheism\". Some followed Pierre Bayle and argued that atheists could indeed be moral men. Many others like Voltaire held that without belief in a God who punishes evil, the moral order of society was undermined. That is, since atheists gave themselves to no Supreme Authority and no law and had no fear of eternal consequences, they were far more likely to disrupt society. Bayle (1647–1706) observed that, in his day, \"prudent persons will always maintain an appearance of [religion],\" and he believed that even atheists could hold concepts of honor and go beyond their own self-interest to create and interact in society. Locke said that if there were no God and no divine law, the result would be moral anarchy: every individual \"could have no law but his own will, no end but himself. He would be a god to himself, and the satisfaction of his own will the sole measure and end of all his actions.\"\n\nThe \"Radical Enlightenment\" promoted the concept of separating church and state, an idea that is often credited to English philosopher John Locke (1632–1704). According to his principle of the social contract, Locke said that the government lacked authority in the realm of individual conscience, as this was something rational people could not cede to the government for it or others to control. For Locke, this created a natural right in the liberty of conscience, which he said must therefore remain protected from any government authority.\n\nThese views on religious tolerance and the importance of individual conscience, along with the social contract, became particularly influential in the American colonies and the drafting of the United States Constitution. Thomas Jefferson called for a \"wall of separation between church and state\" at the federal level. He previously had supported successful efforts to disestablish the Church of England in Virginia and authored the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom. Jefferson's political ideals were greatly influenced by the writings of John Locke, Francis Bacon, and Isaac Newton, whom he considered the three greatest men that ever lived.\n\nThe Enlightenment took hold in most European countries, often with a specific local emphasis. For example, in France it became associated with anti-government and anti-Church radicalism, while in Germany it reached deep into the middle classes, where it expressed a spiritualistic and nationalistic tone without threatening governments or established churches. Government responses varied widely. In France, the government was hostile, and the \"philosophes\" fought against its censorship, sometimes being imprisoned or hounded into exile. The British government, for the most part, ignored the Enlightenment's leaders in England and Scotland, although it did give Isaac Newton a knighthood and a very lucrative government office.\n\nThe very existence of an English Enlightenment has been hotly debated by scholars. The majority of textbooks on British history make little or no mention of an English Enlightenment. Some surveys of the entire Enlightenment include England and others ignore it, although they do include coverage of such major intellectuals as Joseph Addison, Edward Gibbon, John Locke, Isaac Newton, Alexander Pope, Joshua Reynolds and Jonathan Swift. Roy Porter argues that the reasons for this neglect were the assumptions that the movement was primarily French-inspired, that it was largely a-religious or anti-clerical, and that it stood in outspoken defiance to the established order. Porter admits that, after the 1720s, England could claim thinkers to equal Diderot, Voltaire or Rousseau. However, its leading intellectuals such as Edward Gibbon, Edmund Burke and Samuel Johnson were all quite conservative and supportive of the standing order. Porter says the reason was that Enlightenment had come early to England and had succeeded so that the culture had accepted political liberalism, philosophical empiricism, and religious toleration of the sort that intellectuals on the continent had to fight for against powerful odds. Furthermore, England rejected the collectivism of the continent and emphasized the improvement of individuals as the main goal of enlightenment.\n\nIn the Scottish Enlightenment, Scotland's major cities created an intellectual infrastructure of mutually supporting institutions such as universities, reading societies, libraries, periodicals, museums and masonic lodges. The Scottish network was \"predominantly liberal Calvinist, Newtonian, and 'design' oriented in character which played a major role in the further development of the transatlantic Enlightenment\". In France, Voltaire said that \"we look to Scotland for all our ideas of civilization\". The focus of the Scottish Enlightenment ranged from intellectual and economic matters to the specifically scientific as in the work of William Cullen, physician and chemist; James Anderson, an agronomist; Joseph Black, physicist and chemist; and James Hutton, the first modern geologist.\n\nSeveral Americans, especially Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, played a major role in bringing Enlightenment ideas to the New World and in influencing British and French thinkers. Franklin was influential for his political activism and for his advances in physics. The cultural exchange during the Age of Enlightenment ran in both directions across the Atlantic. Thinkers such as Paine, Locke and Rousseau all take Native American cultural practices as examples of natural freedom. The Americans closely followed English and Scottish political ideas, as well as some French thinkers such as Montesquieu. As deists, they were influenced by ideas of John Toland (1670–1722) and Matthew Tindal (1656–1733). During the Enlightenment there was a great emphasis upon liberty, republicanism and religious tolerance. There was no respect for monarchy or inherited political power. Deists reconciled science and religion by rejecting prophecies, miracles and Biblical theology. Leading deists included Thomas Paine in \"The Age of Reason\" and by Thomas Jefferson in his short \"Jefferson Bible\" – from which all supernatural aspects were removed.\n\nPrussia took the lead among the German states in sponsoring the political reforms that Enlightenment thinkers urged absolute rulers to adopt. There were important movements as well in the smaller states of Bavaria, Saxony, Hanover and the Palatinate. In each case, Enlightenment values became accepted and led to significant political and administrative reforms that laid the groundwork for the creation of modern states. The princes of Saxony, for example, carried out an impressive series of fundamental fiscal, administrative, judicial, educational, cultural and general economic reforms. The reforms were aided by the country's strong urban structure and influential commercial groups and modernized pre-1789 Saxony along the lines of classic Enlightenment principles.\nBefore 1750, the German upper classes looked to France for intellectual, cultural and architectural leadership, as French was the language of high society. By the mid-18th century, the \"Aufklärung\" (The Enlightenment) had transformed German high culture in music, philosophy, science and literature. Christian Wolff (1679–1754) was the pioneer as a writer who expounded the Enlightenment to German readers and legitimized German as a philosophic language.\n\nJohann Gottfried von Herder (1744–1803) broke new ground in philosophy and poetry, as a leader of the Sturm und Drang movement of proto-Romanticism. Weimar Classicism (\"Weimarer Klassik\") was a cultural and literary movement based in Weimar that sought to establish a new humanism by synthesizing Romantic, classical and Enlightenment ideas. The movement (from 1772 until 1805) involved Herder as well as polymath Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (1749–1832) and Friedrich Schiller (1759–1805), a poet and historian. Herder argued that every folk had its own particular identity, which was expressed in its language and culture. This legitimized the promotion of German language and culture and helped shape the development of German nationalism. Schiller's plays expressed the restless spirit of his generation, depicting the hero's struggle against social pressures and the force of destiny.\n\nGerman music, sponsored by the upper classes, came of age under composers Johann Sebastian Bach (1685–1750), Joseph Haydn (1732–1809) and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756–1791).\n\nIn remote Königsberg, philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724–1804) tried to reconcile rationalism and religious belief, individual freedom and political authority. Kant's work contained basic tensions that would continue to shape German thought – and indeed all of European philosophy – well into the 20th century.\n\nThe German Enlightenment won the support of princes, aristocrats and the middle classes and it permanently reshaped the culture. However, there was a conservatism among the elites that warned against going too far.\n\nIn the 1780s, Lutheran ministers Johann Heinrich Schulz and Karl Wilhelm Brumbey got in trouble with their preaching as they were attacked and ridiculed by Immanuel Kant, Wilhelm Abraham Teller and others. In 1788, Prussia issued an \"Edict on Religion\" that forbade preaching any sermon that undermined popular belief in the Holy Trinity and the Bible. The goal was to avoid skepticism, deism and theological disputes that might impinge on domestic tranquility. Men who doubted the value of Enlightenment favoured the measure, but so too did many supporters. German universities had created a closed elite that could debate controversial issues among themselves, but spreading them to the public was seen as too risky. This intellectual elite was favoured by the state, but that might be reversed if the process of the Enlightenment proved politically or socially destabilizing.\n\nThe Enlightenment played a distinctive, if small, role in the history of Italy. Although most of Italy was controlled by conservative Habsburgs or the pope, Tuscany had some opportunities for reform. Leopold II of Tuscany abolished the death penalty in Tuscany and reduced censorship. From Naples, Antonio Genovesi (1713–69) influenced a generation of southern Italian intellectuals and university students. His textbook \"Diceosina, o Sia della Filosofia del Giusto e dell'Onesto\" (1766) was a controversial attempt to mediate between the history of moral philosophy on the one hand and the specific problems encountered by 18th-century commercial society on the other. It contained the greater part of Genovesi's political, philosophical and economic thought – guidebook for Neapolitan economic and social development. Science flourished as Alessandro Volta and Luigi Galvani made break-through discoveries in electricity. Pietro Verri was a leading economist in Lombardy. Historian Joseph Schumpeter states he was \"the most important pre-Smithian authority on Cheapness-and-Plenty\". The most influential scholar on the Italian Enlightenment has been Franco Venturi.\n\nIn Russia, the government began to actively encourage the proliferation of arts and sciences in the mid-18th century. This era produced the first Russian university, library, theatre, public museum and independent press. Like other enlightened despots, Catherine the Great played a key role in fostering the arts, sciences and education. She used her own interpretation of Enlightenment ideals, assisted by notable international experts such as Voltaire (by correspondence) and in residence world class scientists such as Leonhard Euler and Peter Simon Pallas. The national Enlightenment differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with attacking the institution of serfdom in Russia. The Russian enlightenment centered on the individual instead of societal enlightenment and encouraged the living of an enlightened life. A powerful element was \"prosveshchenie\" which combined religious piety, erudition and commitment to the spread of learning. However, it lacked the skeptical and critical spirit of the European Enlightenment.\n\nEnlightenment ideas (\"oświecenie\") emerged late in Poland, as the Polish middle class was weaker and szlachta (nobility) culture (Sarmatism) together with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth political system (Golden Liberty) were in deep crisis. The political system was built on republicanism, but was unable to defend itself against powerful neighbors Russia, Prussia and Austria as they repeatedly sliced off regions until nothing was left of independent Poland. The period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–1740s and especially in theatre and the arts peaked in the reign of King Stanisław August Poniatowski (second half of the 18th century). Warsaw was a main centre after 1750, with an expansion of schools and educational institutions and the arts patronage held at the Royal Castle. Leaders promoted tolerance and more education. They included King Stanislaw II Poniatowski and reformers Piotr Switkowski, Antoni Poplawski, Josef Niemcewicz and Jósef Pawlinkowski, as well as Baudouin de Cortenay, a Polonized dramatist. Opponents included Florian Jaroszewicz, Gracjan Piotrowski, Karol Wyrwicz and Wojciech Skarszewski.\n\nThe movement went into decline with the Third Partition of Poland (1795) – a national tragedy inspiring a short period of sentimental writing – and ended in 1822, replaced by Romanticism.\n\nThe Enlightenment has always been contested territory. According to Keith Thomas, its supporters \"hail it as the source of everything that is progressive about the modern world. For them, it stands for freedom of thought, rational inquiry, critical thinking, religious tolerance, political liberty, scientific achievement, the pursuit of happiness, and hope for the future.\" Thomas adds that its detractors accuse it of shallow rationalism, naïve optimism, unrealistic universalism and moral darkness. From the start, conservative and clerical defenders of traditional religion attacked materialism and skepticism as evil forces that encouraged immorality. By 1794, they pointed to the Terror during the French Revolution as confirmation of their predictions. As the Enlightenment was ending, Romantic philosophers argued that excessive dependence on reason was a mistake perpetuated by the Enlightenment because it disregarded the bonds of history, myth, faith, and tradition that were necessary to hold society together.\n\nThe term \"Enlightenment\" emerged in English in the later part of the 19th century, with particular reference to French philosophy, as the equivalent of the French term \"Lumières\" (used first by Dubos in 1733 and already well established by 1751). From Immanuel Kant's 1784 essay \"Beantwortung der Frage: Was ist Aufklärung?\" (\"\"), the German term became \"Aufklärun\"g (\"aufklären\" = to illuminate; \"sich aufklären\" = to clear up). However, scholars have never agreed on a definition of the Enlightenment, or on its chronological or geographical extent. Terms like \"les Lumières\" (French), \"illuminism\"o (Italian), \"ilustración\" (Spanish) and \"Aufklärung\" (German) referred to partly overlapping movements. Not until the late nineteenth century did English scholars agree they were talking about \"the Enlightenment\".\n\nEnlightenment historiography began in the period itself, from what Enlightenment figures said about their work. A dominant element was the intellectual angle they took. D'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse of l'Encyclopédie\" provides a history of the Enlightenment which comprises a chronological list of developments in the realm of knowledge – of which the \"Encyclopédie\" forms the pinnacle. In 1783, Jewish philosopher Moses Mendelssohn referred to Enlightenment as a process by which man was educated in the use of reason. Immanuel Kant called Enlightenment \"man's release from his self-incurred tutelage\", tutelage being \"man's inability to make use of his understanding without direction from another\". \"For Kant, Enlightenment was mankind's final coming of age, the emancipation of the human consciousness from an immature state of ignorance\". The German scholar Ernst Cassirer called the Enlightenment \"a part and a special phase of that whole intellectual development through which modern philosophic thought gained its characteristic self-confidence and self-consciousness\". According to historian Roy Porter, the liberation of the human mind from a dogmatic state of ignorance is the epitome of what the Age of Enlightenment was trying to capture.\n\nBertrand Russell saw the Enlightenment as a phase in a progressive development which began in antiquity and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time. Russell said that the Enlightenment was ultimately born out of the Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation and that philosophical views such as affinity for democracy against monarchy originated among 16th-century Protestants to justify their desire to break away from the Catholic Church. Although many of these philosophical ideals were picked up by Catholics, Russell argues that by the 18th century the Enlightenment was the principal manifestation of the schism that began with Martin Luther.\n\nJonathan Israel rejects the attempts of postmodern and Marxian historians to understand the revolutionary ideas of the period purely as by-products of social and economic transformations. He instead focuses on the history of ideas in the period from 1650 to the end of the 18th century and claims that it was the ideas themselves that caused the change that eventually led to the revolutions of the latter half of the 18th century and the early 19th century. Israel argues that until the 1650s Western civilization \"was based on a largely shared core of faith, tradition and authority\".\n\nThere is little consensus on the precise beginning of the Age of Enlightenment, though the beginning of the 18th century (1701) or the middle of the 17th century (1650) are often used as epochs. French historians usually place the period, called the \"Siècle des Lumières\" (\"Century of Enlightenments\"), between 1715 and 1789, from the beginning of the reign of Louis XV until the French Revolution. If taken back to the mid-17th century, the Enlightenment would trace its origins to Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\", published in 1637. In France, many cited the publication of Isaac Newton's \"Principia Mathematica\" in 1687. It is argued by several historians and philosophers that the beginning of the Enlightenment is when Descartes shifted the epistemological basis from external authority to internal certainty by his \"cogito ergo sum\" published in 1637. As to its end, most scholars use the last years of the century, often choosing the French Revolution of 1789 or the beginning of the Napoleonic Wars (1804–1815) as a convenient point in time with which to date the end of the Enlightenment.\n\nIn the 1944 book \"Dialectic of Enlightenment\", Frankfurt School philosophers Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno argued: Enlightenment, understood in the widest sense as the advance of thought, has always aimed at liberating human beings from fear and installing them as masters. Yet the wholly enlightened earth radiates under the sign of disaster triumphant.\n\nExtending Horkheimer and Adorno's argument, intellectual historian Jason Josephson-Storm has argued that any idea of the Age of Enlightenment as a clearly defined period that is separate from the earlier Renaissance and later Romanticism or Counter-Enlightenment constitutes a myth. Josephson-Storm points out that there are vastly different and mutually contradictory periodizations of the Enlightenment depending on nation, field of study, and school of thought; that the term and category of \"Enlightenment\" referring to the scientific revolution was actually applied after the fact; that the Enlightenment did not see an increase in disenchantment or the dominance of the mechanistic worldview; and that a blur in the early modern ideas of the Humanities and natural sciences makes it hard to circumscribe a Scientific Revolution. Josephson-Storm defends his categorization of the Enlightenment as \"myth\" by noting the regulative role ideas of a period of Enlightenment and disenchantment play in modern Western culture, such that belief in magic, spiritualism, and even religion appears somewhat taboo in intellectual strata.\n\nIn the 1970s, study of the Enlightenment expanded to include the ways Enlightenment ideas spread to European colonies and how they interacted with indigenous cultures and how the Enlightenment took place in formerly unstudied areas such as Italy, Greece, the Balkans, Poland, Hungary and Russia.\n\nIntellectuals such as Robert Darnton and Jürgen Habermas have focused on the social conditions of the Enlightenment. Habermas described the creation of the \"bourgeois public sphere\" in 18th-century Europe, containing the new venues and modes of communication allowing for rational exchange. Habermas said that the public sphere was bourgeois, egalitarian, rational and independent from the state, making it the ideal venue for intellectuals to critically examine contemporary politics and society, away from the interference of established authority. While the public sphere is generally an integral component of the social study of the Enlightenment, other historians have questioned whether the public sphere had these characteristics.\n\nIn contrast to the intellectual historiographical approach of the Enlightenment, which examines the various currents or discourses of intellectual thought within the European context during the 17th and 18th centuries, the cultural (or social) approach examines the changes that occurred in European society and culture. This approach studies the process of changing sociabilities and cultural practices during the Enlightenment.\n\nOne of the primary elements of the culture of the Enlightenment was the rise of the public sphere, a \"realm of communication marked by new arenas of debate, more open and accessible forms of urban public space and sociability, and an explosion of print culture\", in the late 17th century and 18th century. Elements of the public sphere included that it was egalitarian, that it discussed the domain of \"common concern,\" and that argument was founded on reason. Habermas uses the term \"common concern\" to describe those areas of political/social knowledge and discussion that were previously the exclusive territory of the state and religious authorities, now open to critical examination by the public sphere. The values of this bourgeois public sphere included holding reason to be supreme, considering everything to be open to criticism (the public sphere is critical), and the opposition of secrecy of all sorts.\nThe creation of the public sphere has been associated with two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism. The modern nation state, in its consolidation of public power, created by counterpoint a private realm of society independent of the state, which allowed for the public sphere. Capitalism also increased society's autonomy and self-awareness, as well as an increasing need for the exchange of information. As the nascent public sphere expanded, it embraced a large variety of institutions and the most commonly cited were coffee houses and cafés, salons and the literary public sphere, figuratively localized in the Republic of Letters. In France, the creation of the public sphere was helped by the aristocracy's move from the King's palace at Versailles to Paris in about 1720, since their rich spending stimulated the trade in luxuries and artistic creations, especially fine paintings.\n\nThe context for the rise of the public sphere was the economic and social change commonly associated with the Industrial Revolution: \"Economic expansion, increasing urbanization, rising population and improving communications in comparison to the stagnation of the previous century\". Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods and increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers (including the literature essential to the public sphere). Meanwhile, the colonial experience (most European states had colonial empires in the 18th century) began to expose European society to extremely heterogeneous cultures, leading to the breaking down of \"barriers between cultural systems, religious divides, gender differences and geographical areas\".\n\nThe word \"public\" implies the highest level of inclusivity – the public sphere by definition should be open to all. However, this sphere was only public to relative degrees. Enlightenment thinkers frequently contrasted their conception of the \"public\" with that of the people: Condorcet contrasted \"opinion\" with populace, Marmontel \"the opinion of men of letters\" with \"the opinion of the multitude\" and d'Alembert the \"truly enlightened public\" with \"the blind and noisy multitude\". Additionally, most institutions of the public sphere excluded both women and the lower classes. Cross-class influences occurred through noble and lower class participation in areas such as the coffeehouses and the Masonic lodges.\n\nBecause of the focus on reason over superstition, the Enlightenment cultivated the arts. Emphasis on learning, art and music became more widespread, especially with the growing middle class. Areas of study such as literature, philosophy, science, and the fine arts increasingly explored subject matter to which the general public, in addition to the previously more segregated professionals and patrons, could relate.\nAs musicians depended more and more on public support, public concerts became increasingly popular and helped supplement performers' and composers' incomes. The concerts also helped them to reach a wider audience. Handel, for example, epitomized this with his highly public musical activities in London. He gained considerable fame there with performances of his operas and oratorios. The music of Haydn and Mozart, with their Viennese Classical styles, are usually regarded as being the most in line with the Enlightenment ideals.\n\nThe desire to explore, record and systematize knowledge had a meaningful impact on music publications. Jean-Jacques Rousseau's \"Dictionnaire de musique\" (published 1767 in Geneva and 1768 in Paris) was a leading text in the late 18th century. This widely available dictionary gave short definitions of words like genius and taste and was clearly influenced by the Enlightenment movement. Another text influenced by Enlightenment values was Charles Burney's \"A General History of Music: From the Earliest Ages to the Present Period\" (1776), which was a historical survey and an attempt to rationalize elements in music systematically over time. Recently, musicologists have shown renewed interest in the ideas and consequences of the Enlightenment. For example, Rose Rosengard Subotnik's \"Deconstructive Variations\" (subtitled \"Music and Reason in Western Society\") compares Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\" (1791) using the Enlightenment and Romantic perspectives and concludes that the work is \"an ideal musical representation of the Enlightenment\".\n\nAs the economy and the middle class expanded, there was an increasing number of amateur musicians. One manifestation of this involved women, who became more involved with music on a social level. Women were already engaged in professional roles as singers and increased their presence in the amateur performers' scene, especially with keyboard music. Music publishers begin to print music that amateurs could understand and play. The majority of the works that were published were for keyboard, voice and keyboard and chamber ensemble. After these initial genres were popularized, from the mid-century on, amateur groups sang choral music, which then became a new trend for publishers to capitalize on. The increasing study of the fine arts, as well as access to amateur-friendly published works, led to more people becoming interested in reading and discussing music. Music magazines, reviews and critical works which suited amateurs as well as connoisseurs began to surface.\n\nThe \"philosophes\" spent a great deal of energy disseminating their ideas among educated men and women in cosmopolitan cities. They used many venues, some of them quite new.\n\nThe term \"Republic of Letters\" was coined in 1664 by Pierre Bayle in his journal \"Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres\". Towards the end of the 18th century, the editor of \"Histoire de la République des Lettres en France\", a literary survey, described the Republic of Letters as being: In the midst of all the governments that decide the fate of men; in the bosom of so many states, the majority of them despotic ... there exists a certain realm which holds sway only over the mind ... that we honour with the name Republic, because it preserves a measure of independence, and because it is almost its essence to be free. It is the realm of talent and of thought.\n\nThe Republic of Letters was the sum of a number of Enlightenment ideals: an egalitarian realm governed by knowledge that could act across political boundaries and rival state power. It was a forum that supported \"free public examination of questions regarding religion or legislation\". Immanuel Kant considered written communication essential to his conception of the public sphere; once everyone was a part of the \"reading public\", then society could be said to be enlightened. The people who participated in the Republic of Letters, such as Diderot and Voltaire, are frequently known today as important Enlightenment figures. Indeed, the men who wrote Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\" arguably formed a microcosm of the larger \"republic\".\n\nMany women played an essential part in the French Enlightenment, due to the role they played as \"salonnières\" in Parisian salons, as the contrast to the male \"philosophes\". The salon was the principal social institution of the republic and \"became the civil working spaces of the project of Enlightenment\". Women, as salonnières, were \"the legitimate governors of [the] potentially unruly discourse\" that took place within. While women were marginalized in the public culture of the Old Regime, the French Revolution destroyed the old cultural and economic restraints of patronage and corporatism (guilds), opening French society to female participation, particularly in the literary sphere.\nIn France, the established men of letters (\"gens de lettres\") had fused with the elites (\"les grands\") of French society by the mid-18th century. This led to the creation of an oppositional literary sphere, Grub Street, the domain of a \"multitude of versifiers and would-be authors\". These men came to London to become authors, only to discover that the literary market simply could not support large numbers of writers, who in any case were very poorly remunerated by the publishing-bookselling guilds.\n\nThe writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling bitter about the relative success of the men of letters and found an outlet for their literature which was typified by the \"libelle\". Written mostly in the form of pamphlets, the \"libelles\" \"slandered the court, the Church, the aristocracy, the academies, the salons, everything elevated and respectable, including the monarchy itself\". \"Le Gazetier cuirassé\" by Charles Théveneau de Morande was a prototype of the genre. It was Grub Street literature that was most read by the public during the Enlightenment. According to Darnton, more importantly the Grub Street hacks inherited the \"revolutionary spirit\" once displayed by the \"philosophes\" and paved the way for the French Revolution by desacralizing figures of political, moral and religious authority in France.\n\nThe increased consumption of reading materials of all sorts was one of the key features of the \"social\" Enlightenment. Developments in the Industrial Revolution allowed consumer goods to be produced in greater quantities at lower prices, encouraging the spread of books, pamphlets, newspapers and journals – \"media of the transmission of ideas and attitudes\". Commercial development likewise increased the demand for information, along with rising populations and increased urbanisation. However, demand for reading material extended outside of the realm of the commercial and outside the realm of the upper and middle classes, as evidenced by the Bibliothèque Bleue. Literacy rates are difficult to gauge, but in France the rates doubled over the course of the 18th century. Reflecting the decreasing influence of religion, the number of books about science and art published in Paris doubled from 1720 to 1780, while the number of books about religion dropped to just one-tenth of the total.\n\nReading underwent serious changes in the 18th century. In particular, Rolf Engelsing has argued for the existence of a \"Reading Revolution\". Until 1750, reading was done intensively: people tended to own a small number of books and read them repeatedly, often to small audience. After 1750, people began to read \"extensively\", finding as many books as they could, increasingly reading them alone. This is supported by increasing literacy rates, particularly among women.\n\nThe vast majority of the reading public could not afford to own a private library and while most of the state-run \"universal libraries\" set up in the 17th and 18th centuries were open to the public, they were not the only sources of reading material. On one end of the spectrum was the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\", a collection of cheaply produced books published in Troyes, France. Intended for a largely rural and semi-literate audience these books included almanacs, retellings of medieval romances and condensed versions of popular novels, among other things. While some historians have argued against the Enlightenment's penetration into the lower classes, the \"Bibliothèque Bleue\" represents at least a desire to participate in Enlightenment sociability. Moving up the classes, a variety of institutions offered readers access to material without needing to buy anything. Libraries that lent out their material for a small price started to appear and occasionally bookstores would offer a small lending library to their patrons. Coffee houses commonly offered books, journals and sometimes even popular novels to their customers. \"The Tatler\" and \"The Spectator\", two influential periodicals sold from 1709 to 1714, were closely associated with coffee house culture in London, being both read and produced in various establishments in the city. This is an example of the triple or even quadruple function of the coffee house: reading material was often obtained, read, discussed and even produced on the premises.\nIt is extremely difficult to determine what people actually read during the Enlightenment. For example, examining the catalogs of private libraries gives an image skewed in favor of the classes wealthy enough to afford libraries and also ignores censored works unlikely to be publicly acknowledged. For this reason, a study of publishing would be much more fruitful for discerning reading habits.\n\nAcross continental Europe, but in France especially, booksellers and publishers had to negotiate censorship laws of varying strictness. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" narrowly escaped seizure and had to be saved by Malesherbes, the man in charge of the French censor. Indeed, many publishing companies were conveniently located outside France so as to avoid overzealous French censors. They would smuggle their merchandise across the border, where it would then be transported to clandestine booksellers or small-time peddlers. The records of clandestine booksellers may give a better representation of what literate Frenchmen might have truly read, since their clandestine nature provided a less restrictive product choice. In one case, political books were the most popular category, primarily libels and pamphlets. Readers were more interested in sensationalist stories about criminals and political corruption than they were in political theory itself. The second most popular category, \"general works\" (those books \"that did not have a dominant motif and that contained something to offend almost everyone in authority\"), demonstrated a high demand for generally low-brow subversive literature. However, these works never became part of literary canon and are largely forgotten today as a result.\n\nA healthy, legal publishing industry existed throughout Europe, although established publishers and book sellers occasionally ran afoul of the law. For example, the \"Encyclopédie\" condemned not only by the King, but also by Clement XII, nevertheless found its way into print with the help of the aforementioned Malesherbes and creative use of French censorship law. However, many works were sold without running into any legal trouble at all. Borrowing records from libraries in England, Germany, and North America indicate that more than 70 percent of books borrowed were novels. Less than 1 percent of the books were of a religious nature, indicating the general trend of declining religiosity.\n\nA genre that greatly rose in importance was that of scientific literature. Natural history in particular became increasingly popular among the upper classes. Works of natural history include René-Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur's \"Histoire naturelle des insectes\" and Jacques Gautier d'Agoty's \"La Myologie complète, ou description de tous les muscles du corps humain\" (1746). Outside ancien régime France, natural history was an important part of medicine and industry, encompassing the fields of botany, zoology, meteorology, hydrology and mineralogy. Students in Enlightenment universities and academies were taught these subjects to prepare them for careers as diverse as medicine and theology. As shown by Matthew Daniel Eddy, natural history in this context was a very middle class pursuit and operated as a fertile trading zone for the interdisciplinary exchange of diverse scientific ideas.\n\nThe target audience of natural history was French polite society, evidenced more by the specific discourse of the genre than by the generally high prices of its works. Naturalists catered to polite society's desire for erudition – many texts had an explicit instructive purpose. However, natural history was often a political affair. As Emma Spary writes, the classifications used by naturalists \"slipped between the natural world and the social ... to establish not only the expertise of the naturalists over the natural, but also the dominance of the natural over the social\". The idea of taste (\"le goût\") was a social indicator: to truly be able to categorize nature, one had to have the proper taste, an ability of discretion shared by all members of polite society. In this way natural history spread many of the scientific developments of the time, but also provided a new source of legitimacy for the dominant class. From this basis, naturalists could then develop their own social ideals based on their scientific works.\n\nThe first scientific and literary journals were established during the Enlightenment. The first journal, the Parisian \"Journal des Sçavans\", appeared in 1665. However, it was not until 1682 that periodicals began to be more widely produced. French and Latin were the dominant languages of publication, but there was also a steady demand for material in German and Dutch. There was generally low demand for English publications on the Continent, which was echoed by England's similar lack of desire for French works. Languages commanding less of an international market—such as Danish, Spanish and Portuguese—found journal success more difficult and more often than not a more international language was used instead. French slowly took over Latin's status as the \"lingua franca\" of learned circles. This in turn gave precedence to the publishing industry in Holland, where the vast majority of these French language periodicals were produced.\n\nJonathan Israel called the journals the most influential cultural innovation of European intellectual culture. They shifted the attention of the \"cultivated public\" away from established authorities to novelty and innovation and instead promoted the \"enlightened\" ideals of toleration and intellectual objectivity. Being a source of knowledge derived from science and reason, they were an implicit critique of existing notions of universal truth monopolized by monarchies, parliaments and religious authorities. They also advanced Christian enlightenment that upheld \"the legitimacy of God-ordained authority\"—the Bible—in which there had to be agreement between the biblical and natural theories.\n\nAlthough the existence of dictionaries and encyclopedias spanned into ancient times, the texts changed from simply defining words in a long running list to far more detailed discussions of those words in 18th-century encyclopedic dictionaries. The works were part of an Enlightenment movement to systematize knowledge and provide education to a wider audience than the elite. As the 18th century progressed, the content of encyclopedias also changed according to readers' tastes. Volumes tended to focus more strongly on secular affairs, particularly science and technology, rather than matters of theology.\n\nAlong with secular matters, readers also favoured an alphabetical ordering scheme over cumbersome works arranged along thematic lines. Commenting on alphabetization, the historian Charles Porset has said that \"as the zero degree of taxonomy, alphabetical order authorizes all reading strategies; in this respect it could be considered an emblem of the Enlightenment\". For Porset, the avoidance of thematic and hierarchical systems thus allows free interpretation of the works and becomes an example of egalitarianism. Encyclopedias and dictionaries also became more popular during the Age of Enlightenment as the number of educated consumers who could afford such texts began to multiply. In the later half of the 18th century, the number of dictionaries and encyclopedias published by decade increased from 63 between 1760 and 1769 to approximately 148 in the decade proceeding the French Revolution (1780–1789). Along with growth in numbers, dictionaries and encyclopedias also grew in length, often having multiple print runs that sometimes included in supplemented editions.\n\nThe first technical dictionary was drafted by John Harris and entitled \"Lexicon Technicum: Or, An Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences\". Harris' book avoided theological and biographical entries and instead it concentrated on science and technology. Published in 1704, the \"Lexicon technicum\" was the first book to be written in English that took a methodical approach to describing mathematics and commercial arithmetic along with the physical sciences and navigation. Other technical dictionaries followed Harris' model, including Ephraim Chambers' \"Cyclopaedia\" (1728), which included five editions and was a substantially larger work than Harris'. The folio edition of the work even included foldout engravings. The \"Cyclopaedia\" emphasized Newtonian theories, Lockean philosophy and contained thorough examinations of technologies, such as engraving, brewing and dyeing. In Germany, practical reference works intended for the uneducated majority became popular in the 18th century. The \"Marperger Curieuses Natur-, Kunst-, Berg-, Gewerkund Handlungs-Lexicon\" (1712) explained terms that usefully described the trades and scientific and commercial education. \"Jablonksi Allgemeines Lexicon\" (1721) was better known than the \"Handlungs-Lexicon\" and underscored technical subjects rather than scientific theory. For example, over five columns of text were dedicated to wine while geometry and logic were allocated only twenty-two and seventeen lines, respectively. The first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" (1771) was modelled along the same lines as the German lexicons.\n\nHowever, the prime example of reference works that systematized scientific knowledge in the age of Enlightenment were universal encyclopedias rather than technical dictionaries. It was the goal of universal encyclopedias to record all human knowledge in a comprehensive reference work. The most well-known of these works is Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert's \"Encyclopédie, ou dictionnaire raisonné des sciences, des arts et des métiers\". The work, which began publication in 1751, was composed of thirty-five volumes and over 71 000 separate entries. A great number of the entries were dedicated to describing the sciences and crafts in detail and provided intellectuals across Europe with a high-quality survey of human knowledge. In d'Alembert's \"Preliminary Discourse to the Encyclopedia of Diderot\", the work's goal to record the extent of human knowledge in the arts and sciences is outlined:\n\nThe massive work was arranged according to a \"tree of knowledge\". The tree reflected the marked division between the arts and sciences, which was largely a result of the rise of empiricism. Both areas of knowledge were united by philosophy, or the trunk of the tree of knowledge. The Enlightenment's desacrilization of religion was pronounced in the tree's design, particularly where theology accounted for a peripheral branch, with black magic as a close neighbour. As the \"Encyclopédie\" gained popularity, it was published in quarto and octavo editions after 1777. The quarto and octavo editions were much less expensive than previous editions, making the \"Encyclopédie\" more accessible to the non-elite. Robert Darnton estimates that there were approximately 25 000 copies of the \"Encyclopédie\" in circulation throughout France and Europe before the French Revolution. The extensive, yet affordable encyclopedia came to represent the transmission of Enlightenment and scientific education to an expanding audience.\n\nOne of the most important developments that the Enlightenment era brought to the discipline of science was its popularization. An increasingly literate population seeking knowledge and education in both the arts and the sciences drove the expansion of print culture and the dissemination of scientific learning. The new literate population was due to a high rise in the availability of food. This enabled many people to rise out of poverty, and instead of paying more for food, they had money for education. Popularization was generally part of an overarching Enlightenment ideal that endeavoured \"to make information available to the greatest number of people\". As public interest in natural philosophy grew during the 18th century, public lecture courses and the publication of popular texts opened up new roads to money and fame for amateurs and scientists who remained on the periphery of universities and academies. More formal works included explanations of scientific theories for individuals lacking the educational background to comprehend the original scientific text. Sir Isaac Newton's celebrated \"Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica\" was published in Latin and remained inaccessible to readers without education in the classics until Enlightenment writers began to translate and analyze the text in the vernacular.\nThe first significant work that expressed scientific theory and knowledge expressly for the laity, in the vernacular and with the entertainment of readers in mind, was Bernard de Fontenelle's \"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\" (1686). The book was produced specifically for women with an interest in scientific writing and inspired a variety of similar works. These popular works were written in a discursive style, which was laid out much more clearly for the reader than the complicated articles, treatises and books published by the academies and scientists. Charles Leadbetter's \"Astronomy\" (1727) was advertised as \"a Work entirely New\" that would include \"short and easie Rules and Astronomical Tables\". The first French introduction to Newtonianism and the \"Principia\" was \"Eléments de la philosophie de Newton\", published by Voltaire in 1738. Émilie du Châtelet's translation of the \"Principia\", published after her death in 1756, also helped to spread Newton's theories beyond scientific academies and the university. Writing for a growing female audience, Francesco Algarotti published \"Il Newtonianism per le dame\", which was a tremendously popular work and was translated from Italian into English by Elizabeth Carter. A similar introduction to Newtonianism for women was produced by Henry Pemberton. His \"A View of Sir Isaac Newton's Philosophy\" was published by subscription. Extant records of subscribers show that women from a wide range of social standings purchased the book, indicating the growing number of scientifically inclined female readers among the middling class. During the Enlightenment, women also began producing popular scientific works themselves. Sarah Trimmer wrote a successful natural history textbook for children titled \"The Easy Introduction to the Knowledge of Nature\" (1782), which was published for many years after in eleven editions.\n\nMost work on the Enlightenment emphasizes the ideals discussed by intellectuals, rather than the actual state of education at the time. Leading educational theorists like England's John Locke and Switzerland's Jean Jacques Rousseau both emphasized the importance of shaping young minds early. By the late Enlightenment, there was a rising demand for a more universal approach to education, particularly after the American and French Revolutions.\n\nThe predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism, the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines. In addition to being conducive to Enlightenment ideologies of liberty, self-determination and personal responsibility, it offered a practical theory of the mind that allowed teachers to transform longstanding forms of print and manuscript culture into effective graphic tools of learning for the lower and middle orders of society. Children were taught to memorize facts through oral and graphic methods that originated during the Renaissance.\n\nMany of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh. These universities, especially Edinburgh, produced professors whose ideas had a significant impact on Britain's North American colonies and later the American Republic. Within the natural sciences, Edinburgh's medical school also led the way in chemistry, anatomy and pharmacology. In other parts of Europe, the universities and schools of France and most of Europe were bastions of traditionalism and were not hospitable to the Enlightenment. In France, the major exception was the medical university at Montpellier.\n\nThe history of Academies in France during the Enlightenment begins with the Academy of Science, founded in 1635 in Paris. It was closely tied to the French state, acting as an extension of a government seriously lacking in scientists. It helped promote and organize new disciplines and it trained new scientists. It also contributed to the enhancement of scientists' social status, considering them to be the \"most useful of all citizens\". Academies demonstrate the rising interest in science along with its increasing secularization, as evidenced by the small number of clerics who were members (13 percent). The presence of the French academies in the public sphere cannot be attributed to their membership, as although the majority of their members were bourgeois, the exclusive institution was only open to elite Parisian scholars. They perceived themselves as \"interpreters of the sciences for the people\". For example, it was with this in mind that academicians took it upon themselves to disprove the popular pseudo-science of mesmerism.\n\nThe strongest contribution of the French Academies to the public sphere comes from the \"concours académiques\" (roughly translated as \"academic contests\") they sponsored throughout France. These academic contests were perhaps the most public of any institution during the Enlightenment. The practice of contests dated back to the Middle Ages and was revived in the mid-17th century. The subject matter had previously been generally religious and/or monarchical, featuring essays, poetry and painting. However, by roughly 1725 this subject matter had radically expanded and diversified, including \"royal propaganda, philosophical battles, and critical ruminations on the social and political institutions of the Old Regime\". Topics of public controversy were also discussed such as the theories of Newton and Descartes, the slave trade, women's education and justice in France.\nMore importantly, the contests were open to all and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging. Indeed, although the \"vast majority\" of participants belonged to the wealthier strata of society (\"the liberal arts, the clergy, the judiciary and the medical profession\"), there were some cases of the popular classes submitting essays and even winning. Similarly, a significant number of women participated—and won—the competitions. Of a total of 2,300 prize competitions offered in France, women won 49—perhaps a small number by modern standards, but very significant in an age in which most women did not have any academic training. Indeed, the majority of the winning entries were for poetry competitions, a genre commonly stressed in women's education.\n\nIn England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas. It was founded by a group of independent scientists and given a royal charter in 1662. The Society played a large role in spreading Robert Boyle's experimental philosophy around Europe and acted as a clearinghouse for intellectual correspondence and exchange. Boyle was \"a founder of the experimental world in which scientists now live and operate\" and his method based knowledge on experimentation, which had to be witnessed to provide proper empirical legitimacy. This is where the Royal Society came into play: witnessing had to be a \"collective act\" and the Royal Society's assembly rooms were ideal locations for relatively public demonstrations. However, not just any witness was considered to be credible: \"Oxford professors were accounted more reliable witnesses than Oxfordshire peasants\". Two factors were taken into account: a witness's knowledge in the area and a witness's \"moral constitution\". In other words, only civil society were considered for Boyle's public.\n\nIt was the place in which philosophes got reunited and talked about old, actual or new ideas. Salons were the place where intellectual and enlightened ideas were built.\n\nCoffeehouses were especially important to the spread of knowledge during the Enlightenment because they created a unique environment in which people from many different walks of life gathered and shared ideas. They were frequently criticized by nobles who feared the possibility of an environment in which class and its accompanying titles and privileges were disregarded. Such an environment was especially intimidating to monarchs who derived much of their power from the disparity between classes of people. If classes were to join together under the influence of Enlightenment thinking, they might recognize the all-encompassing oppression and abuses of their monarchs and because of their size might be able to carry out successful revolts. Monarchs also resented the idea of their subjects convening as one to discuss political matters, especially those concerning foreign affairs—rulers thought political affairs to be their business only, a result of their supposed divine right to rule.\n\nCoffeehouses represent a turning point in history during which people discovered that they could have enjoyable social lives within their communities. Coffeeshops became homes away from home for many who sought, for the first time, to engage in discourse with their neighbors and discuss intriguing and thought-provoking matters, especially those regarding philosophy to politics. Coffeehouses were essential to the Enlightenment, for they were centers of free-thinking and self-discovery. Although many coffeehouse patrons were scholars, a great deal were not. Coffeehouses attracted a diverse set of people, including not only the educated wealthy but also members of the bourgeoisie and the lower class. While it may seem positive that patrons, being doctors, lawyers, merchants, etc. represented almost all classes, the coffeeshop environment sparked fear in those who sought to preserve class distinction. One of the most popular critiques of the coffeehouse claimed that it \"allowed promiscuous association among people from different rungs of the social ladder, from the artisan to the aristocrat\" and was therefore compared to Noah's Ark, receiving all types of animals, clean or unclean. This unique culture served as a catalyst for journalism when Joseph Addison and Richard Steele recognized its potential as an audience. Together, Steele and Addison published \"The Spectator (1711)\", a daily publication which aimed, through fictional narrator Mr. Spectator, both to entertain and to provoke discussion regarding serious philosophical matters.\n\nThe first English coffeehouse opened in Oxford in 1650. Brian Cowan said that Oxford coffeehouses developed into \"penny universities\", offering a locus of learning that was less formal than structured institutions. These penny universities occupied a significant position in Oxford academic life, as they were frequented by those consequently referred to as the \"virtuosi\", who conducted their research on some of the resulting premises. According to Cowan, \"the coffeehouse was a place for like-minded scholars to congregate, to read, as well as learn from and to debate with each other, but was emphatically not a university institution, and the discourse there was of a far different order than any university tutorial\".\n\nThe Café Procope was established in Paris in 1686 and by the 1720s there were around 400 cafés in the city. The Café Procope in particular became a center of Enlightenment, welcoming such celebrities as Voltaire and Rousseau. The Café Procope was where Diderot and D'Alembert decided to create the \"Encyclopédie\". The cafés were one of the various \"nerve centers\" for \"bruits publics\", public noise or rumour. These \"bruits\" were allegedly a much better source of information than were the actual newspapers available at the time.\n\nThe debating societies are an example of the public sphere during the Enlightenment. Their origins include:\nIn the late 1770s, popular debating societies began to move into more \"genteel\" rooms, a change which helped establish a new standard of sociability. The backdrop to these developments was \"an explosion of interest in the theory and practice of public elocution\". The debating societies were commercial enterprises that responded to this demand, sometimes very successfully. Some societies welcomed from 800 to 1,200 spectators a night.\n\nThe debating societies discussed an extremely wide range of topics. Before the Enlightenment, most intellectual debates revolved around \"confessional\" – that is, Catholic, Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist) or Anglican issues and the main aim of these debates was to establish which bloc of faith ought to have the \"monopoly of truth and a God-given title to authority\". After this date, everything thus previously rooted in tradition was questioned and often replaced by new concepts in the light of philosophical reason. After the second half of the 17th century and during the 18th century, a \"general process of rationalization and secularization set in\" and confessional disputes were reduced to a secondary status in favor of the \"escalating contest between faith and incredulity\".\n\nIn addition to debates on religion, societies discussed issues such as politics and the role of women. However, it is important to note that the critical subject matter of these debates did not necessarily translate into opposition to the government. In other words, the results of the debate quite frequently upheld the \"status quo\". From a historical standpoint, one of the most important features of the debating society was their openness to the public, as women attended and even participated in almost every debating society, which were likewise open to all classes providing they could pay the entrance fee. Once inside, spectators were able to participate in a largely egalitarian form of sociability that helped spread Enlightenment ideas.\n\nHistorians have long debated the extent to which the secret network of Freemasonry was a main factor in the Enlightenment. The leaders of the Enlightenment included Freemasons such as Diderot, Montesquieu, Voltaire, Lessing, Pope, Horace Walpole, Sir Robert Walpole, Mozart, Goethe, Frederick the Great, Benjamin Franklin and George Washington. Norman Davies said that Freemasonry was a powerful force on behalf of liberalism in Europe from about 1700 to the twentieth century. It expanded rapidly during the Age of Enlightenment, reaching practically every country in Europe. It was especially attractive to powerful aristocrats and politicians as well as intellectuals, artists and political activists.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, Freemasons comprised an international network of like-minded men, often meeting in secret in ritualistic programs at their lodges. They promoted the ideals of the Enlightenment and helped diffuse these values across Britain and France and other places. Freemasonry as a systematic creed with its own myths, values and set of rituals originated in Scotland around 1600 and spread first to England and then across the Continent in the eighteenth century. They fostered new codes of conduct—including a communal understanding of liberty and equality inherited from guild sociability—\"liberty, fraternity and equality\". Scottish soldiers and Jacobite Scots brought to the Continent ideals of fraternity which reflected not the local system of Scottish customs but the institutions and ideals originating in the English Revolution against royal absolutism. Freemasonry was particularly prevalent in France—by 1789, there were perhaps as many as 100,000 French Masons, making Freemasonry the most popular of all Enlightenment associations. The Freemasons displayed a passion for secrecy and created new degrees and ceremonies. Similar societies, partially imitating Freemasonry, emerged in France, Germany, Sweden and Russia. One example was the Illuminati founded in Bavaria in 1776, which was copied after the Freemasons, but was never part of the movement. The Illuminati was an overtly political group, which most Masonic lodges decidedly were not.\n\nMasonic lodges created a private model for public affairs. They \"reconstituted the polity and established a constitutional form of self-government, complete with constitutions and laws, elections and representatives\". In other words, the micro-society set up within the lodges constituted a normative model for society as a whole. This was especially true on the continent: when the first lodges began to appear in the 1730s, their embodiment of British values was often seen as threatening by state authorities. For example, the Parisian lodge that met in the mid 1720s was composed of English Jacobite exiles. Furthermore, freemasons all across Europe explicitly linked themselves to the Enlightenment as a whole. For example, in French lodges the line \"As the means to be enlightened I search for the enlightened\" was a part of their initiation rites. British lodges assigned themselves the duty to \"initiate the unenlightened\". This did not necessarily link lodges to the irreligious, but neither did this exclude them from the occasional heresy. In fact, many lodges praised the Grand Architect, the masonic terminology for the deistic divine being who created a scientifically ordered universe.\n\nGerman historian Reinhart Koselleck claimed: \"On the Continent there were two social structures that left a decisive imprint on the Age of Enlightenment: the Republic of Letters and the Masonic lodges\". Scottish professor Thomas Munck argues that \"although the Masons did promote international and cross-social contacts which were essentially non-religious and broadly in agreement with enlightened values, they can hardly be described as a major radical or reformist network in their own right\". Many of the Masons values seemed to greatly appeal to Enlightenment values and thinkers. Diderot discusses the link between Freemason ideals and the enlightenment in D'Alembert's Dream, exploring masonry as a way of spreading enlightenment beliefs. Historian Margaret Jacob stresses the importance of the Masons in indirectly inspiring enlightened political thought. On the negative side, Daniel Roche contests claims that Masonry promoted egalitarianism and he argues that the lodges only attracted men of similar social backgrounds. The presence of noble women in the French \"lodges of adoption\" that formed in the 1780s was largely due to the close ties shared between these lodges and aristocratic society.\n\nThe major opponent of Freemasonry was the Roman Catholic Church so that in countries with a large Catholic element, such as France, Italy, Spain and Mexico, much of the ferocity of the political battles involve the confrontation between what Davies calls the reactionary Church and enlightened Freemasonry. Even in France, Masons did not act as a group. American historians, while noting that Benjamin Franklin and George Washington were indeed active Masons, have downplayed the importance of Freemasonry in causing the American Revolution because the Masonic order was non-political and included both Patriots and their enemy the Loyalists.\n\nThe art produced during the Enlightenment was about a search for morality that was absent from previous art. At the same time, the Classical art of Greece and Rome became interesting to people again, since archaeological teams discovered Pompeii and Herculaneum. People took inspiration from it and revived the classical art into neo-classical art. This can be especially seen in early American art, where, throughout their art and architecture, they used arches, goddesses, and other classical architectural designs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26213536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26213536", "title": "Amour de soi", "text": "Amour de soi\n\nAmour de soi (French, \"self-love\") is a concept in the philosophy of Jean-Jacques Rousseau that refers to the kind of self-love that humans share with brute animals and predates the appearance of society. Acts committed out of \"amour de soi\" tend to be for individual well-being. They are naturally good and not malicious because \"amour de soi\" as self-love does not involve pursuing one's self-interest at the expense of others. The sentiment does not compare oneself with others, but is concerned solely with regarding oneself as an absolute and valuable existence. It is related to an awareness of one's future and can restrain present impulse. Rousseau contrasts it with \"amour-propre\", that kind of self-love, found in Thomas Hobbes' philosophy, in which one's opinion of oneself is dependent on what other people think and which arises only with society.\n\nRousseau suggested that \"amour de soi\" was lost during the transition from the pre-societal condition to society, but it can be restored by the use of \"good\" institutions created with the social contract. This renewed passage from the state of nature to the civilized state, would bring man to favor justice instead of instinct.\n"}
{"id": "1279037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1279037", "title": "Anima mundi", "text": "Anima mundi\n\nThe world soul (Greek: ψυχὴ κόσμου \"psuchè kósmou\", Latin: \"anima mundi\") is, according to several systems of thought, an intrinsic connection between all living things on the planet, which relates to our world in much the same way as the soul is connected to the human body. Plato adhered to this idea and it was an important component of most Neoplatonic systems:\n\nTherefore, we may consequently state that: this world is indeed a living being endowed with a soul and intelligence ... a single visible living entity containing all other living entities, which by their nature are all related.\n\nThe Stoics believed it to be the only vital force in the universe. Similar concepts also hold in systems of eastern philosophy in the Brahman-Atman of Hinduism, the Buddha-Nature in Mahayana Buddhism, and in the School of Yin-Yang, Taoism, and Neo-Confucianism as \"qi\".\n\nOther resemblances can be found in the thoughts of hermetic philosophers like Paracelsus, and by Baruch Spinoza, Gottfried Leibniz, Friedrich Schelling and in Hegel's \"Geist\" (\"Spirit\"/\"Mind\"). Ralph Waldo Emerson published \"The Over-Soul\" in 1841, which was influenced by the Hindu conception of a \"universal soul\". There are also similarities with ideas developed since the 1960s by Gaia theorists such as James Lovelock.\n\nIn Jewish mysticism, a parallel concept is that of \"Chokhmah Ila'ah,\" the all-encompassing \"Supernal Wisdom\" that transcends, orders and vitalizes all of creation. Rabbi Nachman of Breslov states that this sublime wisdom may be apprehended (or perhaps \"channeled\") by a perfect tzaddik (holy man). Thus, the tzaddik attains \"cosmic consciousness\" and thus is empowered to mitigate all division and conflict within creation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29016566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29016566", "title": "Animalism (philosophy)", "text": "Animalism (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, animalism is a theory according to which humans are animals. The concept of animalism is advocated by philosophers Eric T. Olson, Paul Snowdon, Stephan Blatti, and David Wiggins.\n\n"}
{"id": "191703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191703", "title": "Anthropocentrism", "text": "Anthropocentrism\n\nAnthropocentrism (; from Greek , \"ánthrōpos\", \"human being\"; and , \"kéntron\", \"center\") is the belief that human beings are the most important entity in the universe. Anthropocentrism interprets or regards the world in terms of human values and experiences. The term can be used interchangeably with humanocentrism, and some refer to the concept as human supremacy or human exceptionalism. Anthropocentrism is considered to be profoundly embedded in many modern human cultures and conscious acts. It is a major concept in the field of environmental ethics and environmental philosophy, where it is often considered to be the root cause of problems created by human action within the ecosphere.\n\nHowever, many proponents of anthropocentrism state that this is not necessarily the case: they argue that a sound long-term view acknowledges that a healthy, sustainable environment is necessary for humans and that the real issue is shallow anthropocentrism.\n\nAnthropocentrism, also known as homocentricism or human supremacism, has been posited by some environmentalists, in such books as \"Confessions of an Eco-Warrior\" by Dave Foreman and \"Green Rage\" by Christopher Manes, as the underlying (if unstated) reason why humanity dominates and sees the need to \"develop\" most of the Earth. Anthropocentrism is believed by some to be the central problematic concept in environmental philosophy, where it is used to draw attention claims of a systematic bias in traditional Western attitudes to the non-human world. Val Plumwood has argued that anthropocentrism plays an analogous role in green theory to androcentrism in feminist theory and ethnocentrism in anti-racist theory. Plumwood calls human-centredness \"anthrocentrism\" to emphasise this parallel.\n\nOne of the first extended philosophical essays addressing environmental ethics, John Passmore's \"Man's Responsibility for Nature\" has been criticised by defenders of deep ecology because of its anthropocentrism, often claimed to be constitutive of traditional Western moral thought. Indeed, defenders of anthropocentrism concerned with the ecological crisis contend that the maintenance of a healthy, sustainable environment is necessary for human well-being as opposed to for its own sake. The problem with a \"shallow\" viewpoint is not that it is human-centred but that according to William Grey: \"What's wrong with shallow views is not their concern about the well-being of humans, but that they do not really consider enough in what that well-being consists. According to this view, we need to develop an enriched, fortified anthropocentric notion of human interest to replace the dominant short-term, sectional and self-regarding conception.\" In turn, Plumwood in \"Environmental Culture: The Ecological Crisis of Reason\" argued that Grey's anthropocentrism is inadequate.\n\nIt is important to take note that many devoted environmentalists encompass a somewhat anthropocentric-based philosophical view supporting the fact that they will argue in favor of saving the environment for the sake of human populations. Grey writes: \"We should be concerned to promote a rich, diverse, and vibrant biosphere. Human flourishing may certainly be included as a legitimate part of such a flourishing.\" Such a concern for human flourishing amidst the flourishing of life as a whole, however, is said to be indistinguishible from that of deep ecology and biocentrism, which has been proposed as both an antithesis of anthropocentrism. and as a generalised form of anthropocentrism.\n\nMaimonides, a scholar of the Torah who lived in the 12th century AD, was noted for being decidedly anti-anthropocentric. Maimonides called man \"a mere 'drop of the bucket’\" and \"not 'the axle of the world'\". He also claimed that anthropocentric thinking is what causes humans to think that evil things exist in nature. According to Rabbi Norman Lamm, Maimonides \"thus deflate[d] man's extravagant notions of his own importance and urge[d] us to abandon these illusions.\"\n\nIn the 1985 CBC series \"A Planet For the Taking\", Dr. David Suzuki explored the Old Testament roots of anthropocentrism and how it shaped our view of non-human animals. Some Christian proponents of anthropocentrism base their belief on the Bible, such as the verse 1:26 in the Book of Genesis:\nThe use of the word \"dominion\" in the \"Genesis\" is controversial. Many Biblical scholars, especially Roman Catholic and other non-Protestant Christians, consider this to be a flawed translation of a word meaning \"stewardship\", which would indicate that mankind should take care of the earth and its various forms of life.\n\nAnthropocentrism is the grounding for some naturalistic concepts of human rights. Defenders of anthropocentrism argue that it is the necessary fundamental premise to defend universal human rights, since what matters morally is simply being human. For example, noted philosopher Mortimer J. Adler wrote, \"Those who oppose injurious discrimination on the moral ground that all human beings, being equal in their humanity, should be treated equally in all those respects that concern their common humanity, would have no solid basis in fact to support their normative principle.\" Adler is stating here, that denying what is now called human exceptionalism could lead to tyranny, writing that if we ever came to believe that humans do not possess a unique moral status, the intellectual foundation of our liberties collapses: \"Why, then, should not groups of superior men be able to justify their enslavement, exploitation, or even genocide of inferior human groups on factual and moral grounds akin to those we now rely on to justify our treatment of the animals we harness as beasts of burden, that we butcher for food and clothing, or that we destroy as disease-bearing pests or as dangerous predators?\"\n\nAuthor and anthropocentrism defender Wesley J. Smith from the Discovery Institute has written that human exceptionalism is what gives rise to human duties to each other, the natural world, and to treat animals humanely. Writing in \"A Rat is a Pig is a Dog is a Boy\", a critique of animal rights ideology, \"Because we \"are\" unquestionably a unique species—the only species capable of even contemplating ethical issues and assuming responsibilities—we uniquely are capable of apprehending the difference between right and wrong, good and evil, proper and improper conduct toward animals. Or to put it more succinctly if being human isn't what requires us to treat animals humanely, what in the world does?\"\n\nIn cognitive psychology, anthropocentric thinking can be defined as \"the tendency to reason about unfamiliar biological species or processes by analogy to humans\". Reasoning by analogy is an attractive thinking strategy, and it can be tempting to apply our own experience of being human to other biological systems. For example, because death is commonly felt to be undesirable, it may be tempting to form the misconception that death at a cellular level or elsewhere in nature is similarly undesirable (whereas in reality programmed cell death is an essential physiological phenomenon, and ecosystems also rely on death). Conversely, anthropocentric thinking can also lead people to underattribute human characteristics to other organisms. For instance, it may be tempting to wrongly assume that an animal that is very different from humans, such as an insect, will not share particular biological characteristics, such as reproduction or blood circulation.\n\nAnthropocentric thinking has predominantly been studied in young children (mostly up to the age of 10) by developmental psychologists interested in its relevance to biology education. Although relatively little is known about its persistence at a later age, evidence exists that this pattern of human exceptionalist thinking can continue through young adulthood, even among students who have been increasingly educated in biology.\n\nThe notion that anthropocentric thinking is an innate human characteristic has been challenged by study of American children raised in urban environments, among whom it appears to emerge between the ages of 3 and 5 years as an acquired perspective. Children's recourse to anthropocentric thinking seems to vary with experience and cultural assumptions about the place of humans in the natural world. Children raised in rural environments appear to use it less than their urban counterparts because of their greater familiarity with different species of animals and plants. Studies involving children from some of the indigenous peoples of the Americas have found little use of anthropocentric thinking. Study of children among the Wichí people in South America showed a tendency to think of living organisms in terms of their taxonomic or perceived similarities, ecological considerations, and animistic traditions, resulting in a much less anthropocentric view of the natural world than is experienced by many children in Western societies.\n\nIn fiction from all eras and societies, there is fiction treating as normal the actions of humans to ride, eat, milk, and otherwise treat animals as separate species. There are occasional exceptions, such as talking animals, but they are generally treated as exceptions, as aberrations to the rule distinguishing people from animals.\n\nIn science fiction, \"humanocentrism\" is the idea that humans, as both beings and as a species, are the superior sentients. Essentially the equivalent of racial supremacy on a galactic scale, it entails intolerant discrimination against sentient non-humans, much like race supremacists discriminate against those not of their race. A prime example of this concept is utilized as a story element for the \"Mass Effect\" series. After humanity's first contact results in a brief war, many humans in the series develop suspicious or even hostile attitudes towards the game's various alien races. By the time of the first game, which takes place several decades after the war, many humans still retain such sentiments in addition to forming 'pro-human' organizations.\n\nThis idea is countered by anti-humanism. At times, this ideal also includes fear of and superiority over strong AIs and cyborgs, downplaying the ideas of integration, cybernetic revolts, machine rule and Tilden's Laws of Robotics.\n\nMark Twain mocked the belief in human supremacy in \"Letters from the Earth\" (written c. 1909, published 1962).\n\nThe 2012 documentary \"The Superior Human?\" systematically analyzes anthropocentrism and concludes that value is fundamentally an opinion, and since life forms naturally value their own traits, most humans are misled to believe that they are actually more valuable than other species. This natural bias, according to the film, combined with a received sense of comfort and an excuse for exploitation of non-humans cause anthropocentrism to remain in society.\n\n"}
{"id": "7527838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7527838", "title": "Aristotelian Society", "text": "Aristotelian Society\n\nThe Aristotelian Society for the Systematic Study of Philosophy, more generally known as the Aristotelian Society, was founded at a meeting on 19 April 1880, at 17 Bloomsbury Square. \n\nThe Aristotelian Society resolved \"to constitute a society of about twenty and to include ladies; the society to meet fortnightly, on Mondays at 8 o'clock, at the rooms of the Spelling Reform Association…\" The rules of the society stipulated:\n\nAccording to H. Wildon Carr, in choosing a name for the society, it was:\n\nThe society's first president was Mr. Shadworth H. Hodgson. He was president for fourteen years from 1880 until 1894, when he proposed Dr. Bernard Bosanquet as his replacement.\n\nProfessor Alan Willard Brown noted in 1947 that '[The Society]'s members were not all men of established intellectual position. It welcomed young minds just out of university as well as older amateur philosophers with serious interests and purposes. But many distinguished men were faithful members, and not the least virtue of the society has remained, even to the present day, the opportunity it affords for different intellectual generations to meet in an atmosphere of reasoned and responsible discussion.'.\"\n\nThe society continues to meet fortnightly at the University of London's Senate House to hear and discuss philosophical papers from all philosophical traditions. The current President (2016-2017) is Tim Crane, a Professor of Philosophy at University of Cambridge. Its other work includes giving grants to support the organisation of academic conferences in philosophy, and, with Oxford University Press, the production of the 'Lines of Thought' series of philosophical monographs.\n\nThe society's annual conference, organised since 1918 in conjunction with the Mind Association, (publishers of the philosophical journal \"Mind\"), is known as the Joint Session of the Aristotelian Society and the Mind Association, and is hosted by different university departments in July each year.\n\nThe first edition of the society's proceedings, the Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society for the Systematic Study of Philosophy, now the Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, was issued in 1888.\n\nPapers from invited speakers at the Joint Session conference are published in June each year (i.e., before the joint conference) in The Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, Supplementary Volume.\n\nThe Proceedings and the Supplementary Volume are published by the society and distributed by Oxford University Press. The back run of both journals has been digitised by JSTOR.\n\nMany significant philosophers have served the society as its president:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "925810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925810", "title": "Axial Age", "text": "Axial Age\n\nAxial Age (also Axis Age, from ) is a term coined by German philosopher Karl Jaspers in the sense of a \"pivotal age\" characterizing the period of ancient history from about the 8th to the 3rd century BCE.\n\nThen, according to Jaspers' concept, new ways of thinking appeared in Persia, India, China and the Greco-Roman world in religion and philosophy, in a striking parallel development, without any obvious direct cultural contact between all of the participating Eurasian cultures. Jaspers identified key thinkers from this age who had a profound influence on future philosophies and religions, and identified characteristics common to each area from which those thinkers emerged. \n\nJaspers' approach to the culture of the middle of the first millennium BC has been adopted by other scholars and academics, and has become a point of discussion in the history of religion.\n\nJaspers introduced the concept of an Axial Age in his book \"Vom Ursprung und Ziel der Geschichte\" (\"The Origin and Goal of History\"), published in 1949. The simultaneous appearance of thinkers and philosophers in different areas of the world had been remarked by numerous authors since the 18th century, notably by the French Indologist Abraham Hyacinthe Anquetil-Duperron. Jaspers explicitly cited some of these authors, including Victor von Strauß (1859) and Peter Ernst von Lasaulx (1870). \nJasper's contribution was to claim that the Axial Age should be viewed as an objective empirical fact of history, independently of religious considerations. He argued that during the Axial Age, \"the spiritual foundations of humanity were laid simultaneously and independently in China, India, Persia, Judea, and Greece. And these are the foundations upon which humanity still subsists today\".\n\nHe identified a number of key thinkers as having had a profound influence on future philosophies and religions, and identified characteristics common to each area from which those thinkers emerged. Jaspers held up this age as unique, and one to which the rest of the history of human thought might be compared.\n\nJaspers presented his first outline of the Axial age by a series of examples:\n\nJaspers described the Axial Age as \"an interregnum between two ages of great empire, a pause for liberty, a deep breath bringing the most lucid consciousness\". It has also been suggested that the Axial Age was a historically liminal period, when old certainties had lost their validity and new ones were still not ready. \n\nJaspers had a particular interest in the similarities in circumstance and thought of its figures. Similarities included an engagement in the quest for human meaning and the rise of a new elite class of religious leaders and thinkers in China, India and the Occident. \n\nThese spiritual foundations were laid by individual thinkers within a framework of a changing social environment. Jaspers argues that the characteristics appeared under similar political circumstances: China, India, the Middle East and the Occident each comprised multiple small states engaged in internal and external struggles.\nThe three regions all gave birth to, and then institutionalized, a tradition of travelling scholars, who roamed from city to city to exchange ideas. After the Spring and Autumn period and the Warring States period, Taoism and Confucianism emerged in China. In other regions, the scholars were largely from extant religious traditions; in India, from Hinduism, Buddhism, and Jainism; in Persia, from Zoroastrianism; in The Levant, from Judaism; and in Greece, from Sophism and other classical philosophies.\n\nMany of the cultures of the axial age were considered second-generation societies because they were built on the societies that preceded them.\n\nParshvanatha (23rd Tirthankara in the 9th century BCE) and Mahavira (24th Tirthankara in the 6th century BCE), known as the fordmakers of Jainism lived during this age. They propagated the religion of sramanas (previous Tirthankaras) and influenced Indian philosophy by propounding the principles of ahimsa (non-violence), karma, samsara and asceticism.\n\nBuddhism, also of the sramana tradition of India, was another of the world's most influential philosophies, founded by Siddhartha Gautama, or the Buddha, who lived during this period; its spread was aided by Ashoka, who lived late in the period.\n\nIn China, the Hundred Schools of Thought were in contention and Confucianism and Taoism arose during this era, and in this area it remains a profound influence on social and religious life.\n\nZoroastrianism, another of Jaspers' examples, is one of the first monotheistic religions and some believe it greatly influenced modern Abrahamic religions with such conceptions as the devil and Heaven/Hell. The exact date of Zoroaster's life is debated by scholars, with some, such as Mary Boyce, arguing that Zoroastrianism itself is significantly older. Others, such as William W Malandra and RC Zaehner, suggest that he may indeed have been an early contemporary of Cyrus living around 600 BC. However, Boyce and other leading scholars who once supported much earlier dates for Zarathustra/Zoroaster have recently changed their position on the time when he likely lived, so that there is an emerging consensus regarding him as a contemporary or near-contemporary of Cyrus the Great.\n\nJaspers' axial shifts included the rise of Platonism, which would later become a major influence on the Western world through both Christianity and secular thought throughout the Middle Ages and into the Renaissance.\n\nIn addition to Jaspers, the philosopher Eric Voegelin referred to this age as \"The Great Leap of Being\", constituting a new spiritual awakening and a shift of perception from societal to individual values. Thinkers and teachers like the Buddha, Pythagoras, Heraclitus, Parmenides, and Anaxagoras contributed to such awakenings which Plato would later call \"anamnesis\", or a remembering of things forgotten.\n\nDavid Christian notes that the first \"universal religions\" appeared in the age of the first universal empires and of the first all-encompassing trading networks.\n\nAnthropologist David Graeber has pointed out that \"the core period of Jasper's Axial age [...] corresponds almost exactly to the period in which coinage was invented. What's more, the three parts of the world where coins were first invented were also the very parts of the world where those sages lived; in fact, they became the epicenters of Axial Age religious and philosophical creativity.\" Drawing on the work of classicist Richard Seaford and literary theorist Marc Shell on the relation between coinage and early Greek thought, Graeber argues that an understanding of the rise of markets is necessary to grasp the context in which the religious and philosophical insights of the Axial age arose. The ultimate effect of the introduction of coinage was, he argues, an \"ideal division of spheres of human activity that endures to this day: on the one hand the market, on the other, religion.\"\n\nGerman sociologist Max Weber played an important role in Jaspers' thinking. Shmuel Eisenstadt argues in the introduction to \"The Origins and Diversity of Axial Age Civilizations\" that Weber's work in his \"\", \"\" and \"Ancient Judaism\" provided a background for the importance of the period, and notes parallels with Eric Voegelin's \"Order and History\". Wider acknowledgement of Jaspers' work came after it was presented at a conference and published in \"Dædalus\" in 1975, and Jaspers' suggestion that the period was uniquely transformative generated important discussion amongst other scholars, such as Johann Arnason. In literature, Gore Vidal in his novel \"Creation\" covers much of this Axial Age through the fictional perspective of a Persian adventurer.\n\nShmuel Eisenstadt analyses economic circumstances relating to the coming of the Axial Age in Greece.\n\nReligious historian Karen Armstrong explored the period in her \"The Great Transformation\", and the theory has been the focus of academic conferences. Usage of the term has expanded beyond Jaspers' original formulation. Armstrong argues that the Enlightenment was a \"Second Axial Age\", including thinkers such as Isaac Newton, Sigmund Freud, and Albert Einstein. It has also been suggested that the modern era is a new axial age, wherein relationships between religion, secularity, and traditional thought are changing.\n\nThe validity of the concept has been called into question. In 2006 Diarmaid MacCulloch called the Jaspers thesis \"a baggy monster, which tries to bundle up all sorts of diversities over four very different civilisations, only two of which had much contact with each other during the six centuries that (after adjustments) he eventually singled out, between 800 and 200 BCE\". A comprehensive critique appears in Iain Provan's 2013 book \"Convenient Myths: The Axial Age, Dark Green Religion, and the World That Never Was\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1134562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1134562", "title": "Blockhead (thought experiment)", "text": "Blockhead (thought experiment)\n\nBlockhead is the name of a theoretical computer system invented as part of a thought experiment by philosopher Ned Block, which appeared in a paper titled \"Psychologism and Behaviorism\" (though Block does not name the computer in the paper). \n\nIn \"Psychologism and Behaviorism,\" Block argues that the internal mechanism of a system is important in determining whether that system is intelligent and claims to show that a non-intelligent system could pass the Turing test.\n\nBlock asks us to imagine a conversation lasting any given amount of time. He states that given the nature of language, there are a finite number of syntactically- and grammatically-correct sentences that can be used to start a conversation. Consequently, there is a limit to how many \"sensible\" responses can be made to the first sentence, then to the second sentence, and so on until the conversation ends.\n\nBlock then asks the reader to imagine a computer which had been programmed with all the sentences in theory, if not in practice. Block argues that such a machine could continue a conversation with a person on any topic because the computer would be programmed with every sentence that it was possible to use so the computer would be able to pass the Turing test despite the fact, according to Block, that it was not intelligent.\n\nBlock says that this does not show that there is only one correct internal structure for generating intelligence but simply that some internal structures do not generate intelligence.\n\nThe argument is related to John Searle's Chinese room.\n\nA recent objection to the Blockhead argument is Hanoch Ben-Yami (2005), who agrees that Block's machine lacks intelligence but compares its answers to a poetic dialogue in which one man is whispered romantic poetry to recite to his would-be lover as it answers only what it has been told to answer in advance by its programmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "30872221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872221", "title": "Buridan's bridge", "text": "Buridan's bridge\n\nBuridan's Bridge (also known as Sophism 17) is described by Jean Buridan, one of the most famous and influential philosophers of the Late Middle Ages, in his book \"Sophismata\". It is a self-referential paradox that involves a proposition pronounced about an event that might or might not happen in the future.\n\nThe sophism is:\nSocrates' response puts Plato in a difficult situation. He could not throw Socrates into the water, because if he did he would violate his promise to let Socrates cross the bridge if he speaks the truth. On the other hand, if Plato allows Socrates to cross the bridge it would mean that Socrates spoke untruth when he replied: \"You are going to throw me into the water.\" In that case Socrates should have been thrown into the water. In other words, Socrates could be allowed to cross the bridge if and only if he could not be.\n\nIn order to solve the paradox Buridan proposes three questions:\n\nIn response to the first question Buridan states that it is impossible to determine if Socrates' proposition is true or false. This is because the proposition \"You are going to throw me into the water\" is a future contingent that could be true or false depending on what Plato is going to do. Dr. Joseph W. Ulatowski says that Buridan apparently used Aristotle's thesis about what \"truth\" is to come up with this response. Aristotle believed that a proposition is true if and only if it is verified by the state of things as they currently are. Contradicting the principle of bivalence, Buridan implies a system of three-valued logic in which there are three truth values--\"true\", \"false\", and some indeterminate third value.\n\nIn determining the truth value of Plato's conditional promise, Buridan suggests that Plato's promise was false, and that because Plato gave his promise carelessly he is not obligated to fulfill the promise.\n\nIn discussing the third question, \"What ought Plato to do to fulfill his promise\", Buridan states that Plato should not have given a conditional promise in the first place. He also suggests that Plato could have made sure that the condition was formulated in such a way that it would not cause a contradiction; because Plato cannot fulfill his conditional promise without violating it, he is not obligated to fulfill the promise. Ulatowski points out that this interpretation is the contrapositive of a principle of Immanuel Kant: \"ought implies can\".\n\nIn his solution to the sophism, Walter Burley (d. 1344/1345) applied the principle \"nothing is true unless at this instant\" (\"nihil est verum nisi in hoc instanti\") and concluded that \"if a proposition is true it must be true now\".\n\nDr. Dale Jacquette of the University of Bern says that \"Plato can either permit Socrates to pass or have him seized and thrown into the river without violating his conditional vow\". Jacquette argues that Plato's conditional promise was given only in regard to Socrates's proposition being clearly and unconditionally either true or false. To prove his point Jacquette asks, what would Plato have to do if Socrates had said nothing and was \"as silent as a Sphinx\", or if he uttered something that could not be either proven or \"undisproven\", something like Goldbach's conjecture. Jacquette concludes that Plato's conditional promise was true, and Socrates's proposition is \"neither true \"simpliciter\" nor false \"simpliciter\"\", and therefore Plato would be right regardless of the choice that he made.\n\nIn his book \"Paradoxes from A to Z\" Professor Michael Clark comes to the conclusion that if Plato is an honorable man, Socrates should not get wet under any circumstances. Clark argues that Socrates could say, \"Either I am speaking falsely, and you will throw me in, or I am speaking truly, and you won't throw me in\". Clark says that if this sentence is true, then it means that the first alternative \"is ruled out\", leaving us only with the second one. If this sentence is false, it means that both alternatives are false, and because Socrates spoke falsely \"it will be false\" to throw him into the river. \n\nDr. Joseph W. Ulatowski believes that since the truth value in Plato's conditional promise and even more so in Socrates's proposition is indeterminate, it means that Plato \"ought to err on the side of caution with respect to the future contingency and allow Socrates to cross the bridge\". In the same work Ulatowski offers a couple of humorous solutions to the paradox. Plato, Ulatowski says, could let Socrates to cross the bridge, and then throw him into water on the other side. Or both Plato and Socrates could combine their efforts and forcibly eject Buridan himself from Buridan's bridge.\n\nBuridan's bridge sophism was used by Miguel de Cervantes in \"Don Quixote\", when Sancho was presented with the Buridan's bridge dilemma: A man who was going to cross the bridge was asked to respond truthfully where he was going or otherwise to face a death by hanging. The man \"swore and said that by the oath he took he was going to die upon that gallows that stood there, and nothing else.\"\n\nSancho summarizes the situation by saying: \"the man swears that he is going to die upon the gallows; but if he dies upon it, he has sworn the truth, and by the law enacted deserves to go free and pass over the bridge; but if they don't hang him, then he has sworn falsely, and by the same law deserves to be hanged\". He then comes up with the solution, \"that of this man they should let pass the part that has sworn truly, and hang the part that has lied; and in this way the conditions of the passage will be fully complied with\". After Sancho makes this statement, the person who was asking for advice reasons with him: Sancho comes up with the moral solution:\n"}
{"id": "1700083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1700083", "title": "Cartesian anxiety", "text": "Cartesian anxiety\n\nCartesian anxiety refers to the notion that, since René Descartes posited his influential form of body-mind dualism, Western civilization has suffered from a longing for ontological certainty, or feeling that scientific methods, and especially the study of the world as a thing separate from ourselves, should be able to lead us to a firm and unchanging knowledge of ourselves and the world around us. The term is named after Descartes because of his well-known emphasis on \"mind\" as different from \"body\", \"self\" as different from \"other\". \n\nRichard J. Bernstein coined the term in his 1983 book \"Beyond Objectivism and Relativism: Science, Hermeneutics, and Praxis\".\n"}
{"id": "5738671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5738671", "title": "Chronocentrism", "text": "Chronocentrism\n\nChronocentrism is the assumption that certain time periods (typically the present) are better, more important, or a more significant frame of reference than other time periods, either past or future.\n\nChronocentrism (from the Greek \"chrono-\" meaning \"time\") was coined by sociologist Jib Fowles in an article in the journal \"Futures\" in February, 1974. Fowles described chronocentrism as \"the belief that one's own times are paramount, that other periods pale in comparison\". More recently, it has been defined as \"the egotism that one's own generation is poised on the very cusp of history\". The term had been used earlier in a study about attitudes to ageing in the workplace. Chronocentricity: \"...only seeing the value of one's own age cohort...described the tendency for younger managers to hold negative perceptions of the abilities or other work-related competencies of older employees.\" This type of discrimination is a form of ageism.\n\nChronocentrism as ethnocentrism is the perceiving and judging of a culture's historical values in terms of the standards of one's own time period.\n\nThe Long Now Foundation is an organization that encourages the use of 5-digit years, e.g. \"02016\" instead of \"2016,\" to help emphasize how early the present time is in their vision of the timeline of humanity. The use of two-digit years before Y2K was an example of chronocentrism (in the early years of computing, the years 2000 and 1899 were believed to be too far in the future or the past, and thus of less importance than being able to save two digits in computerizing and typing out years).\n\nThe \"Copernican time principle\" is a temporal analog of the Copernican principle for space, which states that no spatial location is any more or less special of a frame of reference than any other spatial location (i.e., that our physical universe has no center). Some authors have extended this to also include that no point in time is any more or less special than any other point in time (e.g., in outdated steady-state theories), though this cannot be universally applied (e.g., the Big-Bang singularity is a special point in time that can be logically used as a frame of reference to date later events.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2143899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2143899", "title": "Closed circle", "text": "Closed circle\n\nA closed-circle argument is one that is unfalsifiable.\n\nPsychoanalytic theory, for example, is held up by the proponents of Karl Popper as an example of an ideology rather than a science. A patient regarded by his psychoanalyst as \"in denial\" about his sexual orientation may be viewed as confirming he is homosexual simply by denying that he is; and if he has had sex with women, he may be accused of trying to buttress his denials. In other words, there is no way the patient could convincingly demonstrate his heterosexuality to his analyst. This is an example of what Popper called a \"closed circle\": The proposition that the patient is homosexual is not falsifiable.\n\nClosed-circle theory is sometimes used to denote a relativist, anti-realist philosophy of science, such that different groups may have different self-consistent truth claims about the natural world.\n"}
{"id": "4009283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4009283", "title": "Closed concept", "text": "Closed concept\n\nA closed concept is a concept where all the necessary and sufficient conditions required to include something within the concept can be listed. For example, the concept of a triangle is closed because a three-sided polygon, and only a three-sided polygon, is a triangle. All the conditions required to call something a triangle can be, and are, listed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7946278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7946278", "title": "Co-premise", "text": "Co-premise\n\nA co-premise is a premise in reasoning and informal logic which is not the main supporting reason for a contention or a lemma, but is logically necessary to ensure the validity of an argument. One premise by itself, or a group of co-premises can form a reason. \n\nEvery significant term or phrase appearing in a premise of a simple argument, should also appear in the contention/conclusion or in a co-premise. But this by itself does not guarantee a valid argument, see the fallacy of the undistributed middle for an example of this.\n\nSometimes a co-premise will not be explicitly stated. This type of argument is known as an 'enthymematic' argument, and the co-premise may be referred to as a 'hidden' or an 'unstated' co-premise and will often be subject to an inference objection. In this argument map of a simple argument the two reasons for the main contention are co-premises and not separate reasons for believing the contention to be true. They are both necessary to ensure that the argument as a whole retains logical validity.\nIn this example, \"What the Bible says is true\" is a hidden co-premise.\n"}
{"id": "52334129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52334129", "title": "Commentary of a philosophical text", "text": "Commentary of a philosophical text\n\nThe commentary of a philosophical text is the analysis of a philosophical text that is undertaken from different angles and points of view, and that enables the study of its nature and characteristics.\n\nCommentary has been a very important and useful tool. A large portion of the philosophical schools was originated through the analysis that different commentarists carried out of renowned philosophical texts. In ancient Greek and Rome, renowned schools of thought were started by commenting on texts from Plato and Aristoteles. A significant portion of Thomas Aquinas philosophical ideas were the result of commentaries to some of Aristoteles ideas.\n\nThe commentary of philosophical text tracks its roots to the importance and relevance that philosophy assigns to the analysis of the language and the interpretation of texts.\n"}
{"id": "17146474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17146474", "title": "Cultural schema theory", "text": "Cultural schema theory\n\nCultural schema theory holds that human beings employ classification to understand members of other cultures, and add new data to previously available categories. Cultural schemas for social interaction are cognitive structures that contain knowledge for face-to-face interactions in a person's cultural environment. Schemas are generalized collections of knowledge of past experiences that are organized into related knowledge groups; they guide our behaviours in familiar situations. Cultural schemas do not differ from other schemas, except that they are shared by certain cultural groups rather than individuals (Garro, 2000). Schemas unique to individuals are created from personal experiences, whereas those shared by individuals are created from various types of common experiences (Garro, 2000). Cultural schema theory proposes that when we interact with members of the same culture in certain situations many times, or talk about certain information with them many times, cultural schemas are created and stored in our brain (Nishida, 1999).\n\nCultural schema theory may be a relatively new theory, but neither schema nor cultural schema are new concepts.\n\nThe idea of schemas existing as ideal types in the mind dates back all the way back to Plato (see also Schema and Schema (psychology)) . In the 19th century German philosopher Immanuel Kant developed the idea that every person's experiences are gathered in memory, forming higher order concepts. In the 1920s Jean Piaget's work investigated schemas in infants. In the 1930s Frederic Bartlett tested memory for schemas. From the 1970s to the 1990s, many researchers obtained loads of evidence showing that people's behaviors are deeply embedded to what they store in their brains. Through these studies researchers learned that human behavior relies heavily on past experiences and the knowledge stored in one's brain.\n\nResearch also revealed that schemas operate at many different levels. The experiences which are unique to individuals allow them to acquire personal schemas. Societal schemas may emerge from a group's collective knowledge and are represented across the minds in a society, enabling people to think as if they are one mind (Malcolm & Sharifian, 2002). However, when one's cultural environment provides experiences to which every member of that culture is exposed, their experiences allow every member to acquire cultural schemas (Nishida, 1999). Cultural schemas are conceptual structures which enable individuals to store perceptual and conceptual information about their culture and interpret cultural experiences and expressions. If people are not equipped with the appropriate cultural schema, they may not be able to make sense of culturally unfamiliar situations (Malcolm & Sharifian, 2002).\n\nWhen one interacts with members of the same culture over and over again, or talks about certain information with them many times, cultural schemas are created and stored in one's brain. Subsequent similar instances cause the cultural schema to become more organized, abstract, and compact. As this occurs, communication becomes much easier. Nishida (1999) simply explains that experience is the force which creates cultural schemas. As people have more experiences their developing cultural schemas become more tightly organized. The information not only becomes more complex, but more useful among members of a culture, alike or different. Beyond the cognitive activity of cultural schemas is the complex pattern which occurs in the brain.\n\nWhen humans acquire and retain information from their surrounding environments, neural circuits are generated. Consequently, information processing experience is stored in the long-term memory. Memory representation or neural circuits created in the brain as a result of information processing are assumed to be schemas . Thus, schemas provide a foundation in the brain which helps to predict what is to be expected and looked for in certain situations.\n\nNot all schemas are uniformly important. High-level schemas are internalized and emotionally salient; likewise, when a schema is only weakly related to a person's self it becomes emotionally empty and irrelevant (Lipset, 1993).\n\nCultural schemas for social interactions are cognitive structures that contain knowledge for face-to-face interactions in one's cultural environment. Nishida (1999) points out the eight primary types for generating human behavior for social interactions. These eight schemas are also referred to as Primary Social Interaction (PSI) schemas.\n\n\nThe term cross-cultural adaptation refers to the complex process through which an individual acquires an increasing level of the communication skills of the host culture and of relational development with host nationals. Simply put, cross-cultural adaptation is the transformation of a person's own PSI schemas into those of the host culture and acquisition of new PSI schemas in the host culture s/he is residing in. A number of different people may b e subject to cross-cultural adaptation, including immigrants, refugees, business people, diplomats, foreign workers, and students. However, this entry specifically applies cultural schema theory to sojourners' cross cultural adaptation. Sojourners generally spend a few years in another culture while intending to return to their home country. Business people, diplomats, students, and foreign workers can all be classified as sojourners. In order to better explain sojourners' cross-cultural adaptation, axioms are used to express causal, correlational, or teleological relationships. Axioms also help to explain the basic assumptions of the Cultural Schema Theory (Nishida, 1999).\n\nNishida (1999) describes the following nine axioms:\n\nAxiom 1: The more often a person repeats a schema-based behavior in his or her culture, the more likely the cultural schema will be stored in the person's memory.\n\nAxiom 2: Sojourners' failure to recognize the actions and behaviors that are relevant to meaningful interactions in the host culture are mainly due to their lack of the PSI schemas of the culture.\n\nAxiom 3: The acquisition of the PSI schemas of the host culture is a necessary condition for sojourners' cross-cultural adaptation to the culture.\n\nAxiom 4: The PSI schemas of a person's own culture are interrelated with each other, forming a network of cultural schemas to generate behaviors that are appropriate in the culture. Experience in the host culture causes a change in one's cultural schema. This causes further changes in all other cultural schemas and results in a total change in behavior.\n\nAxiom 5: The acquisition of information about interrelationships among the PSI schemas of the host culture is a necessary condition for sojourners' cross-cultural adaptation.\n\nAxiom 6: People use both schema-driven and data-driven processing to perceive new information, depending on the situation and their motivations.\n\nAxiom 7: If one has well-organized cultural schemas, schematically salient information is more likely to be processed through the schemas, whereas ambiguous information will either direct a search for the relevant data to complete the stimulus more fully, or it will be filled in with default options of the schemas.\n\nAxiom 8: Sojourners who lack the PSI schemas of the host culture are more likely to employ data-driven processing, which requires effort and attention.\n\nAxiom 9: In the host culture, sojourners encounter truly novel situations where they experience cognitive uncertainty and anxiety because of the lack of the PSI schemas in the situations.\n\nAxiom 10: In the host culture, sojourners experience the stages of self-regulation and self-direction. In the stage of self-regulation, they try to resolve ambiguities and to establish integration of information using their native-culture schemas by gradually modifying them. In the stage of self-direction, on the other hand, they actively try to reorganize their native culture schemas or to generate host culture schemas in order to adapt to the host-culture environment.\n\nAs discussed above, sojourners are people who live in a culture other than their own with the intent of one day returning home. For sojourner Gillian Gibbons' situation, the cultural schema theory is highly applicable. Ms. Gibbons, a British school teacher, left Liverpool, England in August 2007 to teach a group of six- and seven-year-olds at Unity School in Khartoum, Sudan. Shortly after her arrival, Ms. Gibbons class was due to study the habitat and behavior of bears. Upon her request, a student brought in a teddy bear to serve as a case study. Students were invited to vote on a name for the bear. After considering the names Abdullah and Hassan, 20 of the 23 children voted in favor of the name Muhammad. What seemed like a harmless children's learning tool took a turn for the worse on November 25, 2007, when Ms. Gibbons was arrested at her home inside the school premises; Sudanese police claimed a number of parents complained to Sudan's Ministry of Education about the bear. Charges against Ms. Gibbons were prepared under article 125 of Sudanese criminal law which covers insults against faith and religions. Ms Gibbons' particular crime: insulting Islam's Prophet Muhammad. In Islam, insulting the Prophet Muhammad is considered a grave offense. Ms. Gibbons' was held in a Khartoum jail facing a maximum penalty of 40 lashes and 6 months in jail. Ms. Gibbons was found guilty of insulting Islam and sentenced to 15 days in jail and deportation from Sudan after her release. Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir granted her a pardon after she served nine days in jail due to pressure from the British government. She immediately returned to England upon her release. While colleagues, friends, and family regarded the whole situation as a misunderstanding, many local Sudanese disagreed. Hundreds of protestors gathered outside of the presidential palace to denounce Ms. Gibbons. Some protestors waved ceremonial swords, some voiced anger at the Sudanese government for not treating her more severely, some distributed leaflets which condemned her as an infidel and accused her of polluting children's mentality by her actions. At the edge of extreme were those who called for her execution (BBC News, 2007; CNN, 2007; New York Times, 2007; TIME, 2007; Times Online, 2007). This highly publicized incident can be explained quite well by the cultural schema theory, particularly by discussing Ms. Gibbons' status as a sojourner in an unfamiliar culture. Axiom number three and axiom number nine apply quite well to Ms. Gibbons. As a sojourner, the acquisition of host culture PSI schemas would be necessary in order for the sojourner's cross-cultural adaptation to occur. Ms. Gibbons may have lived in Sudan, but she lived inside the walls of Unity School. According to BBC News (2007), once inside the walls of Unity School one would think s/he was at standing on the grounds of an Oxbridge University. This private school with children of well-to-do parents is much different than the rest of Sudan. Ms. Gibbons did not need to acquire the PSI schemas of the host culture because her native PSI schemas worked equally well inside the walls of Unity School. Had Ms. Gibbons been constantly made aware of the local PSI schemas (naming an animal after the Prophet Muhammad is unacceptable) she may have adapted and not allowed the children to name the teddy bear Muhammad. Naming a teddy bear was not a novel situation to her as a children's school teacher, but she was not in England. After the bear's naming she certainly encountered a novel situation where she experienced cognitive uncertainty and anxiety because of her lack of the PSI schemas in the situation. Hence the difficulties of cross-cultural adaptation for sojourners like Ms. Gibbons. They do not intend to stay and thus will not adapt/experience the stages of axioms which will best prepare them to appropriately fit in.\n\nCultural Schema Theory is often compared and contrasted with the Cultural Consensus Theory. Both theories present distinct perspectives about the nature of individual and cultural knowledge. However, unlike the Cultural Schema Theory, the Cultural Consensus Theory helps to describe and mathematically measure the extent to which cultural beliefs are shared. The central idea is the use of the pattern of agreement or consensus among members of the same culture. Essentially, the more knowledge people have, the more consensus is observed among them. Unfortunately, the Cultural Consensus Theory does not help others to better understand intracultural variability or how cultural knowledge is interrelated at a cognitive level. Cultural Consensus Theory anticipates intracultural variation but views variation as analogous to performance on a cultural test, with certain individuals functioning as better guides than others to the cultural information pool (Garro, 2000).\n\nSimply put, cultural schema theory can be described as cultural-specific world knowledge (Razi, 2002). As mentioned above, the concept of Cultural Schemas is not new, but the theory is. Future studies must generate theorems and further tests must be conducted in order to better formulate theory itself and the axioms it proposes. Once this is complete the theory can be used in cross-cultural training purposes in order to facilitate individuals' adaptation to their respective host-culture environments (Nishida, 1999). There has been efforts to make this task done. For example, Ehsan Shahghasemi and D. Ray Heisey (2009) introduce the notion of \"cross cultual schemata\" as \"abstract mental structures that one makes according to his/her past experiences or shared knowledge about the members of other cultures and thus makes them more understandable.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12331566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12331566", "title": "De se", "text": "De se\n\nA sentence such as: \"Peter thinks that he is pale\" where the pronoun \"he\" is meant to refer to Peter is ambiguous in a way not captured by the / distinction. Such a sentence could report that Peter has the following thought: \"I am pale\". Or Peter could have the following thought: \"he is pale\", where it so happens that the pronoun \"he\" refers to Peter, but Peter is unaware of it. The first meaning expresses a belief , while the second does not.\n\nThis notion is now thoroughly discussed in the philosophical literature, but especially in the theoretical linguistic literature, the latter because some linguistic phenomena clearly are sensitive to this notion.\n\nDavid Lewis's 1979 article \"Attitudes De Dicto and De Se\" gave full birth to the topic, and his expression of it draws heavily on his distinctive theory of possible worlds.\n\nBut modern discussions on this topic originate with Hector-Neri Casteñeda's discovery of what he called quasi indexicals (or “quasi-indicatorsl”): according to Casteñeda, the speaker of the sentence “Mary believes that she herself is the winner” uses the quasi-indicator “she herself” (often written “she∗”) to express Mary’s first-person reference to herself (i.e., to Mary). That sentence would be the speaker’s way of depicting the proposition that Mary would unambiguously express in the first person by “I am the winner”.\n\nA clearer case can be illustrated simply. Imagine the following scenario:\n\nPeter, who is running for office, is drunk. He is watching an interview of a candidate on TV, not realizing that this candidate is himself. Liking what he hears, he says: \"I hope this candidate gets elected.\" Having witnessed this, one can truthfully report Peter's hopes by uttering: \"Peter hopes that he will get elected\", where \"he\" refers to Peter, since \"this candidate\" indeed refers to Peter. However, one could not report Peter's hopes by saying: \"Peter hopes to get elected\". This last sentence is only appropriate if Peter had a hope, that is a hope in the first person as if he had said \"I hope I get elected\", which is not the case here.\n\nThe study of the notion of belief \"de se\" thus includes that of quasi-indexicals, the linguistic theory of logophoricity and logophoric pronouns, and the linguistic and literary theory of free indirect speech.\n\n"}
{"id": "56121990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121990", "title": "Dualism (cybernetics)", "text": "Dualism (cybernetics)\n\nDualism in cybernetics refers to systems or problems in which one or more intelligent adversaries attempt to exploit the weaknesses of the investigator. Examples could include a game-playing opponent, adversarial law, evolutionary systems of predator/parasite and prey/host, or politics/enslavement attempts. Norbert Wiener, the founder of cybernetics, contrasted \"Manichean devils\" (dualistic adversarial systems) with \"Augustinian devils\"—systems or problems that, though very complex and difficult to figure out, did not feature an adversary with contrary intent.\n\nVictories or \"expansions of knowledge\" in the latter type of system were able to be built upon incrementally, through science (experimentation expanding empirical knowledge bases). Wiener noted that temporary weaknesses (such as errors to perceive all components of a system) were not fatal in attempts to defeat \"Augustinian devils\" because another experiment could simply be pursued (and he noted that he had personally defeated many \"Augustinian devils\" with his contributions to science and engineering). By contrast, Wiener observed that temporary lapses in judgment against \"Manichean devils\" were more often fatal or destructive, due to the desire of the opponent to \"win/survive at all costs\", even by introducing deception into the system. He said that he had been defeated by many \"Manichean devils\", such as on occasions when he was temporarily careless in chess.\n\nAlthough this duality between complexity (in the case of the Augustinian devils) and opposition (in the case of Manichean devils) may seem obvious, it holds deep implications for many areas of science, such as game theory, political science, computer science, network science, security science, military science, evolutionary biology, and cryptography.\n"}
{"id": "216213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216213", "title": "Earth immune system", "text": "Earth immune system\n\nThe Earth immune system is a controversial proposal, claimed to be a consequence of the Gaia hypothesis. The Gaia hypothesis holds that the entire earth may be considered a single organism (Gaia). As a self-maintaining organism, Earth would have an immune system of some sort in order to maintain its health.\n\nSome proponents of this speculative concept, for example, hold that humankind can be considered an \"infection\" of Gaia, and that AIDS is an attempt by this immune system to reject the infection. \n\"Cancer\" might be a more accurate term, as humans evolved within Gaia, and are not external invaders.\nAn opposite view is that humankind is Gaia's immune system itself, perhaps evolved to avert future catastrophes such as the Permian and Cretaceous mass extinctions of species.\n\nJames Lovelock's book \"The Revenge of Gaia\" suggests that Gaia has many mechanisms for eliminating civilizations that do harm through greenhouse gas emissions and global warming, but suggests that with increasing heat being received from the sun, Gaia's ability to \"bounce back\" as it did after the Permian and Cretaceous extinction events, may be increasingly compromised.\n\nPaul Hawken suggests in \"Blessed Unrest\" that when Earth is considered a living system then Earth's immune system is made up of the million or so organizations all around the globe that are working for social justice, the environment, and indigenous people's rights. Many of these groups are linked through the Internet and other means so there is a vast network of interconnected people and groups working to protect the planet, its people, and all beings. For example, one organization that serves to link groups working on sustainable energy is Inforse in Denmark.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7082881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082881", "title": "Enactivism", "text": "Enactivism\n\nEnactivism argues that cognition arises through a dynamic interaction between an acting organism and its environment. It claims that our environment is one which we selectively create through our capacities to interact with the world. \"Organisms do not passively receive information from their environments, which they then translate into internal representations. Natural cognitive systems...participate in the generation of meaning ...engaging in transformational and not merely informational interactions: \"they enact a world\".\" These authors suggest that the increasing emphasis upon enactive terminology presages a new era in thinking about cognitive science. How the actions involved in enactivism relate to age-old questions about free will remains a topic of active debate.\n\nThe term 'enactivism' is close in meaning to 'enaction', defined as \"the manner in which a subject of perception creatively matches its actions to the requirements of its situation\". The introduction of the term \"enaction\" in this context is attributed to Francisco Varela, Evan Thompson, and Eleanor Rosch, who proposed the name to \"emphasize the growing conviction that cognition is not the representation of a pre-given world by a pre-given mind but is rather the enactment of a world and a mind on the basis of a history of the variety of actions that a being in the world performs\". This was further developed by Thompson and others, to place emphasis upon the idea that experience of the world is a result of mutual interaction between the sensorimotor capacities of the organism and its environment.\n\nThe initial emphasis of enactivism upon sensorimotor skills has been criticized as \"cognitively marginal\", but it has been extended to apply to higher level cognitive activities, such as social interactions. \"In the enactive view... knowledge is constructed: it is constructed by an agent through its sensorimotor interactions with its environment, co-constructed between and within living species through their meaningful interaction with each other. In its most abstract form, knowledge is co-constructed between human individuals in socio-linguistic interactions...Science is a particular form of social knowledge construction...[that] allows us to perceive and predict events beyond our immediate cognitive grasp...and also to construct further, even more powerful scientific knowledge.\"\n\nEnactivism is closely related to situated cognition and embodied cognition, and is presented as an alternative to cognitivism, computationalism, and Cartesian dualism.\n\nEnactivism is one of a cluster of related theories sometimes known as the \"4Es\". As described by Mark Rowlands, mental processes are:\n\nEnactivism proposes an alternative to dualism as a philosophy of mind, in that it emphasises the interactions between mind, body and the environment, seeing them all as inseparably intertwined in mental processes. The self arises as part of the process of an embodied entity interacting with the environment in precise ways determined by its physiology. In this sense, individuals can be seen to \"grow into\" or arise from their interactive role with the world.\n\nIn \"The Tree of Knowledge\" Maturana & Varela proposed the term \"enactive\" \"to evoke the view of knowledge that what is known is brought forth, in contraposition to the more classical views of either cognitivism or connectionism. They see enactivism as providing a middle ground between the two extremes of representationalism and solipsism. They seek to \"confront the problem of understanding how our existence-the praxis of our living- is coupled to a surrounding world which appears filled with regularities that are at every instant the result of our biological and social histories... to find a \"via media\": to understand the regularity of the world we are experiencing at every moment, but without any point of reference independent of ourselves that would give certainty to our descriptions and cognitive assertions. Indeed the whole mechanism of generating ourselves, as describers and observers tells us that our world, as the world which we bring forth in our coexistence with others, will always have precisely that mixture of regularity and mutability, that combination of solidity and shifting sand, so typical of human experience when we look at it up close.\"[\"Tree of Knowledge\", p. 241]\n\nEnactivism also addresses the hard problem of consciousness, referred to by Thompson as part of the \"explanatory gap\" in explaining how consciousness and subjective experience are related to brain and body. \"The problem with the dualistic concepts of consciousness and life in standard formulations of the hard problem is that they exclude each other by construction\". Instead, according to Thompson's view of enactivism, the study of consciousness or phenomenology as exemplified by Husserl and Merleau-Ponty is to complement science and its objectification of the world. \"The whole universe of science is built upon the world as directly experienced, and if we want to subject science itself to rigorous scrutiny and arrive at a precise assessment of its meaning and scope, we must begin by reawakening the basic experience of the world of which science is the second-order expression\" (Merleau-Ponty, \"The phenomenology of perception\" as quoted by Thompson, p. 165). In this interpretation, enactivism asserts that science is formed or enacted as part of humankind's interactivity with its world, and by embracing phenomenology \"science itself is properly situated in relation to the rest of human life and is thereby secured on a sounder footing.\"\n\nEnaction has been seen as a move to conjoin representationalism with phenomenalism, that is, as adopting a constructivist epistemology, an epistemology centered upon the active participation of the subject in constructing reality. However, 'constructivism' focuses upon more than a simple 'interactivity' that could be described as a minor adjustment to 'assimilate' reality or 'accommodate' to it. Constructivism looks upon interactivity as a radical, creative, revisionist process in which the knower \"constructs\" a personal 'knowledge system' based upon their experience and tested by its viability in practical encounters with their environment. Learning is a result of perceived anomalies that produce dissatisfaction with existing conceptions.\n\nHow does constructivism relate to enactivism? From the above remarks it can be seen that Glasersfeld expresses an interactivity between the knower and the known quite acceptable to an enactivist, but does not emphasize the structured probing of the environment by the knower that leads to the \"perturbation relative to some expected result\" that then leads to a new understanding. It is this probing activity, especially where it is not accidental but deliberate, that characterizes enaction, and invokes \"affect\", that is, the motivation and planning that lead to doing and to fashioning the probing, both observing and modifying the environment, so that \"perceptions and nature condition one another through generating one another.\" The questioning nature of this probing activity is not an emphasis of Piaget and Glasersfeld.\n\nSharing enactivism's stress upon both action and embodiment in the incorporation of knowledge, but giving Glasersfeld's mechanism of viability an evolutionary emphasis, is evolutionary epistemology. Inasmuch as an organism must reflect its environment well enough for the organism to be able to survive in it, and to be competitive enough to be able to reproduce at sustainable rate, the structure and reflexes of the organism itself embody knowledge of its environment. This biology-inspired theory of the growth of knowledge is closely tied to universal Darwinism, and is associated with evolutionary epistemologists such as Karl Popper, Donald T. Campbell, Peter Munz, and Gary Cziko. According to Munz, \"an organism is an \"embodied theory\" about its environment... Embodied theories are also no longer expressed in language, but in anatomical structures or reflex responses, etc.\"\n\nMcGann & others argue that enactivism attempts to mediate between the explanatory role of the coupling between cognitive agent and environment and the traditional emphasis on brain mechanisms found in neuroscience and psychology. In the interactive approach to social cognition developed by De Jaegher & others, the dynamics of interactive processes are seen to play significant roles in coordinating interpersonal understanding, processes that in part include what they call \"participatory sense-making\". Recent developments of enactivism in the area of social neuroscience involve the proposal of \"The Interactive Brain Hypothesis\" where social cognition brain mechanisms, even those used in non-interactive situations, are proposed to have interactive origins.\n\nIn the enactive view, perception \"is not conceived as the transmission of information but more as an exploration of the world by various means. Cognition is not tied into the workings of an 'inner mind', some cognitive core, but occurs in directed interaction between the body and the world it inhabits.\"\n\nAlva Noë in advocating an enactive view of perception sought to resolve how we perceive three-dimensional objects, on the basis of two-dimensional input. He argues that we perceive this solidity (or 'volumetricity') by appealing to patterns of sensorimotor expectations. These arise from our agent-active 'movements and interaction' with objects, or 'object-active' changes in the object itself. The solidity is perceived through our expectations and skills in knowing how the object's appearance would change with changes in how we relate to it. He saw all perception as an active exploration of the world, rather than being a passive process, something which happens to us.\n\nNoë's idea of the role of 'expectations' in three-dimensional perception has been opposed by several philosophers, notably by Andy Clark. Clark points to difficulties of the enactive approach. He points to internal processing of visual signals, for example, in the ventral and dorsal pathways, the two-streams hypothesis. This results in an integrated perception of objects (their recognition and location, respectively) yet this processing cannot be described as an action or actions. In a more general criticism, Clark suggests that perception is not a matter of expectations about sensorimotor mechanisms guiding perception. Rather, although the limitations of sensorimotor mechanisms constrain perception, this sensorimotor activity is drastically filtered to fit current needs and purposes of the organism, and it is these imposed 'expectations' that govern perception, filtering for the 'relevant' details of sensorimotor input (called \"sensorimotor summarizing\").\n\nThese sensorimotor-centered and purpose-centered views appear to agree on the general scheme but disagree on the dominance issue – is the dominant component peripheral or central. Another view, the closed-loop perception one, assigns equal a-priori dominance to the peripheral and central components. In closed-loop perception, perception emerges through the process of inclusion of an item in a motor-sensory-motor loop, i.e., a loop (or loops) connecting the peripheral and central components that are relevant to that item. The item can be a body part (in which case the loops are in steady-state) or an external object (in which case the loops are perturbed and gradually converge to a steady state). These enactive loops are always active, switching dominance by the need.\n\nAnother application of enaction to perception is analysis of the human hand. The many remarkably demanding uses of the hand are not learned by instruction, but through a history of engagements that lead to the acquisition of skills. According to one interpretation, it is suggested that \"the hand [is]...an organ of cognition\", not a faithful subordinate working under top-down instruction, but a partner in a \"bi-directional interplay between manual and brain activity.\" According to Daniel Hutto: \"Enactivists are concerned to defend the view that our most elementary ways of engaging with the world and others - including our basic forms of perception and perceptual experience - are mindful in the sense of being phenomenally charged and intentionally directed, despite being non-representational and content-free.\" Hutto calls this position 'REC' (Radical Enactive Cognition): \"According to REC, there is no way to distinguish neural activity that is imagined to be genuinely content involving (and thus truly mental, truly cognitive) from other non-neural activity that merely plays a supporting or enabling role in making mind and cognition possible.\"\n\nHanne De Jaegher and Ezequiel Di Paolo (2007) have extended the enactive concept of sense-making into the social domain. The idea takes as its departure point the process of interaction between individuals in a social encounter. De Jaegher and Di Paolo argue that the interaction process itself can take on a form of autonomy (operationally defined). This allows them to define social cognition as the generation of meaning and its transformation through interacting individuals.\n\nThe notion of participatory sense-making has led to the proposal that interaction processes can sometimes play constitutive roles in social cognition (De Jaegher, Di Paolo, Gallagher, 2010). It has been applied to research in social neuroscience\"\" and autism.\"\"\n\nIn a similar vein, \"an inter-enactive approach to agency holds that the behavior of agents in a social situation unfolds not only according to their individual abilities and goals, but also according to the conditions and constraints imposed by the autonomous dynamics of the interaction process itself\". According to Torrance, enactivism involves five interlocking themes related to the question \"What is it to be a (cognizing, conscious) agent?\" It is:\n\nTorrance adds that \"many kinds of agency, in particular the agency of human beings, cannot be understood separately from understanding the nature of the interaction that occurs between agents.\" That view introduces the social applications of enactivism. \"Social cognition is regarded as the result of a special form of action, namely \"social interaction\"...the enactive approach looks at the circular dynamic within a dyad of embodied agents.\"\nIn cultural psychology, enactivism is seen as a way to uncover cultural influences upon feeling, thinking and acting. Baerveldt and Verheggen argue that \"It appears that seemingly natural experience is thoroughly intertwined with sociocultural realities.\" They suggest that the social patterning of experience is to be understood through enactivism, \"the idea that the reality we have in common, and in which we find ourselves, is neither a world that exists independently from us, nor a socially shared way of representing such a pregiven world, but a world itself brought forth by our ways of communicating and our joint action...The world we inhabit is manufactured of 'meaning' rather than 'information'.\n\nLuhmann attempted to apply Maturana and Varela's notion of autopoiesis to social systems. \"A core concept of social systems theory is derived from biological systems theory: the concept of \"autopoiesis\". Chilean biologist Humberto Maturana come up with the concept to explain how biological systems such as cells are a product of their own production.\" \"Systems exist by way of operational closure and this means that they each construct themselves and their own realities.\"\n\nThe first definition of enaction was introduced by psychologist Jerome Bruner, who introduced enaction as 'learning by doing' in his discussion of how children learn, and how they can best be helped to learn. He associated enaction with two other ways of knowledge organization: Iconic and Symbolic.\n\nThe term 'enactive framework' was elaborated upon by Francisco Varela and Humberto Maturana.\n\nSriramen argues that enactivism provides \"a rich and powerful explanatory theory for learning and being.\" and that it is closely related to both the ideas of cognitive development of Piaget, and also the social constructivism of Vygotsky. Piaget focused on the child's immediate environment, and suggested cognitive structures like spatial perception emerge as a result of the child's interaction with the world. According to Piaget, children \"construct\" knowledge, using what they know in new ways and testing it, and the environment provides feedback concerning the adequacy of their construction. In a cultural context, Vygotsky suggested that the kind of cognition that can take place is not dictated by the engagement of the isolated child, but is also a function of social interaction and dialogue that is contingent upon a sociohistorical context. Enactivism in educational theory \"looks at each learning situation as a complex system consisting of teacher, learner, and context, all of which frame and co-create the learning situation.\" Enactivism in education is very closely related to situated cognition, which holds that \"knowledge is situated, being in part a product of the activity, context, and culture in which it is developed and used.\" This approach challenges the \"separating of what is learned from how it is learned and used.\"\n\nThe ideas of enactivism regarding how organisms engage with their environment have interested those involved in robotics and man-machine interfaces. The analogy is drawn that a robot can be designed to interact and learn from its environment in a manner similar to the way an organism does that, and a human can interact with a computer-aided design tool or data base using an interface that creates an enactive environment for the user, that is, all the user's tactile, auditory, and visual capabilities are enlisted in a mutually explorative engagement, capitalizing upon all the user's abilities, and not at all limited to cerebral engagement. In these areas it is common to refer to affordances as a design concept, the idea that an environment or an interface affords opportunities for enaction, and good design involves optimizing the role of such affordances.\n\nThe activity in the AI community also has influenced enactivism as whole. Referring extensively to modeling techniques for evolutionary robotics by Beer, the modeling of learning behavior by Kelso, and to modeling of sensorimotor activity by Saltzman, McGann, De Jaegher, and Di Paolo discuss how this work makes the dynamics of coupling between an agent and its environment, the foundation of enactivism, \"an operational, empirically observable phenomenon.\" That is, the AI environment invents examples of enactivism using concrete examples that, although not as complex as living organisms, isolate and illuminate basic principles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23068685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23068685", "title": "Eutrapelia", "text": "Eutrapelia\n\nEutrapelia comes from the Greek for 'wittiness' (εὐτραπελία), referring to pleasantness in conversation. It is one of Aristotle's virtues, the \"golden mean\" between boorishness (ἀγροικία) and buffoonery (βωμολοχία). Later on it came to mostly signify jokes that were obscene and coarse. The word appears only once in the New Testament, in Ephesians 5:4, where it is translated \"coarse jesting\" in the NIV.\n\n"}
{"id": "1752698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1752698", "title": "Exclusivism", "text": "Exclusivism\n\nExclusivism is the practice of being exclusive; mentality characterized by the disregard for opinions and ideas other than one's own, or the practice of organizing entities into groups by excluding those entities which possess certain traits. (for an opposite example, see essentialism).\n\nReligious exclusivism, one of the three classic typologies created by Alan Race in order to describe religions relative to one another, states that one religion, to the exclusion of all others, has the correct understanding of God, truth and salvation. Diana Eck states, ‘Exclusivism is more than simply a conviction about the transformative power of the particular vision one has; it is a conviction about its finality and its absolute priority over competing views’. While it was originally used to define Christianity, exclusivism can apply to any religious belief system, as can Race’s other two categories inclusivism and pluralism. In his 1982 \"Christians and Religious Pluralism,\" Race defined pluralism as all religions being equally beneficial, with no single religion dominating. Inclusivism attempts to straddle the poles of pluralism and exclusivism by agreeing with the latter that one religion (Christianity) has the most value, and agreeing with the former by stating that other religions still have significant value. While Race’s three categories have been criticized, amended and refuted, most religious studies and interfaith scholars and students find the typologies useful as a starting point for conversations about the diversity of religions.\n\nPluralism was borne out of a criticism of exclusivism, saying that no single tradition has a monopoly on revelation or salvation, and that we have no way to judge between the salvific claims by adherents of any faith tradition. Paul Hedges suggests that each religion knows ‘transcendent reality (“God”) yet in partial perspective,’ much like the oft-quoted parable of the seven blind men and the elephant. Gavin D’costa says pluralists have two main critiques of exclusivists: people of other religions are god and loving and that they do not know their own Scriptures well enough. Alvin Plantinga says that pluralist’s problem with exclusivism stems from its immorality and arrogance. He quotes William Cantwell Smith: ‘Except at the cost of insensitivity or delinquency, it is morally not possible actually to go out into the world and say to devout, intelligent, fellow human beings: “…we believe that we know God and we are right; you believe that you know God, and you are totally wrong.”’ Along with Smith, the leading proponent of pluralism is John Hick, who writes:\n\n[Exclusivism], with its baleful historical influence, in validating centuries of anti-semitism, the colonial exploitation by Christian Europe of what today we call the third world, and the subordination of women within a strongly patriarchal religious system, not only causes misgivings among many Christians but also alarms many of our non-Christian neighbors, creating invisible but powerful barriers within the human community.\n\nIt is worth noting that D’costa argued persuasively that logically, pluralism can no longer be considered a category; when it makes a declarative truth claim, it becomes another form of exclusivism.\n\nInclusivists state that while one religion or revelation is true (Christianity), other truths can be found in fragments within other religions. Karl Rahner states it succinctly: ‘Insofar as they in good conscience practice what is good in their religion, people in other religions receive God’s grace and are “anonymous Christians,” people who are being saved through Christ, though they do not realize it.’ Inclusivists point to the biblical parable of the sheep and the goats in which the saved sheep show surprise at being rewarded for their service to Jesus (Matthew 25: 31-40)\n\nAccording to Race, the history of the Abrahamic faiths’ exclusivism – as well as inclusivism – goes back to the words of the Bible and the Qur’an. Christian exclusivists point to John’s gospel (14: 6), which quotes Jesus as saying, ‘I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.’ After Jesus’ death, his disciple Peter said publicly, ‘Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved’ (Acts 4:12). Likewise, the Qur’an (3:85) states, ‘If anyone desires a religion other than Islam (submission to Allah), never will it be accepted of him; and in the Hereafter He will be in the ranks of those who have lost (all spiritual good).’ While Judaism does not stress salvation, the First Commandment (Exodus 20:3) is ‘You shall have no other gods before me.’ Race says, ‘The tension between Christian experience and the recognition of potential authentic practice outside of the Christian revelation, in fact has always existed in Christian history from the beginning, from the words of Jesus himself in the gospel of Luke: in 9:50 he says, “He who is \"not against\" us is for us”’. Daniel Strange points out what Race neglects to mention: that in the same gospel (11:23), Jesus says, ‘He who is \"not with me\" is against me.’\n\nThe exclusivist idea of ‘no salvation outside of the Christian church’ (\"Extra ecclesiam nulla salus\") has roots as early as Origen in the third century. And while the Bible speaks about many topics of inclusion, diversity and tolerance in both the Old and New Testament – attitudes toward the alien and stranger; the hope of Christians being drawn from all nations and languages; God’s universal care and sustaining of creation; the universal scope of the gospel and the universal mandate to take the gospel to the nations – the overwhelming feeling in the Church throughout most of its history mimics that of the Council of Florence in 1422: ‘The Council firmly believes, professes and proclaims that those not living within the Catholic Church, not only pagans, but Jews, heretics and schismatics, cannot participate in eternal life, but will depart into everlasting fire which has been prepared for the devil and his [sic] angels.’ Martin Luther continued the exclusivist theological bent: ‘For where Christ is not preached, there is no Holy Spirit to create, call and gather the Christian Church, and outside it no one can come to the Lord Christ’. The door in the exclusivist castle opened a crack during the 20th century missionary movement, when Dutch missiologist Hendrik Kraemer wrote that Jesus is the one who has the complete authority to judge other religions’ efficacy. Highlighting a unique contemporary take on the salvation problem, Strange introduces George Lindbeck’s contention that those who do not know the Bible cannot be condemned for their lack of knowledge.\n\nMara Brecht states that the problem with classic exclusivism is that it deals mainly with Christianity and salvation (or ‘top down’). She highlights the work of the ‘New Wave of exclusivism,’ led by Griffiths, D’costa and Netland, who employ a ‘bottom up’ approach to religious diversity. New Wave Exclusivists focus more on the religious believers’ ‘ways of knowing and understanding of religious beliefs as expressive truth,’ resulting in a broader possibility for interfaith engagement. For example, Netland sets aside comparing religions’ salvation when he says dialogue should focus on the most important question all religions deal with – the question of truth. Brecht reaches the conclusion that exclusivism is tenable for Christians – and by extension other religious believers – if believers come into contact with believers of other religions who can possibly ‘defeat’ their own, so they can have something to base their truth claims on. Brecht says, ‘Practically, this means that, for example, reflective Christians will consider their beliefs to be as \"probable\" as alternatives from within their own tradition, \"somewhat more probable than\" the relevant alternatives from within Judaism and \"considerably more probable than\" Buddhist alternatives. In other words, believers will weigh their beliefs against other beliefs.’\n\nDouglas Pratt further defines exclusivism, dividing it into three subdivisions – open, closed and extreme. Citing t’Hooft and Kraemer, Pratt says open exclusivism, while never ceding the superior position, ‘may at least be amenably disposed toward the other,’ if only in order to know Them well enough for possible conversion. The relationship is not entered into on equal ground, therefore, nor with the openness to a significant reciprocal change of self-identity. If dialogue is entered into, it is only for mutual edification and an increase in good will. Closed exclusivism offers no chance for a relationship, other than acknowledging the other’s right to exist. An extreme, hard-line exclusivism often leads to a fundamentalist perspective. Pratt writes, ‘Fundamentalism, as a mindset, is a mentality that expresses the modern quest for universality and coherence writ large: only one truth; one authority; one authentic narrative that accounts for all; one right way to be.’ The logical conclusion for this fundamentalist mindset is taking steps to eliminate the other, as one would a business competitor. Pratt writes, ‘The negation of otherness is perhaps critical, for it involves a devaluing and dismissal of the \"other,\" whether in terms of rival community or competing alterities, ideological or otherwise. In the process of negating the other, the self is asserted as inherently superior. My God is greater than your god.’\n\nPaul Moser posits two forms of exclusivism: logical religious exclusivism, which asserts that since the contradictory, foundational truth claims for each religion excludes some or many of them from being true; and the doxastic redemptive exclusivism based on the Athanasian Creed, which states if a person does not believe the Christian concept of the Trinity, that person is condemned. Moser further believes that a God who would exclude people from salvation for neither hearing nor understanding the concept of the Trinity does not have a moral character, and is therefore undeserving of worship.\n\nWhile most attention of exclusivism points toward Christianity, each religion has a branch that falls into the exclusivist category. D’costa points out whether one considers oneself Buddhist or Hindu or Muslim – or indeed a pluralist – each version states that ‘only one single revelation or one single religion is true and all other “revelations” or religions are false.’ While acknowledging that historically, Christianity showed the most extreme forms of exclusivism, Pratt contends that many fundamentalist religions compete for that title, with Islam leading other worthy contenders in ways that are not always obvious. With the purging of the Rohingya in Myanmar, the Buddhist Rakhine have joined the ranks of fundamentalists willing to resort to killing to achieve dominance over competing religions.\n\nThe Decree of Diopithes (430 BCE) forbade the worship of and belief in gods other than those of the Olympian pantheon recognised by the Athenian polis. The introduction of other gods was treated as \"asebeia\", or impiety, and was punishable by death. The philosophers Anaxagoras, Protagoras, Socrates, Stilpo, Theodorus of Cyrene, Aristotle, and Theophrastus were accused of impiety under this decree. Socrates was found guilty of the charge of introducing new gods and condemned to death by drinking hemlock.\n\nAntiochus IV Epiphanes, Selucid ruler of Israel, decided to Hellenize the Jews by ordering the worship of Zeus; when they refused, Antiochus sent an army to enforce his decree.\n\nAccording to Herodotus the Caunians, a Greek people who claimed to have originated in Crete and settled in Asia Minor, worshiped the Olympian Gods exclusively. \"They determined that they would no longer make use of the foreign temples which had been established among them, but would worship their own old ancestral Gods alone. Then their whole youth took arms, and striking the air with their spears, marched to the Calyndic frontier, declaring that they were driving out the foreign Gods.\"\n\nPlato, in his Laws, advocates that the state should punish those who deny the existence of the Olympian Gods or believe that the gods exist but think they are indifferent to mankind or can be easily bought by bribes.\n\n\"Interpretatio graeca\", the common tendency of ancient Greek writers to identify foreign divinities with members of their own pantheon, can be seen as a kind of exclusivism. The syncretism of the Hellenistic period whereby aspects of the cults of foreign Gods such as iconography and epithets, can also be seen as a kind of exclusivism.\n\nIn a sociological survey of Americans and their relationship with religions other than Christianity, nearly 90 percent of respondents either strongly or somewhat agreed that “religious diversity has been good for America,” which reinforces the idea that Americans value diversity and religious freedom. However, respondents who identified in the exclusivist category or believed that the United States was a Christian nation displayed much more negative views and a decreased willingness to include other religious people in the lives of their community. Stephen Merino concludes, ‘It may be that when many Americans think of “religious diversity,” they have only Christian diversity in mind.’ Nevertheless, they also provided research to back up their statement, \"‘\"Prior contact with non-Christians will be associated with more positive views of religious diversity and increased willingness to include non-Christians into social life.’ \n\nIn answering the pluralist charge, and hearkening back to Netland, Brad Stetson baldly states, ‘It is possible exclusivism is true.’ It is this statement, he says, that upsets pluralists who charge exclusivists with arrogance and bad form. ‘It is simply not true, as pluralists imply, that disagreeing with someone […] about religious truth is tantamount to treating them badly.[…] [a]n exclusivist claim about religious truth is not defeated strictly because such claims are believed to militate against human harmony and peace.' In addition, Hick, Smith and other pluralists balk at the idea that an all-loving God would condemn some people to hell, nor that anyone actually deserves to be damned; he then quotes CS Lewis: ‘The doors of hell are locked on the \"inside.’\" \n"}
{"id": "1397910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397910", "title": "Existential phenomenology", "text": "Existential phenomenology\n\nExistential phenomenology is Martin Heidegger's brand of phenomenology.\n\nIn contrast with his former mentor Edmund Husserl, Heidegger (in his \"Being and Time\") put ontology before epistemology and thought that phenomenology would have to be based on an observation and analysis of \"Dasein\" (\"being-there\"), human being, investigating the fundamental ontology of the \"Lebenswelt\" (lifeworld, Husserl's term) underlying all so-called regional ontologies of the special sciences. In Heidegger's philosophy, people are thrown into the world in a given situation, but they are also a project towards the future, possibility, freedom, wait, hope, anguish. In contrast with the philosopher Kierkegaard, Heidegger wanted to explore the problem of \"Dasein\" existentially (\"existenzial\"), rather than existentielly (\"existenziell\") because Heidegger argued Kierkegaard had already described the latter with \"penetrating fashion\".\n\nBesides Heidegger, other existential phenomenologists were Hannah Arendt, Karl Jaspers, Emmanuel Levinas, Gabriel Marcel, Jean-Paul Sartre, Simone de Beauvoir, Frantz Fanon, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, and Samuel Todes.\n\nExistential phenomenology extends also to other disciplines. For example, Leo Steinberg's essay \"The Philosophical Brothel\" describes Picasso's \"Les Demoiselles d'Avignon\" in a perspective that is existential-phenomenological. It has also impacted architectural theory, especially in the phenomenological and Heideggerian approaches to space, place, dwelling, technology, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "11397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11397", "title": "Freeman Dyson", "text": "Freeman Dyson\n\nFreeman John Dyson (born 15 December 1923) is an English-born American theoretical physicist and mathematician. He is known for his work in quantum electrodynamics, solid-state physics, astronomy and nuclear engineering. He theorized several concepts that bear his name, such as Dyson's transform, Dyson tree, Dyson series, and Dyson sphere.\n\nHe is professor emeritus in the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, a Visitor of Ralston College, and a member of the Board of Sponsors of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.\n\nBorn on 15 December 1923, at Crowthorne in Berkshire, Dyson is the son of the English composer George Dyson, who was later knighted. His mother had a law degree, and after Dyson was born she worked as a social worker. Although not known to be related to the early 20th-century astronomer Frank Watson Dyson, as a small boy Dyson was aware of him and has credited the popularity of an astronomer sharing his surname with helping to spark his own interest in science. At the age of five he calculated the number of atoms in the sun. As a child, he showed an interest in large numbers and in the solar system, and was strongly influenced by the book \"Men of Mathematics\" by Eric Temple Bell. Politically, Dyson says he was \"brought up as a socialist\".\n\nFrom 1936 to 1941, Dyson was a Scholar at Winchester College, where his father was Director of Music. At age 17 he studied mathematics with G.H. Hardy at Trinity College, Cambridge (where he won a scholarship at age 15) and at age 19 was assigned to war work in the Operational Research Section (ORS) of the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command, where he developed analytical methods to help the Royal Air Force bomb German targets during the Second World War. After the war, Dyson was readmitted to Trinity College, Cambridge, where he obtained a BA degree in mathematics. From 1946 to 1949, he was a Fellow of his college, occupying rooms just below those of the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, who resigned his professorship in 1947. In 1947, Dyson published two papers in number theory. Friends and colleagues describe him as shy and self-effacing, with a contrarian streak that his friends find refreshing but his intellectual opponents find exasperating. \"I have the sense that when consensus is forming like ice hardening on a lake, Dyson will do his best to chip at the ice\", Steven Weinberg said of him. His friend, the neurologist and author Oliver Sacks, said: \"A favourite word of Freeman's about doing science and being creative is the word 'subversive'. He feels it's rather important not only to be not orthodox, but to be subversive, and he's done that all his life.\" \n\nOn G. I. Taylor's advise and recommendation, Dyson moved to the United States in 1947 as a Commonwealth Fellow to earn a physics doctorate with Hans Bethe at Cornell University (1947–48). Within a week, however, he had made the acquaintance of Richard Feynman. The budding English physicist recognized the brilliance of the flamboyant American, and attached himself as quickly as possible. He then moved to the Institute for Advanced Study (1948–49), before returning to England (1949–51), where he was a research fellow at the University of Birmingham. Dyson never got his PhD degree.\n\nIn 1949, Dyson demonstrated the equivalence of two then-current formulations of quantum electrodynamics (QED): Richard Feynman's diagrams and the operator method developed by Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichirō Tomonaga. He was the first person after their creator to appreciate the power of Feynman diagrams, and his paper written in 1948 and published in 1949 was the first to make use of them. He said in that paper that Feynman diagrams were not just a computational tool, but a physical theory, and developed rules for the diagrams that completely solved the renormalization problem. Dyson's paper and also his lectures presented Feynman's theories of QED in a form that other physicists could understand, facilitating the physics community's acceptance of Feynman's work. J. Robert Oppenheimer, in particular, was persuaded by Dyson that Feynman's new theory was as valid as Schwinger's and Tomonaga's. Oppenheimer rewarded Dyson with a lifetime appointment at the Institute for Advanced Study, \"for proving me wrong\", in Oppenheimer's words.\n\nAlso in 1949, in related work, Dyson invented the Dyson series. It was this paper that inspired John Ward to derive his celebrated Ward identity.\n\nIn 1951, Dyson joined the faculty at Cornell as a physics professor, although still lacking a doctorate, and in 1953, he received a permanent post at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, where he has now lived for more than sixty years. In 1957, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States and renounced his British nationality. One reason he gave decades later is that his children born in the United States had not been recognized as British subjects.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1961, he worked on Project Orion, which proposed the possibility of space-flight using nuclear pulse propulsion. A prototype was demonstrated using conventional explosives, but the 1963 Partial Test Ban Treaty, in which Dyson was involved and supported, permitted only underground nuclear weapons testing, so the project was abandoned.\n\nIn 1958, he led the design team for the TRIGA, a small, inherently safe nuclear reactor used throughout the world in hospitals and universities for the production of medical isotopes.\n\nA seminal paper by Dyson came in 1966, when, together with Andrew Lenard and independently of Elliott H. Lieb and Walter Thirring, he proved rigorously that the exclusion principle plays the main role in the stability of bulk matter. Hence, it is not the electromagnetic repulsion between outer-shell orbital electrons which prevents two wood blocks that are left on top of each other from coalescing into a single piece, but rather it is the exclusion principle applied to electrons and protons that generates the classical macroscopic normal force. In condensed matter physics, Dyson also analysed the phase transition of the Ising model in 1 dimension and spin waves.\n\nDyson also did work in a variety of topics in mathematics, such as topology, analysis, number theory and random matrices. There is an interesting story involving random matrices. In 1973, the number theorist Hugh Montgomery was visiting the Institute for Advanced Study and had just made his pair correlation conjecture concerning the distribution of the zeros of the Riemann zeta function. He showed his formula to the mathematician Atle Selberg who said it looked like something in mathematical physics and he should show it to Dyson, which he did. Dyson recognized the formula as the pair correlation function of the Gaussian unitary ensemble, which has been extensively studied by physicists. This suggested that there might be an unexpected connection between the distribution of primes 2,3,5,7,11,  ... and the energy levels in the nuclei of heavy elements such as uranium.\n\nAround 1979, Dyson worked with the Institute for Energy Analysis on climate studies. This group, under the direction of Alvin Weinberg, pioneered multidisciplinary climate studies, including a strong biology group. Also during the 1970s, he worked on climate studies conducted by the JASON defense advisory group.\n\nDyson retired from the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994. In 1998, Dyson joined the board of the Solar Electric Light Fund. he was president of the Space Studies Institute, the space research organization founded by Gerard K. O'Neill; he is on its Board of Trustees. Dyson is a long-time member of the JASON group.\n\nDyson has won numerous scientific awards but never a Nobel Prize. Nobel physics laureate Steven Weinberg has said that the Nobel committee has \"fleeced\" Dyson, but Dyson himself remarked in 2009, \"I think it's almost true without exception if you want to win a Nobel Prize, you should have a long attention span, get hold of some deep and important problem and stay with it for ten years. That wasn't my style.\" Dyson is a regular contributor to \"The New York Review of Books\".\n\nIn 2012, he published (with William H. Press) a fundamental new result about the Prisoner's Dilemma in PNAS.\n\nWith his first wife, the Swiss mathematician Verena Huber-Dyson, Dyson had two children, Esther and George. In 1958, he married Imme Jung, a masters runner, and they had four more children, Dorothy, Mia, Rebecca, and Emily Dyson.\n\nDyson's eldest daughter, Esther, is a digital technology consultant and investor; she has been called \"the most influential woman in all the computer world.\" His son George is a historian of science, one of whose books is \"Project Orion: The Atomic Spaceship 1957–1965\".\n\nDyson cheerfully admits his record as a prophet is mixed, but \"it is better to be wrong than to be vague.\"\n\n\"To answer the world's material needs, technology has to be not only beautiful but also cheap.\"\n\nDyson favors the dual origin concept: Life first formed cells, then enzymes, and finally, much later, genes. This was first propounded by the Russian Alexander Oparin. J. B. S. Haldane developed the same theory independently. Dyson has simplified things by saying simply that life evolved in two stages, widely separated in time. He regards it as too unlikely that genes could have developed fully blown in one process, because of the biochemistry. Current cells contain adenosine triphosphate or ATP and adenosine 5'-monophosphate or AMP, which greatly resemble each other but have completely different functions. ATP transports energy around the cell, and AMP is part of RNA and the genetic apparatus. Dyson proposes that in a primitive early cell containing ATP and AMP, RNA and replication were invented accidentally because of the similarity between AMP and RNA. He suggests that AMP was produced when ATP molecules lost two of their phosphate radicals, and then one cell somewhere performed Eigen's experiment and produced RNA.\n\nUnfortunately there is no direct evidence for the dual origin concept, because once genes developed, they took over, obliterating all traces of the earlier forms of life. In the first origin, the cells were probably just drops of water held together by surface tension, teeming with enzymes and chemical reactions, and a primitive kind of growth or replication. When the liquid drop became too big, it split into two drops. Many complex molecules formed in these \"little city economies\" and the probability that genes would eventually develop in them was much greater than in the prebiotic environment.\n\nIn 1960, Dyson wrote a short paper for the journal \"Science\", titled \"Search for Artificial Stellar Sources of Infrared Radiation\". In it, he theorized that a technologically advanced extraterrestrial civilization might completely surround its native star with artificial structures in order to maximize the capture of the star's available energy. Eventually, the civilization would completely enclose the star, intercepting electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths from visible light downwards and radiating waste heat outwards as infrared radiation. Therefore, one method of searching for extraterrestrial civilizations would be to look for large objects radiating in the infrared range of the electromagnetic spectrum.\n\nDyson conceived that such structures would be clouds of asteroid-sized space habitats, though science fiction writers have preferred a solid structure: either way, such an artifact is often called a Dyson sphere, although Dyson used the term \"shell\". Dyson says that he used the term \"artificial biosphere\" in the article meaning a habitat, not a shape. The general concept of such an energy-transferring shell had been advanced decades earlier by author Olaf Stapledon in his 1937 novel \"Star Maker\", a source that Dyson has credited publicly.\n\nDyson has also proposed the creation of a \"Dyson tree\", a genetically-engineered plant capable of growing on a comet. He suggested that comets could be engineered to contain hollow spaces filled with a breathable atmosphere, thus providing self-sustaining habitats for humanity in the outer Solar System.\n\nDyson has been interested in space travel since he was a child, reading such science fiction classics as Olaf Stapledon's \"Star Maker\". As a young man, he worked for General Atomics on the nuclear-powered Orion spacecraft. He hoped Project Orion would put men on Mars by 1965, Saturn by 1970. He's been unhappy for a quarter-century about how the government conducts space travel:\nHe still hopes for cheap space travel, but is resigned to waiting for private entrepreneurs to develop something new and inexpensive.\n\nDyson also proposed the use of bioengineered space colonies to colonize the Kuiper Belt on the outer edge of our Solar System. He proposed that habitats could be grown from space hardened spores. The colonies could then be warmed by large reflector plant leaves that could focus the dim, distant sunlight back on the growing colony. This was illustrated by Pat Rawlings on the cover of the National Space Society's Ad Astra magazine.\n\nDyson's proposal that intelligent beings may be capable of thinking an infinite number of thoughts in an open/ expanding universe.\n\nDyson also has some credits in pure mathematics. His concept \"Dyson's transform\" led to one of the most important lemmas of Olivier Ramaré's theorem that every even integer can be written as a sum of no more than six primes.\n\nThe Dyson series, the formal solution of an explicitly time-dependent Schrödinger equation by iteration, and the corresponding Dyson time-ordering operator formula_1 an entity of basic importance in the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics, are also named after Dyson.\n\nDyson and Hugh Montgomery discovered together an intriguing connection between quantum physics and Montgomery's pair correlation conjecture about the zeros of the Zeta function. The primes 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, ... are described by the Riemann Zeta function, and Dyson had previously developed a description of quantum physics based on m by m arrays of totally random numbers. What Montgomery and Dyson discovered is that the \"eigenvalues\" of these matrices are spaced apart in exactly the same manner as Montgomery conjectured for the nontrivial zeros of the Zeta function. Andrew Odlyzko has verified the conjecture on a computer, using his Odlyzko–Schönhage algorithm to calculate many zeros. Dyson recognized this connection because of a number-theory question Montgomery asked him. Dyson had published results in number theory in 1947, while a Fellow at Trinity College, Cambridge and so was able to understand Montgomery's question. If Montgomery had not been visiting the Institute for Advanced Study that week, this connection might not have been discovered.\n\nThere are in nature one, two, and three dimensional quasicrystals. Mathematicians define a quasicrystal as a set of discrete points whose Fourier transform is also a set of discrete points. Andrew Odlyzko has done extensive computations of the Fourier transform of the nontrivial zeros of the Riemann Zeta function, and they seem to form a one dimensional quasicrystal. This would in fact follow from the Riemann hypothesis.\n\nDyson has suggested a kind of cosmic metaphysics of mind. In his book \"Infinite in All Directions\" he writes about three levels of mind: \"The universe shows evidence of the operations of mind on three levels. The first level is the level of elementary physical processes in quantum mechanics. Matter in quantum mechanics is ... constantly making choices between alternative possibilities according to probabilistic laws. ... The second level at which we detect the operations of mind is the level of direct human experience. ... [I]t is reasonable to believe in the existence of a third level of mind, a mental component of the universe. If we believe in this mental component and call it God, then we can say that we are small pieces of God's mental apparatus\" (p. 297).\n\nDyson agrees that anthropogenic global warming exists. While he agrees that \"[one] of the main causes of warming is the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere resulting from our burning of fossil fuels such as oil and coal and natural gas\", he believes that existing simulation models of climate fail to account for some important factors, and hence the results will contain too much error to reliably predict future trends:\n\nand, in 2009:\n\nHe is among signatories of a letter to the UN criticizing the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and has also argued against ostracizing scientists whose views depart from the acknowledged mainstream of scientific opinion on climate change, stating that \"heretics\" have historically been an important force in driving scientific progress. \"[H]eretics who question the dogmas are needed  ... I am proud to be a heretic. The world always needs heretics to challenge the prevailing orthodoxies.\"\n\nDyson says his views on global warming have been strongly criticized. In reply, he notes that \"[m]y objections to the global warming propaganda are not so much over the technical facts, about which I do not know much, but it's rather against the way those people behave and the kind of intolerance to criticism that a lot of them have.\"\n\nIn 2008, he endorsed the now common usage of \"global warming\" as synonymous with global anthropogenic climate change, referring to \"measurements that transformed global warming from a vague theoretical speculation into a precise observational science.\"\n\nHe has, however, argued that political efforts to reduce the causes of climate change distract from other global problems that should take priority:\n\nIn an opinion piece in the Boston Globe of 3 Dec 2015 he wrote,\n\nSince originally taking interest in climate studies in the 1970s, Dyson has suggested that carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere could be controlled by planting fast-growing trees. He calculates that it would take a trillion trees to remove all carbon from the atmosphere.\n\nIn a 2014 interview, he said that \"What I'm convinced of is that we don't understand climate ... It will take a lot of very hard work before that question is settled.\"\n\nHe is a member of the academic advisory council of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, a climate sceptic think tank chaired by Nigel Lawson.\n\nFrom his 1988 book \"Infinite in All Directions\", he offered some criticism of then current models predicting a devastating nuclear winter in the event of a large-scale nuclear war:\n\nAt the British Bomber Command, Dyson and colleagues proposed removing two gun turrets from the RAF Lancaster bombers, to cut the catastrophic losses due to German fighters in the Battle of Berlin. A Lancaster without turrets could fly faster and be much more maneuverable.\n\nOn hearing the news of the bombing of Hiroshima:\n\nIn 1967, in his capacity as a military adviser Dyson wrote an influential paper on the issue of possible US use of tactical nuclear weapons in the Vietnam War. When a general said in a meeting, \"I think it might be a good idea to throw in a nuke now and then, just to keep the other side guessing ...\" Dyson became alarmed and obtained permission to write an objective report discussing the pros and cons of using such weapons from a purely military point of view. (This report, \"Tactical Nuclear Weapons in Southeast Asia\", published by the Institute for Defense Analyses, was obtained, with some redactions, by the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainability under the Freedom of Information act in 2002.) It was sufficiently objective that both sides in the debate based their arguments on it. Dyson says that the report showed that, even from a narrow military point of view, the US was better off not using nuclear weapons. Dyson stated on the Dick Cavett show that the use of nuclear weaponry was a bad idea for the US at the time because \"our targets were large and theirs were small.\" (His unstated assumption was that the Soviets would respond by supplying tactical nukes to the other side.)\n\nDyson opposed the Vietnam War, the Gulf War and the invasion of Iraq. He supported Barack Obama in the 2008 US presidential election and \"The New York Times\" has described him as a political liberal. He was one of 29 leading US scientists who wrote a strongly supportive letter to Obama regarding his administration's 2015 nuclear deal with Iran.\n\nWhile teaching for a few weeks in Zurich, Dyson was visited by two officials from the Swiss civil defence authority. Their experts were telling them that fairly simple shelters on a large scale would enable them to survive a nuclear attack, and they wanted confirmation. They knew that Dyson had a security clearance. Dyson reassured them that their shelters would do the job. The US does not build such shelters because it would be contrary to the doctrine of mutual assured destruction, since the US would be able to launch a first strike but survive retaliation.\n\nHe is a nondenominational Christian and has attended various churches from Presbyterian to Roman Catholic. Regarding doctrinal or Christological issues, he has said, \"I am neither a saint nor a theologian. To me, good works are more important than theology.\"\n\nDyson partially disagrees with the famous remark by his fellow physicist Steven Weinberg that \"With or without religion, good people can behave well and bad people can do evil; but for good people to do evil—that takes religion.\"\n\nWhile Dyson has labeled himself a Christian, he identifies himself as agnostic about some of the specifics of his faith. For example, here is a passage from Dyson's review of \"The God of Hope and the End of the World\" from John Polkinghorne:\n\nIn \"The God Delusion\" (2006), biologist Richard Dawkins criticized Dyson for accepting the religious Templeton Prize in 2000; \"It would be taken as an endorsement of religion by one of the world's most distinguished physicists.\" However, Dyson declared in 2000 that he is a (non-denominational) Christian, and he has disagreed with Dawkins on several occasions, as when he criticized Dawkins' understanding of evolution.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5550461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5550461", "title": "Frege's puzzles", "text": "Frege's puzzles\n\nFrege's puzzles are puzzles about the semantics of proper names, although related puzzles also arise in the case of indexicals. Gottlob Frege (1848–1925) introduced the puzzle at the beginning of his article \"Über Sinn und Bedeutung\" (\"On Sense and Reference\") in 1892 in one of the most influential articles in analytic philosophy and philosophy of language.\n\nThe term \"Frege's puzzle\" is commonly applied to two related problems. One is a problem about identity statements that Frege raised at the beginning of \"On Sense and Reference\", and another concerns propositional attitude reports. For the first problem, consider the following two sentences:\n\n(1) Hesperus is Hesperus.\n\n(2) Hesperus is Phosphorus.\n\nEach of these sentences is true, since 'Hesperus' refers to the same object as 'Phosphorus' (the planet Venus). Nonetheless, (1) and (2) seem to differ in their meaning or what Frege called \"cognitive value\". (1) is just a truth of logic that can be known a priori, whereas (2) records an empirical truth that was discovered by astronomers. The problem, however, is that proper names are often taken to have no meaning beyond their reference (a view often associated with John Stuart Mill). But this seems to imply that the two statements mean the same thing, or have the same cognitive value.\n\nFrege proposed to resolve this puzzle by postulating a second level of meaning besides reference in the form of what he called sense: a difference in the mode of presentation or the way an object can be \"given\" to us. Thus 'Hesperus' and 'Phosphorus' have the same reference, but differ in sense because they present Venus in different ways.\n\nThe second puzzle concerns propositional attitude reports, such as belief reports. Ordinarily, coreferring names are substitutable salva veritate, that is, without change in truth value. For example, if 'Hesperus is bright' is true then 'Phosphorus is bright' is also true given that 'Hesperus' and 'Phosphorus' refer to the same planet. But now consider the following argument:\n\n(3) Alex believes Hesperus is visible in the evening.\n\n(4) Hesperus = Phosphorus.\n\n(5) Alex believes Phosphorus is visible in the evening.\n\nThis argument appears to be invalid: even if (3) and (4) are true, (5) could be false. If Alex is not aware that Hesperus and Phosphorus are the same planet, then it seems that he could believe that Hesperus is visible in the evening while rejecting the claim that Phosphorus is visible in the evening (perhaps he thinks Phosphorus, the morning star, is only visible in the morning). The principle that coreferring names are substitutable \"salva veritate\" thus appears to fail in the context of belief reports (and similarly for other propositional attitude reports).\n\nFrege again proposed to solve this problem by appeal to his distinction between sense and reference. In particular, he held that when a proper name occurs in the context of an attitude report, its reference shifts to its ordinary sense: thus 'Phosphorus', for example, denotes the planet Venus when it occurs in the sentence 'Phosphorus is visible in the evening' or in an identity sentence like (4), but when it occurs embedded in an attitude report like (5) it denotes its ordinary \"sense.\"\n\nFrege's puzzle has received a great deal of attention since the attacks on the descriptivist theory of names mounted in the 1970s and 1980s by philosophers such as Keith Donnellan, Saul Kripke, Ruth Barcan Marcus, Hilary Putnam, and David Kaplan. In the wake of these attacks on descriptivism, many philosophers embraced the Millian or direct-reference view of proper names, according to which the meaning of a name is simply its referent. As noted above, this Millian view has the result that (1) and (2) express the same proposition. Similarly, the embedded sentences 'Hesperus is visible in the evening' and 'Phosphorus is visible in the evening' from (3) and (5) express the same proposition. It therefore looks like (3) and (5) cannot differ in truth value since they attribute belief in one and the same proposition.\n\nIn view of this problem, many philosophers of language have attempted to work out a solution to the puzzle within the confines of direct-reference theories of proper names. Some of these philosophers include Nathan Salmon (e.g. in \"Frege's puzzle\" and \"Content, Cognition, and Communication\"), Howard Wettstein (e.g. in \"Has Semantics Rested on a Mistake?\"), Scott Soames, David Kaplan, John Perry (e.g. in \"Reference and Reflexivity\"), and Joseph Almog.\n\n"}
{"id": "3694654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694654", "title": "Gestell", "text": "Gestell\n\nGestell (or sometimes Ge-stell) is a German word used by twentieth-century German philosopher Martin Heidegger to describe what lies behind or beneath modern technology. Heidegger introduced the term in 1954 in \"The Question Concerning Technology\", a text based on the lecture \"The Framework\" (\"Das Gestell\") first presented on December 1, 1949, in Bremen. It was derived from the root word \"stellen\", which means \"to put\" or \"to place\" and combined with the German prefix \"Ge-\", which denotes a form of \"gathering\" or \"collection\". The term gathers together all kinds of entities and orders them in a certain way. \n\nHeidegger applied the concept of \"Gestell\" to his exposition of the essence of technology. He concluded that technology is fundamentally Enframing (\"Gestell\").\nAs such, the essence of technology is \"Gestell\". Indeed, \"\"Gestell\", literally 'framing', is an all-encompassing view of technology, not as a means to an end, but rather a mode of human existence\". Such enframing pertains to the manner reality appears or unveils itself in the period of modern technology and people born into this \"mode of ordering\" are always embedded into the Gestell (enframing). \n\nIn defining the essence of technology as \"Gestell\", Heidegger indicated that all that has come to presence in the world has been enframed. Thus what is revealed in the world, what has shown itself as itself (the truth of itself) required first an Enframing, literally a way to exist in the world, to be able to be seen and understood. Concerning the essence of technology and how we see things in our technological age, the world has been framed as the \"standing-reserve.\" Heidegger writes,\n\nEnframing means the gathering together of that setting-upon which sets upon man, i.e., challenges him forth, to reveal the real, in the mode of ordering, as standing-reserve. Enframing means that way of revealing which holds sway in the essence of modern technology and which is itself nothing technological.\n\nFurthermore, Heidegger uses the word in a way that is uncommon by giving \"Gestell\" an active role. In ordinary usage the word would signify simply a display apparatus of some sort, like a book rack, or picture frame; but for Heidegger, \"Gestell\" is literally a challenging forth, or \"perform\"ative \"gathering together\", for the purpose of revealing or presentation. If applied to science and modern technology, \"standing reserve\" is active in the case of a river once it generates electricity or the earth if revealed as a coal-mining district or the soil as a mineral deposit. \n\nFor some scholars, Gestell effectively explains the violence of technology. This is attributed to Heidegger's explanation that, when Gestell holds sway, \"it drives out every other possibility of revealing\" and that it \"conceals that revealing which, in the sense of \"poiesis\", lets what presences come forth into appearance.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1945794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1945794", "title": "Gnosology", "text": "Gnosology\n\nIn philosophy, gnosology literally means the study of \"gnosis\", meaning knowledge or esoteric knowledge. Gnosology has also been used to render Johann Gottlieb Fichte's term for his own version of transcendental idealism, \"Wissenschaftslehre\", meaning \"Doctrine of Knowledge\".\n\n"}
{"id": "11703016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11703016", "title": "Gymnosophy", "text": "Gymnosophy\n\nGymnosophy (from Greek γυμνός \"gymnós\" \"naked\" and σοφία \"sophía\" \"wisdom\") was a movement and a philosophy practiced in Europe and the USA from the end of the 19th century to the mid 20th century. The practice involved nudity, asceticism and meditation.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the term was appropriated by several groups to denote a broad philosophy that included as a central thought that the nude human body is a natural condition and should be widely acceptable for the betterment of society. This philosophy is related closely, and often interchangeably, with nudism and naturism, and has close connection to the hippie movement.\n\nThe movement is known by mainly three organisations, the English Gymnosophical Society, Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie and the American Gymnosophical Association. In 1919, the Yoga teacher Blanche DeVries opened a \"Yoga Gymnosophy Institute\" in New York that combined Oriental Dance and Yoga. The \"English Gymnosophical Society\" was founded in 1922 and became \"The New Gymnosophy Society\" in 1926. One of the first members was Gerald Gardner, who in 1945 established the 'Five Acres Club', ostensibly as a nudist club, but as a front for Wiccans, as this was illegal in England until 1951. The \"Societe Internationale de Gymnosophie\" was founded in 1926 in France.\n\nDr. Maurice Parmelee (1882-1969), professor of sociology at the City College of New York, wrote from 1923 to 1924 a book, \"The New Gymnosophy\", the title was changed to \"Nudism In Modern Life\" in later editions. He took part in the founding of the \"American Gymnosophical Association\" 1930. \n\nIn 1932, \"Rochester Gymnosophy League\" in Bushnell’s Basin was founded. In 1933 the \"Dunedin Gymnosophy Club\" in New Zealand. The biochemist and historian Joseph Needham was known to practice gymnosophy.\n\nIn the last decade, the word gymnosophy has begun to be used as a term for a new, more spiritual and holistic, free body culture.\n\nA reputed poem from the book Non Serviam, 1945, by the Swedish author Gunnar Ekelöf is named \"Gymnosofisten\", (the gymnosophist).\n\nIn Don Quixote: \"…in defiance and in spite of envy itself, and all the magicians that Persia, or Brahmans that India, or Gymnosophists that Ethiopia ever produced…\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43491", "title": "Heuristic argument", "text": "Heuristic argument\n\nA heuristic argument is an argument that reasons from the value of a method or principle that has been shown by experimental (especially trial-and-error) investigation to be a useful aid in learning, discovery and problem-solving. A widely used and important example of a heuristic argument is Occam's Razor.\n\nIt is a speculative, non-rigorous argument, that relies on an analogy or on intuition, that allows one to achieve a result or approximation to be checked later with more rigor; otherwise the results are of doubt. It is used as a hypothesis or conjecture in an investigation. It can also be used as a mnemonic.\n\n"}
{"id": "57349303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57349303", "title": "Hierarchy of the sciences", "text": "Hierarchy of the sciences\n\nThe hierarchy of the sciences is a theory formulated by Auguste Comte in the 19th century. This theory states that science develops over time beginning with the simplest and most general scientific discipline, astronomy, which is the first to reach the \"positive stage\" (one of three in Comte's law of three stages). As one moves down the \"hierarchy\", this theory further states that sciences become more complex and less general, and that they will reach the positive stage later. Disciplines further down the hierarchy are said to depend more on the developments of their predecessors; the highest discipline on the hierarchy is the social sciences. According to this theory, there are higher levels of consensus and faster rates of advancement in physics and other natural sciences than there are in the social sciences.\n\nResearch has shown that, after controlling for the number of hypotheses being tested, positive results are 2.3 times more likely in the social sciences than in the physical sciences. It has also been found that the degree of scientific consensus is highest in the physical sciences, lowest in the social sciences, and intermediate in the biological sciences. Dean Simonton argues that a composite measure of the scientific status of disciplines ranks psychology much closer to biology than to sociology.\n"}
{"id": "50675794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50675794", "title": "History of hermeneutics", "text": "History of hermeneutics\n\nHermeneutics is the theory and methodology of interpretation. The tradition of Western hermeneutics starts in the writings of Aristotle and continues to the modern era.\n\nIn \"De Interpretatione\", Aristotle offers a theory which lays the groundwork for many later theories of interpretation and semiotics:\n\nEqually important to later developments are some ancient texts on poetry, rhetoric, and sophistry:\nHowever, these texts deal with the presentation and refutation of arguments, speeches, and poems rather than with the understanding of texts \"per se\". As Ramberg and Gjesdal note, \"Only with the Stoics, and their reflections on the interpretation of myth, do we encounter something like a methodological awareness of the problems of textual understanding.\"\n\nSome ancient Greek philosophers, particularly Plato, vilified poets and poetry as harmful nonsense. In \"The Republic\", Plato denied poets entry into his \"ideal state\" until they could prove their value. In \"Ion\", Plato famously portrayed poets as possessed:\n\nThe meaning of the poem thus becomes open to ridicule. Whatever hints of truth it may have, the truth is covered up by madness. However, another line of thinking arose with Theagenes of Rhegium, who suggested that, instead of taking poetry literally, it ought to be taken as allegories of nature. Stoic philosophers further developed this idea, reading into poetry both allegories of nature and allegories of ethical behavior.\n\nAristotle differed with his predecessor, Plato, about the worth of poetry. Both saw art as an act of mimesis, but where Plato saw a pale, essentially false, imitation of reality, Aristotle saw the possibility of truth in imitation. As critic David Richter points out, \"For Aristotle, artists must disregard incidental facts to search for deeper universal truths.\" Thus, instead of being essentially false, poetry may be universally true.\n\nThe earliest Christian period of biblical interpretation was the Apostolic Age. Traditionally, that was the period of the Twelve Apostles, dating from the Great Commission until the death of John the Apostle (about 100 ). Because John lived so long and was the last of the apostles to die, there is some overlap between the Apostolic Age and the first Apostolic Fathers. (See Deaths of the Twelve Apostles.)\n\nThe operative hermeneutical principle in the New Testament was \"prophecy fulfillment\". The Gospels, particularly the Gospel of Matthew, make extensive use of the Old Testament for the purpose of demonstrating that Jesus was the Messiah. Examples include Matthew 1:23, 2:15–18, 3:3, 21:42, Mark 1:2–3, 4:12, Luke 3:4–6, 22:37, John 2:17, 12:15, and notably Luke 4:18–21. Jesus read extensively from Book of Isaiah and said that the prophecy was fulfilled in the crowds who heard it. The Pauline epistles also employ the principle of prophecy fulfillment, as evidenced by 1 Corinthians 1:19 and Ephesians 4:8–10.\n\nThe Apostolic Fathers were followers of the Apostles. This period is sometimes called the sub-apostolic period.\n\nThe principle of prophecy fulfillment was carried over from the Apostolic Age and was continued up to the beginning of the 3rd century For example, Irenaeus dedicates an entire chapter of \"Against Heresies\" to the defense of , which was one of the chief prophecies used to validate Jesus as the Messiah.  This is consistent with Irenaeus' other writings.\n\nEven more than Irenaeus, the second century apologists tended to interpret and utilize most scripture as if it were primarily for the purpose of showing prophecy fulfillment. Prominent among these was Justin Martyr, who made extensive use of scripture to this end. Examples of prophecy fulfillment can be seen in his \"Apology\", in which chapters 31–53 are specifically dedicated to proving through prophecy that Jesus was the Messiah. He uses scripture similarly in \"Dialogue with Trypho\".\n\nHere Justin demonstrates that prophecy fulfillment supersedes logical context in hermeneutics. He ignores the Christological issues that arise from equating Jesus with the golden calf of Bethel, which is the \"him\" that is being brought to the king in .\n\nIt is likely that the preeminence of prophecy fulfillment was a product of the circumstances of the early church. The primary intent of early authors was a defense of Christianity against attacks from paganism and Judaism, as well as suppressing what were considered to be schismatic or heretical groups. To this end, Martin Jan Mulder suggested that prophecy fulfillment was the primary hermeneutical method because Roman society placed a high value upon both antiquity and oracles. By using the Old Testament (a term linked with supersessionism) to validate Jesus, early Christians sought to tap into both the antiquity of the Jewish scriptures and the oracles of the prophets.\n\nTwo divergent schools of thought emerged during this period, which extends from 200 to the medieval period. Historians divide this period into the Ante-Nicene Period and the First seven Ecumenical Councils.\n\nThe Ante-Nicene Period (literally meaning \"before Nicaea\") of the history of early Christianity extended from the late 1st century to the early 4th century. Its end was marked by the First Council of Nicaea in 325  Christianity during this time was extremely diverse, with many developments that are difficult to trace and follow. There is also a relative paucity of available material, and this period is less studied than the preceding Apostolic Age and the historical ages following it. Nevertheless, this part of Christian history is important because it had a significant effect upon the development of Christianity.\n\nThis era begins with the First Council of Nicaea, which enunciated the Nicene Creed that, in its original form and as modified by the First Council of Constantinople of 381 , was seen as the touchstone of orthodoxy for the doctrine of the Trinity.\n\nThe first seven Ecumenical Councils, from the First Council of Nicaea (325  ) to the Second Council of Nicaea (787  ), represent an attempt to reach an orthodox consensus and to establish a unified Christendom.\n\nThe first scholar to study this time period as a whole was Philip Schaff, who wrote \"The Seven Ecumenical Councils of the Undivided Church\", first published after his death in 1901. The topic is of particular interest to proponents of paleo-orthodoxy, who seek to recover the church as it was before the schisms.\n\nAs early as the third century, Christian hermeneutics began to split into two primary schools: the Alexandrian and the Antiochene.\n\nThe Alexandrian biblical interpretations stressed allegorical readings, often at the expense of the texts' literal meaning. Origen and Clement of Alexandria were two major scholars in this school.\n\nThe Antiochene school stressed the literal and historical meaning of texts. Theodore of Mopsuestia and Diodore of Tarsus were the primary figures in this school.\n\nMedieval Christian biblical interpretations of text incorporated exegesis into a fourfold mode which emphasized the distinction between the letter and the spirit of the text. This schema was based on the various ways of interpreting text that were utilized by the patristic writers.\nBiblical hermeneutics in the Middle Ages witnessed the proliferation of nonliteral interpretations of the Bible. Christian commentators could read Old Testament narratives simultaneously:\nIn each case, the meaning of the narrative was constrained by imputing a particular intention to the Bible, such as teaching morality. But these interpretive bases were posited by the religious tradition rather than suggested by a preliminary reading of the text.\n\nA similar fourfold mode is found in rabbinic writings. The four categories are:\nIt is uncertain whether the rabbinic categories of interpretation predate those of the patristic version. The medieval period saw the growth of many new categories of rabbinic interpretation and of exegesis of the Torah. Among these were the emergence of Kabbalah and the writings of Maimonides.\n\nThe customary medieval exegetical technique commented on the text in \"glossae\" or annotations that were written between the lines or at the side of the text (which was left with wide margins for this purpose). The text might be further commented on in \"scholia\", which are long, exegetical passages, often on a separate page.\n"}
{"id": "37455368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37455368", "title": "Internal measurement", "text": "Internal measurement\n\nThe internal measurement is one of the measurement theories. From, we introduce the definition of the internal measurement. \nThe experience consists of \"unremitting measurements\". These \"unremitting measurements\" appear only in the experience. In the experience, if any individual has a relation to another individual then this is a \"measurement which identifies another individual\", where this measurement enable if the individual can specify the effects from another individual. Moreover, a \"measurement which identifies another individual\" is unremitting in the experience. As above a measurement such that if any individual measure another individual then this measurement inherent in \"unremitting measurements\" is called the internal measurement. This theory is found by Kouichirou Matsuno and \nis developed by Yukio-Pegio Gunji. \n\nThere is a likeness between internal measurement and endophysics. \nHowever, they have slight difference, that is, internal measurement have before-after logical asymmetry. \n"}
{"id": "4205386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205386", "title": "Legal naturalism", "text": "Legal naturalism\n\nLegal naturalism is a term coined by Olufemi Taiwo to describe a current in the social philosophy of Karl Marx which can be interpreted as one of Natural Law. Taiwo considered it the manifestation of Natural Law in a dialectical materialist context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15044726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15044726", "title": "Neo-Aristotelianism", "text": "Neo-Aristotelianism\n\nNeo-Aristotelianism is a view of literature and rhetorical criticism propagated by the Chicago School — Ronald S. Crane, Elder Olson, Richard McKeon, Wayne Booth, and others — which means.\n\"A view of literature and criticism which takes a pluralistic attitude toward the history of literature and seeks to view literary works and critical theories intrinsically\" \n\nNeo-Artistotelianism was one of the first rhetorical methods of criticism. Its central features were first suggested in Herbert A. Wichelns' \"The Literary Criticism of Oratory\" in 1925. It focused on analyzing the methodology behind a speech's ability to convey an idea to its audience. In 1943, Neo-Aristotelianism was further publicized, gaining popularity after William Norwood Brigance published A History and Criticism of American Public Address.\n\nUnlike rhetorical criticism, which concentrates on the study of speeches and the immediate effect of rhetoric on an audience, Neo-Aristotelianism \"led to the study of a single speaker because the sheer number of topics to cover relating to the rhetor and the speech made dealing with more than a single speaker virtually impossible. Thus, various speeches by different rhetors related by form of topic were not included in the scope of rhetorical criticism.\"\n\nWichelns' work was one of the first that introduced Neo-Aristotelianism. It narrowed down speech to 12 key topics to be studied, similar to many of the topics discussed by Aristotle in the Rhetoric. His topics for speech critique include:\nAccording to Mark S. Klyn, author of Towards a Pluralistic Rhetorical Criticism, \"The Literary Criticism of Oratory\" provided \"substance and structure to a study which heretofore had been formless and ephemeral [...] it literally created the modern discipline of rhetorical criticism.\" Thus regardless of the lack of detail on these topics, it provided a modern structure of critiquing and analyzing speech via Neo-Aristotelianism, according to Donald C. Bryant.\n\n"}
{"id": "22035894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035894", "title": "Paradox of analysis", "text": "Paradox of analysis\n\nThe paradox of analysis is a paradox that concerns how an analysis can be both correct and informative. Although the problem takes its origin from the conflict in Plato's \"Meno\", it was formulated in its complete form by philosopher G. E. Moore in his book \"Principia Ethica\", and first named by C. H. Langford in his 1942 article \"The Notion of Analysis in Moore's Philosophy\".\n\nA conceptual analysis is something like the definition of a word. However, unlike a standard dictionary definition (which may list examples or talk about related terms as well), a completely correct analysis of a concept in terms of others seems like it should have exactly the same meaning as the original concept. Thus, in order to be correct, the analysis should be able to be used in any context where the original concept is used, without changing the meaning of the discussion in context. Conceptual analyses of this sort are a major goal of analytic philosophy.\n\nHowever, if such an analysis is to be useful, it should be informative. That is, it should tell us something we don't already know (or at least, something one can imagine someone might not already know). But it seems that no conceptual analysis can both meet the requirement of correctness and of informativeness, on these understandings of the requirements.\n\nTo see why, consider a potential simple analysis:\n\nOne can say that (1) is correct because the expression \"brother\" represents the same concept as the expression \"male sibling,\" and (1) seems to be informative because the two expressions are not identical. And if (1) is truly correct, then \"brother\" and \"male sibling\" must be interchangeable:\n\nYet (2) is not informative, so either (1) is not informative, or the two expressions used in (1) are not interchangeable (because they change an informative analysis into an uninformative one) so (1) is not actually correct. In other words, if the analysis is correct and informative, then (1) and (2) must be essentially equal, but this is not true because (2) is not informative. Therefore, it seems an analysis cannot be both correct and informative at the same time.\n\nOne way to resolve this paradox is to redefine what is an analysis. In explaining the paradox, a potential analysis is assumed to be a relation between concepts rather than the verbal expressions used to illustrate them. If the verbal expression is part of the analysis, then we shouldn't expect complete intersubstitutivity even in cases of correct analyses. However, this response seems to move the notion of analysis into mere linguistic definition, rather than doing interesting work with concepts.\n\nAnother response is to bite the bullet and just say that correct analyses are uninformative — which then raises the question of what positive cognitive notion should be used instead of this one, if any.\n\nOne further response would be to take Willard Van Orman Quine's position and reject the notion of conceptual analysis altogether. This is a natural response to the rejection of the analytic–synthetic distinction. The fact that many philosophers have followed Quine in this direction is part of the reason that many now say that the term \"analytic philosophy\" is a misnomer.\n\n"}
{"id": "39887716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39887716", "title": "Philosophy in 90 Minutes series", "text": "Philosophy in 90 Minutes series\n\nThe Philosophy in 90 Minutes series, written by Paul Strathern, is a series of short introductory biographical overviews on well-known philosophers, set in brief historical context, along with brief impressions of their philosophies. The books are also produced in audio format; read by narrator Robert Whitfield. The series’ intent is to \"write about the philosophers' lives, [while] adding in a few of their ideas\"\n\nThe books and audio presentations are considered to be outlines of the given philosopher. Interesting anecdotes about the subject are pervasive, and lines are quoted from published works in \"an epigraphic style\". Each volume contains relevant chronologies, including a chronology of philosophy that is repeated in at least some books. Finally several suggested further reading titles are also included.\n\nSome titles in series are: Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Confucius, Machiavelli, Descartes, John Locke, Hegel, Heidegger, Hume, Kant, Marx, Rousseau, Schopenhauer, Spinoza, and Nietzsche.\n\n"}
{"id": "1018141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018141", "title": "Philosophy of business", "text": "Philosophy of business\n\nThe philosophy of business considers the fundamental principles that underlie the formation and operation of a business enterprise; the nature and purpose of a business, and the moral obligations that pertain to it.\n\nPhilipp Blom summarises the development and impact of business-centric ideas in society prior to the global financial crisis of 2008:\n[...] Friedrich von Hayek and Ludwig von Mises [...] were Europeans who had passed their formative years in the chaotic interwar years and whose conclusion was that state intervention and planned economies were hallmarks of dictatorship [...]. They believed that it was healthier to take ideology out of politics and base the workings of society on the objective, nonideological laws of the free market. [...] The Enlightenment cult of reason and of the common good was replaced by the concepts of rationalization and the maximization of profits, which were applied to a reevaluation of social institutions - infrastructure, schools, universities, prisons, health care, and so on - according to business-driven criteria of profitability and cost-effectiveness. Especially in the United States but also increasingly in Europe, we began to run our societies as businesses. Beginning in the late 1970s and gaining speed in the 1980s, this gospel changed and polarized our societies - but it also provided an umbrella of meaning and necessity under which we could hide from challenges from without as well as doubts from within. For many in the West, the idea of the market became their ideological home. Living in accordance with its guiding providence and iron laws created a sense of stability, of virtue even. But 2008 shattered this collective piety and made millions understand that they had been lied to [...].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1564475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1564475", "title": "Philosophy of testimony", "text": "Philosophy of testimony\n\nIn philosophy, testimony includes any words or utterances that are presented as evidence for the claims they express. This definition may be distinguished from the legal notion of testimony in that the speaker does not have to make a declaration of the truth of the facts.\n\nThe role of testimony in acquiring belief and knowledge has been a relatively neglected philosophical issue. CAJ (Tony) Coady believes that this is because traditional epistemology has had a distinctly individualist flavour.\n\nHowever, it seems that many of the beliefs that we hold have been gained through accepting testimony. For example, one may only know that Kent is a county of England or that David Beckham earns $30 million per year because one has learned these things from other people. A more striking example is the belief about one's own birthdate. If you know your birthdate, the evidence for your belief was almost certainly received through testimony.\n\nOne of the problems with acquiring knowledge through testimony is that it does not seem to live up to the standards of knowledge (see knowledge in philosophy ). As Owens notes, it does not seem to live up to the Enlightenment ideal of rationality captured in the motto of the Royal Society – ‘Nullius in verba (no man's word)’. Crudely put, the question is: 'How can testimony give us knowledge when we have no reasons of our own?'\n\nCoady suggests that there are two approaches to this problem:\nand\n\nHume is one of the few early philosophers to offer anything like a sustained account of testimony, this can be found in his \"‘An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding’\" in the section on miracles. The basic idea is that our justification for believing what people tell us comes from our experience of the ‘...constant and regular conjunction’ between the state of affairs as people describe it and the actual state of affairs (i.e. our observation that they match). On Coady's schema he is a reductivist.\n\nCoady offers an anti-reductivist account of testimony. He claims that testimony is like perception, we don't have to have reasons for believing it, only an absence of reasons not to believe it. On Coady's account we are justified in being credulous. Proponents of anti-reductivism in the history of philosophy include Augustine of Hippo and Thomas Reid.\n\nPerhaps also significant is that Bertrand Russell argued that knowledge by acquaintance played an important part in epistemology.\n\n1. Coady, 1992<br>\n2. Owens, 2000, p. 163<br>\n3. Hume, 1993, p. 74\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4788296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4788296", "title": "Plato's Problem", "text": "Plato's Problem\n\nPlato's Problem is the term given by Noam Chomsky to \"the problem of explaining how we can know so much\" given our limited experience. Chomsky believes that Plato asked (using modern terms) how we should account for the rich, intrinsic, common structure of human cognition, when it seems undetermined by extrinsic evidence presented to a person during human development. In linguistics this is referred to as the \"argument from poverty of the stimulus\" (APS). Such arguments are common in the natural sciences, where a developing theory is always \"underdetermined by evidence\". Chomsky's approach to Plato's Problem involves treating cognition as a normal research topic in the natural sciences, so cognition can be studied to elucidate intertwined genetic, developmental, and biophysical factors. Plato's Problem is most clearly illustrated in the Meno dialogue, in which Socrates demonstrates that an uneducated boy nevertheless understands geometric principles.\n\nWhat is knowledge? What is experience? How do they interact? Is there a correlational, causal, or reciprocal relationship between knowledge and experience? These and other related questions have been at the forefront of investigation by problem solvers, scientists, psychologists, and philosophers for centuries. These questions, but particularly the problem of how experience and knowledge interrelate, have broad theoretical and practical implications for such academic disciplines as epistemology, linguistics, and psychology (specifically the subdiscipline of thinking and problem solving). Gaining a more precise understanding of human knowledge, whether defined as innate, experiential, or both, is an important part of effective problem solving.\n\nPlato was the first philosopher who systematically inquired into issues such as those noted above. He wrote many dialogues, such as Euthyphro and the Apology, but it is from the Meno that the modern instantiation of Plato's Problem is derived. In the Meno, Plato theorizes about the relationship between knowledge and experience and provides an explanation for how it is possible to know something that one has never been explicitly taught. Plato believed that we possess innate ideas that precede any knowledge that we gain through experience.\n\nAs formulated by Noam Chomsky, accounting for this gap between knowledge and experience is \"Plato's Problem\". The phrase has a specific linguistic context with regard to language acquisition but can also be used more generally.\n\nPlato's early philosophical endeavors involved poetry discussing many ideas, such as the differences between knowledge and opinion, particulars and universals, and God and man. These early dialogues do not utilize conventional notions of reason. Rather, they appeal to the emotions, the allegorical, the spiritual, and the mythological interests of an ancient speculative mind.\n\nControversy surrounds the early dialogues in how they are to be interpreted. Some claim that Plato was truly trying to discover objective reality through these mystical speculations while others maintain that the dialogues are stories to be interpreted only as parables, allegories, and emotional appeals to religious experience. Regardless, Plato would come to formulate a more rigorous and comprehensive philosophy later in his life, one that reverberates in contemporary Western thought to this day.\n\nSome of Plato's famous works are Phaedo, the Crito, and, as noted earlier, the Meno. Within these works are found a comprehensive philosophy that addresses epistemology, metaphysics, ethics, aesthetics, theology, and logic. As noted, most of the writing is in the form of dialogues and arguments to pursue answers to difficult questions and concepts. Plato's teacher and mentor, Socrates, always plays a significant and formative role in these dialogues.\n\nMost of Plato's philosophical ideas were communicated through his beloved teacher Socrates as a presence in the dialogues. Though there are no extant writings of Socrates known, it is evident through Plato's works that Socrates had an incredible ability to explore the most intense analytical discussions. However, for some there is controversy regarding how much historical fact can be derived from Plato's Socrates (Russell). Some doubt Socrates ever existed. Others are skeptical as to the accuracy of some of Plato's dialogues but nonetheless maintain that we can learn a substantial amount of historical information about Socrates from the dialogues. Still others take practically everything Plato wrote about Socrates as veridical history. Regardless, it may be safe to say that Plato never meant to record Socrates verbatim and it may plausibly be concluded that his general ideas were communicated in the dialogues.\n\nAs delineated in various writings, the meticulousness, articulation, and sophistication with which Socrates spoke supplies an outstanding problem solving technique – the Socratic Method. The Socratic method may be described as follows: it usually involves others with whom Socrates directly engages (not merely pontificating to an audience), it involves a deep philosophical or ethical question to which an answer was sought, and it usually involves Socrates asking questions either to affirm his understanding of others or to seek their understanding.\n\nIf someone disagreed with him, Socrates would execute this process in order to bring about his interlocutor's reluctant admission of inconsistencies and contradictions. Either Socrates would ask his debators questions about their claims that would lead them to admit their fallacy or Socrates would answer questions by posing questions meant to lead the other to answer their own query.\n\nOne such dialogue of Plato's that utilized the Socratic Method was the Meno. The participants were Socrates, Meno, Anytus, and one of Meno's slave boys. The dialogue begins with Meno asking Socrates whether virtue can be taught. Socrates responds by stating that he does not know the definition of virtue. Meno replies by stating the characteristics of a virtuous man, to which Socrates responds that the characteristics of a virtuous man may be the by-products of virtuousness but they by no means define virtue. Meno is obliged to agree; to wit, he tries to modify his explanation of virtue. Socrates counters each attempt by pointing to inconsistencies and circular arguments.\n\nMeno seems to commit two fallacies when trying to define virtue. He either defines it using some form of the word itself, or he defines it using other words that call for definitions and explanations themselves. Eventually, Meno is led to confess his shortcomings as he tries to define the enigmatic term (the Socratic method is the mechanism that brings about this confession). Socrates claims that a definition of virtue must consist of common terms and concepts that are clearly understood by those in the discussion.\n\nA crucial point in the dialogue is when Socrates tells Meno that there is no such thing as teaching, only recollection of knowledge from past lives, or anamnesis. Socrates claims that he can demonstrate this by showing that one of Meno's servants, a slave boy, knows geometric principles though he is uneducated. Socrates states that he will teach the boy nothing, only ask him questions to assist the process of recollection. Socrates proceeds to ask the slave boy a series of questions about the size and length of lines and squares, using visual diagrams to aid the boy in understanding the questions. The crucial point to this part of the dialogue is that, though the boy has no training, he knows the correct answers to the questions – he intrinsically knows the Pythagorean proposition.\n\nShortly before the demonstration of Pythagoras' theorem, the dialogue takes an epistemological turn when the interlocutors begin to discuss the fundamental nature of knowledge. The general question asked is how one can claim to know something when one does not even know what knowledge is. Via the Socratic method, it is shown that the answer to the question posed is innateness – one possesses \"a priori\" knowledge.\n\nThis is derived from Socrates' belief that one's soul existed in past lives and knowledge is transferred from those lives to the current one. \"These [ideas] were revealed in a former state of existence, and are recovered by reminiscence (anamnesis) or association from sensible things\" . The claim is that one does not need to know what knowledge is before gaining knowledge, but rather one has a wealth of knowledge before ever gaining any experience.\n\nThere are contemporary contexts that provide input for the various questions posed here: how to account for the gap between experience and knowledge, what are some of the sources of knowledge, or how much knowledge is possessed prior to experience or without conscious awareness. There are many areas in contemporary linguistics and psychological research that have relevance to these epistemological questions. Linguistic analysis has provided some strong evidence for innate cognitive capacities for language and there are many areas of cognitive psychology that yield hard data from investigations into sources of knowledge. In addition, there are some claims in the Meno that have connections to current research on perception and long-term memory (LTM).\n\nLinguistics is the scientific study of language. Chomskyan linguistics (\"an inclusive, though perhaps informal, label for the theories and methodologies of linguistic study spearheaded by Noam Chomsky, meant to encompass his extensive work and influence in the field\") includes everything from Chomsky's earliest work in transformational grammar to more recent work in the Minimalist Program. More exactly, it is the study of the structure of language, or grammar. Chomskyan linguistics is defined by a particular theoretical foundation and methodological approach that sets it apart from other linguistic perspectives, such as those described by functional grammar or structuralism (per Leonard Bloomfield) for example. This particular approach to the study of language is also often referred to as Generative linguistics, which is attributed to Chomsky and his early generative grammar work.\n\nThere are several concepts important to the Chomskyan (or generativist) approach to linguistics. The most fundamental of these ideas is the theory of universal grammar (UG). Simply put, and as implied by the name, UG refers to those grammatical properties thought to be shared by all (to be universal to all) derivations of human language (anything from Amharic to Zhuang).\n\nPer this conceptualization, UG is innate to all humans – people come \"pre-wired\" with this universal grammatical structure. A person's individual grammar (that which is unique to the person) develops from the interaction between the innate universal grammar and input from the environment, or primary linguistic data. This \"analytic triplet\" (McGilvray, ed., 2005, p. 51), UG + input = grammar, is the functional core of the theory.\n\nSeveral questions (or problems) motivate linguistic theorizing and investigation. Two such taken up in Chomskyan linguistics are the process of language acquisition in children, and \"Plato's Problem\". These subjects are interrelated and viewed as evidence in support of the theory of UG.\n\nOne of the simplest ways to approach the concept of universal grammar is to pose a hypothetical question about an aspect of language acquisition in children – why does a child learn the language that it does. As a specific example, how can a child of Asian descent (say, born of Chinese parents) be set down in the middle of Topeka, Kansas and acquire \"perfect English?\" The answer is that the child does not start with \"Chinese\", or any other conventionally defined language, in its head. The child does start with general grammatical rules that determine linguistic properties.\n\nChildren come equipped with universal grammar, from which any natural human language will develop – without instruction. All that is needed is passive input during the critical period—defined in linguistics as that period within which a child must have necessary and sufficient exposure to human language so that language acquisition occurs; without sufficient exposure to primary linguistic data, the UG does not have the necessary input for development of an individual grammar; this period is commonly recognized as spanning from birth to adolescence, generally up to the age of 12 years, though individual variations are possible. If what the child predominantly hears (or sees via sign) as it is maturing through this critical period is the English spoken in Topeka, Kansas, then that is what the child will acquire. This is why, regardless of a child's ethnic/racial background (or any other non-relevant factor, the child will know Cockney English, Egyptian Arabic, or isiZulu if the child's primary linguistic input is Cockney English, Egyptian Arabic, or isiZulu, respectively.\n\nThe hypothetical question posed addresses a common misconception about what is instantiated in the mind/brain of an individual when it comes to language. It does not address the \"logical problem\" of language acquisition, i.e., how children transition from ostensibly having no knowledge of language to having full knowledge, in what may be described as a very limited time with apparently limited input.\n\n\nTo address the issue of apparently limited input, one must turn to what is possibly the most quoted of all arguments in support of universal grammar and its nativist interpretation – Plato's Problem. The phrase refers to the Socratic dialogue, the Meno; Noam Chomsky is often attributed with coining the term.\n\nNoam Chomsky's 1986 \"'Knowledge of Language' begins with informal characterization of 'Plato's Problem: The problem of explaining how we can know so much given so little evidence.'\"\n\n\"The Book is organized around a discussion of Plato's problem [Chomsky] quoting Russell[:]\"\n\nPlato’s Problem was expressed generally by Bertrand Russell: \"How comes it that human beings, whose contacts with the world are brief and personal and limited, are nevertheless able to know as much as they do know?\" The problem arises in the domain of language acquisition in that children attain infinitely more than they experience. Literally so, we shall see: they attain a productive system, a grammar, on the basis of very little experience. So there is more, much more, to language acquisition than mimicking what we hear in childhood, and there is more to it than the simple transmission of a set of words and sentences from one generation of speakers to the next. There is more to it than a reproduction of experience and, in maturity, our capacity goes well beyond what we have experienced.\nConsider some subtleties that people are not consciously aware of. The verb is may be used in its full form or its reduced form: people say Kim is happy or Kim’s happy. However, certain instances of is never reduce, for example, the underlined items in Kim is happier than Tim is or I wonder what the problem is in Washington. Most people are not aware of this, but we all know subconsciously not to use the reduced form here. How did we come to this? The question arises because the eventual knowledge is richer than relevant experience. As children, we heard instances of the full form and the reduced form, but we were not instructed to avoid the reduced form in certain places; we had no access to \"negative data,\" information about what does not occur.\n\nPlato's Problem particularly refers to a point in the dialogue when Socrates is talking with an uneducated servant and shows, through this interaction, that the servant knows the Pythagorean Theorem though he has never been explicitly taught any geometry. How does the servant know without having ever been taught? Plato's suggestion is, essentially, that people have innate knowledge.\n\nIn the field of linguistics, Plato's Problem is the problem of finding an explanation for how a child acquires language though the child does not receive explicit instruction and the primary linguistic data a child does receive is limited. This PLD is the input, or stimuli, from the environment, necessary for the development of an individual's grammar – language – via input into UG. This limited environmental stimulus is referred to as poverty of the stimulus. Specifically, the stimuli to which children are exposed during the critical period do not encompass every lawful example of grammatical structure relevant to the particular language.\n\nFor instance, consider that a child might hear the following examples:\n\nFrom this, the child might determine that the word that is optional and from this analogize to the following examples:\n\nClearly, the second example is not a grammatically well-formed sentence in English. A child knows this and does not form sentences such as the one marked by the asterisk. How does the child know, without being explicitly taught, that the ungrammatical example is, in fact, ungrammatical? From the linguistic perspective being described here, the answer to this question is that such knowledge pre-exists as part of UG.\n\nPlato's Problem describes the disparity between input (poverty of the stimulus) and output (grammar). As Plato suggests in the Meno dialogue, the bridge between input (whether limited or lacking) and output is innate knowledge. Poverty of the stimulus is crucial to the Platonic argument and it is a linchpin concept in Chomskyan linguistics. For this reason, Plato's Problem is often used synonymously to mean poverty of the stimulus. Specific to linguistics, the formulation of this problem is evidence for the existence of universal grammar. Plato's Problem, as conceived here, informs much of the theory in this branch of linguistics.\n\nThere have been studies of perception and attention that support the idea that there is an abundance of knowledge available to an individual at any given moment (Blake & Sekuler, 2006).\n\nA key ingredient to the beginning stages of perception requires the attention of the observer on some focal point or stimulus. There is a presupposition that if one visually perceives an object, one knows that one is seeing it (excluding the exception of perceptual illusions). Whatever sensory stimuli are attended to can be declared knowledge.\n\nStimuli that are directly attended to are projected onto the fovea, the central point of the retina that corresponds to the focal point in visual space. To the immediate left and right of the focal point is the portion of visual space attributed to binocular vision. The far left and right of one's visual space is attributed to the monocular vision of the left and right eyes. In sum, one's visual space covers roughly 200° from the periphery of the left eye to the periphery of the right eye. This large visual space in human beings is a result of a fully developed and functioning anatomical visual system. In the context of Plato's Problem, our visual system is an innate capacity that enables us to be aware of a considerable portion of our immediate environment which enhances our conscious experience by supplementing it with an extensive environmental awareness and predisposing us to extract meaningful perceptual information. In other words, it is our biologically produced visual system that makes our perceptual experiences meaningful.\n\nSome examples from auditory perception research will be helpful in explaining the fact that our perceptual faculties naturally enhance and supplement our conscious experience. First, there is the \"cocktail party phenomenon\" (Moray, 1959). When someone is engaged in conversation with a group of people in a noisy room, but then they suddenly hear something or hear their name from across the room, when they were completely inattentive to the input before, that is the cocktail party phenomenon. This phenomenon also occurs with words associated with danger and sex. Although people may be inattentive to a portion of their environment, when they hear specific \"trigger\" words, their auditory capacities are redirected to another dimension of perceptual awareness. This shows that we do process information outside of our immediate conscious experience. Similar to visual perception, auditory perception also enhances and supplements our experience by searching out and extracting meaningful information from our environment.\n\nThe auditory findings are further concretized by research on shadowing tasks (Cherry, 1966). These tasks involve two distinct auditory messages presented simultaneously to both ears. One message in one ear is supposed to be shadowed (repeated) while the other message in the other ear is supposed to be ignored. Participants generally perform well at repeating familiar messages in the attended channel. However, when there was a significant change in frequency in the message in the unattended channel, it was detected; moreover, when their names were presented in the unattended channel, they noticed that as well. These shadowing tasks reinforce the idea that the gap between knowledge and experience is explained by our innate perceptual capacities that enhance our experience and optimize our knowledge gained from our environment.\n\nThere is also the subject of subliminal priming (Nisbett & Ross, 1980), in which a stimulus is perceived outside of conscious awareness. For example, in an experiment, half of a class was presented with a picture of a boy holding a birthday cake, while the other half was presented with a different picture of the same boy holding a birthday cake. The sole difference between the two was that in the first picture the boy had a mischievous facial expression, while in the second he conveyed an innocent smile. The photos were presented in a flash of 100 ms, then another picture was presented to both groups with the boy smiling. Results were that the first group described him as devilish and naughty, and the second group depicted him as angelic and kind. Due to the short presentation of the pictures, the subjects were not consciously aware of the nature of the original photos and when presented with them afterwards, participants were surprised.\n\nThese studies point to the fact that even though we only attend to and process limited information, we have a vast amount of knowledge at our disposal through our highly unrestricted sensory registers. It is the selective attention, perception, and higher order cognitive processing that limits these inputs and it is precisely these processes that make up our conscious awareness. Thus, in order to formulate some explanations for Plato's Problem, our conscious awareness limits our experience; nevertheless, it seems as though some stimuli that are sensed by our sensory registers, although seemingly rejected by conscious awareness, are actually retained and abstracted into our memories for further processing. All of our fully functioning perceptual faculties enhance, supplement, and optimize our experiences.\n\nThis LTM availability/accessibility dichotomy is analogous to a more contemporary explanation of Plato's doctrine of reminiscence, which postulates that an individual hedge as a result of information carried over from past lives. While evidence for or against immortality is outside the bounds of scientific research, one can see similarities between LTM availability/accessibility and the doctrine of reminiscence. LTM availability is highly unrestricted and practically unlimited as a storage system while LTM accessibility corresponds to what we can actually recall at any given moment. Plato, through his doctrine of reminiscence, would say that knowledge available through reminiscence is practically unrestricted but we are not cognizant of many of those ideas because they have yet to be recalled.\n\nHaving discussed Plato's philosophy, linguistics, perception, and some cognitive structures, various implications that arise from the research and theorizing can be touched on. The debate surrounding how to define knowledge goes back to the origin of humanity. In historical philosophy, the debate has been between rationalism and empiricism. In contemporary psychology, the debate is between biology (nature) and environment (nurture).\n\nRationalism is a philosophical and epistemological perspective on knowledge that claims, at its most extreme, that reason is the only dependable source of knowledge; moreover, rationalists assert that \"a priori\" knowledge is the most effective foundation for knowledge . Empiricism, on the other hand, argues that no knowledge exists prior to experience; therefore, all knowledge, as well as thought, comes from experience. The nature and nurture debate is not identical, and yet has similarities, or parallels, to the rationalism versus empiricism debate. Those who claim that thought and behavior result from nature say the cause is genetic predisposition while those who argue for environment say that thought and behavior are caused by learning, parenting, and socialization.\n\nIn contemporary philosophical, linguistic, and psychological circles, it is rare that anyone maintains an unwavering stance on either of these extremes, most fall toward the middle. For many, the ideas of \"nature and nurture\" or \"innateness and environmental input\" are no longer perceived as mutually exclusive. For those who research such topics, much points to a necessarily interactive relationship in order for thought and behavior to occur.\n\nIn Plato's philosophy, innate ideas are revealed through the Socratic Method of investigation. In linguistics, universal grammar must have input from the environment (primary linguistic data) in order for children to achieve an individual grammar (output). Biologically, our perceptual faculties are pre-wired, but they require environmental stimuli in order to develop correctly. The neurological structures in our brain that represent the location of LTM are also biologically pre-wired, yet environmental input is needed in order for memory to flourish.\n\nAll of these ideas speak to the crux of Plato's Problem, which is how to account for the gap between knowledge and limited experience. For some scientific and philosophical disciplines, the answer to this conundrum is innateness, or biological pre-wiring. Innate knowledge is what bridges the gap between the limited information one gleans from the environment (poverty of the stimulus) and one's actual knowledge.\n\n"}
{"id": "424562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424562", "title": "Praxeology", "text": "Praxeology\n\nPraxeology or praxiology (; ) is the study of human action, based on the notion that humans engage in purposeful behavior, as opposed to reflexive behavior like sneezing and unintentional behavior.\n\nFrench social philosopher Alfred Espinas gave the term its modern meaning, and its study was developed independently by two principal groups: the Austrian school created by Ludwig von Mises and the Polish school created by Tadeusz Kotarbiński.\n\nCoinage of the word \"praxeology\" is often credited to Louis Bourdeau, the French author of a classification of the sciences, which he published in his \"Théorie des sciences: Plan de Science intégrale\" in 1882:\n\nHowever, the term was used at least once previously (with a slight spelling difference), in 1608, by Clemens Timpler in his \"Philosophiae practicae systema methodicum\":\n\nIt was later mentioned by Robert Flint in 1904 in a review of Bourdeau's \"Théorie des sciences\".\n\nThe modern definition of the word was first given by Alfred V. Espinas (1844–1922), the French philosopher and sociologist; he was the forerunner of the Polish school of the science of efficient action. The Austro-American school of economics was based on a philosophical science of the same kind.\n\nWith a different spelling, the word was used by the English psychologist Charles Arthur Mercier (in 1911), and proposed by Knight Dunlap to John B. Watson as a better name for his behaviorism. Watson rejected it. But the Chinese physiologist of behavior, Zing-Yang Kuo (b. 1898) adopted the term in 1935. It was also used by William McDougall (in 1928 and later).\n\nPreviously the word \"praxiology\", with the meaning Espinas gave to it, was used by Tadeusz Kotarbiński (in 1923). Several economists, such as the Ukrainian, Eugene Slutsky (1926) used it in his attempt to base economics on a theory of action. It was also used by Austrian economist Ludwig von Mises (1933), Russian Marxist Nikolai Bukharin (1888–1938) during the Second International Congress of History of Science and Technology in London (in 1931), and Polish scholar Oscar Lange (1904–1965) in 1959, and later.\n\nThe Italian philosopher, Carmelo Ottaviano, was using the Italianised version, \"prassiologia\", in his treatises starting from 1935, but in his own way, as a theory of politics. After the Second World War the use of the term \"praxeology\" spread widely. After the emigration of Mises to America his pupil Murray Rothbard defended the praxeological approach. A revival of Espinas's approach in France was revealed in the works of Pierre Massé (1946), the eminent cybernetician, Georges Théodule Guilbaud (1953), the Belgian logician, Leo Apostel (1957), the cybernetician, Anatol Rapoport (1962), Henry Pierron, psychologist and lexicographer (1957), François Perroux, economist (1957), the social psychologist, Robert Daval (1963), the well-known sociologist, Raymond Aron (1963) and the methodologists, Abraham Antoine Moles and Roland Caude (1965).\n\nUnder the influence of Tadeusz Kotarbiński, praxeology flourished in Poland. A special \"Centre of Praxeology\" (\"Zaklad Prakseologiczny\") was created under the organizational guidance of the Polish Academy of Sciences, with its own periodical (from 1962), called at first \"Materiały Prakseologiczne\" (\"Praxeological Papers\"), and then abbreviated to \"Prakseologia\". It published hundreds of papers by different authors, and the materials for a special vocabulary edited by Professor Tadeusz Pszczolowski, the leading praxeologist of the younger generation. A sweeping survey of the praxeological approach is to be found in the paper by the French statistician Micheline Petruszewycz, \"A propos de la praxéologie\".\n\nLudwig von Mises was influenced by several theories in forming his work on praxeology, including Immanuel Kant's works, Max Weber's work on methodological individualism, and Carl Menger's development of the subjective theory of value.\n\nAustrian economics relies heavily on praxeology in the development of its economic theories. Ludwig von Mises considered economics to be a sub-discipline of praxeology. Austrian School economists continue to use praxeology and deduction, rather than empirical studies, to determine economic principles. According to its theorists, with the action axiom as the starting point, it is possible to draw conclusions about human behavior that are both objective and universal. For example, the notion that humans engage in acts of choice implies that they have preferences, and this must be true for anyone who exhibits intentional behavior.\n\nAdvocates of praxeology also say that it provides insights for the field of ethics.\n\nIn 1951, Murray Rothbard divided the subfields of praxeology as follows:\nAt the time, topics C, D, and E remained open research problems.\n\nThomas Mayer has argued that, because praxeology rejects positivism and empiricism in the development of theories, it constitutes nothing less than a rejection of the scientific method. For Mayer, this invalidates the methodologies of the Austrian school of economics. Austrians argue that that empirical data itself is insufficient to describe economics; that consequently empirical data cannot falsify economic theory; that logical positivism cannot predict or explain human action; and that the methodological requirements of logical positivism are impossible to obtain for economic questions. Ludwig von Mises in particular argued against empiricist approaches to the social sciences in general, because human events are unique and \"unrepeatable,\" whereas scientific experiments are necessarily reducible.\n\nHowever, economist Antony Davies argues that because statistical tests are predicated on the independent development of theory, some form of praxeology is essential for model selection; conversely, the praxeology can illustrate surprising philosophical consequences of economic models.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19224834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19224834", "title": "Stoicism", "text": "Stoicism\n\nStoicism is a school of Hellenistic philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium in Athens in the early 3rd century BC. It was heavily influenced by certain teachings of Socrates, while Stoic physics are largely drawn from the teachings of the philosopher Heraclitus. Stoicism is predominantly a philosophy of personal ethics informed by its system of logic and its views on the natural world. According to its teachings, as social beings, the path to happiness for humans is found in accepting the moment as it presents itself, by not allowing oneself to be controlled by the desire for pleasure or fear of pain, by using one’s mind to understand the world and to do one’s part in nature's plan, and by working together and treating others fairly and justly.\n\nThe Stoics are especially known for teaching that \"virtue is the only good\" for human beings, and that external things—such as health, wealth, and pleasure—are not good or bad in themselves, but have value as \"material for virtue to act upon\". Alongside Aristotelian ethics, the Stoic tradition forms one of the major founding approaches to Western virtue ethics. The Stoics also held that certain destructive emotions resulted from errors of judgment, and they believed people should aim to maintain a will (called \"prohairesis\") that is \"in accord with nature\". Because of this, the Stoics thought the best indication of an individual's philosophy was not what a person said, but how a person behaved. To live a good life, one had to understand the rules of the natural order since they thought everything was rooted in nature.\n\nMany Stoics—such as Seneca and Epictetus—emphasized that because \"virtue is sufficient for happiness\", a sage would be emotionally resilient to misfortune. This belief is similar to the meaning of the phrase \"stoic calm\", though the phrase does not include the \"radical ethical\" Stoic views that only a sage can be considered truly free, and that all moral corruptions are equally vicious. \n\nStoicism flourished throughout the Roman and Greek world until the 3rd century AD, and among its adherents was Emperor Marcus Aurelius. It experienced a decline after Christianity became the state religion in the 4th century AD. Since then it has seen revivals, notably in the Renaissance (Neostoicism) and in the contemporary era (modern Stoicism).\n\nStoic comes from the Greek \"stōïkos\", meaning \"of the stoa [portico, or porch]\". This, in turn, refers to the Stoa Poikile, or \"Painted Stoa,\" in Athens, where the influential Stoic Zeno of Citium taught. In laymen's terms stoicism is sometimes referred to as \"suffering in silence\", and the ethics associated with that.\n\nThe Stoics provided a unified account of the world, consisting of formal logic, monistic physics and naturalistic ethics. Of these, they emphasized ethics as the main focus of human knowledge, though their logical theories were of more interest for later philosophers.\n\nStoicism teaches the development of self-control and fortitude as a means of overcoming destructive emotions; the philosophy holds that becoming a clear and unbiased thinker allows one to understand the universal reason (\"logos\"). A primary aspect of Stoicism involves improving the individual's ethical and moral well-being: \"\"Virtue\" consists in a \"will\" that is in agreement with Nature.\" This principle also applies to the realm of interpersonal relationships; \"to be free from anger, envy, and jealousy,\" and to accept even slaves as \"equals of other men, because all men alike are products of nature\".\n\nThe Stoic ethic espouses a deterministic perspective; in regard to those who lack Stoic virtue, Cleanthes once opined that the wicked man is \"like a dog tied to a cart, and compelled to go wherever it goes\". A Stoic of virtue, by contrast, would amend his will to suit the world and remain, in the words of Epictetus, \"sick and yet happy, in peril and yet happy, dying and yet happy, in exile and happy, in disgrace and happy,\" thus positing a \"completely autonomous\" individual will, and at the same time a universe that is \"a rigidly deterministic single whole\". This viewpoint was later described as \"Classical Pantheism\" (and was adopted by Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinoza).\n\nStoicism became the foremost popular philosophy among the educated elite in the Hellenistic world and the Roman Empire, to the point where, in the words of Gilbert Murray \"nearly all the successors of Alexander [...] professed themselves Stoics.\"\n\nBeginning around 301 BC, Zeno taught philosophy at the Stoa Poikile (\"Painted Porch\"), from which his philosophy got its name. Unlike the other schools of philosophy, such as the Epicureans, Zeno chose to teach his philosophy in a public space, which was a colonnade overlooking the central gathering place of Athens, the Agora.\n\nZeno's ideas developed from those of the Cynics, whose founding father, Antisthenes, had been a disciple of Socrates. Zeno's most influential follower was Chrysippus, who was responsible for the molding of what is now called Stoicism. Later Roman Stoics focused on promoting a life in harmony within the universe, over which one has no direct control.\nScholars usually divide the history of Stoicism into three phases:\n\nNo complete work by any Stoic philosopher survives from the first two phases of Stoicism. Only Roman texts from the Late Stoa survive.\n\nDiodorus Cronus, who was one of Zeno's teachers, is considered the philosopher who first introduced and developed an approach to logic now known as propositional logic, which is based on statements or propositions, rather than terms, making it very different from Aristotle's term logic. Later, Chrysippus developed a system that became known as Stoic logic and included a deductive system, Stoic Syllogistic, which was considered a rival to Aristotle's Syllogistic (see Syllogism). New interest in Stoic logic came in the 20th century, when important developments in logic were based on propositional logic. Susanne Bobzien wrote, \"The many close similarities between Chrysippus' philosophical logic and that of Gottlob Frege are especially striking.\"\n\nBobzien also notes that \"Chrysippus wrote over 300 books on logic, on virtually any topic logic today concerns itself with, including speech act theory, sentence analysis, singular and plural expressions, types of predicates, indexicals, existential propositions, sentential connectives, negations, disjunctions, conditionals, logical consequence, valid argument forms, theory of deduction, propositional logic, modal logic, tense logic, epistemic logic, logic of suppositions, logic of imperatives, ambiguity and logical paradoxes.\"\n\nThe Stoics held that all being (ὄντα) – though not all things (τινά) – is material. They accepted the distinction between Abstract and concrete bodies, but rejected Aristotle's belief that purely incorporeal being exists. Thus, they accepted Anaxagoras' idea (as did Aristotle) that if an object is hot, it is because some part of a universal heat body had entered the object. But, unlike Aristotle, they extended the idea to cover all accidents. Thus if an object is red, it would be because some part of a universal red body had entered the object.\n\nThey held that there were four categories.\n\nThe Stoics propounded that knowledge can be attained through the use of reason. Truth can be distinguished from fallacy—even if, in practice, only an approximation can be made. According to the Stoics, the senses constantly receive sensations: pulsations that pass from objects through the senses to the mind, where they leave an impression in the imagination (phantasia) (an impression arising from the mind was called a phantasma).\n\nThe mind has the ability to judge (συγκατάθεσις, \"synkatathesis\")—approve or reject—an impression, enabling it to distinguish a true representation of reality from one that is false. Some impressions can be assented to immediately, but others can only achieve varying degrees of hesitant approval, which can be labeled belief or opinion (\"doxa\"). It is only through reason that we gain clear comprehension and conviction (\"katalepsis\"). Certain and true knowledge (\"episteme\"), achievable by the Stoic sage, can be attained only by verifying the conviction with the expertise of one's peers and the collective judgment of humankind.\n\nThe first philosophers to explicitly describe nominalist arguments were the Stoics, especially Chrysippus.\n\nAccording to the Stoics, the Universe is a material, reasoning substance, known as God or Nature, which the Stoics divided into two classes, the active and the passive. The passive substance is matter, which \"lies sluggish, a substance ready for any use, but sure to remain unemployed if no one sets it in motion\". The active substance, which can be called Fate or Universal Reason (\"Logos\"), is an intelligent aether or primordial fire, which acts on the passive matter:\nEverything is subject to the laws of Fate, for the Universe acts according to its own nature, and the nature of the passive matter it governs. The souls of humans and animals are emanations from this primordial Fire, and are, likewise, subject to Fate:\n\nIndividual souls are perishable by nature, and can be \"transmuted and diffused, assuming a fiery nature by being received into the \"seminal reason\" (\"logos spermatikos\") of the Universe\". Since right Reason is the foundation of both humanity and the universe, it follows that the goal of life is to live according to Reason, that is, to live a life according to Nature.\n\nStoic theology is a fatalistic and naturalistic pantheism: God is never fully transcendent but always immanent, and identified with Nature. Abrahamic religions personalize God as a world-creating entity, but Stoicism equates God with the totality of the universe; according to Stoic cosmology, which is very similar to the Hindu conception of existence, there is no absolute start to time, as it is considered infinite and cyclic. Similarly, the space and Universe have neither start nor end, rather they are cyclical. The current Universe is a phase in the present cycle, preceded by an infinite number of Universes, doomed to be destroyed (\"ekpyrōsis\", \"conflagration\") and re-created again, and to be followed by another infinite number of Universes. Stoicism considers all existence as cyclic, the cosmos as eternally self-creating and self-destroying (see also Eternal return).\n\nStoicism, just like Indian religions such as Hinduism, Buddhism and Jainism, does not posit a beginning or end to the Universe. According to the Stoics, the \"logos\" was the active reason or \"anima mundi\" pervading and animating the entire Universe. It was conceived as material and is usually identified with God or Nature. The Stoics also referred to the \"seminal reason\" (\"logos spermatikos\"), or the law of generation in the Universe, which was the principle of the active reason working in inanimate matter. Humans, too, each possess a portion of the divine \"logos\", which is the primordial Fire and reason that controls and sustains the Universe.\n\nThe ancient Stoics are often misunderstood because the terms they used pertained to different concepts in the past than they do today. The word \"stoic\" has come to mean \"unemotional\" or indifferent to pain because Stoic ethics taught freedom from \"passion\" by following \"reason\". The Stoics did not seek to extinguish emotions; rather, they sought to transform them by a resolute \"askēsis\" that enables a person to develop clear judgment and inner calm. Logic, reflection, and concentration were the methods of such self-discipline.\n\nBorrowing from the Cynics, the foundation of Stoic ethics is that good lies in the state of the soul itself; in wisdom and self-control. Stoic ethics stressed the rule: \"Follow where reason leads.\" One must therefore strive to be free of the passions, bearing in mind that the ancient meaning of \"passion\" was \"anguish\" or \"suffering\", that is, \"passively\" reacting to external events, which is somewhat different from the modern use of the word. A distinction was made between \"pathos\" (plural \"pathe\") which is normally translated as \"passion\", \"propathos\" or instinctive reaction (e.g., turning pale and trembling when confronted by physical danger) and \"eupathos\", which is the mark of the Stoic sage (\"sophos\"). The \"eupatheia\" are feelings that result from correct judgment in the same way that passions result from incorrect judgment.\n\nThe idea was to be free of suffering through \"apatheia\" (Greek: ; literally, \"without passion\") or peace of mind, where peace of mind was understood in the ancient sense—being objective or having \"clear judgment\" and the maintenance of equanimity in the face of life's highs and lows.\n\nFor the Stoics, reason meant not only using logic, but also understanding the processes of nature—the logos or universal reason, inherent in all things. Living according to reason and virtue, they held, is to live in harmony with the divine order of the universe, in recognition of the common reason and essential value of all people.\n\nThe four cardinal virtues (\"aretai\") of Stoic philosophy is a classification derived from the teachings of Plato (\"Republic\" IV. 426–435):\n\nFollowing Socrates, the Stoics held that unhappiness and evil are the results of human ignorance of the reason in nature. If someone is unkind, it is because they are unaware of their own universal reason, which leads to the conclusion of unkindness. The solution to evil and unhappiness then is the practice of Stoic philosophy: to examine one's own judgments and behavior and determine where they diverge from the universal reason of nature.\n\nThe Stoics accepted that suicide was permissible for the wise person in circumstances that might prevent them from living a virtuous life. Plutarch held that accepting life under tyranny would have compromised Cato's self-consistency (\"constantia\") as a Stoic and impaired his freedom to make the honorable moral choices. Suicide could be justified if one fell victim to severe pain or disease, but otherwise suicide would usually be seen as a rejection of one's social duty.\n\nIn philosophical terms, things that are indifferent are outside the application of moral law—that is without tendency to either promote or obstruct moral ends. Actions neither required nor forbidden by the moral law, or that do not affect morality, are called morally indifferent. The doctrine of things indifferent (, \"adiaphora\") arose in the Stoic school as a corollary of its diametric opposition of virtue and vice ( \"kathekon\", \"convenient actions\", or actions in accordance with nature; and ἁμαρτήματα \"hamartemata\", mistakes). As a result of this dichotomy, a large class of objects were left unassigned and thus regarded as indifferent.\n\nEventually three sub-classes of \"things indifferent\" developed: things to prefer because they assist life according to nature; things to avoid because they hinder it; and things indifferent in the narrower sense. The principle of \"adiaphora\" was also common to the Cynics. Philipp Melanchthon revived the doctrine of things indifferent during the Renaissance.\n\nPhilosophy for a Stoic is not just a set of beliefs or ethical claims, it is a way of life involving constant practice and training (or \"askēsis\"). Stoic philosophical and spiritual practices included logic, Socratic dialogue and self-dialogue, contemplation of death, training attention to remain in the present moment (similar to some forms of Buddhist meditation), and daily reflection on everyday problems and possible solutions. Philosophy for a Stoic is an active process of constant practice and self-reminder.\n\nIn his \"Meditations\", Marcus Aurelius defines several such practices. For example, in Book II.I:\n\nSay to yourself in the early morning: I shall meet today ungrateful, violent, treacherous, envious, uncharitable men. All of the ignorance of real good and ill... I can neither be harmed by any of them, for no man will involve me in wrong, nor can I be angry with my kinsman or hate him; for we have come into the world to work together...\n\nPrior to Aurelius, Epictetus in his \"Discourses,\" distinguished between three types of act: judgment, desire, and inclination. According to French philosopher Pierre Hadot, Epictetus identifies these three acts with logic, physics and ethics respectively. Hadot writes that in the \"Meditations\", \"Each maxim develops either one of these very characteristic \"topoi\" [i.e., acts], or two of them or three of them.\"\n\nSeamus Mac Suibhne has described the practices of spiritual exercises as influencing those of reflective practice. Robertson's \"The Philosophy of Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy\" details at length parallels between Stoic spiritual exercises and modern cognitive behavioral therapy.\n\nStoics were also known for consolatory orations, which were part of the \"consolatio\" literary tradition. Three such consolations by Seneca have survived.\n\nA distinctive feature of Stoicism is its cosmopolitanism: All people are manifestations of the one universal spirit and should live in brotherly love and readily help one another according to the Stoics. In the \"Discourses\", Epictetus comments on man's relationship with the world: \"Each human being is primarily a citizen of his own commonwealth; but he is also a member of the great city of gods and men, whereof the city political is only a copy.\" This sentiment echoes that of Diogenes of Sinope, who said, \"I am not an Athenian or a Corinthian, but a citizen of the world.\"\n\nThey held that external differences such as rank and wealth are of no importance in social relationships. Instead, they advocated the brotherhood of humanity and the natural equality of all human beings. Stoicism became the most influential school of the Greco-Roman world, and produced a number of remarkable writers and personalities, such as Cato the Younger and Epictetus.\n\nIn particular, they were noted for their urging of clemency toward slaves. Seneca exhorted, \"Kindly remember that he whom you call your slave sprang from the same stock, is smiled upon by the same skies, and on equal terms with yourself breathes, lives, and dies.\"\n\nIn his introduction to the 1964 Penguin Classics edition of \"Meditations\", the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact Stoicism had on Christianity. He claimed the author of the Fourth Gospel declared Christ to be the Logos, which \"had long been one of the leading terms of Stoicism, chosen originally for the purpose of explaining how deity came into relation with the universe\". In St. Ambrose of Milan's \"Duties\", \"The voice is the voice of a Christian bishop, but the precepts are those of Zeno.\" Regarding what he called \"the Divine Spirit\", Stanisforth wrote:\nCleanthes, wishing to give more explicit meaning to Zeno's 'creative fire', had been the first to hit upon the term \"pneuma\", or 'spirit', to describe it. Like fire, this intelligent 'spirit' was imagined as a tenuous substance akin to a current of air or breath, but essentially possessing the quality of warmth; it was immanent in the universe as God, and in man as the soul and life-giving principle. Clearly it is not a long step from this to the 'Holy Spirit' of Christian theology, the 'Lord and Giver of life', visibly manifested as tongues of fire at Pentecost and ever since associated—in the Christian as in the Stoic mind—with the ideas of vital fire and beneficient warmth.\n\nRegarding the Trinity, Staniforth wrote:\nAgain in the doctrine of the Trinity, the ecclesiastical conception of Father, Word, and Spirit finds its germ in the different Stoic names of the Divine Unity. Thus Seneca, writing of the supreme Power which shapes the universe, states, 'This Power we sometimes call the All-ruling God, sometimes the incorporeal Wisdom, sometimes the holy Spirit, sometimes Destiny.' The Church had only to reject the last of these terms to arrive at its own acceptable definition of the Divine Nature; while the further assertion 'these three are One', which the modern mind finds paradoxical, was no more than commonplace to those familiar with Stoic notions.\n\nThe apostle Paul met with Stoics during his stay in Athens, reported in . In his letters, Paul reflected heavily from his knowledge of Stoic philosophy, using Stoic terms and metaphors to assist his new Gentile converts in their understanding of Christianity. Stoic influence can also be seen in the works of St. Ambrose, Marcus Minucius Felix, and Tertullian.\n\nThe Fathers of the Church regarded Stoicism as a \"pagan philosophy\"; nonetheless, early Christian writers employed some of the central philosophical concepts of Stoicism. Examples include the terms \"logos\", \"virtue\", \"Spirit\", and \"conscience\". But the parallels go well beyond the sharing and borrowing of terminology. Both Stoicism and Christianity assert an inner freedom in the face of the external world, a belief in human kinship with Nature or God, a sense of the innate depravity—or \"persistent evil\"—of humankind, and the futility and temporary nature of worldly possessions and attachments. Both encourage \"Ascesis\" with respect to the passions and inferior emotions such as lust, and envy, so that the higher possibilities of one's humanity can be awakened and developed.\n\nStoic writings such as \"Meditations\" by Marcus Aurelius have been highly regarded by many Christians throughout the centuries. The Eastern Orthodox Church and Oriental Orthodox Church accept the Stoic ideal of dispassion to this day.\n\nMiddle and Roman Stoics taught that sex is just within marriage, for unitive and procreative purposes only. This teaching is accepted by the Catholic Church to this day.\n\nSaint Ambrose of Milan was known for applying Stoic philosophy to his theology.\n\nThe word \"stoic\" commonly refers to someone indifferent to pain, pleasure, grief, or joy. The modern usage as \"person who represses feelings or endures patiently\" was first cited in 1579 as a noun, and 1596 as an adjective. In contrast to the term \"Epicurean\", the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's\" entry on Stoicism notes, \"the sense of the English adjective 'stoical' is not utterly misleading with regard to its philosophical origins.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41681462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41681462", "title": "Von Neumann–Wigner interpretation", "text": "Von Neumann–Wigner interpretation\n\nThe von Neumann–Wigner interpretation, also described as \"consciousness causes collapse [of the wave function]\", is an interpretation of quantum mechanics in which consciousness is postulated to be necessary for the completion of the process of quantum measurement.\n\nIn the orthodox Copenhagen interpretation, quantum mechanics predicts only the probabilities for different outcomes of pre-specified observations. What constitutes an \"observer\" or an \"observation\" is not directly specified by the theory, and the behavior of a system upon observation is completely different than its usual behavior: the wavefunction that describes a system spreads out into an ever-larger superposition of different possible situations. However, during observation, the wavefunction describing the system collapses to one of several options. If there is no observation, this collapse does not occur, and none of the options ever becomes less likely.\n\nIt can be predicted using quantum mechanics, absent a collapse postulate, that an observer observing a quantum superposition will turn into a superposition of different observers seeing different things. The observer will have a wavefunction which describes all the possible outcomes. Still, in actual experience, an observer never senses a superposition, but always senses that one of the outcomes has occurred with certainty. This apparent conflict between a wavefunction description and classical experience is called the problem of observation (see Measurement problem).\n\nIn his 1932 book \"The Mathematical Foundations of Quantum Mechanics\", John von Neumann argued that the mathematics of quantum mechanics allows the collapse of the wave function to be placed at any position in the causal chain from the measurement device to the \"subjective perception\" of the human observer. In 1939, Fritz London and Edmond Bauer argued for the latter boundary (consciousness). In the 1960s, Eugene Wigner reformulated the \"Schrödinger's cat\" thought experiment as \"Wigner's friend\" and proposed that the consciousness of an observer is the demarcation line that precipitates collapse of the wave function, independent of any realist interpretation. See Consciousness and measurement. The non-physical mind is postulated to be the only true measurement apparatus. Rudolf Peierls was also a proponent of this interpretation.\n\nThis interpretation has been summarized thus:\n\nThe rules of quantum mechanics are correct but there is only one system which may be treated with quantum mechanics, namely the entire material world. There exist external observers which cannot be treated within quantum mechanics, namely human (and perhaps animal) \"minds\", which perform measurements on the brain causing wave function collapse.\nHenry Stapp has argued for the concept as follows:\n\nFrom the point of view of the mathematics of quantum theory it makes no sense to treat a measuring device as intrinsically different from the collection of atomic constituents that make it up. A device is just another part of the physical universe... Moreover, the conscious thoughts of a human observer ought to be causally connected \"most directly and immediately\" to what is happening in his brain, not to what is happening out at some measuring device... Our bodies and brains thus become ... parts of the quantum mechanically described physical universe. Treating the entire physical universe in this unified way provides a conceptually simple and logically coherent theoretical foundation...\n\nThere are other possible solutions to the \"Wigner's friend\" thought experiment, which do not require consciousness to be different from other physical processes. Moreover, Wigner actually shifted to those interpretations (and away from \"consciousness causes collapse\") in his later years. This was partly because he was embarrassed that \"consciousness causes collapse\" can lead to a kind of solipsism, but also because he decided that he had been wrong to try to apply quantum physics at the scale of everyday life (specifically, he rejected his initial idea of treating macroscopic objects as isolated systems). See Consciousness and Superposition.\n\nTo many scientists this interpretation fails to compete with other interpretations of quantum mechanics because \"consciousness causes collapse\" relies upon an interactionist form of dualism that is inconsistent with the materialism presupposed by many physicists. The measurement problem notwithstanding, they point to a causal closure of physics, suggesting a problem with how consciousness and matter might interact, reminiscent of objections to Descartes' substance dualism.\n\nThe interpretation has also been criticized for not explaining which things have sufficient consciousness to collapse the wave function. Also, it posits an important role for the conscious mind, and it has been questioned how this could be the case for the earlier universe, before consciousness had evolved or emerged. It has been argued that \"[consciousness causes collapse] does not allow sensible discussion of Big Bang cosmology or biological evolution\". For example, Roger Penrose remarked: \"[T]he evolution of conscious life on this planet is due to appropriate mutations having taken place at various times. These, presumably, are quantum events, so they would exist only in linearly superposed form until they finally led to the evolution of a conscious being—whose very existence depends on all the right mutations having 'actually' taken place!\"\n\nOthers further suppose a universal mind (see also panpsychism and panexperientialism). To most physicists, this merely pushes the problem back, which some see as a fatal unparsimonious move in a competition with other theories.\n\nRecently, it has been argued that the results of delayed-choice quantum eraser experiments preclude this interpretation. However, the experiment has also been used to argue for support of this interpretation. Other researchers have expressed similar objections to the introduction of any subjective element in the collapse of the wavefunction.\n\nA poll was conducted at a quantum mechanics conference in 2011 using 33 participants (including physicists, mathematicians, and philosophers). Researchers found that 6% of participants (2 of the 33) indicated that they believed the observer \"plays a distinguished physical role (e.g., wave-function collapse by consciousness)\". This poll also states that 55% (18 of the 33) indicated that they believed the observer \"plays a fundamental role in the application of the formalism but plays no distinguished physical role\". They also mention that \"Popular accounts have sometimes suggested that the Copenhagen interpretation attributes such a role to consciousness. In our view, this is to misunderstand the Copenhagen interpretation.\"\n\nMany of the originators of quantum mechanical theory held that humans can effectively interrogate nature through interacting with it, and that in this regard quantum mechanics is not different from classical mechanics. In addition, Werner Heisenberg maintained that wave function collapse, \"The discontinuous change in the probability function\", takes place when the result of a measurement is registered in the mind of an observer. However, this is because he understood the probability function as an artifact of human knowledge: he also argued that the reality of the material transition from \"possible\" to \"actual\" was mind-independent. Albert Einstein, who believed in realism, and did not accept the theoretical completeness of quantum mechanics, similarly appealed for the merely epistemic conception of the wave function:\n\n“[I advocate] that one conceives of the psi-function [i.e., wavefunction] only as an incomplete description of a real state of affairs, where the incompleteness of the description is forced by the fact that observation of the state is only able to grasp part of the real factual situation. Then one can at least escape the singular conception that observation (conceived as an act of consciousness) influences the real physical state of things; the change in the psi-function through observation then does not correspond essentially to the change in a real matter of fact but rather to the alteration in \"our knowledge\" of this matter of fact.”\n\nHeisenberg and Bohr described quantum mechanics in logical positivist terms. Bohr also took an active interest in the philosophical implications of quantum theories such as his complementarity, for example. He believed quantum theory offers a complete description of nature, albeit one that is simply ill-suited for everyday experiences - which are better described by classical mechanics and probability. Bohr never specified a demarcation line above which objects cease to be quantum and become classical. He believed that it was not a question of physics, but one of philosophy or convenience.\n\n\n"}
