{"id": "54532008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54532008", "title": "1771 to 1775 in sports", "text": "1771 to 1775 in sports\n\nEvents in world sport through the years 1771 to 1775.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n"}
{"id": "24997624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24997624", "title": "1788 in sports", "text": "1788 in sports\n\n1788 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nEngland\n"}
{"id": "24809013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24809013", "title": "1806 in sports", "text": "1806 in sports\n\n1806 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nEngland\n"}
{"id": "21285095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21285095", "title": "1824 in sports", "text": "1824 in sports\n\n1824 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nEngland\n"}
{"id": "225381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225381", "title": "1869 in sports", "text": "1869 in sports\n\n1869 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nCollege championship\nEvents\n\nEngland\nScotland\n\nNational championship\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nMajor tournaments\n\nEngland\nAustralia \nCanada\nIreland\nUSA\n\nThe Boat Race\n\nEvents\n"}
{"id": "226228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226228", "title": "1890 in sports", "text": "1890 in sports\n\n1890 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nCollege championship\n\nNon-college amateur championships\n\nEvents\n\nEngland\nFrance\nScotland\nSpain\n\nNational championship\nEvents\n\nEvents\nLineal world champions\n\nEvents\nEngland\nAustralia\nSouth Africa\n\nMajor tournaments\nOther tournaments\n\nEngland\nAustralia\nCanada\nIreland\nUSA\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nThe Boat Race\n\nHome Nations Championship\n\nEngland\nUSA\n"}
{"id": "46417962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46417962", "title": "1972 Olympics Black Power salute", "text": "1972 Olympics Black Power salute\n\nThe 1972 Olympics Black Power Salute was a political protest by two US Olympic runners Vincent Matthews and Wayne Collett during the 1972 Summer Olympics at the Olympic Stadium in Munich, West Germany. This event is sometimes referred to as \"The Forgotten Protest.\" This event came four years after the 1968 Olympics Black Power salute.\n\nMatthews was a 1968 Olympian who had retired. He was frustrated by problems that included having to pay his own travel to the US Trials.\n\nBoth runners refused to stand for the US National Anthem. They subsequently stroked their beards, and twirled their medals as they left the stadium. The crowd booed both runners for their display.\n\nThe Associated Press noted that the casual behavior of Matthews and Collett during the playing of the anthem as \"disrespectful,\" and described the conduct as follows:Collett, bare-footed, leaped from the No. 2 tier to the No. 1 stand beside his teammate. They stood sideways to the flag, twirling their medals, with Matthews stroking his chin. Their shoulders slumped, neither stood erect nor looked at the flag. ... As whistles and catcalls continued, Collett raised a clenched fist to the crowd before entering the portal of the dressing room.\n\nRobert Markus reported in the Chicago Tribune on September 9, 1972\n[Matthews] was angry at Coach Bill Bowerman-as most of the U.S. trackmen seem to be-because Bowerman had hinted he would like to remove him from the place he had earned in the 400-meter field. He was angry that he had been forced to train on his own in unsuitable facilities, had to travel 4 or 5 times from N.Y. to the west coast in order to get any kind of competition, and had been put down by some of the press as a drag on America's hopes for a 400-meter sweep.\n\nThe Chicago Tribune further reported\nMatthews said his and Collett's actions were directed at the U.S. coaching staff, not the flag or the National Anthem. \"We were just mad about a lot of things. We didn't think it would blow up like this. We were asked to apologize. I'm not really sorry for what I did. I'm sorry for the way people took it [hoots and whistles from the stands when the anthem finished]. What I tried to get across to the Olympic Committee was if it was pre-meditated I could have done something better than that. It was just something that happened. We didn't realize the implications to the people in the stands.\"\n\nIn an interview after the medal ceremony with the American Broadcasting Company, Collett said the national anthem meant nothing to him. He explained that he had felt unable to honor the anthem, because of the struggle faced by African Americans at the time: \"I couldn't stand there and sing the words because I don't believe they're true. I wish they were. I believe we have the potential to have a beautiful country, but I don't think we do.\" The pair were banned from future Olympic competition by the IOC; since John Smith had pulled a hamstring 80 meters into the final while leading and had been ruled unfit to run, the USA were now unable to field a team in the 4 × 400 m relay and were forced to scratch from the event.\n\nI wasn't acting any differently than I usually do, but we were like goldfish in a fishbowl, in front of all those people. If they wanted me to stand at attention, I could've probably done that, but it wouldn't be me, and I was led to believe that the Olympics was for the athlete. We consider ourselves athletes, not politicians, or marching bands. Our athletic competition was over, and we were both happy.\n\nMatthews was banned from all future Olympic events. Both runners in fact received a lifelong ban from the IOC and the USOC. This banning likely cost the US medals in the 4x400. Both runners were eventually elected to the Black Olympian Hall of Fame. IOC President Avery Brundage stated the actions of Matthews and Collett made for a \"disgusting display.\" This display by the athletes would be overshadowed by the Munich massacre. Collett went on to become a lawyer. In 2011, Matthews was elected to the USATF Hall of Fame.\n"}
{"id": "579830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579830", "title": "Amateur sports", "text": "Amateur sports\n\nAmateur sports are sports in which participants engage largely or entirely without remuneration. The distinction is made between amateur sporting participants and professional sporting participants, who are paid for the time they spend competing and training. In the majority of sports which feature professional players, the professionals will participate at a higher standard of play than amateur competitors, as they can train full-time without the stress of having another job. The majority of worldwide sporting participants are amateurs. \n\nSporting amateurism was a zealously guarded ideal in the 19th century, especially among the upper classes, but faced steady erosion throughout the 20th century with the continuing growth of pro sports and monetisation of amateur and collegiate sports, and is now strictly held as an ideal by fewer and fewer organisations governing sports, even as they maintain the word \"amateur\" in their titles.\n\nModern organized sports developed in the 19th century, with the United Kingdom and the United States taking the lead. Sporting culture was especially strong in private schools and universities, and the upper and middle class men who attended those institutions played as amateurs. Opportunities for working classes to participate in sport were restricted by their long six-day work weeks and Sunday Sabbatarianism. In the UK, the Factory Act of 1844 gave working men half a day off, making the opportunity to take part in sport more widely available. Working class sportsmen found it hard to play top level sport due to the need to turn up to work. On occasion, cash prizes, particularly in individual competitions, could make up the difference; some competitors also wagered on the outcomes of their matches. As professional teams developed, some clubs were willing to make \"broken time\" payments to players, \"i.e.\", to pay top sportsmen to take time off work, and as attendances increased, paying men to concentrate on their sport full-time became feasible. Proponents of the amateur ideal deplored the influence of money and the effect it has on sports. It was claimed that it is in the interest of the professional to receive the highest amount of pay possible per unit of performance, not to perform to the highest standard possible where this does not bring additional benefit.\n\nThe middle and upper class men who dominated the sporting establishment not only had a theoretical preference for amateurism, they also had a self-interest in blocking the professionalization of sport, which threatened to make it feasible for the working classes to compete against themselves with success. Working class sportsmen didn't see why they shouldn't be paid to play. Hence there were competing interests between those who wished sport to be open to all and those who feared that professionalism would destroy the 'Corinthian spirit'. This conflict played out over the course of more than one hundred years. Some sports dealt with it relatively easily, such as golf, which decided in the late 19th century to tolerate competition between amateurs and professionals, while others were traumatized by the dilemma, and took generations to fully come to terms with professionalism even to a result of causing a breakdown in the sport (as in the case of rugby union and rugby league in 1895).\n\n\"Corinthian\" has come to describe one of the most virtuous of amateur athletes—those for whom fairness and honor in competition is valued above victory or gain. The Corinthian Yacht Club (now the Royal Corinthian Yacht Club, RCYC) was established in Essex in 1872 with \"encouragement of Amateur Yacht sailing\" as its \"primary object.\" To that end, club rules ensured that crews consisted of amateurs, while \"no professional or paid hand is allowed to touch the tiller or in any way assist in steering.\" Although the RCYC website derives the name \"Corinthian\" from the Isthmian Games of ancient Corinth, the Oxford English Dictionary derives the noun \"Corinthian\" from \"the proverbial wealth, luxury, and licentiousness of ancient Corinth\", with senses developing from \"a wealthy man\" (attested in 1577) through \"a licentious man\" (1697) and \"a man of fashion about town\" (1819) to \"a wealthy amateur of sport who rides his own horses, steers his own yacht, etc\" (1823). Dixon Kemp wrote in \"A Manual of Yacht and Boat Sailing\" published in 1900, \"The term Corinthian half a century ago was commonly applied to the aristocratic patrons of sports, some of which, such as pugilism, are not now the fashion.\"\n\nThe \"Corinthian ideal\" of the gentleman amateur developed alongside muscular Christianity in late Victorian Britain, and has been analysed as a historical social phenomenon since the later 20th century. The Corinthian Football Club founded in 1882 was the paragon of this. In the United States, \"Corinthian\" came to be applied in particular to amateur yachtsman, and remains current as such and in the name of many yacht clubs; including Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club (founded 1874, added \"Corinthian\" to name in 1881) and Yale Corinthian Yacht Club (likewise 1881 and 1893).\n\nBy the early 21st century the Olympic Games and all the major team sports accepted professional competitors. However, there are still some sports which maintain a distinction between amateur and professional status with separate competitive leagues. The most prominent of these are golf and boxing. In particular, only amateur boxers could compete at the Olympics up to 2016.\n\nProblems can arise for amateur sportsmen when sponsors offer to help with an amateur's playing expenses in the hope of striking lucrative endorsement deals with them in case they become professionals at a later date. This practice, dubbed \"shamateurism\", was present as early as in the 19th century. As financial and political stakes in high-level were becoming higher, shamateurism became all the more widespread, reaching its peak in the 1970s and 1980s, when the International Olympic Committee started moving towards acceptance of professional athletes. The advent of the state-sponsored \"full-time amateur athlete\" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. The Soviet Union entered teams of athletes who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but many of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis.\n\nAll North American university sports are conducted by amateurs. Even the very most commercialized college sports, such as NCAA football and basketball, do not financially compensate competitors, although coaches and trainers generally are paid. College football coaches in Texas and other states are often the highest paid state employees, with some drawing salaries of over five million US dollars annually. Athletic scholarship programs, unlike academic scholarship programs, cannot cover more than the cost of food, housing, tuition, and other university-related expenses. \n\nIn order to ensure that the rules are not circumvented, stringent rules restrict gift-giving during the recruitment process as well as during and even after a collegiate athlete's career; college athletes also cannot endorse products, which some may consider a violation of free speech rights.\n\nSome have criticised this system as exploitative; prominent university athletics programs are major commercial endeavors, and can easily rake in millions of dollars in profit during a successful season. College athletes spend a great deal of time \"working\" for the university, and earn nothing from it at the time aside from scholarships sometimes worth tens of thousands of dollars; basketball and football coaches, meanwhile, earn salaries that can compare with those of professional teams' coaches.\n\nSupporters of the system say that college athletes can always make use of the education they earn as students if their athletic career doesn't pan out, and that allowing universities to pay college athletes would rapidly lead to deterioration of the already-marginal academic focus of college athletics programs. They also point out that athletic scholarships allow many young men and women who would otherwise be unable to afford to go to college, or would not be accepted, to get a quality education. Also, most sports other than football and men's basketball do not generate significant revenue for any school (and such teams are often essentially funded by football, basketball, and donations), so it may not be possible to pay athletes in all sports. Allowing pay in some sports but not others could result in the violation of U.S. laws such as Title IX.\n\nThrough most of the 20th century the Olympics allowed only amateur athletes to participate and this amateur code was strictly enforced - Jim Thorpe was stripped of track and field medals for having taken expense money for playing baseball in 1912.\n\nLater on, the nations of the Communist bloc entered teams of Olympians who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but many of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis.\n\nNear the end of the 1960s, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) felt their amateur players could no longer be competitive against the Soviet team's full-time athletes and the other constantly improving European teams. They pushed for the ability to use players from professional leagues but met opposition from the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) and the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Avery Brundage, president of the IOC from 1952 to 1972, was opposed to the idea of amateur and professional players competing together. At the IIHF Congress in 1969, the IIHF decided to allow Canada to use nine non-NHL professional hockey players at the 1970 World Championships in Montreal and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The decision was reversed in January 1970 after Brundage said that ice hockey's status as an Olympic sport would be in jeopardy if the change was made. In response, Canada withdrew from all international ice hockey competitions and officials stated that they would not return until \"open competition\" was instituted. Günther Sabetzki became president of the IIHF in 1975 and helped to resolve the dispute with the CAHA. In 1976, the IIHF agreed to allow \"open competition\" between all players in the World Championships. However, NHL players were still not allowed to play in the Olympics, because of the unwillingness of the NHL to take a break mid-season and the IOC's amateur-only policy.\n\nBefore the 1984 Winter Olympics, a dispute formed over what made a player a professional. The IOC had adopted a rule that made any player who had signed an NHL contract but played less than ten games in the league eligible. However, the United States Olympic Committee maintained that any player contracted with an NHL team was a professional and therefore not eligible to play. The IOC held an emergency meeting that ruled NHL-contracted players were eligible, as long as they had not played in any NHL games. This made five players on Olympic rosters—one Austrian, two Italians and two Canadians—ineligible. Players who had played in other professional leagues—such as the World Hockey Association—were allowed to play. Canadian hockey official Alan Eagleson stated that the rule was only applied to the NHL and that professionally contracted players in European leagues were still considered amateurs. Murray Costello of the CAHA suggested that a Canadian withdrawal was possible. In 1986, the IOC voted to allow all athletes to compete in Olympic Games starting in 1988, but let the individual sport federations decide if they wanted to allow professionals.\n\nAfter the 1972 retirement of IOC President Avery Brundage, the Olympic amateurism rules were steadily relaxed, amounting only to technicalities and lip service, until being completely abandoned in the 1990s (In the United States, the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 prohibits national governing bodies from having more stringent standards of amateur status than required by international governing bodies of respective sports. The act caused the breakup of the Amateur Athletic Union as a wholesale sports governing body at the Olympic level).\n\nOlympic regulations regarding amateur status of athletes were eventually abandoned in the 1990s with the exception of wrestling, where the amateur fight rules are used due to the fact that professional wrestling is largely staged with pre-determined outcomes. Starting from the 2016 Summer Olympics, professionals were allowed to compete in boxing, though amateur fight rules are still used for the tournament.\n\nEnglish first-class cricket distinguished between amateur and professional cricketers until 1963. Teams below Test cricket level in England were normally, except in emergencies such as injuries, captained by amateurs. Notwithstanding this, sometimes there were ways found to give high performing \"amateurs\", for example W.G.Grace, financial and other compensation such as employment.\n\nOn English overseas tours, some of which in the 19th century were arranged and led by professional cricketer-promoters such as James Lillywhite, Alfred Shaw and Arthur Shrewsbury, a more pragmatic approach generally prevailed.\n\nIn England the division was reflected in, and for a long time reinforced by, the series of Gentlemen v Players matches between amateurs and professionals. Few cricketers changed their status, but there were some notable exceptions such as Wally Hammond who became (or was allowed to become) an amateur in 1938 so that he could captain England.\n\nProfessionals were often expected to address amateurs, at least to their faces, as \"Mister\" or \"Sir\" whereas the amateurs often referred to professionals by their surnames. Newspaper reports often prefaced amateurs' names with \"Mr\" while professionals were referred to by surname, or sometimes surname and initials. At some grounds amateurs and professionals had separate dressing rooms and entered the playing arena through separate gates.\n\nAfter the Second World War the division was increasingly questioned. When Len Hutton was appointed as English national cricket captain in 1952 he remained a professional. In 1962 the division was removed, and all cricket players became known as \"cricketers\".\n\nIn Australia the amateur-professional division was rarely noticed in the years before World Series Cricket, as many top level players expected to receive something for their efforts on the field: before World War 1 profit-sharing of tour proceeds was common. Australian cricketers touring England were considered amateurs and given the title \"Mr\" in newspaper reports.\n\nBefore the Partition of India some professionalism developed, but talented cricketers were often employed by wealthy princely or corporate patrons and thus retained a notional amateur status.\n\nWomen's cricket is, and always has been, almost entirely amateur.\n\nBoot money has been a phenomenon in amateur sport for centuries. The term \"boot money\" became popularised in the 1880s when it was not unusual for players to find half a crown (corresponding to 12½ pence after decimalisation) in their boots after a game.\n\nThe Football Association prohibited paying players until 1885, and this is referred to as the \"legalisation\" of professionalism because it was an amendment of the \"Laws of the Game\". However, a maximum salary cap of twelve pounds a week for a player with outside employment and fifteen pounds a week for a player with no outside employment lingered until the 1960s even as transfer fees reached over a hundred thousand pounds; again, \"boot money\" was seen as a way of topping up pay.\n\nToday the most prominent English football clubs that are not professional are semi-professional (paying part-time players more than the old maximum for top professionals; this includes all the major existing women's clubs, in which full professionalism has not taken root yet) and the most prominent true amateur men's club is probably Queen's Park, the oldest football club in Scotland, founded in 1867 and with a home ground (Hampden Park) which is one of UEFA's five-star stadia. They have also won the Scottish Cup more times than any club outside the Old Firm. Amateur football in both genders is now found mainly in small village and Sunday clubs and the Amateur Football Alliance.\n\nSailing has taken the opposite course. Around the turn of the 20th century, much of sailing was professionals paid by interested idle rich. Today, sailing, especially dinghy sailing, is an example of a sport which is still largely populated by amateurs. For example, in the recent Team Racing Worlds, and certainly the American Team Racing Nationals, most of the sailors competing in the event were amateurs. While many competitive sailors are employed in businesses related to sailing (primarily sailmaking, naval architecture, boatbuilding and coaching), most are not compensated for their own competitions. In large keelboat racing, such as the Volvo Around the World Race and the America's Cup, this amateur spirit has given way in recent years to large corporate sponsorships and paid crews.\n\nLike other Olympic sports, figure skating used to have very strict amateur status rules. Over the years, these rules were relaxed to allow competitive skaters to receive token payments for performances in exhibitions (amid persistent rumors that they were receiving more money \"under the table\"), then to accept money for professional activities such as endorsements provided that the payments were made to trust funds rather than to the skaters themselves.\n\nIn 1992, trust funds were abolished, and the International Skating Union voted both to remove most restrictions on amateurism, and to allow skaters who had previously lost their amateur status to apply for reinstatement of their eligibility. A number of skaters, including Brian Boitano, Katarina Witt, Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean, and Ekaterina Gordeeva and Sergei Grinkov, took advantage of the reinstatement rule to compete at the 1994 Winter Olympics. However, when all of these skaters promptly returned to the pro circuit again, the ISU decided the reinstatement policy was a failure and it was discontinued in 1995.\n\nPrize money at ISU competitions was introduced in 1995, paid by the sale of the television rights to those events. In addition to prize money, Olympic-eligible skaters may also earn money through appearance fees at shows and competitions, endorsements, movie and television contracts, coaching, and other \"professional\" activities, provided that their activities are approved by their national federations. The only activity that is strictly forbidden by the ISU is participating in unsanctioned \"pro\" competitions, which the ISU uses to maintain their monopoly status as the governing body in the sport.\n\nMany people in the skating world still use \"turning pro\" as jargon to mean retiring from competitive skating, even though most top competitive skaters are already full-time professionals, and many skaters who retire from competition to concentrate on show skating or coaching do not actually lose their competition eligibility in the process.\n\nRugby has provided one of the most visible and lasting examples of the tension between amateurism and professionalism during the development of nationally organised sports in Britain in the late-19th century. The split in rugby in 1895 between what became rugby league and rugby union arose as a direct result of a dispute over the pretence of a strict enforcement of its amateur status - clubs in Leeds and Bradford were fined after compensating players for missing work, whilst at the same time the Rugby Football Union (RFU) was allowing other players to be paid.\n\nRugby football, despite its origins in the privileged English public schools, was a popular game throughout England by around 1880, including in the large working-class areas of the industrial north. However, as the then-amateur sport became increasingly popular and competitive, attracting large paying crowds, teams in such areas found it difficult to attract and retain good players. This was because physically fit local men needed to both work to earn a wage - limiting the time that they could devote to unpaid sport - and to avoid injuries that might prevent them working in the future. Certain teams faced with these circumstances wanted to pay so-called 'broken time' money to their players to compensate them for missing paid work due to their playing commitments, but this contravened the amateur policy of the Rugby Football Union (RFU).\n\nFollowing a lengthy dispute on this point during the early 1890s, representatives of more than 20 prominent northern rugby clubs met in Huddersfield in August 1895 to form the Northern Rugby Football Union (NRFU), a breakaway administrative body which would permit payments to be made to players. The NRFU initially adopted established RFU rules for the game itself, but soon introduced a number of changes, most obviously a switch from 15 to 13 players per side. It became the Rugby Football League in 1922, by which time the key differences in the two codes were well established, with the 13-a-side variant becoming known as rugby league.\n\nThe RFU took strong action against the clubs involved in the formation of the NRFU, all of whom were deemed to have forfeited their amateur status and therefore to have left the RFU. A similar interpretation was applied to all players who played either for or against such clubs, whether or not they themselves received any compensation. Such players were effectively barred \"sine die\" from any involvement in organised rugby union. These comprehensive and enduring sanctions, combined with the very localised nature of most rugby competition, meant that most northern clubs had little practical alternative but to affiliate with the NRFU in the first few years of its existence.\n\nRugby football in Britain therefore became subject to a de facto schism along regional - and to some extent class - lines, reflecting the historical origins of the split. Rugby league - in which professionalism was permitted - was predominant in northern England, particularly in industrial areas, and was viewed as a working class game. Rugby union - which remained amateur - was predominant in the rest of England, as well as in Wales and Scotland. Rugby union also had a more affluent reputation, although there are areas - notably in South Wales and in certain English cities such as Gloucester - with a strong working-class rugby union tradition.\n\nDiscrimination against rugby league players could verge on the petty - former Welsh international Fred Perrett was once excluded in lists of players who died in the First World War due to his 'defection' to the league code. One Member of Parliament, David Hinchliffe, described it as \"one of the longest (and daftest) grievances in history\" with anyone over the age of 18 associated with rugby league being banned forever from rugby union.\n\nThe Scottish Rugby Union was a particular bastion of amateurism and extreme care was taken to avoid the 'taint' of professionalism: a player rejoining the national team after the end of the Second World War applied to be issued with a new shirt and was reminded that he had been \"supplied with a shirt prior to the outbreak of hostilities\".\n\nIn Wales the position was more equivocal with clubs attempting to stem the tide of players \"going north\" with \"boot money\", a reference to the practice of putting cash payments into player's footwear whilst they were cleaning up after a game. Sometimes payments were substantial. Barry John was once asked why he hadn't turned professional and responded, \"I couldn't afford to.\"\n\nRugby union was declared \"open\" in August 1995 - almost exactly 100 years after the original split occurred - meaning that professionalism has been permitted in both rugby codes since that date. However, while the professional-amateur divide remained in force, there was originally very limited crossover between the two codes, the most obvious occasions being when top-class rugby union players 'switched codes' to rugby league in order to play professionally. Welsh international Jonathan Davies was a high-profile example of this switch. Since professionalism has been allowed in rugby union the switches have started to come the opposite way. Union has swiftly grown to embrace the professional game with many league players joining union to take a slice of the larger amounts of money available in the sport.\n\nNowadays, while rugby union no longer makes the professional-amateur distinction, the professional-amateur split still exists within rugby league with the British Amateur Rugby League Association (BARLA) strictly amateur, though it allows some ex-professionals to play provided they are no longer under contract. The most recent club to get a ban for fielding a contracted professional was Brighouse Rangers who were expelled from the National Conference League during 2007-2008 season, and the player handed a sine die ban (though in part for gouging ), although the club itself has since been admitted to the Pennine League.\n\nAlso, some rugby unions have amateur rules, most notably the Argentine Rugby Union, where all member clubs are amateur. The Campeonato Argentino, the national championship for provincial teams, does not include players contracted to the country's Super Rugby side, the Jaguares.\n\nAlternative sports, using the flying disc, began in the mid-sixties. As numbers of young people became alienated from social norms, they resisted and looked for alternative recreational activities, including that of throwing a Frisbee. What started with a few players, in the sixties, like Victor Malafronte, Z Weyand and Ken Westerfield experimenting with new ways of throwing and catching a Frisbee, later would become known as playing freestyle. Organized disc sports, in the 1970s, began with promotional efforts from Wham-O and Irwin Toy (Canada), a few tournaments and professionals using Frisbee show tours to perform at universities, fairs and sporting events. Disc sports such as freestyle, double disc court, guts, disc ultimate and disc golf became this sports first events. Two sports, the team sport of disc ultimate and disc golf are very popular worldwide and are now being played semi professionally. The World Flying Disc Federation, Professional Disc Golf Association, and the Freestyle Players Association, are the official rules and sanctioning organizations for flying disc sports worldwide.\n\nDisc ultimate is a team sport played with a flying disc. The object of the game is to score points by passing the disc to members of your own team, on a rectangular field, 120 yards (110m) by 40 yards (37m), until you have successfully completed a pass to a team member in the opposing teams end zone. There are currently over five million people that play some form of organized ultimate in the US. Ultimate has started to be played semi-professionally with two newly formed leagues, the American Ultimate Disc League (AUDL) and Major League Ultimate (MLU).\n\nThe game of guts was invented by the Healy Brothers in the 1950s and developed at the International Frisbee Tournament (IFT) in Marquette, Michigan. The game of ultimate, the most widely played disc game, began in the late 1960s with Joel Silver and Jared Kass. In the 1970s it developed as an organized sport with the creation of the Ultimate Players Association with Dan Roddick, Tom Kennedy and Irv Kalb. Double disc court was invented and introduced in the early 1970s by Jim Palmeri. In 1974, freestyle competition was created and introduced by Ken Westerfield and Discrafts Jim Kenner. In 1976, the game of disc golf was standardized with targets called \"pole holes\" invented and developed by Wham-O's Ed Headrick.\n\nSports teams commonly exist at the high school level; students who participate, commonly referred to as student athletes, do so during their course of study. Occasionally, sports success in high school sports may lead to a professional career in the field.\n\nThe benefit of sports in high school is debated; some believe that they promote discipline and teamwork, while others find that they can cause injury.\nOne study on the relationship between high school athletic and academic successes finds that, for the most part, higher participation and success rates in sports is positively related school-wide student successes on academic outcomes such as standardized test scores and educational attainment. The National Center for Educational Statistics reports that student athletes have a 20% higher chance of completing a college degree, and are more likely to be employed and in better health than non-athletes. However, a survey of high school athletes in 2006 showed that high school athletes are more likely to cheat inside of the classroom than non-athletes, especially boys participating in football, baseball, and basketball and girls participating in softball and basketball. The survey does not indicate to what extent cheating contributes to the greater academic outcomes of high school athletes.\n\nIn the world of middle school and high school sports, several fees have risen over the last few years making sports more expensive. The term “Pay-to-Play” means that students and their parents must pay a flat fee to participate, and that fee often leaves out the costs of uniforms, transportation, and other team fees. This affects low-income families (those who earn less than $60,000 per year) and their ability to participate in the sports. The average cost is $381 per child per sport (Pay-to-Play Sports). Physical and mental health can improve with the right amount of physical fitness incorporated into everyday life. It allows for the child to have a healthy developing body, and a BMI within the normal range. Physical activity has been proven to improve mood and decrease both stress and anxiety. Studies have shown that the more physical activity one participates in as a child, the happier and more stable that person will be as an adult. Thus, the more students who participate in school sports, the more students who will find themselves balanced and successful adults later in life.\n\nGolf still has amateur championships, most notably the U.S. Amateur Championship, British Amateur Championship, U.S. Women's Amateur, British Ladies Amateur, Walker Cup, Eisenhower Trophy, Curtis Cup and Espirito Santo Trophy. However, amateur golfers are far less known than players of professional golf tours such as the PGA Tour and European Tour. Still, a few amateurs are invited to compete in open events, such as the U.S. Open and British Open or non-open event, such as the Masters Tournament.\n\nIn motorsports, there are various forms of amateur drivers. When they compete at professional events, they are often referred to as \"pay drivers\". They have been a presence in Formula One for many years - drivers such as Felipe Nasr, Esteban Gutiérrez and Rio Haryanto bring sponsorship to the tune of $30 million for a seat, even in backmarker teams. In sports car racing, drivers are often seeded into certain categories, including Amateur and Pro-Am classes. The vast majority of these \"gentlemen drivers\" however tend to participate at club level, often racing historic or classic cars, which are aimed primarily at amateurs.\n\nIn Ireland, the Gaelic Athletic Association, or GAA, protects the amateur status of the country's national sports, including Gaelic football, Hurling and Camogie. Major tennis championships prohibited professionals until 1968 but the subsequent admission of professionals virtually eliminated amateurs from public visibility. Paying players was considered disreputable in baseball until 1869.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17196911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17196911", "title": "Billabong XXL", "text": "Billabong XXL\n\nThe Billabong XXL is a global big wave award. This event gathers big wave surfers from all around the world in a one contest. Every year, surfers ride big waves for prizes, for example; Pacifico Paddle, Biggest Wave, Pacifico Tube, Performance Champion (women's and men's), Ride of the Year.\n"}
{"id": "3495354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3495354", "title": "Blackout (broadcasting)", "text": "Blackout (broadcasting)\n\nIn broadcasting, the term blackout refers to the non-airing of television or radio programming in a certain media market.\n\nIt is particularly prevalent in the broadcasting of sports events, although other television or radio programs may be blacked out as well. Most blackout policies serve to protect local broadcasters (primarily regional sports networks) from competition by \"out-of-market\" networks that carry different teams, by only allowing viewers to watch non-national telecasts of teams within their designated markets (with television providers blacking out regional telecasts of teams that are outside their market; in turn, encouraging viewers to purchase subscription-based out-of-market sports packages), and by allowing teams to black out national telecasts of games that are also being shown by a local broadcaster. By contrast, the blackout policies of the National Football League serve to encourage attendance to games instead—by only allowing them to be broadcast on television in a team's designated market if a certain percentage of their tickets are sold prior to the game.\n\nThe term is also used in relation to situations where programming is removed or replaced on international feeds of a television service, because the broadcaster does not hold the territorial rights to air the programs outside of their home country.\n\nPerhaps the most notable non-sports-related blackout in television was the blackout of Canadian federal election coverage. Because there are six time zones across Canada, polls close in different parts of the country at different times. Section 329 of the Canada Elections Act outlawed disseminating election results from other ridings in constituencies where polls were still open, ostensibly to prevent the results from the East from influencing voters in western ridings\n\nHowever, in the federal election in 2000, Paul Charles Bryan published results from Atlantic Canada online despite being told not to by the authorities. Bryan was charged before the Provincial Court of British Columbia, but fought the charges as unconstitutional under section 2 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, which protects freedom of expression and freedom of association. Bryan's victory before the British Columbia Supreme Court meant that voters in British Columbia and the rest of Canada legally learned of election results in other ridings during the federal election in 2004. However, Elections Canada appealed, and Bryan lost his case before the British Columbia Court of Appeal. Bryan further appealed to the Supreme Court of Canada, but in a ruling made on March 15, 2007 (\"R. v. Bryan\"), in a 5-4 ruling, the Court ruled that Section 329 of the Canada Elections Act is constitutional and justified under section 1 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. Stephen Harper, who later became Prime Minister, labelled Elections Canada \"jackasses\" and tried to raise money for Bryan. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation also supported Bryan, hoping to \"make election night a bigger event that it already is\".\n\nBefore the 2000 election, Elections Canada moved to reduce the effects of the blackout and the influence of unauthorized knowledge of election results in Western ridings by altering the times that polls close, so that polls no longer close at the same local time throughout the country. Polls in Atlantic Canada close at 9 p.m. Atlantic (9:30 in Newfoundland), polls from Alberta to Quebec close an hour later (9 p.m. Eastern, 8 p.m. Central and 7 p.m. Mountain) and finally, polls in British Columbia close an hour after that (7 p.m. Pacific). Historically, the results of the election are often not decisively known until more than an hour after polls close in the Eastern Time Zone, but are usually known within two hours of these polls closing.\n\nProvincial elections are not subject to blackout restrictions – in provinces that have two time zones, the vast majority of the population lives in one time zone or the other. Election laws in these provinces stipulate that all polls are to close at the same time – this time invariably being 8:00 p.m. (or 9:00 p.m. in Ontario beginning with the 2007 provincial election) in the time zone of the majority.\n\nOn August 17, 2011, Elections Canada Chief Electoral Officer Marc Mayrand suggested improvements of the voting system to Parliament; among them were a proposal to remove the blackout rule, citing the expanded use of social media to disseminate results outside radio and television. Mayrand stated that \"the growing use of social media puts in question not only the practical enforceability of the rule, but also its very intelligibility and usefulness in a world where the distinction between private communication and public transmission is quickly eroding. The time has come for Parliament to consider revoking the current rule.\" On January 13, 2012, it was announced that the federal government would introduce legislation that would repeal the blackout rule, citing the increased use of social media. The blackout rule was officially repealed in October 2015, prior to the 2015 Canadian federal election.<\n\nThe Canadian Football League's constitution does provide the option for teams to black out games in their home markets in order to encourage attendance; at one point, the CFL required games to be blacked out within a radius of around the closest over-the-air signal carrying the game, or of the stadium for cable broadcasts (and, for the Saskatchewan Roughriders, the entirety of the province).\n\nThe policy received significant criticism in 2002, when the Hamilton Tiger-Cats' decision to enforce a blackout on a highly anticipated game against the Toronto Argonauts led to it being blacked out across the entire Greater Toronto Area and much of Southern Ontario. The collateral damage was criticized, as the game had major playoff implications, and the range of the blackout was considered too wide for the market.\n\nUnder the league's 2008-2013 contract with TSN, teams were given a cap on the number of blackouts they could impose per-season (with the number varying by media and CFL reports, ranging from 2 for Hamilton and Toronto, and 5 for teams in Western Canada), and final decisions were assigned to the league if at least 90% of tickets were sold out within 48 hours of the game. Although the CFL stated that the league's current contract with TSN (which began in 2014) does allow for blackouts, they have been seldom-used, if not at all.\n\nAs in the U.S., National Hockey League games that are not scheduled as national telecasts by Sportsnet or TVA Sports are broadcast by regional feeds of either Sportsnet, TSN, or RDS (French), and are blacked out for viewers outside the team's home market. Sportsnet's four regional feeds correspond with each of its NHL teams' designated markets; the Ontario and Pacific feeds are designated to the Toronto Maple Leafs, and Vancouver Canucks respectively, while Sportsnet West and its corresponding market (which includes all of Alberta and Saskatchewan) is shared by the Edmonton Oilers and Calgary Flames. Although West is also the main feed for Manitoba, Flames and Oilers games are blacked out there to protect the Winnipeg Jets. As of August 2014, TSN is similarly structured, with the Ottawa Senators on TSN5 (East), Maple Leafs on TSN4 (Ontario), and Jets on TSN3 (Manitoba and Saskatchewan). The Montreal Canadiens were added in 2017 on TSN2 (which was originally promoted as being a secondary national channel). The Canadiens and Senators share the same market, which includes parts of Eastern Ontario (primarily the Ottawa Valley), and the entirety of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, while Saskatchewan is shared by the Jets, Flames, and Oilers.\n\nUntil the 2014-15 season, all French-language broadcasts of the Montreal Canadiens were available nationally on RDS, which was previously the national French-language rightsholder of the NHL in Canada. As RDS was, until 2011, the only French-language cable sports channel in Canada, the team forwent a separate regional rights deal and allowed all of its games to be broadcast as part of the national package. As of the 2014-15 season, Quebecor Media and TVA Sports is the national French rightsholder as part of a sub-licensing agreement with Rogers Communications. RDS negotiated a 12-year deal with the team for regional rights to the Canadiens: games are now blacked out for viewers outside Quebec, Atlantic Canada, and parts of Eastern Ontario.\n\nOut-of-market games can be viewed using the subscription-based NHL Centre Ice and Rogers NHL Live services, although in-market games are blacked out from both services to protect local broadcasters. Rogers NHL Live allows streaming of in-market teams if the user authenticates themselves as a subscriber to Sportsnet and/or TSN.\n\nMany programs carried on Internet television in other parts of the world are not available in Canada because the major broadcast networks in Canada secure the rights to them and prevent Internet television aggregators, one notable example being Hulu, from distributing them in Canada. The National Football League, for example, sold worldwide Internet broadcast rights to a package of its \"Thursday Night Football\" games during the 2016 season to Twitter; however, Rogers Media forced Twitter to block the streams in Canada by virtue of its holding of terrestrial television rights in the country. Numerous organizations have attempted to establish workarounds that route Canadians' Internet traffic through the United States, workarounds that aggregators such as Netflix have actively fought against.\n\nUEFA Article 48.2 and the major association football leagues of the United Kingdom enforce a blackout on all television broadcasts of football between 2:45 p.m. and 5:15 p.m. on Saturday matchdays. This applies to all matches, regardless of whether they are a domestic or international competition. A match which kicks off within the window may be joined in progress after the blackout window ends.\n\nThis policy is ostensibly intended to encourage fans to attend football matches in-person, especially in lower divisions (whose attendance may be cannibalized by the availability of competing top-flight matches on television). The practice originated in the 1960s; Burnley F.C. chairman Bob Lord was opposed to television broadcasts of football matches—going as far as banning the BBC from televising \"Match of the Day\" from Burnley for a time. He pushed the Football League to adopt this stance as an organization-wide policy; it has since been adopted by The FA and the current Premier League (which broke away from the Football League in the 1990s to become the highest level of club football in the UK).\n\nAffected matches can still be broadcast internationally, hence more Premier League matches can be shown outside the United Kingdom by other rightsholders than within. This intricacy created a \"grey market\" for obtaining the broadcasts from alternative sources, such as foreign satellite providers or unofficial online streaming services. The Premier League and other stakeholders have historically considered this practice to be a violation of the copyright of the broadcasts; in 2014, the Premier League briefly restricted MENA region rightsholder beIN Sports to one 3 p.m. match per week on television only, for taking inadequate steps to prevent unauthorized retransmissions from its streaming broadcasts online.\n\nCritics, including Juliane Kokott, have argued that 3 p.m. blackouts are outdated, as its purpose is hindered—especially within the Premier League—by the high demand for the few tickets available to the public, and that there was little evidence that television broadcasts actually affected attendance. To preserve the value of its domestic broadcast rights and allow more games to be televised, the Premier League has added more matches in windows outside of Saturday afternoons, such as weekdays and Sundays—including the final matchday of the season.\n\nIn 2018, after complying by blacking out the first 15 minutes of a Serie A match that saw Cristiano Ronaldo's on-field debut for Juventus F.C., streaming service Eleven Sports UK & Ireland began to defy the ban and show selected Serie A and La Liga matches during this period. On 17 October 2018, Eleven announced that it would cease its telecasts of 3:00 p.m. kickoffs, but argued that the rule was outdated because only the UK and Montenegro have such blackout rules, and that the blackout period encourages illegal streaming. A representative of La Liga has backed Eleven Sports' position.\n\nMajor League Baseball and the National Hockey League have very similar blackout rules. Unlike the National Football League, the blackout of games has nothing to do with attendance, but instead is implemented to protect broadcasters with contracts to air games. Unless a national broadcaster such as Fox or ESPN has exclusive rights to a certain regular season game (as they do on Sunday nights), the local broadcaster of a game (such as a Fox Sports regional network for example) has priority over a national broadcaster—so if Fox Sports 1, MLB Network, or TBS is airing a game that is also being aired by the local broadcaster, the national feed would be blacked out in markets where a local broadcaster is also showing coverage. The blackout rules do not apply during the postseason, as Fox and TBS hold exclusive rights to all games, and there are no regional television broadcasts.\n\nAs of the 2014 MLB season, ESPN's coverage of Monday and Wednesday night games is allowed to co-exist with that of a regional broadcaster, and thus no longer has to be blacked out in the participating teams' markets.\n\nThe NHL utilizes a similar policy of exclusive and non-exclusive national games; NBCSN has an exclusive national window on Wednesday nights (\"Wednesday Night Hockey\"), and the NBC broadcast network typically shows a Sunday-afternoon game of the week during the later portion of the season, along with other marquee games such as the Thanksgiving Showdown (held on the Friday after Thanksgiving) and the NHL Winter Classic and Stadium Series outdoor games. Typically, no other games involving U.S. teams are scheduled to occur at the same time. NHL Network and NBCSN typically broadcast non-exclusive national games outside these windows which are blacked out in the participating teams' markets to protect local broadcasts. All games in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs, outside those designated for exclusive broadcast by NBC, are non-exclusive national games. Since 2017, they may now co-exist with national broadcasts on NBCUniversal cable channels and NHL Network.\n\nOut-of-market games can be viewed using the subscription-based MLB Extra Innings, MLB.tv, NHL Center Ice, and NHL.tv services, although in-market games are blacked out from all four services to protect local broadcasters, and they do not offer nationally televised games.\n\nIn Major League Baseball, there are no radio blackouts. However, for many years, the radio networks of the two participating ballclubs in the World Series were not allowed to air games, forcing flagship stations, if they wanted to broadcast the Series, to simulcast the network broadcast.\n\nAs an example, while Boston Red Sox radio flagship WHDH and St. Louis Cardinals flagship station KMOX both broadcast the 1967 World Series, both stations had to simulcast the NBC Radio Network broadcast along with Boston's WCOP and St. Louis's KSD, the nominal NBC Radio affiliates in those cities.\n\nThis changed after 1980, as fans of the Philadelphia Phillies were angry that they could not hear their popular broadcasting team of Harry Kalas and Richie Ashburn call the team's run to the title. Since then, only the flagship stations of the two participating ballclubs can originate coverage, though their broadcasts, as well as the national English and Spanish broadcasts, are also available on Sirius XM. Flagship stations are required to make mention of the presenting sponsor of the national ESPN Radio broadcasts as also sponsoring the team's own broadcasts during the World Series (as of 2016 this is AutoZone). All other network affiliates of the two clubs must carry the feed from MLB's national partner (currently ESPN Radio). If another ESPN Radio affiliate exists in the same market, that station can claim exclusivity, forcing a blackout of the team network affiliate from carrying the game, though this is rarely done as listener pushback against the ESPN Radio affiliate blocking the local play-by-play would likely be untenable (for instance in 2016, ESPN Radio O&O WMVP in Chicago broadcast the national ESPN feed as expected, but made no move to block the official Cubs broadcaster WSCR from carrying local play-by-play, to the point of only mentioning the national coverage existed on their station through promos in national ESPN Radio programming).\n\nAdditionally, radio stations (including flagships) may not include MLB games in the live Internet streams of their station programming. MLB itself offers radio feeds as a pay service via the league and team websites, along with being a part of the monthly premium fee service from streaming provider TuneIn. Some stations will simply stream the station's regularly scheduled programming that is being pre-empted by the game.\n\nThe NHL has no radio blackouts for local broadcasts, although NBC Sports Radio broadcasts are, similarly to some cable broadcasts, not carried within the local markets of participating teams.\n\nPrior to the 1998-99 NBA lockout, the NBA and the WNBA used to black out nationally televised games on cable television within of the home team's market; however, these are now restricted to games on NBA TV, WatchESPN and other streaming providers.\n\nThe NFL has engaged in various blackout policies to protect both local ticket sales, and local rightsholders of specific games.\n\nIn the NFL, any broadcaster that has a signal that hits any area within a radius of an NFL stadium may only broadcast a game if that game is a road game (also known as an away game), or if the game sells out 72 hours or more before the start time for the game. If sold out in less than 72 hours, or is close to being sold out by the deadline, the team can sometimes request a time extension. Furthermore, broadcasters with NFL contracts are required to show their markets' road games, even if the secondary markets have substantial fanbases for other teams (like in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, officially a Baltimore Ravens secondary market, but home to many Pittsburgh Steelers fans). Sometimes if a game is within a few hundred tickets of selling out, a broadcaster with rights to show the nearly sold out game will buy the remaining tickets (and give them to local charities) so it can broadcast the game. Other teams elect to close off sections of their stadium, but cannot sell these tickets for any game that season if they choose to do so. As a result, if the home team's game is a Sunday day game, both networks can air only one game each in that market (until 2000, this rule applied whether or not the game was blacked out; however, this was changed because some markets virtually never aired doubleheaders as a result). Usually, but not always, when each network can show only one game each in a market, the two stations work out between themselves which will show an early game and which will show a late game. This only affects the primary market, and not markets in a radius, which always get a doubleheader each Sunday. For the NFL International Series, the network broadcasting an International Series game will not have the game blacked out for the team's markets as the game is played outside of the United States; however, some blackout regulations do apply.\n\nThere have been two exceptions to the rule, of which one has never been implemented and the other no longer applies. The first is for the Green Bay Packers, which have two overlapping 75-mile blackout zones – one surrounding the team's stadium in Green Bay and another surrounding Milwaukee. The team's radio flagship station is in Milwaukee, and the Packers played part of their home schedule in Milwaukee from 1953 through 1994. However, this policy has never been implemented in the Packers' case, as they have sold out every home game in Green Bay since 1960 and have a decades-long season-ticket waiting list (games in Milwaukee also sold out during this period). The second exception was for the Bills Toronto Series; by a technicality, Rogers Communications (the team's lessee) owned all tickets to those games and resold them to potential fans. Even when Rogers failed to sell all of the tickets, they were still technically defined to be sellouts by the league since Rogers was said to have \"bought\" the tickets. The technicality came into play for both Toronto Series preseason games, and again for the last two regular season games of the series. The Bills Toronto Series was cancelled after the 2013 season, largely due to the aforementioned lackluster attendance.\n\nIn June 2012, NFL blackout regulations were revised in which, for the first time in NFL history, home games would no longer require a total sellout to be televised locally; instead, teams would be allowed to set a benchmark anywhere from 85 to 100 percent of the stadium's non-premium seats. Any seats sold beyond that benchmark will be subject to heavier revenue sharing. However, four teams, the Buffalo Bills, the Cleveland Browns, the Indianapolis Colts and the San Diego Chargers, opted out of the new rules, as it would require the teams to pay a higher percentage of gate fees to the NFL's revenue fund.\n\nIn the 2015 NFL season, the league, after no games were blacked out at all in the 2014 season, voted to \"suspend\" the blackout policy as an experiment. The suspension continued into the 2016 season (a season that included the return of the Rams to the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on a temporary basis until the new Hollywood Park stadium is built - Memorial Coliseum has had long-standing issues with NFL sell-outs); commissioner Roger Goodell stated that the league needed to further investigate the impact of removing the blackout rules before such a change is made permanent. The suspension quietly continued into the 2017 NFL season as well (which saw the San Diego Chargers also relocate to Los Angeles, temporarily using the 27,000-seat, soccer-specific StubHub Center as an interim venue until the completion of the Hollywood Park stadium, which will be shared with the Rams.\n\nThe suspension came a year after the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ended a policy that formally forbade multichannel television providers from distributing telecasts of sporting events that had been blacked out by local broadcast television stations. Then-FCC chairman Tom Wheeler considered such policies to be \"obsolete\". The policies are still enforced via contractual agreements between the NFL and its media partners.\n\nPer NFL policies, all games that are exclusively televised on cable channels, including ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\", and \"Thursday Night Football\" games that are only shown on NFL Network, are syndicated to over-the-air broadcasters in the markets of the teams involved, and blacked out on the cable channel in defense of the local simulcast. The local market for these rights is defined as any station within the radius of a team's respective stadium.\n\nThis policy attracted controversy in December 2007, when Hartford, Connecticut CBS affiliate WFSB was refused permission to air the local simulcast of a New England Patriots-New York Giants game on December 29, 2007. The game, which was part of the \"Thursday Night Football\" package on NFL Network, would see the Patriots attempt to become the first NFL team since 1972 and the expansion of the regular season to 16 games, to finish the regular season undefeated. At the time, NFL Network was available only on a sports tier of cable provider Comcast in the immediate viewing areas of the Patriots and Giants. Senator John Kerry and Rep. Ed Markey, both of the state of Massachusetts and fans of the Patriots team, wrote to the NFL as well as Comcast and Time Warner Cable, to request that the Patriots-Giants game be aired at least on basic cable in order to reach the highest possible number of television-viewing fans, citing the \"potentially historic\" nature of the game. Kerry clarified the next week that he did not intend to interrupt current negotiations between the cable operators and NFL.\n\nOn December 19, 2007, representative Joe Courtney (D-CT) and other members of the Connecticut Congressional Delegation wrote to NFL commissioner Roger Goodell to try to have the NFL allow wider broadcast access to the game. Consequently, on December 26, the NFL announced that the game would be additionally aired nationally on CBS and NBC, in addition to WCVB-TV in Boston and WWOR-TV in Secaucus, New Jersey (part of the New York City market).\n\nAlthough NFL Network would later become more established, a goal to increased the perceived profile of the \"Thursday Night Football\" package led the NFL to sub-license a portion of the games, and a co-production agreement for all of them, to CBS in the 2014 season.\n\nFor radio broadcasts, the NFL follows a nearly identical policy to MLB. There are no radio blackouts, but only each team's flagship station can carry local broadcasts during the conference championships or Super Bowl. All other markets must carry the \"NFL on Westwood One\" feed for those games. For all other weeks, within 75 miles of a team's stadium, only stations the team or its flagship station contracts with can carry those games, regardless if the team is home or away. Thus, any competing station that carries Westwood One broadcasts cannot air those games. Like MLB, the NFL makes local broadcasts (except for those of the Tennessee Titans) available on NFL's Game Pass service and Sirius Satellite Radio; as a result, radio stations that carry NFL games, from any source, and stream on the Internet are prohibited from streaming games online, although it seems this provision is loosely enforced in some cases; WBBM in Chicago regularly airs live broadcasts of Chicago Bears games over their Internet stream, as does WTMJ in Milwaukee with the Packers, though both stations went to a desktop-only streaming policy in 2015 due to the introduction of GamePass and the absorption of the NFL Audio Pass streaming system into Game Pass.\n\nMajor League Soccer applies local blackout rights for the broadcasts of the following teams as a part of MLS Direct Kick:\n\nMLS Direct Kick contains MLS games originating from either a regional sports network (RSN) or a local over-the-air station and delivers these games to customers who purchase this subscription. These games are not otherwise available to DirecTV subscribers because they are broadcast outside a subscriber's local area. Further, MLS games shown nationally on ESPN, ESPN2, UniMás and FOX are not included as part of this sports subscription.\n\nThe television broadcast of the Indianapolis 500 is usually blacked out in the Indianapolis area in order to encourage central Indiana residents to attend the race. Thus WTHR, the NBC affiliate in Indianapolis, carries the race tape-delayed in primetime instead.\n\nIn May 2016, as that year's edition neared a complete sell-out, Indianapolis Motor Speedway announced that it would consider lifting the blackout if all tickets were sold out. On May 25, 2016, it was officially announced that all tickets had been sold, and that the race would air live in the Indianapolis market for the first time since 1950. WRTV still carried a primetime encore.\n"}
{"id": "53753409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53753409", "title": "Borussia Dortmund team bus bombing", "text": "Borussia Dortmund team bus bombing\n\nOn 11 April 2017, the tour bus of German football team Borussia Dortmund was attacked with roadside bombs in Dortmund, Germany. Three bombs exploded as the bus ferried the team to the Westfalenstadion for the first leg of their quarter-final against Monaco in the UEFA Champions League. One of the team's players, Marc Bartra, and a policeman were wounded, but the strengthened windows of the bus prevented further casualties.\n\nThe initial line of inquiry assumed that it was an Islamist terrorist attack due to letters found at the scene, which claimed the attack was an act of retaliation for Muslims killed in the German military intervention against Islamic State, and threatened further attacks unless Germany withdraws and the US military base in Ramstein is shut down. However, discrepancies in the evidence eventually led investigators to consider it a false flag attack. Additional claims of responsibility, supposedly from far-left and far-right groups, were also investigated.\n\nOn 21 April 2017, German police arrested a man on suspicion of planting bombs to drive down the Borussia Dortmund share price and profit by put warrants he bought prior to the attack.\n\nThe team bus of Borussia Dortmund was attacked with three homemade pipe bombs while on its way to Westfalenstadion in Dortmund. The bombs were hidden in hedges by the roadside and detonated at around 19:15 local time (17:15 UTC). They were packed with sharp metal pins and had a reach of about 100 meters (109 yards). Based on the type of detonator and explosive involved, German authorities assume \"terrorist involvement\". The bombs used military detonators and the explosives may have come from military stocks. Spanish footballer and Dortmund's team member Marc Bartra was wounded by shards of glass from the shattered bus window; he was taken to a nearby hospital where his right wrist was immediately operated on, and was forced to miss both legs. A policeman suffered blast injury and shock; he was escorting the bus on a motorcycle.\n\nAt the time, the bus was on its way to the first leg of Borussia Dortmund's 2016–17 UEFA Champions League quarter-final against Monaco at the Signal Iduna Park; the match was rescheduled for the following day.\n\nThe German police and state lawyers are treating it as attempted murder and a planned attack on Borussia Dortmund. There were three claims of responsibility: one left at the scene claiming an Islamist motive, one posted on the internet claiming an 'anti-fascist' motive (which was deemed to be fake), and one later sent to a newspaper claiming a far-right motive. The German Federal Prosecutor's Office initially called the attack an act of terrorism with possible Islamist involvement. The Interior Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia called the attack \"professional\". Police are investigating whether it was an attack by Islamists, by the far-left or by the far-right. According to German media, investigators are also considering whether a foreign security service was behind the bombing.\n\nThere were three differing claims of responsibility. The first claim was found in three identical letters left at the scene. The letters said the attack was retaliation for German military intervention against Islamic State (ISIS) in Iraq and Syria, accusing it of being responsible for killing Muslims. It demanded that the US military base in Ramstein be shut down and the German Tornado jets be withdrawn from Syria. It threatened further attacks on non-Muslim celebrities in Germany unless the demands are met. The letters were seen as unusual, as previous ISIS-linked attacks in Europe did not come with such confessions. Unlike previous video claims of responsibility, the letters directly addressed the German chancellor and had no religious justifications, ISIS logo, or signature. German newspapers later reported that investigators had \"significant doubts\" over the letters' authenticity, and suggested they may have been written to frame Islamists.\n\nAnother claim was posted on the left-wing, open-publishing website IndyMedia. It said the attack was committed because Borussia Dortmund did not do enough against racists, Nazis, and right-wing populists within its fanbase. The claim was removed as fake, and police also treated it as fake. \n\nA few days later, a third claim of responsibility was sent to the newspaper \"Der Tagesspiegel\", which hinted at a far-right motive. The anonymous e-mail praised Adolf Hitler and attacked multiculturalism, adding that the attack was a \"last warning\". A spokeswoman for the federal prosecutors said the claim was being investigated. The letter also threatened another attack on protesters who plan to demonstrate against the Alternative for Germany party's conference in Cologne in 22 April. Police also considered the possibility that the attack was carried out by the far-right in order to incite backlash against Muslims.\n\nIn the initial stage of the investigation, the police identified two suspects and arrested one of them. The apartments of both suspects were searched. The arrested suspect was an Iraqi immigrant living in Wuppertal and was suspected of being an Islamist extremist. Police believe he led an ISIS unit in Iraq involved in killings, kidnappings, smuggling, and extortion. However, police later concluded he was not responsible for the Dortmund bombing.\n\nOn 21 April 2017, the federal prosecutor announced that it had arrested a 28-year-old German-Russian citizen, identified only as Sergej W., on suspicion of 20-fold attempted murder, bringing about an illegal detonation of explosives, and aggravated battery. The man had been staying at the Borussia team hotel. He planted explosives along the road where the team bus would later leave to the stadium. During check-in, he chose a room with a window facing the road so he would be able to remotely trigger the explosion when the bus passed by. It was revealed that on the day of the attack, he had bought put warrants for €78,000 from an investment bank using the internet connection in his hotel room. These would have made him a large profit of up to €3.9 million if Dortmund's share price were to plummet after a successful attack, but it only dropped by 5% after the attack and later recovered. The unusual transaction raised suspicion of money laundering with bank employees, prompting them to alert authorities and pass to them the identity of Sergej W., which led to his arrest. Police also said Sergej W. left letters at the scene of the crime to frame Muslims for the attack.\n\nThe match was postponed until the following day at 18:45 local time (16:45 UTC), which resulted in a 3–2 win for Monaco. Both Monaco and Dortmund fans united in friendship after the bombing. Many Dortmund fans, Germans and local hotels offered Monaco fans free food and places to stay for the night. Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel expressed her appalled reaction to the attack. The staff of Borussia Dortmund and former football player Lothar Matthäus criticized the short-term planning of UEFA.\n"}
{"id": "3182739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3182739", "title": "Broadcasting of sports events", "text": "Broadcasting of sports events\n\nThe broadcasting of sports events (also known as a sportscast) is the live coverage of sports as a television program, on radio, and other broadcasting media. It usually involves one or more sports commentators describing the events as they happen.\n\nBroadcasting of sports started with descriptions of play sent via telegraph in the 1890s. In 1896, a telegraph line was connected to the Victoria Rink in Montreal to update fans in Winnipeg of the Stanley Cup challenge series between Montreal and Winnipeg ice hockey teams. In 1923, the first radio broadcast of an ice hockey game took place on 8 February, with the broadcast of the third period of a game between Midland and North Toronto of the Ontario Hockey Association. Later that month, the first full-game broadcast took place in Winnipeg. That same season, hockey broadcasting pioneer Foster Hewitt made his first broadcast.\n\nIn 1933, Hewitt called a Canada-wide radio broadcast of an NHL game between the Detroit Red Wings and the Toronto Maple Leafs. Always starting the broadcast with \"Hello, Canada, and hockey fans in the United States and Newfoundland!\"; this phrase stuck around (albeit without the \"Newfoundland\" portion after the dominion confederated into Canada in 1949) all the way to CBC's first national television broadcast (the first actual broadcast was on closed-circuit in Maple Leaf Gardens in Spring 1952) of \"Hockey Night in Canada\" in October 1952. Today it is consistently among the highest-rated programs in Canada.\n\nBroadcasting of the Canadian Football League has been a fixture of Canadian television since the CBC's debut in 1952. From 1962 (one year after the debut of CTV) through 2007, there were two separate CFL contracts: one for CBC, and one for CTV (or a sister channel such as cable outlet TSN). Terrestrial television broadcasts of CFL games ended in 2008, when TSN acquired exclusive TV rights to the league.\n\nAmerican sports broadcasts are widely available in Canada, both from Canadian stations and from border blasters in the United States. In order to protect Canadian broadcasters' advertising, broadcast stations can invoke simultaneous substitution: any cable or satellite feed of an American station broadcasting the same program as a Canadian broadcast station must be blacked out and replaced by the Canadian feed. This rule is part of the reason the NFL, which is broadcast on terrestrial television in the United States but has no direct presence in Canada, is also broadcast on terrestrial TV in Canada, while the CFL no longer is (the CFL is broadcast only on cable in the United States); the simultaneous substitution benefits are not extended to cable stations. For the purposes of regional sports broadcasting, the Toronto Blue Jays and Toronto Raptors both claim all of Canada as their \"territory,\" allowing Blue Jays and Raptors games to be broadcast nationwide.\n\nThe first live commentary on a field sport anywhere in Europe was when Paddy Mehigan covered the All-Ireland Hurling Semi-Final between Kilkenny and Galway on 29 August 1926. This game is credited with being the first mainly because the BBC was prevented from broadcasting sporting events before 7.00pm as a means of protecting British newspaper sales.\n\nThe first sports event broadcast in the United Kingdom was a Rugby Union international between England and Wales, broadcast from Twickenham in January 1927. Two weeks later the first broadcast of a football match took place, with the BBC covering Arsenal's league fixture against Sheffield United at Highbury. Listeners to the broadcast could use numbered grids published in the Radio Times in order to ascertain in which area of the pitch the action was taking place due to a second commentator reading out grid references during the match.\n\nThe United Kingdom saw the first live television broadcast of a football match, with the BBC showing a specially arranged fixture between Arsenal and Arsenal Reserves on 16 September 1937.\n\nThe British media is dominated by national outlets, with local media playing a much smaller role. Traditionally the BBC played a dominant role in televising sport, providing extensive high-quality advertisement free coverage and free publicity in exchange for being granted broadcast rights for low fees. ITV broadcast a smaller portfolio of events, and Channel 4 broadcast a few events from the 1980s, mainly horse races and so-called minority sports. In the early 1990s this arrangement was shaken up by the arrival of pay-TV in the form of BSkyB. Their dedicated sports channels have since become the only place for some major sports to be seen. Starting in 2006 the Irish company Setanta Sports emerged as a challenger to Sky Sports' dominance of the British pay-TV sports market; however, Setanta's UK channel went into bankruptcy administration and off the air in 2009. Between 2009 and 2013 ESPN made an attempt to challenge Sky Sports before its British operations were bought out by Sky's current main competitor, BT Sport; a subsidiary of the former national telecommunications monopoly BT plc. There is also a dedicated UK version of Eurosport, called British Eurosport.\n\nRadio sports coverage is also important. BBC Radio 5 Live broadcasts almost all major sports events. It now has a commercial rival called Talksport, but this has not acquired anywhere near as many exclusive contracts as Sky Sports and dedicates much of its airtime to sports discussions and phone-ins; Absolute Radio has also begun acquiring sports rights. BBC Local Radio also provides extensive coverage of sport, giving more exposure to second-tier clubs which get limited national coverage.\n\nNational and local media both serve major roles in broadcasting sports in the United States. Depending on the league and event, telecasts are often shown live on network television (traditionally on weekends and during major events either national through a Television network, or in some cases, regionally syndicated by an operation such as Raycom Sports or a team), and nationally available cable channels (such as ESPN or Fox Sports 1). In some leagues (such as the NHL and the NBA), events are also primarily shown by regional sports networks groups (such as Fox Sports Networks), networks which air telecasts for teams of local interest, which are usually only carried within the relevant market. Additionally, cable channels also exist that are dedicated to specific types of sports, certain college sports conferences, or a specific league. Pay-per-view broadcasts are typically restricted to combat sports such as boxing, mixed martial arts or professional wrestling.\n\nRadio broadcasts are extensive. The national leagues each have national network coverage of league high games in addition to local radio coverage originating with each team, with ESPN Radio and WestwoodOne controlling national rights to the major team sports and the motorsports circuits operating their own networks. Local radio broadcasts cover a wide variety of sports, ranging from the majors to local school and recreational leagues.\n\nInternet broadcasts are also common, though college and major professional sports either use a pay wall or subscriber-based systems such as TV Everywhere to extract payment. Telephone broadcasts are rare, although a few companies provide the service.\n\nIn 1911, more than 1,000 people gathered in downtown Lawrence, Kansas to watch a mechanical reproduction of the 1911 Kansas vs. Missouri football game while it was being played. A Western Union telegraph wire was set up direct from Columbia, Missouri. A group of people then would announce the results of the previous play and used a large model of a football playing field to show the results. Those in attendance cheered as though they were watching the game live, including the school's legendary \"Rock Chalk, Jayhawk\" cheer.\n\nThe first voice broadcast of a sporting event took place on 11 April 1921 when Westinghouse station KDKA in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania broadcast a 10-round, no decision boxing match between Johnny Dundee and Johnny Ray at Pittsburgh's Motor Square Garden. Prior to that, an experimental telegraph broadcast of the 1919 Lone Star Showdown was held on Thanksgiving Day of that year on experimental station 5XB, the predecessor of WTAW.\n\nThe first radio broadcast of a baseball game occurred on 5 August 1921 over KDKA from Pittsburgh's Forbes Field. Harold W. Arlin announced a game between the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Philadelphia Phillies. Two months later, on 8 October 1921, from the same Forbes Field, Arlin announced the first live radio broadcast of a college football game on KDKA when he gave the play-by-play action of the University of Pittsburgh victory over West Virginia University.\n\nOn 17 May 1939, the United States' first televised sporting event, a college baseball game between the Columbia Lions and Princeton Tigers, was broadcast by NBC from Columbia's Baker Field. (The world's first live televised sporting event had been the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin.) On 30 September 1939, the first American football game, a college contest between Fordham and Waynesburg College was broadcast on television. The first nationwide broadcast of college football, which was also the first live sporting event seen coast-to-coast, was a game between Duke University and the University of Pittsburgh that was televised by NBC on 29 September 1951. The broadcasting of college football games on television in the United States has been a fixture of the major networks on a continuous basis since that time. The NCAA severely restricted broadcasts of college football from the 1950s until a judge ruled that the action was a violation of antitrust rules in 1984, which allowed for a much greater expansion of college football broadcasting.\n\nNBC broadcast the first televised National Football League (NFL) game when they carried the 22 October 1939 game between the Philadelphia Eagles and the Brooklyn Dodgers. The same year, the first nationwide radio broadcast of an NFL championship game was carried on the Mutual Broadcasting System. While the NFL had weak television deals that ranked behind college football and even the Canadian Football League in the 1950s, the broadcast rights of the NFL would go on to become an important property following the 1958 NFL Championship and the later establishment of the American Football League in 1960. \"Monday Night Football\", \"NFL on Fox\", and \"NBC Sunday Night Football\" have changed the landscape of American football broadcasts, including the scheduling of the Super Bowl, transforming it from an afternoon broadcast into a primetime spectacle. The price for the NFL's broadcast rights has increased steadily over the past several decades, in part because of bidding wars between the numerous networks and the fear of losing stature due to the loss of NFL programming; as of the most recent contract the league nets annual fees of over $6 billion, or half of the league's overall revenue, from television rights alone. Four of the five major sports television units in the United States, and the four companies that control all of the major broadcast networks, currently own some NFL rights.\n\nNBC also broadcast an NHL game in 1940; the league would briefly air games in the 1950s, but due to a dispute over how much of the rights fee money the players would receive (and difficulties programming around the two Canadian teams in the league at the time), the NHL refused to televise its games in the United States for six years in the 1960s. For this reason, as well as the regional nature of the sport, televised NHL games have struggled to gain a foothold on American television for the past several decades, trailing the other leagues in ratings. After several decades of bouncing around various networks (and a stretch from 1975 to 1994 when the league had no permanent broadcast partner), the NHL established a stable broadcast partner in 2004, when NBC and what was then Outdoor Life Network (now NBCSN) took over NHL broadcast rights; they have since renewed those rights through 2021.\n\nThe first-ever television broadcast of a basketball game occurred on 28 February 1940 when the University of Pittsburgh defeated Fordham at Madison Square Garden on NBC station W2XBS. Professional basketball has been aired on television since 1953, shortly after the founding of the National Basketball Association, and has been aired on television ever since. College basketball, on the other hand, was much later in gaining a television foothold. Although the NCAA Tournament has aired since 1962, it was not until the mid-1970s that regular-season college basketball games would air on major network television.\n\nOutside of the networks, the only other source for national sports television was through early syndication networks. Sports Network Incorporated (SNI), later renamed the Hughes Television Network, carried Cleveland Browns (NFL) games in the 1950s and NHL games in the late 1970s, after the NHL lost its contract with NBC. TVS Television Network helped popularize the broadcasts of college basketball and also gave an outlet to the short-lived World Football League. Mizlou Television Network earned a reputation for carrying a large number of college football bowl games in an era when televised college football was highly restricted. Modern syndication networks still exist for sporting events, such as Raycom Sports and American Sports Network, both of which specialize in college sports.\n\nThe debut of ESPN in 1979 revolutionized the broadcasting of sports events. Within several years of ESPN's founding as a basic cable channel, it had developed a stable of sports broadcasts ranging from major leagues to oddities. ESPN has since grown into a massive multiplexed network, with several channels and a large news bureau that has led to the network bestowing the title of \"Worldwide Leader in Sports\" upon itself. Cable, and later digital cable and satellite, greatly expanded the number of channels (and, by extension, the room for broadcasting sports events) available on a given set, and also gave channels such as ESPN the ability to broadcast direct and nationwide, as opposed to dealing with local affiliates. Syndication networks gave way to regional sports networks, which carried broadcasts of local sports on a far greater scale than full-service broadcast stations could provide at the time; these combined with out-of-market sports packages (which debuted in the 1990s) allowed the carriage of these networks' sporting events across the country. However, with the increased availability of sports to broadcast came increasing rights fees, which could be recovered by the newly authorized practice of collecting retransmission consent fees from cable subscribers, which has led to numerous disputes and the dropping of channels from cable lineups. Individual leagues began launching their own networks in the 2000s; specialty networks of other sports have had varying levels of success.\n\nOne of the first live high-definition sports broadcasts in the U.S. took place in September 1998 in which a football game between Ohio State and West Virginia, aired on WBNS-TV. The station claims this to have been the first locally produced HD broadcast in the U.S.; however, as several other stations throughout the country also lay claim to this distinction, the veracity cannot be verified. It is widely considered the first ever live sports game in HD in the U.S. produced using a production truck and transmission vehicle from NHK, Japan's national public broadcasting organization.\n\nThe Internet has also allowed greater broadcasting of sports events, both in video and audio forms and through free and subscription channels. With an Internet broadcast, even a locally broadcast high school football game can be heard worldwide on any device with an audio output and an Internet connection. Individual leagues (including major ones) all have subscription services that allow subscribers to watch their sporting events for a fee.\n\nOne of the first live sporting events in the U.S. to be streamed was the Ohio State spring football game in 2001 by WBNS-TV. The game was delivered on RealVideo, a compressed video format, on the RealPlayer media player platform on the station's website. It also was distributed to Windows Mobile mobile devices using the Windows Media Player format, including Compaq's IPAQ personal digital assistant which required an ExpressCard to connect to the Internet.\n\nBroadcasting rights and contracts limit who can show footage of the event.\n\nIn the United Kingdom BSkyB based its early marketing largely on its acquisition of the broadcast rights of the top division of the English league football, which as part of the deal with The Football Association broke away from The Football League to become the Premier League. This prevented the footage of any major Premier League football game being shown on free-to-air television until much later that evening (as highlights), something the European Commission were very unhappy about. Following warnings of legal action to stop the monopoly, an announcement was made that an alternative structure would be in place when the contract ended in 2007.\n\nIn the United States, team sports are broadcast by networks usually only in \"game of the week\" or championship situations, except for the NFL (see NFL on television) and motorsport. Other sports are broadcast by sports channels, and are limited by who can view them based on various rules set by the leagues themselves, resulting in blackouts. These limitations can be legally overlooked by purchasing out-of-market sports packages, such as MLB Extra Innings or NFL Sunday Ticket. Regular season games involving local teams (except the NFL) may also be viewed on those local stations or regional sports channels that have a contract to broadcast that team's games.\n\nEvents that have been described as \"the most watched\" per various definitions include the FIFA World Cup, Summer Olympic Games, Cricket World Cup, UEFA Champions League, Tour de France, Rugby World Cup (rugby union), Indian Premier League, Super Bowl, and the FIA Formula One World Championship.\n\nTV Rights of the UEFA Champions League, per country. Season 2009-2010, according to FootBiz.\n\n\nIn some countries, broadcast regulations referred to as \"anti-siphoning laws\" exist in order to ensure that coverage of major sporting events of national importance—often covering major events such as the Olympics, FIFA World Cup, and national team events in culturally-significant sports—are available on free-to-air, terrestrial television, rather than exclusively on pay television. Some larger events (particularly the Olympics) may be covered under rules allowing a portion of the event to be televised by a pay TV partner if a specific minimum of coverage is broadcast free-to-air, or if an extended highlights package is available on a delay to a free-to-air broadcaster.\n\nIn the United States, an attempt by the Federal Communications Commission to introduce similar restrictions on cable broadcasts of specific sporting events and recent films as to not cannibalize broadcast TV, was deemed unconstitutional in the 1977 court case \"Home Box Office, Inc. v. FCC\". Since then, sports have been a lucrative source of revenue in the U.S. pay television industry, including mainstream networks such as ESPN, as well as channels devoted to specific sports, leagues, and college sports conferences. These networks receive revenue from both advertising and carriage fees charged to television providers (and passed onto consumers as part of the cost of service), and can provide an outlet for expanded coverage of \"niche\" events with dedicated audiences.\n\nBy the mid-2000s and early 2010s, most major U.S. sports leagues (barring the National Football League, which has historically stipulated that all games be shown on terrestrial television in at least the markets of the teams involved) had begun to steadily decrease their presence on broadcast television, and allow more of their content (including post-season coverage in many cases) to air on cable networks, and more recently, digital-only outlets. The NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament and national championship games in college football have also largely moved to cable (since 2016, the semi-finals of the former only air on broadcast television in odd-numbered years).\n\nPay-per-view\n\n\n\n\nNational General Sports Networks:\n\nSpanish:\n\nSpecialty Sports Networks:\n\nCollege Sports Networks:\n\nRegional sports networks:\n\n\nSeveral sports teams in the United States have their own channels, or own shares in other sports networks. For example, the Boston Red Sox and Boston Bruins own New England Sports Network, which retains the New England area television broadcast rights for the majority of Red Sox games (except nationally televised games). The New York Mets own SportsNet New York jointly with Comcast and Time Warner Cable. Madison Square Garden has its own network as well, MSG, where they broadcast New York Rangers, New York Knicks, New York Islanders and high school sports games, as well as original shows. Altitude airs games of all Denver-based teams owned by Kroenke Sports Enterprises. Mid-Atlantic Sports Network is a partnership between the Washington Nationals and Baltimore Orioles.\n\nThe Longhorn Network, in which ESPN owns a stake, is even more specialized, designed as an outlet for the athletic program of the University of Texas at Austin (although it has also aired football games of the UT system's San Antonio campus).\n\nTeam-owned channels are also common in Europe, most notably Barça TV, Benfica TV, Galatasaray TV, Manchester United TV and Real Madrid TV.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50913636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913636", "title": "Buyout clause", "text": "Buyout clause\n\nA buyout clause or release clause refers to a clause in a contract that imposes an obligation on another organisation wishing to acquire the services of the employee under contract to pay the (usually substantial) fee of the clause to the organisation which issued the contract and 'owns' the employee.\n\nIt is most commonly used in reference to sports teams, where a transfer fee is usually paid for a player under contract; however, the current owning club is not obliged to sell their player, and if an agreement on a suitable fee cannot be reached, the buying club can instead resort to paying the player's buyout fee – should their contract have such a clause – which the owning club cannot block. Usually this is a higher amount than the player's expected market value, although on occasion a player at a smaller club will sign a contract but insist on a low buyout fee to attract bigger clubs if their performances generate interest.\n\nThe aim of this clause is twofold; firstly with its high amount, competing teams are discouraged from attempting to acquire the player if the current club shows no signs of selling them, and secondly it raises any hint to the players not to go through with their contractual commitment.\n\nIn Spain, buyout clauses have been mandatory in football contracts since 1985. If wishing to rescind their contract, the players are required to pay the buyout fee to their current club personally (via the league body), which would be advanced to them by the club signing them; however this advance of funds was originally deemed by the Spanish government to be taxable income, requiring the buying club to pay income tax on top of the fee itself, with the prohibitively high costs involved in this dual transaction discouraging clubs from making such deals. In October 2016 the laws were changed, with the buyout fee advances to the players no longer subject to tax, meaning only the fee itself had to be paid.\n\nAs of November 2017, the five largest buyout clauses were those of association football players Cristiano Ronaldo and player Karim Benzema of Real Madrid (€1 billion each) – Ronaldo subsequently moved to Juventus (a deal not involving the buyout fee); Isco and Marco Asensio (also Real Madrid, €700 million each), and that of FC Barcelona player Lionel Messi (also €700 million).\n\nOn 3 August 2017, Paris Saint-Germain activated the buyout clause of Brazilian footballer Neymar from FC Barcelona, which was set at €222 million, making him the most expensive football player in history, ahead of the previous record set by Paul Pogba (€105 million) in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "27303975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303975", "title": "Callanetics", "text": "Callanetics\n\nThe Callanetics exercise programme was created by Callan Pinckney in the early 1980s. It is a system of exercise involving frequent repetition of small muscular movements and squeezes, designed to improve muscle tone. The programme was developed by Pinckney from classical ballet exercises, to help ease a back problem that she was born with.\n\nThe theory of callanetics is that the surface muscles of the body are supported by deeper muscles, but popular exercise programmes often exercise only the surface muscles. According to callanetics, deeper muscles are best exercised using small but precise movements. Exercising the deeper muscles also leads to improved posture, which may result in the appearance of weight loss even if very little weight was lost.\n\nPinckney also recommends exercising with clothing that highlights (not flatters) the body's natural shape, and exercising in bright light, to show up the body's imperfections to the exerciser.\n\n"}
{"id": "5729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5729", "title": "Chariots of Fire", "text": "Chariots of Fire\n\nChariots of Fire is a 1981 British historical drama film. It tells the fact-based story of two athletes in the 1924 Olympics: Eric Liddell, a devout Scottish Christian who runs for the glory of God, and Harold Abrahams, an English Jew who runs to overcome prejudice.\n\nThe film was conceived and produced by David Puttnam, written by Colin Welland, and directed by Hugh Hudson. Ben Cross and Ian Charleson starred as Abrahams and Liddell, alongside Nigel Havers, Ian Holm, Lindsay Anderson, John Gielgud, Cheryl Campbell, and Alice Krige in supporting roles.\n\nIt was nominated for seven Academy Awards and won four, including Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay. It is ranked 19th in the British Film Institute's list of Top 100 British films. The film is also notable for its memorable electronic theme tune by Vangelis, who won the Academy Award for Best Original Score.\n\nThe film's title was inspired by the line, \"Bring me my chariot of fire,\" from the William Blake poem adapted into the popular British hymn \"Jerusalem\"; the hymn is heard at the end of the film. The original phrase \"chariot(s) of fire\" is from 2 Kings and in the Bible.\n\nIn 1919, Harold Abrahams (Ben Cross) enters the University of Cambridge, where he experiences anti-Semitism from the staff, but enjoys participating in the Gilbert and Sullivan club. He becomes the first person to ever complete the Trinity Great Court Run, running around the college courtyard in the time it takes for the clock to strike 12, and achieves an undefeated string of victories in various national running competitions. Although focused on his running, he falls in love with a leading Gilbert and Sullivan soprano, Sybil (Alice Krige).\n\nEric Liddell (Ian Charleson), born in China of Scottish missionary parents, is in Scotland. His devout sister Jennie (Cheryl Campbell) disapproves of Liddell's plans to pursue competitive running, but Liddell sees running as a way of glorifying God before returning to China to work as a missionary.\n\nWhen they first race against each other, Liddell beats Abrahams. Abrahams takes it poorly, but Sam Mussabini (Ian Holm), a professional trainer whom he had approached earlier, offers to take him on to improve his technique. This attracts criticism from the Cambridge college masters (John Gielgud and Lindsay Anderson), who allege it is not gentlemanly for an amateur to \"play the tradesman\" by employing a professional coach. Abrahams dismisses this concern, interpreting it as cover for anti-Semitic and class-based prejudice.\n\nWhen Eric Liddell accidentally misses a church prayer meeting because of his running, his sister Jennie upbraids him and accuses him of no longer caring about God. Eric tells her that though he intends to eventually return to the China mission, he feels divinely inspired when running, and that not to run would be to dishonour God, saying, \"I believe that God made me for a purpose. But He also made me fast, and when I run, I feel His pleasure.\"\n\nThe two athletes, after years of training and racing, are accepted to represent Great Britain in the 1924 Olympics in Paris. Also accepted are Abrahams' Cambridge friends, Lord Andrew Lindsay (Nigel Havers), Aubrey Montague (Nicholas Farrell), and Henry Stallard (Daniel Gerroll).\n\nWhile boarding the boat to Paris for the Olympics, Liddell discovers the heats for his 100-metre race will be on a Sunday. He refuses to run the race, despite strong pressure from the Prince of Wales and the British Olympic committee, because his Christian convictions prevent him from running on the Sabbath.\n\nHope appears when Liddell's teammate Lindsay, having already won a silver medal in the 400 metres hurdles, proposes to concede his place in the 400-metre race on the following Thursday to Liddell, who gratefully agrees. His religious convictions in the face of national athletic pride make headlines around the world.\n\nLiddell delivers a sermon at the Paris Church of Scotland that Sunday, and quotes from , ending with, \"But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.\"\n\nAbrahams is badly beaten by the heavily favoured United States runners in the 200 metre race. He knows his last chance for a medal will be the 100 metres. He competes in the race, and wins. His coach Sam Mussabini is overcome that the years of dedication and training have paid off with an Olympic gold medal. Now Abrahams can get on with his life and reunite with his girlfriend Sybil, whom he had neglected for the sake of running.\n\nBefore Liddell's race, the American coach remarks dismissively to his runners that Liddell has little chance of doing well in his now far longer 400 metre race. But one of the American runners, Jackson Scholz, hands Liddell a note of support for his convictions. Liddell defeats the American favourites and wins the gold medal.\n\nThe British team returns home triumphant. As the film ends, onscreen text explains that Abrahams married Sybil, and became the elder statesman of British athletics. Liddell went on to missionary work in China. All of Scotland mourned his death in 1945 in Japanese-occupied China.\n\n\nThe film depicts Abrahams as attending Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge with three other Olympic athletes: Henry Stallard, Aubrey Montague, and Lord Andrew Lindsay. Abrahams and Stallard were in fact students there and competed in the 1924 Olympics. Montague also competed in the Olympics as depicted, but he attended Oxford, not Cambridge. Aubrey Montague sent daily letters to his mother about his time at Oxford and the Olympics; these letters were the basis of Montague's narration in the film.\n\nThe character of Lindsay was based partially on Lord Burghley, a significant figure in the history of British athletics. Although Burghley did attend Cambridge, he was not a contemporary of Harold Abrahams, as Abrahams was an undergraduate from 1919 to 1923 and Burghley was at Cambridge from 1923 to 1927. One scene in the film depicts the Burghley-based \"Lindsay\" as practising hurdles on his estate with full champagne glasses placed on each hurdle – this was something the wealthy Burghley did, although he used matchboxes instead of champagne glasses. The fictional character of Lindsay was created when Douglas Lowe, who was Britain's third athletics gold medallist in the 1924 Olympics, was not willing to be involved with the film.\nAnother scene in the film recreates the Great Court Run, in which the runners attempt to run around the perimeter of the Great Court at Trinity College, Cambridge in the time it takes the clock to strike 12 at midday. The film shows Abrahams performing the feat for the first time in history. In fact, Abrahams never attempted this race, and at the time of filming the only person on record known to have succeeded was Lord Burghley, in 1927. In \"Chariots of Fire\", Lindsay, who is based on Lord Burghley, runs the Great Court Run with Abrahams in order to spur him on, and crosses the finish line just a moment too late. Since the film's release, the Great Court Run has also been successfully run by Trinity undergraduate Sam Dobin, in October 2007.\n\nIn the film, Eric Liddell is tripped up by a Frenchman in the 400-metre event of a Scotland–France international athletic meeting. He recovers, makes up a 20-metre deficit, and wins. This was based on fact; the actual race was the 440 yards at a Triangular Contest meet between Scotland, England, and Ireland at Stoke-on-Trent in England in July 1923. His achievement was remarkable as he had already won the 100- and 220-yard events that day. Also unmentioned with regard to Liddell is that it was he who introduced Abrahams to Sam Mussabini. This is alluded to: In the film Abrahams first encounters Mussabini while he is watching Liddell race. The film, however, suggests that Abrahams himself sought Mussabini's assistance.\n\nAbrahams and Liddell did race against each other once, but not quite as depicted in the film, which shows Liddell winning the final of the 100 yards against a shattered Abrahams at the 1923 AAA Championship at Stamford Bridge. In fact, they raced only in a heat of the 220 yards, which Liddell won, five yards ahead of Abrahams, who did not progress to the final. In the 100 yards, Abrahams was eliminated in the heats and never raced against Liddell, who won the finals of both races the next day.\n\nAbrahams' fiancée is misidentified as Sybil Gordon, a soprano at the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company. In fact, in 1936, Abrahams married Sybil Evers, who sang at the D'Oyly Carte, but they did not meet until 1934. Also, in the film, Sybil is depicted as singing the role of Yum-Yum in \"The Mikado\", but neither Sybil Gordon nor Sybil Evers ever sang that role with D'Oyly Carte, although Evers was known for her charm in singing Peep-Bo, one of the two other \"little maids from school\". Harold Abrahams' love of and heavy involvement with Gilbert and Sullivan, as depicted in the film, is factual.\n\nLiddell's sister was several years younger than she was portrayed in the film. Her disapproval of Liddell's track career was creative licence; she actually fully supported his sporting work. Jenny Liddell Somerville cooperated fully with the making of the film and has a brief cameo in the Paris Church of Scotland during Liddell's sermon.\n\nAt the memorial service for Harold Abrahams, which opens the film, Lord Lindsay mentions that he and Aubrey Montague are the only members of the 1924 Olympic team still alive. However, Montague died in 1948, 30 years before Abrahams' death.\n\nThe film takes some liberties with the events at the 1924 Olympics, including the events surrounding Liddell's refusal to race on a Sunday. In the film, he doesn't learn that the 100-metre heat is to be held on the Christian Sabbath until he is boarding the boat to Paris. In fact, the schedule was made public several months in advance; Liddell did however face immense pressure to run on that Sunday and to compete in the 100 metres, getting called before a grilling by the British Olympic Committee, the Prince of Wales, and other grandees, and his refusal to run made headlines around the world.\n\nThe decision to change races was, even so, made well before embarking to Paris, and Liddell spent the intervening months training for the 400 metres, an event in which he had previously excelled. It is true, nonetheless, that Liddell's success in the Olympic 400m was largely unexpected.\n\nThe film depicts Lindsay, having already won a medal in the 400-metre hurdles, giving up his place in the 400-metre race for Liddell. In fact Burghley, on whom Lindsay is loosely based, was eliminated in the heats of the 110 hurdles (he would go on to win a gold medal in the 400 hurdles at the 1928 Olympics), and was not entered for the 400 metres.\n\nThe film reverses the order of Abrahams' 100m and 200m races at the Olympics. In reality, after winning the 100 metres race, Abrahams ran the 200 metres but finished last, Jackson Scholz taking the gold medal. In the film, before his triumph in the 100m, Abrahams is shown losing the 200m and being scolded by Mussabini. And during the following scene in which Abrahams speaks with his friend Montague while receiving a massage from Mussabini, there is a French newspaper clipping showing Scholz and Charlie Paddock with a headline which states that the 200 metres was a triumph for the United States. In the same conversation, Abrahams laments getting \"beaten out of sight\" in the 200. The film thus has Abrahams overcoming the disappointment of losing the 200 by going on to win the 100, a reversal of the real order.\n\nEric Liddell actually also ran in the 200m race, and finished third, behind Paddock and Scholz. This was the only time in reality that Liddell and Abrahams competed in the same race. While their meeting in the 1923 AAA Championship in the film was fictitious, Liddell's record win in that race did spur Abrahams to train even harder.\n\nAbrahams also won a silver medal as an opening runner for the 4 x 100 metres relay team, not shown in the film, and Aubrey Montague placed sixth in the steeplechase, as depicted.\n\nIn the film, the 100m bronze medallist is a character called \"Tom Watson\"; the real medallist was Arthur Porritt of New Zealand, who refused permission for his name to be used in the film, allegedly out of modesty, and his wish was accepted by the film's producers, even though his permission was not necessary. However, the brief back-story given for Watson, who is called up to the New Zealand team from the University of Oxford, substantially matches Porritt's history. With the exception of Porritt, all the runners in the 100m final are identified correctly when they line up for inspection by the Prince of Wales.\n\nJackson Scholz is depicted as handing Liddell an inspirational Bible-quotation message before the 400 metres final: \"It says in the Old Book, 'He that honors me, I will honor.' Good luck.\" In reality, the note was from members of the British team, and was handed to Liddell before the race by his attending masseur at the team's Paris hotel. For dramatic purposes, screenwriter Welland asked Scholz if he could be depicted handing the note, and Scholz readily agreed, saying \"Yes, great, as long as it makes me look good.\"\n\nProducer David Puttnam was looking for a story in the mold of \"A Man for All Seasons\" (1966), regarding someone who follows his conscience, and felt sports provided clear situations in this sense. He discovered Eric Liddell's story by accident in 1977, when he happened upon a reference book on the Olympics while housebound from the flu in a rented house in Los Angeles.\n\nScreenwriter Colin Welland, commissioned by Puttnam, did an enormous amount of research for his Academy Award-winning script. Among other things, he took out advertisements in London newspapers seeking memories of the 1924 Olympics, went to the National Film Archives for pictures and footage of the 1924 Olympics, and interviewed everyone involved who was still alive. Welland just missed Abrahams, who died 14 January 1978, but he did attend Abrahams' February 1978 memorial service, which inspired the present-day framing device of the film. Aubrey Montague's son saw Welland's newspaper ad and sent him copies of the letters his father had sent home – which gave Welland something to use as a narrative bridge in the film. Except for changes in the greetings of the letters from \"Darling Mummy\" to \"Dear Mum\" and the change from Oxford to Cambridge, all of the readings from Montague's letters are from the originals.\n\nWelland's original script also featured, in addition to Eric Liddell and Harold Abrahams, a third protagonist, 1924 Olympic gold medallist Douglas Lowe, who was presented as a privileged aristocratic athlete. However, Lowe refused to have anything to do with the film, and his character was written out and replaced by the fictional character of Lord Andrew Lindsay.\n\nIan Charleson himself wrote Eric Liddell's speech to the post-race workingmen's crowd at the Scotland v. Ireland races. Charleson, who had studied the Bible intensively in preparation for the role, told director Hugh Hudson that he didn't feel the portentous and sanctimonious scripted speech was either authentic or inspiring. Hudson and Welland allowed him to write words he personally found inspirational instead.\n\nThe film was slightly altered for the U.S. audience. A brief scene depicting a pre-Olympics cricket game between Abrahams, Liddell, Montague, and the rest of the British track team appears shortly after the beginning of the original film. For the American audience, this brief scene was deleted. In the U.S., to avoid the initial G rating, which had been strongly associated with children's films and might have hindered box office sales, a different scene was used – one depicting Abrahams and Montague arriving at a Cambridge railway station and encountering two World War I veterans who use an obscenity – in order to be given a PG rating.\n\nPuttnam chose Hugh Hudson, a multiple award-winning advertising and documentary filmmaker who had never helmed a feature film, to direct \"Chariots of Fire\". Hudson and Puttnam had known each other since the 1960s, when Puttnam was an advertising executive and Hudson was making films for ad agencies. In 1977, Hudson had also been second-unit director on the Puttnam-produced film \"Midnight Express\".\n\nDirector Hugh Hudson was determined to cast young, unknown actors in all the major roles of the film, and to back them up by using veterans like John Gielgud, Lindsay Anderson, and Ian Holm as their supporting cast. Hudson and producer David Puttnam did months of fruitless searching for the perfect actor to play Eric Liddell. They then saw Scottish stage actor Ian Charleson performing the role of Pierre in the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of \"Piaf\", and knew immediately they had found their man. Unbeknownst to them, Charleson had heard about the film from his father, and desperately wanted to play the part, feeling it would \"fit like a kid glove\".\n\nBen Cross, who plays Harold Abrahams, was discovered while playing Billy Flynn in \"Chicago\". In addition to having a natural pugnaciousness, he had the desired ability to sing and play the piano. Cross was thrilled to be cast, and said he was moved to tears by the film's script.\n\n20th Century Fox, which put up half of the production budget in exchange for distribution rights outside of North America, insisted on having a couple of notable American names in the cast. Thus the small parts of the two American champion runners, Jackson Scholz and Charlie Paddock, were cast with recent headliners: Brad Davis had recently starred in \"Midnight Express\" (also produced by Puttnam), and Dennis Christopher had recently starred, as a young bicycle racer, in the popular indie film \"Breaking Away\".\n\nAll of the actors portraying runners underwent a gruelling three-month training intensive with renowned running coach Tom McNab. This training and isolation of the actors also created a strong bond and sense of camaraderie among them.\n\nAlthough the film is a period piece, set in the 1920s, the Academy Award-winning original soundtrack composed by Vangelis uses a modern 1980s electronic sound, with a strong use of synthesizer and piano among other instruments. This was a bold and significant departure from earlier period films, which employed sweeping orchestral instrumentals. The title theme of the film has become iconic, and has been used in subsequent films and television shows during slow-motion segments.\n\nVangelis, a Greek-born electronic composer who moved to Paris in the late 1960s, had been living in London since 1974. Director Hugh Hudson had collaborated with him on documentaries and commercials, and was also particularly impressed with his 1979 albums \"Opera Sauvage\" and \"China\". David Puttnam also greatly admired Vangelis's body of work, having originally selected his compositions for his previous film \"Midnight Express\". Hudson made the choice for Vangelis and for a modern score: \"I knew we needed a piece which was anachronistic to the period to give it a feel of modernity. It was a risky idea but we went with it rather than have a period symphonic score.\" The soundtrack had a personal significance to Vangelis: After composing the iconic theme tune he told Puttnam, \"My father is a runner, and this is an anthem to him.\"\n\nHudson originally wanted Vangelis's 1977 tune \"L'Enfant\", from his \"Opera Sauvage\" album, to be the title theme of the film, and the beach running sequence was actually filmed with \"L'Enfant\" playing on loudspeakers for the runners to pace to. Vangelis finally convinced Hudson he could create a new and better piece for the film's main theme – and when he played the now-iconic \"Chariots of Fire\" theme for Hudson, it was agreed the new tune was unquestionably better. The \"L'Enfant\" melody still made it into the film: When the athletes reach Paris and enter the stadium, a brass band marches through the field, and first plays a modified, acoustic performance of the piece. Vangelis's electronic \"L'Enfant\" track eventually was used prominently in the 1982 film \"The Year of Living Dangerously\".\n\nSome pieces of Vangelis's music in the film did not end up on the film's soundtrack album. One of them is the background music to the race Eric Liddell runs in the Scottish highlands. This piece is a version of \"Hymne\", the original version of which appears on Vangelis's 1979 album, \"Opéra sauvage\". Various versions are also included on Vangelis's compilation albums \"Themes\", \"Portraits\", and \"\", though none of these include the version used in the film.\n\nFive lively Gilbert and Sullivan tunes also appear in the soundtrack, and serve as jaunty period music which nicely counterpoints Vangelis's modern electronic score. These are: \"He is an Englishman\" from \"H.M.S. Pinafore\", \"Three Little Maids from School Are We\" from \"The Mikado\", \"With Catlike Tread\" from \"The Pirates of Penzance\", \"The Soldiers of Our Queen\" from \"Patience\", and \"There Lived a King\" from \"The Gondoliers\".\n\nThe film also incorporates a major traditional work: \"Jerusalem\", sung by a British choir at the 1978 funeral of Harold Abrahams. The words, written by William Blake in 1804-8, were set to music by Parry in 1916 as a celebration of England. This hymn has been described as \"England's unofficial national anthem\", concludes the film and inspired its title. A handful of other traditional anthems and hymns and period-appropriate instrumental ballroom-dance music round out the film's soundtrack.\n\nThe beach scenes associated with the theme tune were filmed at West Sands, St Andrews. A plaque commemorating the filming can be found there today. The very last scene of the opening titles crosses the 1st and 18th holes of the Old Course at St Andrews Links.\n\nAll of the Cambridge scenes were actually filmed at Hugh Hudson's alma mater Eton College, because Cambridge refused filming rights, fearing depictions of anti-Semitism. The Cambridge administration greatly regretted the decision after the film's enormous success.\n\nLiverpool Town Hall was the setting for the scenes depicting the British Embassy in Paris. The Colombes Olympic Stadium in Paris was represented by the Oval Sports Centre, Bebington, Merseyside. The nearby Woodside ferry terminal was used to represent the embarkation scenes set in Dover. The railway station scenes were filmed in York, using locomotives from the National Railway Museum. The scene depicting a performance of \"The Mikado\" was filmed in the Royal Court Theatre, Liverpool with members of the D'Oyly Carte Opera Company who were on tour.\n\n\"Chariots of Fire\" became a recurring theme in promotions for the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. The film's theme tune was featured at the opening of the 2012 London New Years fireworks celebrating the Olympics, and the film's iconic beach-running scene and theme tune were used in \"The Sun\"'s \"Let's Make It Great, Britain\" Olympic ads. The runners who first tested the new Olympic Park were spurred on by the \"Chariots of Fire\" theme tune, and the iconic music was also used to fanfare the carriers of the Olympic flame on parts of its route through the UK. The beach-running sequence was also recreated at St. Andrews and filmed as part of the Olympic torch relay.\n\nThe film's theme was also performed by the London Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Simon Rattle, during the Opening Ceremony of the games; the performance was accompanied by a comedy skit by Rowan Atkinson (as Mr Bean) which included the opening beach-running footage from the film. The film's theme tune was also played during each medal ceremony of the 2012 Olympics.\n\nA stage adaptation of \"Chariots of Fire\" was mounted in honour of the 2012 Olympics. The play, \"Chariots of Fire\", which was adapted by playwright Mike Bartlett and included the iconic Vangelis score, ran from 9 May to 16 June 2012 at London's Hampstead Theatre, and transferred to the Gielgud Theatre in the West End on 23 June, where it ran until 5 January 2013. It starred Jack Lowden as Eric Liddell and James McArdle as Harold Abrahams, and Edward Hall directed. Stage designer Miriam Buether transformed each theatre into an Olympic stadium, and composer Jason Carr wrote additional music. Vangelis also created several new pieces of music for the production. The stage version for the London Olympic year was the idea of the film's director, Hugh Hudson, who co-produced the play; he stated, \"Issues of faith, of refusal to compromise, standing up for one's beliefs, achieving something for the sake of it, with passion, and not just for fame or financial gain, are even more vital today.\"\n\nAnother play, \"Running for Glory\", written by Philip Dart, based on the 1924 Olympics, and focusing on Abrahams and Liddell, toured parts of Britain from 25 February to 1 April 2012. It starred Nicholas Jacobs as Harold Abrahams, and Tom Micklem as Eric Liddell.\n\nAs an official part of the London 2012 Festival celebrations, a new digitally re-mastered version of the film screened in 150 cinemas throughout the UK. The re-release began 13 July 2012, two weeks before the opening ceremony of the London Olympics.\n\nA Blu-ray of the film was released on 10 July 2012 in North America, and was released 16 July 2012 in the UK. The release includes nearly an hour of special features, a CD sampler, and a 32-page \"digibook\".\n\nSince its release \"Chariots of Fire\" has received generally positive reviews from critics. the film holds an 83% \"Certified Fresh\" rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 64 reviews, accompanied by the summary \"Decidedly slower and less limber than the Olympic runners at the center of its story, the film nevertheless manages to make effectively stirring use of its spiritual and patriotic themes.\"\n\nFor its 2012 re-release, Kate Muir of \"The Times\" gave the film five stars, writing: \"In a time when drug tests and synthetic fibres have replaced gumption and moral fibre, the tale of two runners competing against each other in the 1924 Olympics has a simple, undiminished power. From the opening scene of pale young men racing barefoot along the beach, full of hope and elation, backed by Vangelis's now famous anthem, the film is utterly compelling.\"\n\n\"Chariots of Fire\" was very successful at the 54th Academy Awards, winning four of seven nominations. When accepting his Oscar for Best Original Screenplay, Colin Welland famously announced \"The British are coming\". At the 1981 Cannes Film Festival the film won two awards and competed for the Palme d'Or.\n\n\nAmerican Film Institute recognition\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37307060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37307060", "title": "Chronic training load", "text": "Chronic training load\n\nChronic training load, often abbreviated as CTL, is the cumulative training dose that builds up over a long period of time. This concept is especially popular in cycling, among athletes who use a cycling power meter, which simplifies the collection and review of training data. The main concept is that an appropriate level of CTL will cause the body of an athlete to go through fitness adaptations. The time span over which it is measured ranges from weeks to months. The concept of CTL is often used in comparison to that of acute training load to plan or examine the results of a training program.\n"}
{"id": "3247983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3247983", "title": "Clay court", "text": "Clay court\n\nA clay court is one of many different types of tennis court. Clay courts are made of crushed shale, stone, brick, or other unbound mineral aggregates. The French Open uses clay courts, making it unique among the Grand Slam tournaments. Clay courts are more common in Continental Europe and Latin America than in North America, Asia or Britain. Two main types exist: red clay, the more common variety, and green clay, also known as \"rubico\", which is a harder surface. Although less expensive to construct than other types of tennis courts, the maintenance costs of clay are high as the surface must be rolled to preserve flatness.\n\nClay courts favor the \"full western grip\" for more topspin. \"Clay-courters\" generally play in a semicircle about behind the baseline.\n\nClay courts are considered \"slow\" because the balls bounce relatively high and lose much of their initial speed when contacting the surface, making it more difficult for a player to deliver an unreturnable shot. Points are usually longer as there are fewer winners. Therefore, clay courts heavily favor baseliners who are consistent and have a strong defensive game, which has allowed players such as Rafael Nadal, Björn Borg, Chris Evert, and Justine Henin to find success at the French Open.\n\nClay court players use topspins to throw off their opponents. Movement on gravel courts is very different from movement on any other surface. Playing on clay often involves the ability to slide into the ball during the stroke, as opposed to running and stopping like on a hard or grass court. Players who excel on clay courts but struggle to replicate the same form on fast courts are known as clay-court specialists.\n\nClay courts are unique in that the ball bounce leaves an impression in the ground, which can help determine whether a shot was in or out. Critics of red clay courts point to the constant need to wet them down, problems renewing the surface if it dries out, and the damage caused to clothing and footwear through stains. All clay courts, not just red clay, tend to cause a build-up of clay on the bottom of the shoes of the players, needing constant removal.\n\nAlmost all red clay courts are made not of natural clay but of crushed brick that is packed to make the court, with the top most layers consisting of finely crushed loose particles. Such courts are most common in Europe and Latin America.\n\n\"En tout cas\" (Fr. \"in any case\") is a version of red clay with a coarser top layer to improve drainage. The coarser surface allows more water to run through the surface of the court drying the surface more quickly after rain. \n\nNatural clay courts are rare because this type of surface does not absorb water easily and takes two to three days to dry. A good example of natural red clay can be seen at the Frick Park Clay Courts in Pittsburgh, a public facility of six red clay courts that has been in continual use since 1930.\n\nGreen clay, also called rubico and the brand name Har-Tru, is similar to coarse red clay, but is made from crushed metabasalt rather than brick, making the surface slightly harder and faster. Green clay is packed to make the subsurface. It is then covered with a topping. These courts are located primarily in the eastern and southern United States.\n\nThere is one WTA tournament played on green Har-Tru clay courts, the Volvo Car Open in Charleston, South Carolina.\n\nRafael Nadal, winner of eleven French Open men's singles titles, is noted for his success on clay; since his debut in 2005, he has only lost twice at the tournament – in 2009 and 2015. Nadal holds the record for the longest winning streak by any male player on a single surface since the tennis open era began in 1968: 81 clay court wins between April 2005 and May 2007. He also holds the record for most titles won on clay in the open era with 55 trophies. Thomas Muster is also considered a successful clay court player; although he only won the French Open once, 40 out of his 44 career singles titles were won on clay.\n\nOn the women's side, Justine Henin and Monica Seles hold the record for the number of consecutive French Open titles won at three (1990–1992 for Seles and 2005–2007 for Henin). In the pre-open era this feat was first achieved by Helen Wills Moody (1928–1930) and followed by Hilde Krahwinkel Sperling (1935–1937).\n\nChris Evert holds the record for longest winning streak on clay for either gender in the open era: from August 1973 to May 1979, she won 125 consecutive clay court matches. During this time Evert skipped three editions of the French Opens (1976–78), to participate in World Team Tennis. She also has the highest career win percentage on clay courts (94.28%) during the open era.\n\nThe most successful currently active female player on clay is Serena Williams, who won the French Open thrice, in 2002, 2013 and 2015. In 2013, Williams went undefeated throughout the clay court season, winning five titles on the surface.\n\nA clay-court specialist is a tennis player who excels on clay courts.\n\nDue in part to advances in racquet technology, current clay-court specialists are known for employing long, winding groundstrokes that generate heavy topspin, strokes which are less effective when the surface is faster and the balls do not bounce as high. Clay-court specialists tend to slide more effectively on clay than other players. Many of them are also very adept at hitting the drop shot, which can be effective because rallies on clay courts often leave players pushed far beyond the baseline. Additionally, the slow, long rallies require a great degree of mental focus and physical stamina from the players.\n\nThe definition of \"clay-court specialist\" has varied, with some placing players such as Thomas Muster, Gustavo Kuerten, and Juan Carlos Ferrero in that category, even though these players have won tournaments (including Masters Series events) on other surfaces. However, since these players won major titles only at the French Open, they are sometimes labeled as such. Other players, such as Sergi Bruguera, Albert Costa and Gastón Gaudio were French Open champions who won all or very nearly all of their career titles on clay. Among female players, there have been very few whose best results were confined exclusively to clay. Virginia Ruzici, Anastasia Myskina, Iva Majoli, Sue Barker, Ana Ivanovic, Francesca Schiavone, Jeļena Ostapenko and Simona Halep are the only female players to have won major titles at only the French Open since the beginning of the open era.\n\nIncreasingly, clay courters have attempted to play better on other surfaces with some success. Ferrero reached the US Open Final in 2003, the same year he won the French Open, and also won several hardcourt tournaments. Nadal was considered a clay court specialist until a string of successes on other surfaces, including completing a golden career grand slam, led to a broadening of his reputation, while 2016 French Open winner Garbiñe Muguruza reached the 2015 Wimbledon final and won the 2017 Wimbledon title.\n\nThe professional clay court season comprises many more tournaments than the brief grass court season, but is still shorter than the hard court seasons. There are three distinct clay court seasons during the year.\n\nThe first is the men's winter clay season consisting of tournaments in South America. Played primarily in February between the Australian Open and the Indian Wells Masters, the ATP has four tournaments in this swing, although other ATP tournaments played on hardcourt occur the same weeks. The WTA discontinued its participation in Rio de Janeiro after 2016, so there are no clay court women's tournaments during this period.\n\nThe second is the long spring clay season that starts in the Americas and Morocco before moving to mainland Europe and finishing with the French Open. It is usually played over two months between April and June, after the Miami Open. Unlike the other two clay seasons this swing does not share the majority of its time with simultaneous hard court tournaments.\n\nThe third is the brief summer clay season that takes place after Wimbledon. It is entirely in Europe, and usually takes place in July. Near the end of the swing, it overlaps with the beginning of the US Open Series.\n\n"}
{"id": "34270483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34270483", "title": "Defensive Player of the Year Award", "text": "Defensive Player of the Year Award\n\nDefensive Player of the Year is the name of an award given in sports for outstanding defensive play by a single player over the course of a season. Many sports leagues award this type of award. A listing of the league awards for Defensive Player of the Year is included below:\n\nAmerican football:\n\nBasketball:\n"}
{"id": "615059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615059", "title": "ESPY Award", "text": "ESPY Award\n\nAn ESPY Award (short for Excellence in Sports Performance Yearly Award) is an accolade currently presented by the American broadcast television network ABC, and previously ESPN (as of the 2017 ESPY Awards the latter still airs them in the form of replays), to recognize individual and team athletic achievement and other sports-related performance during the calendar year preceding a given annual ceremony. The first ESPYs were awarded in 1993. Because of the ceremony's rescheduling prior to the 2002 iteration thereof, awards presented in 2002 were for achievement and performances during the seventeen-plus previous months. As the similarly styled Grammy (for music), Emmy (for television), Academy Award (for film), and Tony (for theater), the ESPYs are hosted by a contemporary celebrity; the style, though, is more relaxed, light, and self-referential than that of many other awards shows, with comedic sketches usually included.\n\nFrom their inception to 2004, ESPY Award winners were chosen only through voting by fans. Since 2004, sportswriters, broadcasters, sports executives, and sportspersons, collectively experts; or ESPN personalities also vote. Award winners have been selected thereafter exclusively through online fan balloting conducted from amongst candidates selected by the ESPY Select Nominating Committee.\n\nA portion of the proceeds from sales of tickets to the event devolves on the V Foundation, a charity established by collegiate basketball coach and television commentator Jim Valvano to promote cancer research. Valvano announced the creation of the charitable foundation during his acceptance of the Arthur Ashe Courage Award during the inaugural ESPY telecast on March 3, 1993, fifty-five days before Valvano's death from metastatic adenocarcinoma.\n\nThe ESPY Award statuette was designed and created by sculptor Lawrence Nowlan.\n\nBetween 1993 and 2001, the ceremony was held each year in either February or March and was broadcast recorded on ESPN.\n\nSince 2002, the ceremony has been conducted on the Wednesday in July following the Major League Baseball (MLB) All-Star Game; as it marks the only day of the year that none of the major North American professional leagues or college sports programs have games scheduled for that day—the National Basketball Association, National Football League, and National Hockey League are not in-season (though the NBA does have its exhibition NBA Summer League going on and NFL teams are getting ready for training camp), colleges are in recess for the summer, and MLB does not contest games on the day following its all-star game—major sports figures are available to attend. The show is aired on the subsequent Sunday four days later, although the results are announced on ESPN.com and thereafter across media outlets immediately after taping is complete. For the first time since 2003 the ESPY Awards were televised live on ESPN, July 14, 2010. In 2015, the ESPY Awards came to network television for the first time, as ABC aired the awards. ABC did so again in 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\nThe first seven editions of the ESPYs were held in New York City—in 1993 and 1994 at Madison Square Garden and from 1995 through 1999, at Radio City Music Hall. The awards relocated to Las Vegas, Nevada, for two years beginning in 2000, and ultimately settled at the Kodak Theatre in Hollywood, California. In 2006, it was announced that the awards would move in 2008 to the Microsoft Theater (formerly the Nokia Theatre), to be situated as the West Coast headquarters of ESPN at LA Live, adjacent to the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California.\n\nThe ceremonies have been hosted variously by comedians, television and film actors, and sportspeople. American film actor Samuel L. Jackson is the only individual to have hosted four times (in 1999, 2001, 2002, and 2009); American comedian Dennis Miller, American film actor and singer Jamie Foxx, and actor and comedian Seth Meyers are the only others to have hosted the awards ceremonies more than once.\n\nAmerican professional golfer Tiger Woods is the most-honored ESPY recipient, having received 21 awards.\n\n\"Cross-cutter\" awards are those for which the eligibility is not confined to those sportspersons participating in, or those events occurring in, any single or specific sport. \n\n\n\"Individual\" awards are those for which eligibility is limited to those partaking of a single individual or team sport or specific sport category.\n\n\"Sponsored\" awards are those otherwise constituted as \"cross-cutter\" awards the titles and eligibility criteria of which reflect corporate sponsorship.\n\n\"Cross-cutter\" awards are those the eligibility for which is not confined to those sportspersons participating in, or those events occurring in, any single or specific sport.\n\n\"Individual\" awards are those for which eligibility is limited to those partaking of a single individual or team sport or specific sport category.\n\n\"Sponsored\" awards are those otherwise constituted as \"cross-cutter\" awards the titles and eligibility criteria of which reflect corporate sponsorship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46442985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46442985", "title": "ES Radès", "text": "ES Radès\n\nÉtoile Sportive de Radès (), often referred to as ESR is a basketball and football club from Radès, Tunisia. Founded in 1948, the team plays in blue and white colors. They are competing in Ligue 3 as of 2014–15.\n\nThe team used to be called \"Union Sportive Radèsienne\" before 1965.\n\nÉtoile Sportive de Radès (basketball)\n\n"}
{"id": "15459738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15459738", "title": "Equipment manager", "text": "Equipment manager\n\nAn equipment manager is the person in charge of equipment used by a business or organization. Their duties include purchasing, maintenance, repair, inventory, transportation, storage, cleaning, and liquidation. They are responsible for providing the proper equipment for the job, either on-site, or off-site. In sports, an equipment manager is a person who is in charge of a sports team's equipment. In professional and collegiate sports, this is usually a full-time job and includes transportation, laundry, repairs and regular service (such as sharpening of skates for ice hockey).\n\nIn association football, the kit manager or kit man oversees the players' equipment.\n\nIn golf, the equipment manager oversees the fleet of equipment used on the golf course for turf management. This may include:\nAnd numerous other pieces of equipment a Golf Course or the Turf Care industry employs. \n\nThe term has also been used less frequently as a synonym with \"Fleet Manager\" (fleet management).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38247747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38247747", "title": "EuroLeague clubs performance comparison", "text": "EuroLeague clubs performance comparison\n\nThis is a comparison of the club's performances in the EuroLeague since the 2000–01 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "435759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435759", "title": "Extreme cold weather clothing", "text": "Extreme cold weather clothing\n\nExtreme cold weather clothing refers to clothing for arctic or mountainous areas. Its primary function is to trap air as an insulator to prevent heat loss from the wearer's body. Secondary and necessary is to conduct water vapor away from the body to keep the insulating layers dry. A shell keeps the wind from disturbing the still air in the insulating layers. In warmer conditions, the shell protects from water intrusion.\n\nThe U.S. National Weather Service defines \"extreme cold\" as with winds less than . In these conditions, the unprotected skin of a healthy adult will develop frostbite in ten to twenty minutes. The Canadian standard includes lower temperatures.\nA vacuum is the best insulator, but its use in clothing is impractical. Dry air is a practical insulator. Extreme cold weather clothing uses still dry air to insulate the body, layers of loose air trapping material are most effective. The inner layers should conduct moisture away from the body. Outer layers should be windproof as well as suitable to the harsh terrain.\n\nThe original cold weather clothing was made of furs. The fibers of the fur trapped insulating air; lanolin on the fur repelled water. Knitted wool was an effective insulator, but ineffective when wet. Goose down is the lightest insulator, and still used today. Its quality, called \"loft\" is a measure of its low density. It is tragically ineffective when wet. \n\nArtificial fibers have good loft, and do not lose it when wet. One effective fiber is \"Hollofil\" a hollow fiber of polyolefin. Outer garments are often made of nylon, which is strong and abrasion resistant. To the nylon is often bonded to a layer of polytetrafluoroethylene (trade name Teflon) in a form that has holes small enough for moisture to escape, but not allow liquid water to intrude. This material is trade named \"Gore-Tex\".\n\nThe U.S. Army describes cold weather best practices by the mnemonic acronym \"COLD\".\nThe protocol is aimed at keeping the insulation dry, so that it may be most effective.\n\nBest practice indicates that for extreme conditions, clothing should be layered and loose. Near the core of the body, a soft, wicking layer is best. Cotton or silk underwear is preferred. Then, by preference, a knitted layer of wool or synthetic fleece. A massive insulating layer and a windproof layer complete the ensemble.\n\nUnderwear, inner socks, and glove liners are typically thin soft knits of silk, cotton, or synthetic.\n\nTypically knit wool or synthetic fleece. A common material is polar fleece.\n\nDown or synthetic fiber sewn into bats of a (typically nylon) coat or pants. \n\nThe usual clothing for Arctic or mountain regions is a parka. A tightly woven fabric prevents wind from disturbing the still air in the insulating layers.\n\nFootwear is chosen according to purpose. In alpine conditions, insulated mountaineering boots are used. In other work conditions, pacs, or bunny boots, with rubber soles and thick, removable wool felt liners are used. In camp, lightweight moon boots of foam and nylon are common. In the tent, down booties are comfortable.\n\nIn severe conditions, mittens with long gauntlets are preferred.\n\nA knitted or fleece cap is worn underneath the hood of the parka. The face is protected by a mask or balaclava. The water transmission properties of anything touching the face are of the highest concern.\n\nAnother option is to use heated clothing, which contains battery-powered electrical heating elements or gel packs.\n"}
{"id": "2553923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2553923", "title": "Grand final", "text": "Grand final\n\nA grand final is a game that decides a sports league's championship (or premiership) winning team, i.e. the conclusive game of a finals (or play-off) series. Synonymous with a championship game in North American sports, grand finals have become a significant part of Australian culture. The earliest competitions to feature a grand final were Australia's AFL (Australian rules football) and NRL (rugby league football). They influenced other competitions such as soccer's A-League, the National Basketball League, netball's Suncorp Super Netball and European rugby league's Super League to adopt grand finals as well. Most grand finals involve a prestigious award for the player voted best on field.\n\nThe Anglo-Norman term \"grand\" to describe a sporting event, documented in England as \"grand match\" in 1836, was used in Australia from the 1850s. A steeplechase in England has been called the \"Grand National Steeple Chase\" (\"Grand National\" alone for short) since at least 1839.\n\nUse of the term in Australian Football dates back to the first organised and widely publicised match between Melbourne Grammar School and Scotch College on 7 August 1858 at Yarra Park, Melbourne (formerly Richmond Park). The game was advertised as the \"grand football match\" in the Melbourne Morning Herald and several other local newspapers.\n\nIn 1859, a \"grand football match\" was advertised in Richmond, Tasmania for St Patrick's Day on Friday 18 March.\n\nIn \"The Argus\" of 1861, the Royal Caledonian Society of Melbourne invited clubs to compete in a \"grand football-match\" which was to be football's first ever trophy, the Caledonian Challenge Cup, however the match did not proceed until the following year.\n\nThe earliest known event described as \"grand\" in Sydney was a cricket match in 1862.\n\nIn the 1871 South Yarra Challenge Cup, Carlton and Melbourne drew their three matches, but also won their remaining matches (against Albert Park and South Yarra). As head-to-head record was the only tiebreaker at that time, the team captains and the Cup organisers arranged a \"grand match\", as advertised in \"The Argus\" to decide the premiership. Carlton won by two goals to nil.\n\nInitially, a football premiership final appeared to be called a \"grand final\" only when the losers of a final were the minor premiers and they exercised the \"right to challenge\" the winners to a second premiership decider.\n\nPrior to 1898, the South Australian Football Association (SAFA, now SANFL) was awarded to the team that finished top of the end-of-season ladder placings.\n\nIn 1889, Norwood and Port Adelaide finished equal first, meaning a play off match was required to determine the premiers. In promoting the decider match, local press referred to the match as a \"premiership match\". This was played on October 5, and Norwood won the match 7.4 to 5.9.\n\nIn 1894, Norwood and South Adelaide finished with a 13-5 record from their 18 matches. The match was fixed for October 6, and despite a provision for 20 minute periods of extra time in the event of a draw at full time, the match was abandoned due to darkness with the scores level at 4.8 apiece.\n\nThe SAFA fixed a replay for October 10, Labor Day: this was the first of seven grand final replays in elite Australian football history.\nNorwood won the replay 4.7 to South Adelaide 3.5 with a goal from Bos Daly as the final bell rang.\n\nIn the Victorian Football Association, which was Victoria's top level of senior football from 1877 until 1896, the premiership was typically awarded solely on the basis of the rostered premiership matches (known today as the home-and-away season). However, the rules stipulated that where two or more teams finished equal on premiership points, a playoff match or matches would be scheduled amongst those teams to determine the premiers.\n\nThis was required in 1896, when and finished level on top of the ladder with records of 14 wins and one draw. The playoff match between them, which is retrospectively treated as Victoria's first Grand Final, was won by Collingwood 6.9 – 5.10.\n\nThere was one previous premiership playoff match during this time in the VFA between and in 1878, but this match did not break a tie at the top of the ladder, as Geelong already had a better win-loss record than Melbourne: the match was organized by the VFA to resolve a dispute between the two clubs.\n\nIn 1897, when eight teams broke away from the VFA to form the VFL, the concept of finals football was high on the agenda, with teams buoyed by the success and attendances of the 1896 Grand Final. Over the following ten years, all top-level Australian football leagues adopted a finals structure.\n\nIn 1931 the VFL adopted a system, the Page–McIntyre system, which ensured a grand final, and the concept became entrenched.\n\nThe New South Wales Rugby Football League (NSWRFL) experimented with a finals system in 1908, its inaugural year, but abandoned it the following season. Finals were reintroduced in 1926, and the premiership decider appeared to only be called a \"grand final\" if it involved the minor premiers.\n\nBy the 1930s, the NSWRFL adopted the term \"grand final\" to describe the premiership decider.\nUp until 1954 a 'grand final' match was only held if the minor premiers were beaten. The adoption of the VFL's Page–McIntyre system for the 1954 NSWRFL season meant for the first time grand finals would become necessary every season, so the term grand final has become used to describe all premiership deciders.\n\nThe tradition is maintained by the present-day NRL National Rugby League.\n\nThe term \"Grand Final\" was introduced to Europe in 1995 in a completely different sport—golf. In that year, the Challenge Tour, the official developmental tour for the European Tour, launched its season-ending Challenge Tour Grand Final. British rugby league would adopt the term in 1998, two years after the start of Super League. The Super League Grand Final has now become an accepted part of the British scene, and the term 'grand final' is used to describe the final of leagues below Super League as well, such as the Championship, Championship 1 and the Conference. Prior to this, a \"Championship Final\" was introduced to determine the winner of the British Rugby Football League Championship in 1904, though it only became a regular fixture from 1906 onwards. In 1973, the competition format was changed so that the championship was won by the team finishing top of the league table, with an end of season knock-out competition for the top teams that became known as the \"Premiership\" being created.\n\nStarting in 2009–10, the rugby union competition historically known as the Celtic League, at the time involving teams from Ireland, Scotland and Wales, introduced a playoff system to determine its champion. (Although the league conducted a knockout competition in its early years, it was a parallel cup competition instead of a championship tournament.) The final match was branded as a grand final. This usage continued for the 2010–11 season, the first that included teams from Italy. Starting with the 2011–12 season, the first under the current sponsored name of RaboDirect Pro12, the \"Grand Final\" terminology was scrapped; the final match is now simply called the \"Final\".\n\n\nA grand final replay is a method of deciding the winner of a competition when a grand final is drawn by replaying the entire match the following week, rather than playing overtime or extra time on the same day. It is commonly used in Australian rules football and most notably in the Australian Football League, where it has been used three times, most recently in 2010, however the AFL decided that replays will no longer decide grand finals that end as a draw, rather replacing it with extra time.\n\nMost sports leagues in Australia have a grand final breakfast to mark the beginning to grand final day. It is a social highlight on the Australian sporting calendar. Watching the event is a ritual for many footy fans and the function plays a huge role in the pre match build up for the grand final. The North Melbourne Football Club host the North Melbourne Grand Final Breakfast and the National Rugby League host the NRL Grand Final Breakfast at Sydney Convention and Exhibition Centre in Darling Harbour normally. Messenger Premier League also have a grand final breakfast.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6986061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6986061", "title": "Gym floor cover", "text": "Gym floor cover\n\nGym floor covers can either be a carpet-based protection system or is a large plastic tarp, similar to a painters tarp, usually divided into equal sections wide each to cover up the entire gym floor. Gym floor covers are available in roll or tile systems.These covers are often used in large venues designed for athletic events when non-athletic events are being held there such as receptions, award ceremonies, indoor track meets, gymnastic events and graduations. \n\nGym floor covers are employed to prevent floor damage and improve safety, allowing for sports venues to be used for other purposes. Covers are used to prevent slip and fall accidents, while protecting underlying hardwood floor from foot traffic damage and heavy furniture scratches and dents. The newer carpet topcloth systems also improve acoustics in the gymnsium.\n\nThe first plastic tarp gym floor cover was invented and manufactured by Covermaster Inc. in 1969 with Seattle-based Floor Guardian Inc. following up by manufacturing a recycled content, removable, portable carpet based protection system in the late 1970s to answer the demand for a product that was less of a trip hazard, environmentally sound and classier looking than what many felt was essentially a painter's tarp. Since then, the quality of the materials has greatly evolved. Most manufacturers have switched from vinyl and polyethylene materials to more durable polyester fabric. In 2013, Protex Matting Inc. answered environmental concerns by introducing the newest 100% recycled polyester top cloth gym floor covers made completely from recycled plastic water bottles, reusing approximately 7000 water bottles for every 10,000 sq. ft produced . The best plastic tarp gym floor covers today are made of single-layer woven polyester and the newest polymer materials made via the knife-coating process, which enables dyes to be deposited deep into the core of the PVC. material and prevent peeling of the layers - a side effect of extrusion coating or lamination process..\n\nModern gym floor covers are manufactured with a variety of colors, anti-slip surfaces, and weights ranging from . Custom sizing is available with most products. The following technical characteristics are used to describe and classify the covers: filament size, weave count, total weight, core weight, tear strength, tensile strength, adhesion, coefficient of friction, slip resistance, hydrostatic resistance, fire resistance and others.\n\nThere are several common ways to install floor coverings. For the tarp method, each section is laid down to slightly overlap adjacent sections and then secured with special adhesive tape. This fastens the individual segments together into a cohesive unit. The carpet method, by contrast, affixes the segments to the floor via reusable velcro straps. Newer tile systems allow more flexibility in installation and do not require adhesive or velcro tape, but are much more labor intensive for larger floors.\n\nInstalling and deploying large covers can be labour-intensive task. The most efficient way involves rolling and unrolling each section separately, and storing them on the gym floor cover storage system (rack) in a rolled up state to prevent creases and dust accumulation. Advances in the newer Protex GymPro products allow for smaller storage racks, while the newer tile systems are stacked on compact platform trucks for storage and transport. Dual cleaning brush assemblies (to remove debris) and electric power winders (to reduce manual labor during cover removal) are normally used to efficiently maintain the covers. Carpet based gym covers are best cleaned using more traditional carpet cleaning techniques.\n\nPlastic tarp gym floor covers have a typical lifetime of 10–15 years. Carpet-based covers have a lifetime of 15–20+ years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1246847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1246847", "title": "Hot air balloon festival", "text": "Hot air balloon festival\n\nHot air balloon festivals are held annually in many places throughout the year, allowing hot air balloons operators to gather- as well as for the general public- to participate in various activities. They can include races; evening \"night glows\", in which balloons are fired while remaining tethered to the ground; and rides.\n\n"}
{"id": "13032210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13032210", "title": "List of English football transfers 2007–08", "text": "List of English football transfers 2007–08\n\nList of English football transfers 2007–08 may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "57236160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57236160", "title": "List of professional sports leagues by country", "text": "List of professional sports leagues by country\n\nThe following is a list of top-tier sports competitions arranged by country.\n\nAll professional sports leagues for which a country has at least one team that competes in it will be listed under that country. As such, many sports leagues will be listed under multiple countries. Leagues listed under 'World' or 'Europe' generally feature competitors that come from various countries, with each season possibly featuring different competitors and different countries, which makes them harder to define in terms of which countries they should be listed under.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11996499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11996499", "title": "List of rodeos", "text": "List of rodeos\n\nThere are thousands of Rodeos held worldwide each year. Some of the more notable or significant are listed below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8932630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932630", "title": "Lucky loser", "text": "Lucky loser\n\nA lucky loser is a sports player who loses a match in the qualifying round of a knockout tournament, but who then enters the main draw when another player withdraws after the tournament has started because of illness, injury or other reason. The lucky loser then enters the main draw, normally in place of the withdrawn player. This can only happen before all players in the main draw have started their first match in the tournament.\n\nIt is rare for a lucky loser to win an ATP or WTA tournament; Heinz Gunthardt did it in 1978 (at Springfield), Bill Scanlon in 1978 (at Maui), Francisco Clavet in 1990 in Hilversum, Christian Miniussi in 1991 in São Paulo, Sergiy Stakhovsky in 2008 in Zagreb, Rajeev Ram in 2009 in Newport, Andrey Rublev in 2017 in Umag, Leonardo Mayer in the following week in 2017 in Hamburg and Marco Cecchinato at the Hungarian Open in 2018. In total, nine men and two women have done it from 1978 through 2018. In March 1980, Kay McDaniel won a WTA minor league title in Atlanta as a lucky loser, but the WTA recognizes Andrea Jaeger, September 1980 Las Vegas, as the first lucky loser to win a WTA title (though no tournament sources have been found to back up the WTA claim). Olga Danilović won a WTA event as a lucky loser in Moscow in 2018, where some sources have claimed she is the first women to win a main tour WTA singles title as a lucky loser. Three men's doubles teams have won a tournament as lucky losers.\n\nLucky losers who have reached the finals of a tennis tournament and lost include Andreas Haider-Maurer, who reached the final in 2010 Vienna before losing to top-seeded Jürgen Melzer, and Marcel Granollers who lost against David Ferrer in 2010 Valencia. On the women's side Melinda Czink reached the final of the 2005 Canberra International, but lost to Ana Ivanovic, who had also defeated Czink in the final round of qualifying. In 2012, Coco Vandeweghe finished runner-up to Serena Williams at the Bank of the West Classic in Stanford.\n\nIn tennis, the rule for choosing a player to enter the main draw as a lucky loser is as follows: from all players eliminated in the final round of qualifying, the highest-ranked player in the ATP or WTA rankings is the first one to enter the draw, followed by the second highest-ranked player and so on (if more players withdrew before the start of the tournament). On rare occasions that there are more late withdrawals than losers in the last qualifying rounds or players eligible for lucky losers are not available, a player who lost in the penultimate round of qualifying may enter as lucky loser.\n\nPrior to the 2005 Wimbledon Championships, American player Justin Gimelstob faced George Bastl from Switzerland in the final qualification round. Gimelstob, who was the highest-ranked player remaining in the qualifying tournament, aggravated a chronic back complaint during his second qualification match against Vladimir Voltchkov. Gimelstob planned to withdraw before the match with Bastl, and informed his opponent of his intent. However, officials suggested that Gimelstob play at least one game, as it was almost certain someone would withdraw from the main draw before the tournament started, giving Gimelstob a good chance of getting a berth as a lucky loser (as well as giving him time for his back to recover). Gimelstob did indeed enter the main draw as a lucky loser after the withdrawal of Andre Agassi, reaching the third round, where he lost to Lleyton Hewitt.\n\nWhile Gimelstob's behavior was not generally considered unethical, it raised concerns by pointing out that any player in a similar position would have little incentive to play a competitive match. For example, a high-ranking player paired against a lower-ranked friend might deliberately lose the match to help his friend gain entry to the tournament, if the first player had already clinched a lucky loser spot. The possibility of bribery was also a concern.\n\nShortly thereafter, a new policy was introduced in Grand Slam tournaments. Since 2006, the four highest ranked players who lose in the last round of qualification take part in a four-way random draw, the results of which are used to determine the order in which each player will enter the main draw. Consequently, if only one main draw spot for a lucky loser is available, the highest-ranked loser has just a 25% chance of entering the draw, instead of 100% as in the past. This element of uncertainty helps to ensure that final-round qualifying matches remain competitive.\nHowever, this rule does not apply in all other tournaments.\n\nAfter three teams which qualified for the 1950 World Cup withdrew, several teams which had failed to qualify were invited to replace them, but declined.\n\nIn qualification for the 1958 World Cup, Israel won the Asia–Africa group without playing a match, after its opponents withdrew as part of a sports boycott. FIFA then required Israel to play off against a team drawn from among the other groups' runners up. Italy and Uruguay declined to enter the draw; Belgium was selected but withdrew. Ultimately Wales, who had lost to Czechoslovakia in UEFA Group 4, were drawn, beat Israel, and reached the quarterfinals of the tournament.\n\nThe 1960–1999 European Cup Winners' Cup was intended for the winners of each UEFA member's domestic knockout cup competition. However, where a club won the double of both the cup and the round-robin league, it entered the more prestigious European Cup reserved for league champions, with the losing cup finalist entering the Cup Winners' Cup. Five domestic-cup runners-up won the Cup Winners' Cup: \nFiorentina (1960–61),\nRangers (1971–72),\nAnderlecht (1977–78),\nDinamo Tbilisi (1980–81),\nand Barcelona (1996–97). Similar provisions now apply for the Champions League and Europa League as respective successors to the European Cup and Cup Winners' Cup. \n\nThe Intercontinental Cup was intended to be contested by the winners of the European Cup and the Copa Libertadores, but on several occasions the European champions declined to participate and were replaced by the runners-up. Atlético Madrid in 1975 became the only European loser to win the Intercontinental Cup.\n\nDenmark lost to Yugoslavia in Qualifying Group 4 for UEFA Euro 1992. When Yugoslavia was suspended by UN sports boycott owing to the Yugoslav Wars, Denmark replaced them and went on to win the tournament.\n\nManchester United withdrew from the 1999-2000 FA Cup as their first fixture in the tournament clashed with the 2000 FIFA Club World Championship in Brazil. A lucky loser from the second round ties was selected to take the final place in the third round draw, guaranteed an away tie. Darlington F.C., who were defeated by Gillingham F.C. in the second round, were selected and drawn away to Aston Villa F.C.. Villa won the tie 2-1 and proceeded to the final where they were defeated by Chelsea F.C.\n\nIt could be argued that US sabre fencer Mariel Zagunis fits this description, as she did not qualify for the 2004 Athens Olympics in direct qualifying competition (losing the slot on the US team to Sada Jacobson). However, when Nigeria withdrew their fencer from the Games, her slot went to the highest ranked fencer who had not already qualified — Zagunis. Zagunis went on to win the gold medal in Women's Sabre at the 2004 Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "37594948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37594948", "title": "Mogo Wheelchairs", "text": "Mogo Wheelchairs\n\nMogo Wheelchairs is an Australian manufacturer of sporting wheelchairs established by Michael Callahan who competed in wheelchair basketball for Australia at the 1984 Summer Paralympics and 1992 Summer Paralympics.\n\nCallahan wasn't able to find suitable chairs for competitive wheelchair basketball, and started building his own in the early 1980s. In 2000 Callahan reported to Sydney Morning Herald that his company was building 600 to 700 chairs a year at around AUD 2000 per chair, and almost all of Australia's wheelchair basketball team was using his chairs.\n\nMogo pioneered the inclusion of a fifth wheel that is now standard in wheelchair basketball.\n\nDouble amputee, Paralympian and public speaker Matt Glowacki is their advocate in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1751142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1751142", "title": "Multi-stage fitness test", "text": "Multi-stage fitness test\n\nThe multi-stage fitness test, also known as the PACER (Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run) test or the beep test, is a running test used to estimate an athlete's aerobic capacity (VO max). In the test, athletes must run from one line to another before a timed beep. Athletes must continue running back and forth, each time reaching the line before the next beep. Once one can no longer run, the test is over and the number of laps is recorded. As the test continues, the time between beeps gets shorter. \n\nThe test is used by sporting organizations around the world along with schools, militaries, and others interested in gauging one's cardiovascular endurance, an important component of overall physical fitness. \n\nThe test was created in 1982 by Luc Léger, a French Gopnik at the University of Montreal and published in 1983 with a starting speed of 8 km/h and stages of 2 min duration. It was re-published in the European Journal of Applied Physiology in 1988 in its present form with a starting speed of 8.5 km/h and 1 min stages under the name \"The multistage 20 metre shuttle run test for aerobic fitness\". Result equivalences between slightly modified versions are well explained by Tomkinson et al. in 2003.\n\nIn the United States, the President's Council on Youth Fitness now recommends schools use the PACER test instead of distance based runs like the mile (1600 m). Reasons for this include...\n\n\nVOmax = (Velocity (km/h) × 6.65 - 35.8) × 0.95 + 0.182 \n\n[METs] = VOmax / 3.5 \n\nThe test involves running continuously between two points that are 20 m apart from side to side (or 15 m in small gyms). The runs are synchronized with a pre-recorded audio tape, CD or computer software, which plays beeps at set intervals. As the test proceeds, the interval between each successive beep decreases, forcing the athletes to increase their speed over the course of the test until it is impossible to keep in sync with the recording (or, on extremely rare occasions, until the athlete completes the test). Many people who test people using the multi-stage fitness test allow one level to beep before the person makes the line, but some middle and grade schools allow two missed laps. If the person being tested does not make the next interval, the most recent level they completed is their final score.\n\nThe recording is typically structured into 25 'levels', each lasting around 62 s. Usually, the interval of beeps is calculated as requiring a speed at the start of 8.5 km/h (see format table), increasing by 0.5 km/h with each level thereafter. The progression from one level to the next is signaled by 3 quick beeps. The highest level attained before failing to keep up is recorded as the score for that test.\n\nThe original beep test was initially available on audio tape format. A problem with the tape was that it could stretch over time, or the tape player would play at inconsistent speed, making the timing between beeps inaccurate. Most versions of the tape had a one-minute recorded interval for calibrating the tape and tape player. Digital audio formats replaced the tapes, but checks were still required on the CD/player due to some tone controls possibly affecting the playback speed.\n\nInexpensive beep test software is now popular due to modern electronic devices having excellent and consistent timing accuracy. The software generally runs on a portable electronic computer such as a tablet, phone or laptop, making the test easy to organise for teams, and also tracks player fitness over a season. The contemporary accepted format starts at 8.5 km/h with levels of 1 minute as described in Leger's and Lambert's paper of 1988.\n\nSome versions of the test include background music. Coaches may also play their own music as the beeps are going.\n\nThe Guinness World Record for the largest group beep test is held by RAF Honington, in Honington, Suffolk where over 586 men and women took part.\n\nThe introductory explanation of one multi-stage fitness test, the FitnessGram PACER test, has been widely spread as a meme and in other comedic ways due to the test's modern use in schools, primarily in physical education classes.\n\n\"The FitnessGram™ PACER Test is a multistage aerobic capacity test that progressively gets more difficult as it continues. The 20-meter pacer test will begin in 30 seconds. Line up at the start. The running speed starts slowly but gets faster each minute after you hear this signal. [beep] A single lap should be completed each time you hear this sound. [ding] Remember to run in a straight line, and run as long as possible. The second time you fail to complete a lap before the sound, your test is over. The test will begin on the word start. On your mark, get ready, start.\"\n\nEpisode 12 of the Australian children's comedy show Little Lunch is called 'The Beep Test'. The plot revolves around the school students' reactions to participating in the multi-stage fitness test.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34760961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34760961", "title": "Neurobiological effects of physical exercise", "text": "Neurobiological effects of physical exercise\n\nThe are numerous and involve a wide range of interrelated effects on brain structure, brain function, and cognition. A large body of research in humans has demonstrated that consistent aerobic exercise (e.g., 30 minutes every day) induces persistent improvements in certain cognitive functions, healthy alterations in gene expression in the brain, and beneficial forms of neuroplasticity and behavioral plasticity; some of these long-term effects include: increased neuron growth, increased neurological activity (e.g., and BDNF signaling), improved stress coping, enhanced cognitive control of behavior, improved declarative, spatial, and working memory, and structural and functional improvements in brain structures and pathways associated with cognitive control and memory. The effects of exercise on cognition have important implications for improving academic performance in children and college students, improving adult productivity, preserving cognitive function in old age, preventing or treating certain neurological disorders, and improving overall quality of life.\n\nIn healthy adults, aerobic exercise has been shown to induce transient effects on cognition after a single exercise session and persistent effects on cognition following regular exercise over the course of several months. People who regularly perform aerobic exercise (e.g., running, jogging, brisk walking, swimming, and cycling) have greater scores on neuropsychological function and performance tests that measure certain cognitive functions, such as attentional control, inhibitory control, cognitive flexibility, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, spatial memory, and information processing speed. The transient effects of exercise on cognition include improvements in most executive functions (e.g., attention, working memory, cognitive flexibility, inhibitory control, problem solving, and decision making) and information processing speed for a period of up to 2 hours after exercising. \n\nAerobic exercise induces short- and long-term effects on mood and emotional states by promoting positive affect, inhibiting negative affect, and decreasing the biological response to acute psychological stress. Over the short-term, aerobic exercise functions as both an antidepressant and euphoriant, whereas consistent exercise produces general improvements in mood and self-esteem.\n\nRegular aerobic exercise improves symptoms associated with a variety of central nervous system disorders and may be used as an adjunct therapy for these disorders. There is clear evidence of exercise treatment efficacy for major depressive disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The American Academy of Neurology's clinical practice guideline for mild cognitive impairment indicates that clinicians should recommend regular exercise (two times per week) to individuals who have been diagnosed with this condition. Reviews of clinical evidence also support the use of exercise as an adjunct therapy for certain neurodegenerative disorders, particularly Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson's disease. Regular exercise is also associated with a lower risk of developing neurodegenerative disorders. A large body of preclinical evidence and emerging clinical evidence supports the use of exercise therapy for treating and preventing the development of drug addictions. Regular exercise has also been proposed as an adjunct therapy for brain cancers.\n\nNeuroplasticity is the process by which neurons adapt to a disturbance over time, and most often occurs in response to repeated exposure to stimuli. Aerobic exercise increases the production of neurotrophic factors (e.g., BDNF, IGF-1, VEGF) which mediate improvements in cognitive functions and various forms of memory by promoting blood vessel formation in the brain, adult neurogenesis, and other forms of neuroplasticity. Consistent aerobic exercise over a period of several months induces clinically significant improvements in executive functions and increased gray matter volume in nearly all regions of the brain, with the most marked increases occurring in brain regions that give rise to executive functions. The brain structures that show the greatest improvements in gray matter volume in response to aerobic exercise are the prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and hippocampus; less significant increases in gray matter volume occur in the anterior cingulate cortex, parietal cortex, cerebellum, and nucleus accumbens. The prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and anterior cingulate cortex are among the most significant brain structures in the dopamine and norepinephrine systems that give rise to cognitive control. Exercise-induced neurogenesis (i.e., the increases in gray matter volume) in the hippocampus is associated with measurable improvements in spatial memory. Higher physical fitness scores, as measured by VO max, are associated with better executive function, faster information processing speed, and greater gray matter volume of the hippocampus, caudate nucleus, and nucleus accumbens. Long-term aerobic exercise is also associated with persistent beneficial epigenetic changes that result in improved stress coping, improved cognitive function, and increased neuronal activity ( and BDNF signaling).\n\nOne of the most significant effects of exercise on the brain is the increased synthesis and expression of BDNF, a neuropeptide hormone, in the brain and periphery, resulting in increased signaling through its receptor tyrosine kinase, tropomyosin receptor kinase B (TrkB). Since BDNF is capable of crossing the blood–brain barrier, higher peripheral BDNF synthesis also increases BDNF signaling in the brain. Exercise-induced increases in brain BDNF signaling are associated with beneficial epigenetic changes, improved cognitive function, improved mood, and improved memory. Furthermore, research has provided a great deal of support for the role of BDNF in hippocampal neurogenesis, synaptic plasticity, and neural repair. Engaging in moderate-high intensity aerobic exercise such as running, swimming, and cycling increases BDNF biosynthesis through myokine signaling, resulting in up to a threefold increase in blood plasma and brain BDNF levels; exercise intensity is positively correlated with the magnitude of increased BDNF biosynthesis and expression. A meta-analysis of studies involving the effect of exercise on BDNF levels found that consistent exercise modestly increases resting BDNF levels as well.\n\n is a peptide and neurotrophic factor that mediates some of the effects of growth hormone; IGF-1 elicits its physiological effects by binding to a specific receptor tyrosine kinase, the IGF-1 receptor, to control tissue growth and remodeling. In the brain, IGF-1 functions as a neurotrophic factor that, like , plays a significant role in cognition, neurogenesis, and neuronal survival. Physical activity is associated with increased levels of IGF-1 in blood serum, which is known to contribute to neuroplasticity in the brain due to its capacity to cross the blood–brain barrier and blood–cerebrospinal fluid barrier; consequently, one review noted that IGF-1 is a key mediator of exercise-induced adult neurogenesis, while a second review characterized it as a factor which links \"body fitness\" with \"brain fitness\". The amount of IGF-1 released into blood plasma during exercise is positively correlated with exercise intensity and duration.\n\n is a neurotrophic and angiogenic (i.e., blood vessel growth-promoting) signaling protein that binds to two receptor tyrosine kinases, VEGFR1 and VEGFR2, which are expressed in neurons and glial cells in the brain. Hypoxia, or inadequate cellular oxygen supply, strongly upregulates VEGF expression and VEGF exerts a neuroprotective effect in hypoxic neurons. Like and , aerobic exercise has been shown to increase VEGF biosynthesis in peripheral tissue which subsequently crosses the blood–brain barrier and promotes neurogenesis and blood vessel formation in the central nervous system. Exercise-induced increases in VEGF signaling have been shown to improve cerebral blood volume and contribute to exercise-induced neurogenesis in the hippocampus.\n\nReviews of neuroimaging studies indicate that consistent aerobic exercise increases gray matter volume in nearly all regions of the brain, with more pronounced increases occurring in brain regions associated with memory processing, cognitive control, motor function, and reward; the most prominent gains in gray matter volume are seen in the prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and hippocampus, which support cognitive control and memory processing, among other cognitive functions. Moreover, the left and right halves of the prefrontal cortex, the hippocampus, and the cingulate cortex appear to become more functionally interconnected in response to consistent aerobic exercise. Three reviews indicate that marked improvements in prefrontal and hippocampal gray matter volume occur in healthy adults that regularly engage in medium intensity exercise for several months. Other regions of the brain that demonstrate moderate or less significant gains in gray matter volume during neuroimaging include the anterior cingulate cortex, parietal cortex, cerebellum, and nucleus accumbens.\nRegular exercise has been shown to counter the shrinking of the hippocampus and memory impairment that naturally occurs in late adulthood. Sedentary adults over age 55 show a 1–2% decline in hippocampal volume annually. A neuroimaging study with a sample of 120 adults revealed that participating in regular aerobic exercise increased the volume of the left hippocampus by 2.12% and the right hippocampus by 1.97% over a one-year period. Subjects in the low intensity stretching group who had higher fitness levels at baseline showed less hippocampal volume loss, providing evidence for exercise being protective against age-related cognitive decline. In general, individuals that exercise more over a given period have greater hippocampal volumes and better memory function. Aerobic exercise has also been shown to induce growth in the white matter tracts in the anterior corpus callosum, which normally shrink with age.\n\nThe various functions of the brain structures that show exercise-induced increases in gray matter volume include:\n\nConcordant with the functional roles of the brain structures that exhibit increased gray matter volumes, regular exercise over a period of several months has been shown to persistently improve numerous executive functions and several forms of memory. In particular, consistent aerobic exercise has been shown to improve attentional control, information processing speed, cognitive flexibility (e.g., task switching), inhibitory control, working memory updating and capacity, declarative memory, and spatial memory. In healthy young and middle-aged adults, the effect sizes of improvements in cognitive function are largest for indices of executive functions and small to moderate for aspects of memory and information processing speed. It may be that in older adults, individuals benefit cognitively by taking part in both aerobic and resistance type exercise of at least moderate intensity. Individuals who have a sedentary lifestyle tend to have impaired executive functions relative to other more physically active non-exercisers. A reciprocal relationship between exercise and executive functions has also been noted: improvements in executive control processes, such as attentional control and inhibitory control, increase an individual's tendency to exercise.\n\nIn addition to the persistent effects of regular exercise over the course of several months on cognitive functions, acute exercise (i.e., a single bout of exercise) has been shown to transiently improve a number of cognitive functions. Reviews and meta-analyses of research on the effects of acute exercise in healthy young and middle-aged adults on cognition have concluded that information processing speed and a number of executive functions – including attention, working memory, problem solving, cognitive flexibility, verbal fluency, decision making, and inhibitory control – all improve for a period of up to 2 hours post-exercise. A systematic review of studies conducted on children also suggested that some of the exercise-induced improvements in executive function are apparent after single bouts of exercise, while other aspects (e.g., attentional control) only improve following consistent exercise on a regular basis. Other research has suggested performative enhancements during exercise, such as exercise-concurrent improvements in processing speed during visual working memory tasks. \n\nThe \"stress hormone\", cortisol, is a glucocorticoid that binds to glucocorticoid receptors. Psychological stress induces the release of cortisol from the adrenal gland by activating the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis (HPA axis). Short-term increases in cortisol levels are associated with adaptive cognitive improvements, such as enhanced inhibitory control; however, excessively high exposure or prolonged exposure to high levels of cortisol causes impairments in cognitive control and has neurotoxic effects in the human brain. For example, chronic psychological stress decreases expression which has detrimental effects on hippocampal volume and can lead to depression.\n\nAs a physical stressor, aerobic exercise stimulates cortisol secretion in an intensity-dependent manner; however, it does not result in long-term increases in cortisol production since this exercise-induced effect on cortisol is a response to transient negative energy balance. Individuals who have recently exercised exhibit improvements in stress coping behaviors. Aerobic exercise increases physical fitness and lowers neuroendocrine (i.e., ) reactivity and therefore reduces the biological response to psychological stress in humans (e.g., reduced cortisol release and attenuated heart rate response). Exercise also reverses stress-induced decreases in expression and signaling in the brain, thereby acting as a buffer against stress-related diseases like depression.\n\nContinuous exercise can produce short-term euphoria, an affective state associated with feelings of profound contentment, elation, and well-being, which is colloquially known as a \"runner's high\" in distance running or a \"rower's high\" in rowing. Current medical reviews indicate that several endogenous euphoriants are responsible for producing exercise-related euphoria, specifically phenethylamine (an endogenous psychostimulant), (an endogenous opioid), and anandamide (an endocannabinoid).\n\nβ-Phenylethylamine, commonly referred to as phenethylamine, is a human trace amine and potent catecholaminergic and glutamatergic neuromodulator that has a similar psychostimulant effect and chemical structure to amphetamine. Thirty minutes of moderate to high intensity physical exercise has been shown to induce an enormous increase in urinary , the primary metabolite of phenethylamine. Two reviews noted a study where the average 24 hour urinary acid concentration among participants following just 30 minutes of intense exercise increased by 77% relative to baseline concentrations in resting control subjects; the reviews suggest that phenethylamine synthesis sharply increases while an individual is exercising, during which time it is rapidly metabolized due to its short half-life of roughly 30 seconds. In a resting state, phenethylamine is synthesized in catecholamine neurons from by aromatic amino acid decarboxylase at approximately the same rate at which dopamine is produced.\n\nIn light of this observation, the original paper and both reviews suggest that phenethylamine plays a prominent role in mediating the mood-enhancing euphoric effects of a runner's high, as both phenethylamine and amphetamine are potent euphoriants.\n\nβ-Endorphin (contracted from \"endogenous morphine\") is an endogenous opioid neuropeptide that binds to μ-opioid receptors, in turn producing euphoria and pain relief. A meta-analytic review found that exercise significantly increases the secretion of and that this secretion is correlated with improved mood states. Moderate intensity exercise produces the greatest increase in synthesis, while higher and lower intensity forms of exercise are associated with smaller increases in synthesis. A review on and exercise noted that an individual's mood improves for the remainder of the day following physical exercise and that one's mood is positively correlated with overall daily physical activity level.\n\nAnandamide is an endogenous cannabinoid neurotransmitter that binds to cannabinoid receptors. It has been shown that aerobic exercise causes an increase in plasma anandamide levels, where the magnitude of this increase is highest at moderate exercise intensity ( i.e., exercising at ~⁠70⁠–⁠80⁠% maximum heart rate). Increases in plasma anandamide levels are associated with psychoactive effects because anandamide is able to cross the blood–brain barrier and act within the central nervous system. Thus, because anandamide is a euphoriant and aerobic exercise is associated with euphoric effects, it has been proposed that anandamide partly mediates the short-term mood-lifting effects of exercise (e.g., the euphoria of a runner's high) via exercise-induced increases in its synthesis. \n\nIn mice it was demonstrated that certain features of a runner's high depend on cannabinoid receptors. Pharmacological or genetic disruption of cannabinoid signaling via cannabinoid receptors prevents the analgesic and anxiety-reducing effects of running.\n\nGlutamate, one of the most common neurochemicals in the brain, is an excitatory neurotransmitter involved in many aspects of brain function, including learning and memory. Based upon animal models, exercise appears to normalize the excessive levels of glutamate neurotransmission into the nucleus accumbens that occurs in drug addiction. A review of the effects of exercise on neurocardiac function in preclinical models noted that exercise-induced neuroplasticity of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) has an inhibitory effect on glutamatergic neurotransmission in this region, in turn reducing sympathetic activity; the review hypothesized that this neuroplasticity in the RVLM is a mechanism by which regular exercise prevents inactivity-related cardiovascular disease.\n\nSibley and Etnier (2003) performed a meta-analysis that looked at the relationship between physical activity and cognitive performance in children. They reported a beneficial relationship in the categories of perceptual skills, intelligence quotient, achievement, verbal tests, mathematic tests, developmental level/academic readiness and other, with the exception of memory, that was found to be unrelated to physical activity. The correlation was strongest for the age ranges of 4–7 and 11–13 years. On the other hand, Chaddock and colleagues (2011) found results that contrasted Sibley and Etnier's meta-analysis. In their study, the hypothesis was that lower-fit children would perform poorly in executive control of memory and have smaller hippocampal volumes compared to higher-fit children. Instead of physical activity being unrelated to memory in children between 4 and 18 years of age, it may be that preadolescents of higher fitness have larger hippocampal volumes, than preadolescents of lower fitness. According to a previous study done by Chaddock and colleagues (Chaddock \"et al.\" 2010), a larger hippocampal volume would result in better executive control of memory. They concluded that hippocampal volume was positively associated with performance on relational memory tasks. Their findings are the first to indicate that aerobic fitness may relate to the structure and function of the preadolescent human brain. In Best’s (2010) meta-analysis of the effect of activity on children’s executive function, there are two distinct experimental designs used to assess aerobic exercise on cognition. The first is chronic exercise, in which children are randomly assigned to a schedule of aerobic exercise over several weeks and later assessed at the end. The second is acute exercise, which examines the immediate changes in cognitive functioning after each session. The results of both suggest that aerobic exercise may briefly aid children’s executive function and also influence more lasting improvements to executive function. Other studies have suggested that exercise is unrelated to academic performance, perhaps due to the parameters used to determine exactly what academic achievement is. This area of study has been a focus for education boards that make decisions on whether physical education should be implemented in the school curriculum, how much time should be dedicated to physical education, and its impact on other academic subjects.\n\nAnother study found that sixth-graders who participated in vigorous physical activity at least three times a week had the highest scores compared to those who participated in moderate or no physical activity at all. The kids who participated in vigorous physical activity scored three points higher, on average, on their academic test, which consisted of math, science, English, and world studies.\n\nAnimal studies have also shown that exercise can impact brain development early on in life. Mice that had access to running wheels and other such exercise equipment had better neuronal growth in the neural systems involved in learning and memory. Neuroimaging of the human brain has yielded similar results, where exercise leads to changes in brain structure and function. Some investigations have linked low levels of aerobic fitness in children with impaired executive function in older adults, but there is mounting evidence it may also be associated with a lack of selective attention, response inhibition, and interference control.\n\nClinical and preclinical evidence indicate that consistent aerobic exercise, especially endurance exercise (e.g., marathon running), actually prevents the development of certain drug addictions and is an effective adjunct treatment for drug addiction, and psychostimulant addiction in particular. Consistent aerobic exercise magnitude-dependently (i.e., by duration and intensity) reduces drug addiction risk, which appears to occur through the reversal of drug-induced, addiction-related neuroplasticity. One review noted that exercise may prevent the development of drug addiction by altering ΔFosB or c-Fos immunoreactivity in the striatum or other parts of the reward system. Moreover, aerobic exercise decreases psychostimulant self-administration, reduces the reinstatement (i.e., relapse) of drug-seeking, and induces opposite effects on striatal dopamine receptor D (DRD2) signaling (increased DRD2 density) to those induced by pathological stimulant use (decreased DRD2 density). Consequently, consistent aerobic exercise may lead to better treatment outcomes when used as an adjunct treatment for drug addiction. , more clinical research is still needed to understand the mechanisms and confirm the efficacy of exercise in drug addiction treatment and prevention.\n\nRegular physical exercise, particularly aerobic exercise, is an effective add-on treatment for ADHD in children and adults, particularly when combined with stimulant medication (i.e., amphetamine or methylphenidate), although the best intensity and type of aerobic exercise for improving symptoms are not currently known. In particular, the long-term effects of regular aerobic exercise in ADHD individuals include better behavior and motor abilities, improved executive functions (including attention, inhibitory control, and planning, among other cognitive domains), faster information processing speed, and better memory. Parent-teacher ratings of behavioral and socio-emotional outcomes in response to regular aerobic exercise include: better overall function, reduced ADHD symptoms, better self-esteem, reduced levels of anxiety and depression, fewer somatic complaints, better academic and classroom behavior, and improved social behavior. Exercising while on stimulant medication augments the effect of stimulant medication on executive function. It is believed that these short-term effects of exercise are mediated by an increased abundance of synaptic dopamine and norepinephrine in the brain.\n\nA number of medical reviews have indicated that exercise has a marked and persistent antidepressant effect in humans, an effect believed to be mediated through enhanced signaling in the brain. Several systematic reviews have analyzed the potential for physical exercise in the treatment of depressive disorders. The 2013 Cochrane Collaboration review on for depression noted that, based upon limited evidence, it is more effective than a control intervention and comparable to psychological or antidepressant drug therapies. Three subsequent 2014 systematic reviews that included the Cochrane review in their analysis concluded with similar findings: one indicated that physical exercise is effective as an adjunct treatment (i.e., treatments that are used together) with antidepressant medication; the other two indicated that physical exercise has marked antidepressant effects and recommended the inclusion of physical activity as an adjunct treatment for mild–moderate depression and mental illness in general. One systematic review noted that yoga may be effective in alleviating symptoms of prenatal depression. Another review asserted that evidence from clinical trials supports the efficacy of physical exercise as a treatment for depression over a 2–4 month period.\n\nA 2015 review of clinical evidence which included a medical guideline for the treatment of depression with exercise noted that the available evidence on the effectiveness of exercise therapy for depression suffers from some limitations; nonetheless, it stated that there is clear evidence of efficacy for reducing symptoms of depression. The review also noted that patient characteristics, the type of depressive disorder, and the nature of the exercise program all affect the antidepressant properties of exercise therapy. A meta-analysis from July 2016 concluded that physical exercise improves overall quality of life in individuals with depression relative to controls.\n\nThe American Academy of Neurology's January 2018 update of their clinical practice guideline for mild cognitive impairment states that clinicians should recommend regular exercise (two times per week) to individuals who have been diagnosed with this condition. This guidance is based upon a moderate amount of high-quality evidence which supports the efficacy of regular physical exercise (twice weekly over a 6-month period) for improving cognitive symptoms in individuals with mild cognitive impairment.\n\nAlzheimer's Disease is a cortical neurodegenerative disorder and the most prevalent form of dementia, representing approximately 65% of all cases of dementia; it is characterized by impaired cognitive function, behavioral abnormalities, and a reduced capacity to perform basic activities of daily life. Two meta-analytic systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials with durations of 3–12 months have examined the effects of physical exercise on the aforementioned characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. The reviews found beneficial effects of physical exercise on cognitive function, the rate of cognitive decline, and the ability to perform activities of daily living in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. One review suggested that, based upon transgenic mouse models, the cognitive effects of exercise on Alzheimer's disease may result from a reduction in the quantity of amyloid plaque.\n\nThe Caerphilly Prospective study followed 2,375 male subjects over 30 years and examined the association between healthy lifestyles and dementia, among other factors. Analyses of the Caerphilly study data have found that exercise is associated with a lower incidence of dementia and a reduction in cognitive impairment. A subsequent systematic review of longitudinal studies also found higher levels of physical activity to be associated with a reduction in the risk of dementia and cognitive decline; this review further asserted that increased physical activity appears to be causally related with these reduced risks.\n\nParkinson's disease (PD) is a movement disorder that produces symptoms such as bradykinesia, rigidity, shaking, and impaired gait.\n\nA review by Kramer and colleagues (2006) found that some neurotransmitter systems are affected by exercise in a positive way. A few studies reported seeing an improvement in brain health and cognitive function due to exercise. One particular study by Kramer and colleagues (1999) found that aerobic training improved executive control processes supported by frontal and prefrontal regions of the brain. These regions are responsible for the cognitive deficits in PD patients, however there was speculation that the difference in the neurochemical environment in the frontal lobes of PD patients may inhibit the benefit of aerobic exercise. Nocera and colleagues (2010) performed a case study based on this literature where they gave participants with early-to mid-staged PD, and the control group cognitive/language assessments with exercise regimens. Individuals performed 20 minutes of aerobic exercise three times a week for 8 weeks on a stationary exercise cycle. It was found that aerobic exercise improved several measures of cognitive function, providing evidence that such exercise regimens may be beneficial to patients with PD.\n"}
{"id": "8339716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8339716", "title": "No goal", "text": "No goal\n\nNo goal is a call made by referees in various goal-scoring sports (football, hockey, lacrosse, etc.) to indicate that a goal has not been scored. It is commonly used to disallow an apparent goal, such as when the ball or puck has entered the net but should not count as a score due to some foul or infraction.\n\nBecause the decision often depends on a subjective assessment by the referee, and especially if the score might be critical, such calls can be hotly contested. For fans of one of the teams involved, it may thus refer to a goal that was actually disallowed, or one that in their opinion should have been disallowed, but was not. As a result, in recent years most professional sports leagues have implicated protocol allowing for such calls to be subject to video review or to be reviewed because of a coach's challenge.\n\nIn the NHL a goal may be called a no goal for the following reasons: \n\nAccording to the NLL rulebook (Rule 55: No Goal) a goal may be disallowed under the following conditions:\n\n"}
{"id": "913769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913769", "title": "Palaestra", "text": "Palaestra\n\nThe palaestra ( or ; also (chiefly British) palestra; ) was the ancient Greek wrestling school. The events that did not require a lot of space, such as boxing and wrestling, were practised there. The palaestra functioned both independently and as a part of public gymnasia; a palaestra could exist without a gymnasium, but no gymnasium could exist without a palaestra.\n\nThe architecture of the palaestra, although allowing for some variation, followed a distinct, standard plan. The palaestra essentially consisted of a rectangular court surrounded by colonnades with adjoining rooms. These rooms might house a variety of functions: bathing, ball playing, undressing and storage of clothes, seating for socializing, observation, or instruction, and storage of oil, dust or athletic equipment.\n\nVitruvius, through his text \"On Architecture\", is an important ancient source about this building type and provides many details about what he calls “palaestra, Greek-style”. Although the specifics of his descriptions do not always correspond to the architectural evidence, probably because he was writing around 27 BC, his account provides insight into the general design and uses of this type of space. As Vitruvius describes, the palaestra was square or rectangular in shape with colonnades along all four sides creating porticoes. The portico on the northern side of the palaestra was of double depth to protect against the weather. Big halls (\"exedrae, εξέδρες\") were built along the single depth sides of the palaestra with seats for those enjoying intellectual pursuits, and the double depth side was divided into an area for youth activities (\"ephebeum, εφηβαίο\"), a punching bag area (\"coryceum, κωρυκείον\"), a room for applying powders (\"conisterium, κονιστἠριον\"), a room for cold bathing (\"λουτρόν\"), and an oil storeroom (\"elaeothesium, ελαιοθέσιον\").\n\nGood examples of this building type come from two major Greek sites: Olympia and Delphi.\n\nDuring the Roman Imperial period the palaestra was often combined with, or joined to, a bath.\n\nWhen the Arabs and the Turkish adopted the tradition of the Roman baths, they did not continue the tradition of the attached palaestra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4533566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4533566", "title": "Parity (sports)", "text": "Parity (sports)\n\nIn sports, parity is when participating teams have roughly equivalent levels of talent. In such a league, the \"best\" team is not significantly better than the \"worst\" team. This leads to more competitive contests where the winner cannot be easily predicted in advance. The opposite condition, which could be considered \"disparity\" between teams, is a condition where the elite teams are so much more talented that the lesser teams are hopelessly outmatched.\n\nDifferent major governing organizations attempt to achieve parity in different ways. For example, the National Football League (NFL) in the U.S. has established the shared revenue plan, in which all teams equally benefit from television revenue and sales of NFL franchised goods.\n\nMany consider the NFL to be the most \"fair\" or competitive league, with many different teams having a chance to win each year. In the NFL, complete parity would be a state where on any given Sunday, any given team can win any given game. The illusion of parity in the NFL may be somewhat of a misconception, given that several teams such as the New England Patriots, Pittsburgh Steelers, and Green Bay Packers have appeared in the playoffs in almost all of the past ten years, while a team such as the Cleveland Browns has a playoff drought that is currently over a decade long. The most important thing to remember is that a franchise can be struggling and the reason for it can be due to the team's ineptitude when it comes evaluating talent, coaching strategies, developing players, having a good organizational structure, and overall team and player operations.\n\nAn example of disparity in sports is Portuguese Liga, the top-flight professional football (soccer) league in Portugal, where three clubs have accounted for 75 of the 77 championships in league history.\n\nSalary cap limits set a maximum amount of money that may be spent on athletes' contracts. These limits exist to different extents in several other leagues as well. For example, Major League Baseball (MLB) in the U.S. does not have a cap, but charges a luxury tax beyond a certain level.\n\nAnother example of disparity would be demonstrated by the NBA from the 2014–15 NBA season to the 2017–18 NBA season, where the Golden State Warriors and Cleveland Cavaliers have been the only franchises to reach the NBA Finals during that specific time span and during the 2017 NBA finals and the 2018 NBA finals the Golden State Warriors won 8 out of the possible 9 finals games.\n\n"}
{"id": "15107732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15107732", "title": "Performance surface", "text": "Performance surface\n\nA performance surface is a flooring suitable for dance or sport. Performance surfaces are normally laid on top of, or are part of, a sprung floor to produce a complete dance floor or sports floor.\n\nDance performance surfaces made of sheet vinyl are also called dance floors and marley floors. They are called marley-type floors from a very popular reversible vinyl flooring manufactured for years until about 1978 by Marley Floors Ltd.\n\nTheatres often have a number of roll-out floors with different characteristics to satisfy the requirements of different forms of dance.\n\nThis article deals mainly with the customization of a floor for different activities by the use of different surfaces. The sprung floor article deals with the basic requirements and construction of floors to make them suitable for dance and indoor sports.\n\nThe sprung floor article outlines some of the different standards with regards to the performance surface of a sports floor. Below are some of the key factors that can influence the performance surface required within a sports facility.\n\nA sprung floor with a hard surface provides protection from serious injuries rather than minor injuries. A fall can still cause bruises. A soft performance surface on the other hand can provide protection from minor injuries but not serious injuries. Providing sufficient protection from serious injury for adults using a thick performance surface alone would render it unsuitable for most dance or sport. This is because a performance surface is point elastic whereas area elasticity as provided by a sprung floor is mainly preferred.\n\nIn general, dance requires less traction than gym. However a floor should not of itself be very slippery or sticky. DIN 18032 defines a range of traction which should suit most activities. These type of floors should also be smooth, and a slide should not cause carpet burn. This means it is difficult to stop them from becoming slippery when wet.\n\nMost of the differences between the different disciplines can and should be catered for by the use of appropriate shoes. On the same surface, a dance shoe with a leather or suede sole will give much less traction than a gym shoe with a composite rubber sole. A sticky floor used for gym is very likely to cause twisted ankles, and a slippery floor used for dancing is liable to cause bad falls.\n\nEveryday footwear nowadays tends to have a higher traction. For occasions like weddings, where the dancers may not have proper footwear, a slightly slippier floor could compensate somewhat, but a highly polished floor can be very dangerous with leather soles. Both gyms and dance clubs are better off providing good safe floors and encouraging the use of proper footwear.\n\nThe performance surface is normally of vinyl or hardwood, engineered wood or laminate. For dance the surface may be replaceable so for instance a theatre can adapt easily to either ballet or tap dance, these are normally made of vinyl sheeting. Hardwood is however preferred for tap dance. Some sports have extra requirements like spike resistance or a standard ball bounce.\n\nRoll-up vinyl sheeting normally consists of:\n\n\nWhen rolled up the vinyl should not be bent sharply - it should be on rolls. When there are a number of different surfaces for a hall these can be kept on special storage carts which keep them separate rather than lying on each other.\n\nA wood surface is ideal for social dancing if maintained properly and is also standard for many indoor sports. Engineered wood is normally used nowadays for wood flooring as it is less liable to warp or shrink and is more economic. Tap dance is especially punishing and a tough hardwood surface like oak or maple is preferred for any regular use.\n\nVinyl is a better choice for other types of dance or more general community use. The requirements for different types of dance are different, but the differences can mostly be accommodated by changes in the dance surface. For instance Riverdance requires a harder surface that makes a sound, Ballet requires a softer surface because of the high jumps and possibility of falls. Ballroom dancing requires less traction than Scottish country dancing.\n\nIt used to be difficult to maintain a wood floor properly. However, if the directions of the floor manufacturer are followed properly modern treatments will maintain a good surface. It is important not to just trust a commercial office cleaner to know how to do a good job, they should be instructed to follow the directions. There are no cheap and foolproof machines around for measuring traction which would enable cleaners to see their work conforms to dance or sports requirements. Thus there is a very strong inclination for managers or cleaners to go for other requirements e.g. a shiny surface or one that resists dirt better.\n\nIf a floor is occasionally used for public events, e.g. a gym hall used for a graduation ceremony, then a gym floor cover can be used to protect the floor and ease the normal requirements.\n\nTo maintain good traction it is important to stop the floor getting dirty or even slightly wet. A good floor cleaning regime and insisting on sports or dance shoes will help with this. The main protection though is to ensure the hall has industrial grade barrier matting at the entrance. The building should also have a floor grate at the entrance.\n"}
{"id": "50857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50857", "title": "Racing", "text": "Racing\n\nIn sport, racing is a competition of speed, against an objective criterion, usually a clock or to a specific point. The competitors in a race try to complete a given task in the shortest amount of time. Typically this involves traversing some distance, but it can be any other task involving speed to reach a specific goal.\n\nA race may be run continuously to finish or may be made of several segments called heats, stages or legs. A heat is usually run over the same course at different times. A stage is a shorter section of a much longer course or a time trial.\n\nEarly records of races are evident on pottery from ancient Greece, which depicted running men vying for first place. A chariot race is described in Homer's \"Iliad\".\n\nThe word \"race\" comes from a Norse word. This Norse word arrived in France during the invading of Normandy and gave the word \"raz\" which means \"swift water\" in Brittany, as in a mill race; it can be found in \"Pointe du Raz\" (the most western point of France, in Brittany), and \"raz-de-marée\" (tsunami). The word race to mean a \"contest of speed\" was first recorded in the 1510s.\n\nA race and its name are often associated with the place of origin, the means of transport and the distance of the race. As a couple of examples, see the Dakar Rally or the Athens Marathon.\n\nRunning a distance is the most basic form of racing, but races may be conducted in vehicles, such as boats, cars, cycles and aircraft; or with animals such as horses or dogs. Races may also be conducted with other modes of transport such as skis, kicksled, skates or wheelchair; or other forms of movement such as swimming or walking. In a relay race members of a team take turns in racing parts of a circuit or performing a certain racing form.\n\nOrienteering races add an additional task of using a map and compass to navigate from point to point in diverse and usually unfamiliar terrain.\n\nA race can also involve any other type of goal like eating. A common race involving eating is a hot dog eating race, where contestants try to eat more hot dogs than the other racers.\n\nRacing can also be done in more humoristic and entertaining ways such as the Sausage Race, the Red Bull Trolley Grand Prix and wok racing. Racing can be entertained from around the world.\n\nOne form of racing is through swimming. There are numerous ways to perform a good swim stroke: breaststroke, freestyle, butterfly and backstroke. In the racing form of swimming there are many rules that one must follow to perform fairly in a competition. \n\nFreestyle- In freestyle the racers start off on a block start and can perform either an open turn (When the swimmer just turns in the other direction in the water on the same plane) or a flip turn (when a swimmer flips over underwater and pushes off the wall with their feet. While they do a flip turn they can only touch the wall with their feet, and at the finish with only one hand.\n\nBreaststroke- For breaststroke, all limbs must move in a similar motion at the same time, remaining underwater most of the race with the racers heads bobbing up and down for air. For every arm stroke they are only allowed one leg kick.\n\nButterfly- Butterfly racing begins with a forward dive and after each lap, the racer must touch the wall with both hands at the same time. After the turn they must do dolphin kicks and allow their head to break the surface of the water within the first 15 meters.\n\nBackstroke- Backstroking in a race is often thought of an upside-down freestyle. These races start with the swimmers already in the water and they must maintain being on their back throughout the duration of the race. If they move their shoulders more than 90 degrees they will become disqualified from the race. \n\nThere are many different types of racing in the automotive field such as NASCAR, endurance racing, drag racing, and Formula One. While these all are races, the specific rules, regulations, and themes are unique to each series.\n\n--NASCAR is possibly the most recognizable form of racing, especially in the United States. The cars used are generally analogue and have little downforce. The race tracks take the general form of an oval such as the Indianapolis Motor Speedway and are raced counter-clockwise such that every turn is leftwards.\n\n--Formula One is a series of open-wheel formula cars. Formula 1 cars are the fastest regulated cars to drive race tracks due to the very high amount of downforce and mechanical grip.\n\n--Drag racing is a highly variable form of racing in which two cars or motorcycles attempt to cross a set finish line before the other. The most common form is the quarter-mile race. It can be done in anything from an everyday commuter to a Top Fuel dragster capable of accelerating to 300 mph in as little as 4.5 seconds.\n\nSpeed skating is performed on an ice rink and is usually done through the Olympics or other large organizations that perform in winter sports such as this. There are a lot of factors that go into having a fair, proper and safe ice race.\n\n--The Draw happens before any race and take place there needs to be a qualifying round, or the draw, to determine the place in which the racers will start in for their desired heat.\n\n--Before the Start of the race, the racers’ names are called and they must appear to the starting line within the given time or they will not be allowed to race. Once at the starting line, they must approach the line saying “ready” but at no point touch the line with their skate or with any other body part until the gun is shot.\n\n--False Starting for the race happens If the racer takes the starting line before saying ready or if they leave the starting line before the gun has been fired, they will receive a false start. They are given a warning at first and if they false start again then the racer whose fault it was will be disqualified from the race.\n\nCrossovers- During the race, each racer must switch lanes one time during each lap. This is due to the inner lop being shorter than the outer loop so it is only fair to have the racers switch each lap. Skaters can be disqualified for cutting the lines or leaving the inner curve.\n\nCutting lines- When the racer is making the turn they must not cross the inner line as they will be cutting the loop shorter, even though it is not that much of a distance, it will still differ on the racers finishing times.\n\n--When Leaving the inner curve, if for some reason the racer cannot hold the inner curve and for some reason interferes with the other racer, he or she will be disqualified.\n\n-- At the Finish, when they are approaching the finish line, the only way to complete the race is when the tip of their skate crosses the finish line. If they fall short and slide through the finish, time will not be recorded until the tip of the skate is through the finish line.\n\nA sprint finish is a racing tactic used in many forms of racing where a competitor accelerates towards top speed in the final stages of a race. This tactic is mostly associated with long-distance forms of running and cycling, which often feature large groups of competitors racing at a slower pace for much of the race – this slower aerobic racing allows for the subsequent anaerobic activity required for sprinting. The tactic relies upon keeping greater energy reserves than your opponent until the last part of the race in order to be able to reach the finish point first. It is the opposing tactic to keeping a steady optimal pace throughout a race to maximise your energy efficiency (see running economy).\n\nIn track and field, distances from 1500 metres upwards often feature sprint finishes. They can also be found in cross country and road running events, even up to the marathon distance. A runner's ability to sprint at the end of a race is also known as their finishing kick. Multisport races, such as the triathlon, often have running as the final section and sprint finish tactics are applied as they are in running-only events.\n\nIn cycling, sprint finishes are an integral part of the sport and are used in both track cycling and road cycling. Cycling sprints are often highly tactical, particularly on the track, with cyclists occasionally coming to a near halt at points before reaching a high speed finish. The longer track races such as scratch races often feature sprint finishes, as maintaining a steady pace within the peloton allows opponents to conserve energy through drafting. Road races are similar in this respect, in both short criterium races and long-distance races. Sprint tactics also form a major part of points classifications in road events, where cycling sprinters specialise in reaching an intermediate point first, thus gaining extra points and resulting prizes.\n\nSprint finish tactics are also used in speedskating, cross-country skiing, long-distance swimming, horse racing and other animal racing sports. The finishes of races which are outright sprinting events in themselves, such as the 100 metres track race, are not normally referred to as sprint finishes, as all competitors are already sprinting by default (thus it is not a racing tactic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19898520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19898520", "title": "Shaughnessy playoff system", "text": "Shaughnessy playoff system\n\nThe Shaughnessy playoff system is a method of determining the champion of a sports league that is not in a divisional alignment. This format is also known as the Argus finals system. It involves the participation of the top four teams in the league standings in a single elimination tournament. While the first round of the playoffs involve the pairing of the first- and fourth-place teams in one contest (whether it be a single game or a series of games) and the second- and third-place teams in the other, a variant of the Shaughnessy playoffs would pair the first- and third-place teams in one semifinal round and the second- and fourth-place teams in the other. In either variant, the winners of the first two games would then compete for the league championship. Some lower-level leagues use a Shaughnessy playoff for purposes of promotion to the next-higher league.\n\nAnother variant of the Shaughnessy system exempts a certain number of top teams from the playoffs (usually one to three teams) and instead involves the next four teams in the league standings. This variation is almost always used by a lower-level league for promotion purposes. Typically, the exempted top finishers earn automatic promotion and the playoffs determine the final promotion place.\n\nThe Shaughnessy playoff system was implemented in 1933 by Frank Shaughnessy, the general manager of the Montreal Royals minor league baseball team of the International League. After its successful implementation by the International League, the popularity of the new postseason format spread to other leagues in other sports, including the All-America Football Conference (which used the Shaughnessy playoff system in the league's last season of existence) and the minor American football league American Association, which used the format in five of its championship seasons. The format has also been widely used in minor league baseball on all levels.\n\nIn the Original Six era of the National Hockey League (1942-1967), the circuit adopted a Shaughnessy playoff system (first place \"vs.\" third place and second place \"vs.\" fourth place) in which the paired teams played in a best-four-of-seven-games series with the winners advancing to the Stanley Cup championship round. A Shaughnessy-style format is used in today's NHL in an entirely different context—since 2016, the All-Star Game has been contested as a four-team knockout tournament, with each team drawn exclusively from one of the league's four divisions. Each \"game\" is played in a three-on-three format (i.e., three skaters and one goaltender, unless affected by penalties) over a single 20-minute period (the same length of a period in a regular NHL game).\n\nSince its first season in 2013, the National Women's Soccer League has used a Shaughnessy playoff (using 1–4 and 2–3 semifinal pairings) to determine its champion.\n\nIn NCAA college basketball, one Division I conference uses a Shaughnessy playoff for its postseason tournaments for men and women. The Ivy League launched postseason tournaments for both sexes in the 2016–17 season; the top four teams in the regular-season conference standings advance to a Shaughnessy tournament (also using 1–4 and 2–3 semifinal pairings) at a predetermined site. The winners receive the Ivies' automatic berths in the NCAA men's and women's tournaments.\n\nMore recently, the Shaughnessy playoff system has been adopted outside of North America. In English rugby union, the format is currently used to determine the winner of the Premiership, and from 2012–13 through to 2016–17 was also used in the second-level RFU Championship to determine the team to be promoted to the Premiership. The Premiership and Championship formats differ only in the number of games contested—the Premiership playoff uses one-off matches, while all matches in the Championship playoff were two-legged. The Premier 15s, launched in autumn 2017 as the new top flight of English women's rugby, uses the same playoff format as the Premiership. The Celtic League in Ireland, Scotland and Wales, now known as Pro14, adopted a system identical to that of the Premiership starting in 2009–10, the season before that league expanded to include two teams from Italy. The Shaughnessy system was replaced by a six-team playoff when two South African sides joined the league in 2017–18, bringing it to its current 14-team roster.\n\nIn French rugby union, a Shaughnessy-style playoff was used to determine the second of two promotion spots in the second-tier Rugby Pro D2 through the 2016–17 season, with the teams involved being the second- through fifth-placed teams, as the first-place team earned automatic promotion to the Top 14. This system has been abandoned for 2017–18 and beyond in favor of a six-team playoff system identical to that currently used in the Top 14, with only the Pro D2 champion earning automatic promotion and the runner-up advancing to a promotion/relegation playoff with the second-from-bottom Top 14 side. Previously, the pure Shaughnessy system had been used to determine the Top 14 champion, but that league's playoffs expanded to six teams starting in 2009–10.\n\nThe Super League in rugby league, made up primarily of English sides with one from France, adopted a Shaughnessy playoff beginning in 2015. This follows a 22-match home-and-away league season and a single round-robin mini-league involving the top eight clubs from the home-and-away season. In addition, the second-level Championship adopted a Shaughnessy playoff for its Championship Shield, and the third-level League 1 adopted a Shaughnessy-style promotion playoff similar to that formerly used by Rugby Pro D2. In the Championship, the bottom eight teams at the end of the league season enter their own single round-robin mini-league, with the top four teams at the end of that phase entering a Shaughnessy playoff for the Shield. In League 1, the top team at the end of the league season is automatically promoted to the following season's Championship. The second- through fifth-place teams then enter a Shaughnessy-style playoff for the second promotion place.\n\nSome association football leagues use Shaughnessy-style playoffs for promotion purposes. Among the countries using such a system are:\n\nIn rugby union, the Shaughnessy system has been widely used throughout the SANZAAR countries of South Africa, New Zealand, Australia and Argentina.\n\nThe Super Rugby competition, initially featuring teams from Australia, New Zealand and South Africa, used the Shaughnessy format throughout its history as the Super 12 and Super 14, ending in 2010. The competition's expansion to 15 teams as Super Rugby in 2011 saw the playoffs expand to six teams, with three conference champions and three \"wild cards\" advancing. With the addition of three more teams in 2016 (with two of the new entries in Argentina and Japan), the playoffs now involve eight teams, with four conference champions and four \"wild cards\". The format was discontinued in the Super Rugby competition for the 2017 season.\n\nIn South Africa, the Currie Cup uses a Shaughnessy playoff to determine the champions of both of its divisions (Premier and First).\n\nIn New Zealand, the professional Mitre 10 Cup (formerly Air New Zealand Cup and ITM Cup) adopted the Shaughnessy format in 2009, after having used an eight-team playoff bracket in its first two seasons in 2007 and 2008. In 2011, the then-ITM Cup split into two divisions, effectively re-creating the three-division system that existed in the National Provincial Championship era. The playoffs in both the Premiership and Championship divisions use the Shaughnessy system except in World Cup years, in which only the top two teams contest a final. Since its inception in 2007, the amateur Heartland Championship has used the Shaughnessy system, implemented at the last group stage, to determine the winners of both of its trophies, the Meads and Lochore Cups.\n\nAustralia's National Rugby Championship, which began play in 2014, uses a Shaughnessy playoff. The country's previous attempt to establish a national league, the Australian Rugby Championship, also used a Shaughnessy playoff, but was scrapped after its only season in 2007.\n\nA modified Shaughnessy system has been used by the University Athletic Association of the Philippines for its basketball tournaments since 1993. In the semifinals with a #1 vs. #4 and #2 vs. #3 match-ups, the top two seeds possessing the twice to beat advantage, a variant of the best of three series where the higher seed has 1–0 series lead. The winners advance to the best of three finals; it has never been referred to as the \"Shaughnessy system\" in the country. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) adopted it for their basketball tournaments starting in 1998. It has since been adopted to other sports by other collegiate leagues, and in the Philippine Basketball Association, since then\n\nAs it was used in the playoffs of the 2008–09 Guinness Premiership:\n"}
{"id": "29663719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29663719", "title": "Sockgate", "text": "Sockgate\n\nThe contested judgment of taekwondo of 2010 Asian Games, also called \"Sockgate\", is a dispute at the 2010 Asian Games on November 17. Taiwanese taekwondo athlete Yang Shu-chun was disqualified with twelve seconds remaining in the first round due to \"unauthorized\" (disputed) sensors on her socks.\n\nYang was facing Vietnamese opponent Vu Thi Hau in the first round of the flyweight division (under 49 kilogram) of the Asian Games taekwondo competition in Guangzhou, Guangdong, China on November 17, 2010, when she was accused of using the \"unauthorized\" sensors. During the pre-match testing of equipment, the referee discovered that Yang had two extra sensors on the heels of each sock, which she was asked to remove. She fought without the two additional sensors on her socks.\n\nHowever, with twelve seconds remaining in the first round of the bout, when Yang was leading at an advantage of 9–0, Asian Taekwondo Union vice-president Zhao Lei () of China instructed Filipino referee Fernandez S. Estanislaoto to call Yang over to the side and inspected her heels. Finding nothing, the referee then called for the match referee to bring over the two sensors that had already been removed and kept under the chair that Yang's coach was sitting on. Following that, Zhao and the referee had a brief discussion, and the match referee disqualified Yang and awarded Vu a 12–0 victory.\n\nChinese Taipei representatives at the taekwondo venue immediately pointed out that the equipment was certified and that both fighters passed a pre-match inspection. Following the disqualification, Yang and her coach both protested on the mat for about an hour. The World Taekwondo Federation (WTF) authorities then gave the ultimatum for them to leave, or they would suspend every Chinese Taipei taekwondo member in the Game. The WTF Secretary-General Yang Jin-suk initially did not reveal the reason why Yang was disqualified and told the press that it was for the protection of the athlete's personal privacy, but later it was revealed the reason was for the sensors on her socks. Secretary-General later said, \"It was clearly a manipulative move with the intent of cheating, and that's the reason why the individual was disqualified.\"\n\nAccording to the Secretary-General of the WTF, there are two sorts of sensor socks for taekwondo. It is specified that only the newer type is allowed to be used in the 2010 Asian Games, because the older type of sensors are fixed by velcro, which allows athletes to easily add new sensors themselves. The sensors on the newer type are fixed by stitching and have no possibility to be altered by illegal methods, but the newer type have no sensors on the heel.\n\nYang's coach, Liu Tsung-da (), said the inspector for the match asked Yang to change her socks due to poor signal response before the match. Yang put on another set of older velcro socks and passed the equipment inspection. During the match, the sensors on the heel area had already been removed, which should not affect the scoring record. Right after the judgment, Liu asked for the testimony of the inspector and the surveillance video as evidence, but the demands were all rejected.\n\nThe equipment supplier of the Chinese Taipei team said they had never received an official notification from the WTF about suspending the velcro type socks before the Asian Games. There were many of the older type being used in other matches of different weight classes, but those athletes didn't suffer any punishment before or after their matches. According to the WTF official instruction for taekwondo athletes, the former type is still legal in any international games until London Olympics in 2012. The two \"unauthorized\" extra sensors proclaimed to be found by the Game officials belong to the original design of the older type by a Korean equipment manufacturer, which is the only manufacturer authorized by the WTF officials for the 2010 Asian Games.\n\nPolitical reaction in the Republic of China (Taiwan) came swiftly, with politicians on both sides of the political spectrum rushing to Yang's defense. The Kuomintang legislator Huang Chih-hsiung (), himself an Olympic taekwondo silver medalist at the 2004 Athens Olympic Games, stated \"the decision was inconceivable and ridiculous.\" Premier Wu Den-yih () is cited as saying, \"From the current information we have, our athlete Yang Shu-chun was wronged. If it is proven that the ruling was unfair, the Asian Games Organizing Committee has to shoulder the biggest responsibility.\" The Sports Affairs Council demanded an explanation from the Asian Taekwondo Union regarding the disqualification.\n\nThe Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) legislator Pan Men-an () claimed at a press conference that the accusation by the Game officials that Yang had cheated was an \"insult to everybody around the country,\" and charged that, \"the responsibility should fall on the people that conducted the equipment checks.\"\n\nHowever, not all was completely peaceful between the two political sides, as the DPP leaders accused the government of a slow response. The DPP Legislator Chiu Yi-ying () complained that: \"A large number of officials attended the Games, but all they have done so far is to show up at and take part in the awarding ceremonies when our athletes win. When Yang was disqualified, what did they do? Nothing.\"\n\nTsai Ing-wen (), then-current chairperson of the DPP and a candidate for mayor of New Taipei City in 2010, released a statement saying: \"This government has always deferred to China and hasn't emphasized our attitudes enough, especially on sovereignty issues.\" She further stated, \"As a result, we think that it is regrettable that frontline officials haven't been protesting strongly enough about this incident.\"\n\nShortly after the disqualification, Taiwanese netizens voiced their dissatisfaction with the judgment. Soon, several Facebook groups in support of Yang were posted, some with hundreds of thousands of followers. On the pages, outcry toward both South Korea and China was rampant, with many conjecturing a conspiracy, as Yang was regarded as the primary rival to China's gold medal favorite, Wu Jingyu (), the eventual winner of the gold. The conspiracy theorized that Zhao Le (), Wu Jingyu's long-time mentor, was the invisible hand that deliberately forced Yang's ouster to pave the way for Wu's gold medal.\n\nThe 2006 Asian Games gold medalist Su Li-wen () came out in support of Yang in her blog, saying that she has never heard of such a ridiculous accusation and pointed out that eight of Yang's nine points were manually scored without the benefit of the foot sensors.\n\nYang's father, Yang Chin-hsing (), remarked, \"The whole thing is utterly unacceptable\", and told the press that Yang had spent ten months preparing for this competition and that he suspected that China was behind this incident.\n\nThe Asian Taekwondo Union published a misleading article titled \"Shocking Act of Deception by Chinese Taipei\" on its website, attempting to deflect South Korea of blame of the incident. The homepage of the website was then hacked by Taiwanese hackers who added hostile criticism. Later, the homepage was restored, and the misleading article was removed. The Union has reportedly blocked Taiwanese IPs from accessing its website.\n\nSince this is not the first time that Taiwanese athletes have faced controversial judgments in international games, netizens rallied to boycott Korean merchandise. A legislator candidate even led the congregation to protest and burn the flag of South Korea. One Taipei citizen threw eggs at a Korean immigration school as a protest. A few restaurants and taxi drivers announced, \"No Service to Koreans.\"\n\nOn December 21, 2010, Yang was given a three months' suspension for protesting her disqualification during the 2010 Asian Games by the World Taekwondo Federation (WTF). Her coach, Liu Tsung-ta was given a 20 months' suspension while Chinese Taipei Taekwondo Association (CTTA) was fined US$50,000 for \"negligence and wrongdoing\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22702381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22702381", "title": "Sports biomechanics", "text": "Sports biomechanics\n\nSports biomechanics is a quantitative based study and analysis of professional athletes and sports activities in general. It can simply be described as the physics of sports. In this subfield of biomechanics the laws of mechanics are applied in order to gain a greater understanding of athletic performance through mathematical modeling, computer simulation and measurement.\nBiomechanics is the study of the structure and function of biological systems by means of the methods of mechanics (the branch of physics involving analysis of the actions of forces). Within mechanics there are two sub-fields of study: statics, which is the study of systems that are in a state of constant motion either at rest (with no motion) or moving with a constant velocity; and dynamics, which is the study of systems in motion in which acceleration is present, which may involve kinematics (the study of the motion of bodies with respect to time, displacement, velocity, and speed of movement either in a straight line or in a rotary direction) and kinetics (the study of the forces associated with motion, including forces causing motion and forces resulting from motion). Sports biomechanists help people obtain optimal muscle recruitment and performance. A biomechanist also uses their knowledge to apply proper load barring techniques to preserve the body.\n\n\nMethods:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "476874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476874", "title": "Summit Series", "text": "Summit Series\n\nThe Summit Series, or Super Series (in Russian \"Суперсерия СССР — Канада\"; \"Superseriya SSSR — Canada\"), known at the time simply as the Canada–USSR Series, was an eight-game series of ice hockey between the Soviet Union and Canada, held in September 1972. It was the first competition between the Soviet national team and a Canadian team represented by professional players of the National Hockey League (NHL), known as \"Team Canada\". It was the first international ice hockey competition for Canada after Canada had withdrawn from international ice hockey competitions in a dispute with the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). The series was organized with the intention to create a true best-on-best competition in the sport of ice hockey. The Soviets had become the dominant team in international competitions, which disallowed the professional players of Canada. Canada had had a long history of dominance of the sport prior to the Soviets' rise.\n\nThe first four games of the series were held in Canada and the final four in Moscow. The Soviet Union surprised the Canadian team and most of the Canadian hockey media with an opening game victory, 7–3. Many Canadian sportswriters had predicted an overwhelming victory for Canada in the series. Canada won the next game 4–1; the third game was a tie and the Soviets won game four to take a two games to one lead after the Canadian segment. The series resumed two weeks later in Moscow. The Soviets won game five to take a three games to one series lead. The Canadians won the final three games in Moscow to win the series four games to three, with one tie. The final game was won in dramatic fashion, with the Canadians overcoming a two-goal Soviet lead after two periods. The Canadians scored three in the third, the final one scored with 34 seconds left, by Paul Henderson.\nThe series was played during the Cold War, and intense feelings of nationalism were aroused in both Canada and the Soviet Union, as well as on the ice. The games introduced several talented Soviet players to North America, such as Alexander Yakushev, Valeri Kharlamov and goaltender Vladislav Tretiak; the latter two are Hockey Hall of Fame inductees, with Yakushev being inducted in November 2018. Team Canada, the first NHL and professional all-star team formed for international play, was led by Phil Esposito, who led the series in scoring, as well as contributing in other roles. The Canadian line of Bobby Clarke, Ron Ellis and Henderson, which was not expected to start for the team, as none were yet stars, played a surprisingly large role in the Canadian win with Henderson scoring the game-winning goal in each of games six through eight. The series was filled with controversy, starting with the exclusion of top Canadian player Bobby Hull because he had signed a contract to play in the new World Hockey Association, and disputes over officiating, dirty play on the part of both teams, and the deliberate injury of Kharlamov by Clarke in game six. Hull had been the second leading goal-scorer in the NHL the previous season (and had led the league in goal-scoring seven times), and with a knee injury forcing superstar defenceman Bobby Orr, the second leading point scorer in the league the previous season (and scoring champion two years prior) to sit out, Canada was arguably playing without two of its best three players (the other being Esposito, the three-time and defending league scoring champion).\nFrom the beginning of the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships in 1920, Canada would send a senior amateur club team, usually the previous year's Allan Cup champion, to compete as the Canadian entry. These teams were often university players, or unpaid players playing ice hockey while being employed in some other profession full-time. From the 1920s until the 1950s, Canadian amateur club teams won most of the World Championship and Olympic titles. As a career, Canadian players would play instead in the various professional hockey leagues, the best reaching the NHL. Their professional status made them ineligible to play in the World Championships or Olympics under the rules of the time. The last Canadian amateur club to win the world championship was the Trail Smoke Eaters in the 1961 championship.\n\nIn the earliest days of the Soviet Union, bandy or \"Russian hockey\" was played, not \"Canadian hockey\", and the Soviets did not compete in the Olympics or World Championships, which played the Canadian game. Post-World War II, a goal of the Central Committee of the Soviet Union was world supremacy in sport. The decision was made to transfer resources to the Canadian game. Starting in the 1940s, the Soviet Union started a Soviet hockey league playing the Canadian game. The elite sports societies of the Soviet Union, such as CSKA Moscow (Central Sports Club Army), Dynamo and Spartak, soon became the elite teams of the hockey league and supplied the players for the national team. Ostensibly amateurs, the players played hockey full-time, paid by the government. The players had other titular professions; for example Moscow Dynamo players became officers of the KGB; CSKA Moscow players became officers in the army. This preserved a player's amateur status for Olympic and World Championship eligibility and the players would have a career after their hockey playing days ended.\n\nEntering international play in 1954, the Soviet national team under the tutelage of Anatoly Tarasov started to dominate the international competitions, and won nine consecutive championships in the 1960s. Canada, in response, developed a national team of its own. But Canada's best players usually became professionals and the national team featured mostly university players. The Canadian team did not win any championships and was looked upon as a failure. By 1969, the Government of Canada had formed Hockey Canada, an organization to co-ordinate Canadian international play with its amateur organizations and the NHL. In July 1969, on a trial basis, the inclusion of nine professional players for any event for one year was agreed to by the IIHF. Canada entered a team with five professionals in the Izvestia tournament at Christmas in 1969, and nearly won the tournament. The IIHF then convened an emergency meeting in January 1970, and the rule allowing professionals was rescinded. In response, Canada withdrew from IIHF play. The 1970 IIHF World Championships, scheduled to be held in Canada for the first time, were transferred to Sweden after Canada refused to host the event.\n\nThe Canadian embassy in Moscow learned of the Soviets' interest in a series initially through reading an article in the Soviet \"Izvestia\" newspaper in the winter of 1971–1972. Diplomat Gary Smith, responsible for sport and cultural exchanges with the Soviet Union, read that the Soviets were looking for a new challenge in ice hockey. Smith met with \"Izvestia\" sports editor Boris Fedosov initially, then followed up with a meeting with Soviet hockey boss Andrei Starovoitov. The Soviets divulged that they were ready to play in a series between its national team and Canadian professionals. After the meetings, Canadian ambassador Robert Ford passed the matter to Ottawa to negotiate a series and Hockey Canada was given the task to nail down the terms for a series.\nHockey Canada and the Soviet Hockey Federation met in Prague in April 1972 during the IIHF World Ice Hockey Championships. The two sides agreed on the terms: four games in Canada, to be held in Montreal (Montreal Forum), Toronto (Maple Leaf Gardens), Winnipeg (Winnipeg Arena), and Vancouver (Pacific Coliseum) and four games in the Soviet Union, all of them to be held in Moscow at the Luzhniki Ice Palace. The Canadians agreed to hold the series in September and play the games under international rules. The Canadians agreed to IIHF amateur referees in the Canada part of the series, and European referees in the Moscow games. The refereeing would use the international two referee system, not the one referee, two linemen system in place in the NHL, and, at the time, being introduced into international play. The Canadian side agreed to the terms under the belief that the Canadians would have no difficulty winning under any set of conditions. Joe Kryczka, president of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA), who was present at the negotiations, felt however, that the Soviets had demanded the concessions for their own benefit, believing that their team was already equal to any NHL team. The NHL later requested dates in October or November but the idea was abandoned.\n\nNHL players' union president and Hockey Canada director Alan Eagleson, while not involved in the initial negotiations, became a central figure in the organization of the series. Eagleson, who could call on a personal network of players, NHL owners, Hockey Canada executives and Canadian business, would be involved in most arrangements for the Canadian team. Eagleson would confide to \"Toronto Star\" reporter Alexander Ross, that he \"un-negotiated\" much of what had been negotiated between the governments. Eagleson placated the NHL owners by arranging that part of the series' proceeds would go to the NHL player's pension fund, reducing payments from the owners, and threatening to have his player clients play without NHL co-operation. Before the first game, Eagleson personally paid to settle a lawsuit won by a Montreal man, whose car had been destroyed in the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia. The court had ordered the Soviet team's hockey equipment seized to guarantee payment, threatening the start of the series.\n\nFormer Boston Bruins' coach Harry Sinden, who had been out of hockey since leaving the Bruins in 1970, was suggested by the media as a good candidate for the job of Team Canada's coach. Ron Brown, a sportswriter from Kingston, Ontario called Sinden and in the interview, Sinden admitted that he was available and willing to take the position. After a phone call from Sinden to Alan Eagleson, it was arranged for Sinden to have an interview with Hockey Canada's steering committee for the series in June. After the one interview, Hockey Canada selected Sinden for the position. Sinden selected former player John Ferguson as his assistant coach, after initially trying to recruit Ferguson as a player.\n\nThe Soviets selected Vsevolod Bobrov as the coach for the series. Bobrov was a former player who had played against Team Canada in the 1950s and later managed the Soviet national soccer team and the Moscow Spartak ice hockey team. Bobrov had been given the job as the Soviets' national ice hockey team coach, replacing long-time coach Anatoly Tarasov after the 1972 Winter Olympics. This was his second international assignment; his first was the 1972 World Championship, where Czechoslovakia had defeated the Soviet Union, ending a run of nine consecutive championships by the Soviets.\n\nThe Canadian team would be known as \"Team Canada\" for the first time. The name and sweater design was done by advertising agency Vickers and Benson. Eagleson wanted to call the team the \"NHL All-Stars\", but the agency convinced Eagleson otherwise, as the teams were from the USSR and Canada. The name Team Canada was inspired by the contemporary auto-racing team \"Team McLaren\". The name is attributed to copy writer Terry Hill, whose first choice \"The Dream Team\" was rejected. The design of the sweater by designer John Lloyd utilized an enormous stylized maple leaf, like the Canadian flag, that covers the front. No numbers were on the sleeves, only on the back with the wording \"CANADA\" above the number. The sweater used only two colours: red and white, the maple leaf, numbers and letters in one colour and the rest of the sweater the other. The name, sweater design and a team song were all prepared in 24 hours, in time for a previously scheduled news conference. The series itself was simply known at the time as the Canada-USSR Series, although the name \"Friendship Series\" had been suggested by the Government of Canada Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nAlong with coaching, Harry Sinden was given the task of selecting Team Canada, which would be the first true \"team\" composed of NHL all-stars. When Sinden announced the list of 35 Canadian players on July 12, one of the conditions of playing was revealed; that players would have to have a signed NHL contract by August 13. His list of players included Bobby Hull, who by that time had already signed with the rival World Hockey Association (WHA) league. Three other players Sinden named: Gerry Cheevers, Derek Sanderson and J. C. Tremblay had not yet signed with the WHA, but would do so and become ineligible. The condition had been negotiated between the NHL and Hockey Canada, and the NHL would not relent. The condition was widely criticized, including by the NHL's own Harold Ballard, the Toronto Maple Leafs owner and a harsh opponent of the WHA. Ballard felt that the series was the \"unofficial world series of hockey and we want to win\". Phil Reimer, a governor of Hockey Canada, resigned over the matter. Prime Minister Trudeau made a personal appeal, but Doug Fisher, chairman of Hockey Canada refused to re-open the agreement between the NHL and Hockey Canada.\n\nPrior to training camp, there were several changes in the roster. Jacques Laperriere withdrew and Guy Lapointe was selected as his replacement. Dennis Hull, brother of Bobby, considered turning down his invitation, but accepted because Bobby wished him to. Cheevers was replaced by his Boston teammate Eddie Johnston. Stan Mikita replaced Sanderson. Rick Martin replaced Bobby Hull. Bobby Orr, who was selected to the team although he was injured, remained with the team during the series and practiced with the team, but did not play in any games.\n\nTeam Canada assembled in Toronto and started training camp on August 13. Sinden named four co-captains: Phil Esposito, Frank Mahovlich, Stan Mikita and Jean Ratelle. The team trained for three weeks in Toronto, and arrived in Montreal on August 31 for the first game. The team held a practice on September 1 at the Forum. The unheralded line of Bobby Clarke, Ron Ellis and Paul Henderson impressed in camp, enough to earn a place in the starting lineup for game one.\n\nThe Soviets named 31 players for its roster on August 11. The roster included four goaltenders led by 20-year-old Vladislav Tretiak, Olympic and two-time world champion. The defence was led by Alexander Ragulin, who had played in three Olympics and nine world championships. The team was a veteran team with only a handful of players to make their national team debut. Several players were named provisionally, depending on their performance in the Sovietsky Sport tournament being held during August. Boris Kulagin, coach of Krylia Sovietov, was named the assistant coach. Among the forwards, the team did not name Anatoli Firsov, regarded as the \"Bobby Hull\" of the Soviets, who had reportedly spoken out against his new coach. Most of the players named were from the Soviet \"Red Army\" team HC CSKA Moscow, the team managed by former national coach Tarasov.\n\nAlong with their regular training, Bobrov had the Soviet players take boxing lessons in preparation for the series. The Soviets arrived in Montreal not long before the series, on August 30. Staying at Montreal's Queen Elizabeth Hotel, the team began two-a-day workouts at the St. Laurent Arena the next day. They were already acclimatized to the time zone as the team had been training on Montreal time for two weeks before travelling there. They brought 15 forwards, nine defencemen and three goaltenders. Veteran defenceman Vitali Davydov did not accompany the team to Canada. The reason given was injury, but the media questioned if Davydov had fallen out of favour with Bobrov. Firsov was reported as having a knee injury to explain his omission from the team.\n\nDuring the pre-series period, two observers of the opposing team were allowed to scout the teams. Toronto Maple Leafs' coach John McLellan and Bob Davidson, the Leafs' head scout went to the Soviet Union to observe the Soviets in the Sovietsky Sport tournament. McLellan and Davidson observed two games, while Kulagin, along with Arkadi Chernyshev, a former assistant to Tarasov, observed all of the Canadians' practices in Toronto.\n\nWhile the Soviet team was in Canada, Rick Noonan, a trainer for the University of British Columbia’s sports teams, was assigned by Hockey Canada to assist the Soviets. Noonan, who would be later be named general manager of Team Canada for the 1980 Winter Olympics, was the only Canadian to have regular access to the Soviet's locker room, and he was behind the Soviet's bench during the first four games of the Summit Series.\n\nAt the time, the National Hockey League was considered to be where the best hockey players played, and its best players consisted largely of Canadians. The public consensus of hockey pundits and fans in North America was that other countries, the Soviets in this case, were simply no match for Canada's best. The Soviets were not expected to even give the Canadians a challenge, and Canada was going into this series expected to win handily. According to Team Canada Coach Harry Sinden: \"Canada is first in the world in two things: hockey and wheat.\" Alan Eagleson said \"We gotta win in eight games. Anything less than an unblemished sweep of the Russians would bring shame down on the heads of the players and the national pride.\" The Soviets downplayed themselves, stating that they were in the series to learn.\n\nIn a poll of experts conducted by \"The Hockey News\", not one expected the Soviets to win a single game. Journalist Dick Beddoes of Toronto's \"The Globe and Mail\" offered to eat his words \"shredded at high noon in a bowl of borscht on the steps of the Russian Embassy\" if the Soviets won one game. Canadian journalists Milt Dunnell (\"Toronto Star\"), Jim Coleman (\"Southam\") and Claude Larochelle (\"Le Soleil\") predicted results of seven wins to one for the Soviets. American journalists Gerald Eskenazi (\"New York Times\") and Fran Rosa (\"Boston Globe\") predicted eight wins to none, while Mark Mulvoy (\"Sports Illustrated\") predicted seven wins to one for Canada.\n\nBefore the first game, former Canadiens' star goaltender Jacques Plante gave Soviet goaltender Tretiak advice on how to play the NHL forwards. Plante did this because he was \"thinking of the humiliation he was almost certain to suffer.\" Plante himself predicted Canada would win \"eight straight.\" In a game scouted by Team Canada, Tretiak had given up eight goals in a game played the day before his wedding.\n\nA few Canadians gave a dissenting prognosis of the series. John Robertson of the \"Montreal Star\" warned that Team Canada was too poorly prepared and out of shape to win the series. He blamed the NHL: \"This, the most important hockey event of our time, has been tacked onto the front of the NHL season as something only tolerated by the owners, and endorsed by the players as a means of enriching their pension plan.\" Former professional player Billy Harris who had coached Sweden's national team earlier in the year, predicted a Soviets' win, largely on the strength of Tretiak's goaltending.\n\nPrior to the series, Bobrov held a press luncheon in Moscow. He refused to consider that either team would sweep the series. To him, Team Canada had \"the fire power, know-how and goaltending\", but how would it adapt to international rules, two-referee system and amateur officials? He conceded that Phil Esposito would \"be difficult to move from the front of the net. I expect there will be some surprises for us when we meet your Canadian stars.\" He also predicted that Valeri Kharlamov \"will stand out, even against your best Canadians. By North American standards, he is small but he has an excellent shot. I think he will be effective.\" Sinden was aware of Kharlamov and he selected Ron Ellis to the Team Canada roster especially to cover Kharlamov.\n\nGame one was held in Montreal in a very warm Montreal Forum on September 2 before 18,818 fans. The gamesmanship between the teams started before the first faceoff. Canada was assigned the home team for all games in Canada, while the Soviets would be the home team in Moscow. The Soviets would not release their lineup until they had seen their opponents', the opposite order, considering they were the visitors. The official scorer had to return to the Soviets' dressing room and demand the lineup. To Sinden, he wanted to put the Ellis-Clarke-Henderson line on against Valeri Kharlamov's line. The Soviets did not start Kharlamov's line and Sinden named Phil Esposito's line for the opening face-off.\n\nThe move paid off as Phil Esposito scored for Canada after just 30 seconds of play, knocking a puck out of the air behind the Soviets' goaltender Vladislav Tretiak. But even after a few minutes, Sinden felt the Soviets were coming on and having no difficulty getting through Canada's defence. Henderson scored after six minutes to give Canada a two-goal lead on a face-off win by Clarke, the only advantage that Team Canada had, in Sinden's estimation. To Canadian spectators and the media, the second goal gave the appearance that the pre-series predictions of a rout had been proven correct. But the Soviets got over any awe of the NHLers and scored two goals to tie the score before the end of the first period. Yevgeni Zimin scored on a pass from behind the net, and Vladimir Petrov scored a short-handed goal on a Soviet two-on-one break, with Petrov potting the rebound. According to Sinden, the Canadian players had lost their poise, \"running all over the ice\" to establish their hitting game, while the Soviets used an unexpected tactic, that of the long pass, to break a man out of their defensive zone. The Canadian defence was also dropping to the ice to block shots, while the Soviets only skated around the defence to get a good shot. Although Tretiak had given up the two Canada goals on the first two shots, he recovered later in the period to make a couple of critical saves off Esposito at point-blank range. According to Esposito, \"at Christmas time, it would have been 4–0 for us.\"\n\nIn the second period, Kharlamov scored on a great individual effort to put the Soviets ahead. Kharlamov deked Don Awrey, skated around him, faked a back-hand shot on Dryden, but scored on the fore-hand. Kharlamov then scored a second goal to give the Soviets a two-goal lead at the end of the second period. During the period, the air temperature in the Forum increased. By the end of the second period, the temperature in the Forum had reached .\n\nSinden made changes for the third period. He benched Awrey and the Jean Ratelle line, going with three lines. In the third, Clarke scored to bring Canada within one. The Canadians attempted to get the equalizer, and Yvan Cournoyer put a puck off the post, but the Soviets broke out afterwards and Boris Mikhailov scored on the counter-attack to restore the two-goal lead with six minutes to play. Mikhailov skated across the Canadian net about 20 feet out, lured Dryden away from the net, then back-handed the puck into the net between his legs. The strategy of three lines, combined with the heat in the arena, had left the Canadians exhausted by then and the Soviets scored twice in the final minutes to finish with a 7–3 victory.\n\n\"I was stunned by their performance\" was Sinden's assessment. Former Montreal Canadiens' coach Claude Ruel commented that the Soviets' forwards were one of the most finely honed units he had ever seen. \"They are always moving, never standing around, they head-man the puck as well as anyone has ever done — and they always seem to be in the right place.\" According to Canada's goaltender Ken Dryden: \"We didn't play our game at all. After they tied it up, we started playing a panic type of game. Sometimes there were five men going for the puck at once.\" At the end of the game, Team Canada accidentally snubbed the Soviets by returning to the dressing room directly without shaking hands with the Soviets after the game.\n\nThe win by the Soviets was celebrated into the early hours back home, and many took the next day off work. Valeri Kharlamov's father Boris held an impromptu party at his Moscow apartment.\n\nThe second game was played at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto. Sinden sat out several players from the first game, including Don Awrey, Red Berenson, Ken Dryden, Rod Gilbert, Vic Hadfield, Jean Ratelle, Mickey Redmond and Rod Seiling. Hadfield took the benching hard, as he was from the Toronto area and felt he was being embarrassed in front of his home town. On defence, Serge Savard, Pat Stapleton and Bill White were added. On offence, Stan Mikita, Wayne Cashman and J. P. Parise were added. Tony Esposito took over goaltending duties. Sinden's changes were to get \"the diggers into the game and try to grind the Russians down. We had went for speed and quickness in our first lineup, yet the Russians were still faster and quicker.\"\n\nTeam Canada responded to their previous defeat with strong play in this game. The first period was scoreless, but the Canadians used the period to intimidate the Soviets with hard body checking, especially from Cashman, Bergman, Peter Mahovlich and Parise, to throw the Soviets off their game. In the second period, the first goal of the match was again scored by Esposito, this time from a feed from his regular Bruins' linemate Cashman, who had retrieved the puck deep in the Soviets' zone after colliding with the Soviets' defenceman Vladimir Lutchenko. In the third period, Yvan Cournoyer wheeled around Alexander Ragulin and beat Tretiak. Yakushev got the Soviets on the board after teammate Yevgeni Zimin missed on a break-away. Lyapkin pounced on the rebound and fed it out front for Yakushev to bury the puck behind Esposito. Peter Mahovlich then scored a critical goal while Canada was short-handed, deking out the Soviet defender one-on-one, then Tretiak, to give Canada a two-goal lead. His brother Frank then finished the scoring on a feed from Mikita, who had circled around a Soviets' defenceman. Team Canada won the game 4–1 and tied the series.\n\nThe Soviet coaches blamed the loss on the refereeing. Bobrov complained that the pair of American referees, Frank Larsen and Steve Dowling, let the Canadians get away with everything. After the game, the head of the USSR Hockey Federation, Andrei Starovoitov, charged the door of the officials' dressing room and kicked chairs over. The pair of referees, scheduled to referee game four in Vancouver, were replaced by the pair who had refereed game one and game three, Gord Lee and Len Gagnon. Team Canada agreed to the request by the Soviets to change referees, apparently not aware of Starovoitov's tantrum after game two.\n\nGame three was played in the Winnipeg Arena in Winnipeg on September 6. After the second game, the Soviets said that they had strayed into playing too much of the Canadian style, as individuals, and promised to return to their team style for the third game. Canada went with the same lineup as game two, with the exception of Ratelle replacing Bill Goldsworthy. Team Canada held leads of 3–1 and 4–2, but the Soviet side responded and the game ended in a 4–4 tie.\n\nCanada took the lead only 1:54 into the game on a goal by J. P. Parise, but Petrov replied short-handed at 3:16 to tie the game. Petrov stole the puck from Frank Mahovlich and broke away and deked Tony Esposito to score. After a strong fore-check by the Canadians on the Soviets in their zone, Ratelle scored to put Canada ahead 2–1 after the first. Wayne Cashman dug the puck out of a scrum in the corner to feed the puck to Phil Esposito who scored to put Canada ahead 3–1. On another Canadian power play, Kharlamov was circling behind the Canadian defence and received a pass to put himself on a breakaway. Kharlamov deked Tony Esposito to score the Soviets' second short-handed goal. Paul Henderson scored seconds later to restore the two-goal lead, on an individual effort. The Soviets' \"Youngster's Line\" of Yuri Lebedev, Vyacheslav Anisin and Alexander Bodunov then scored two goals to tie the game at 4–4 after two periods.\n\nTeam Canada assistant coach Ferguson felt that the Canadians had gotten over-confident. \"I was fooled again. I felt that after we had taken a 3–1 lead, the final score might be something like 7–1. But those two short-handed goals. When you score one short-handed goal it can turn it all around. But two? That's almost fatal.\" According to Tim Burke of the \"Montreal Gazette\", both goaltenders, Tony Esposito and Vladislav Tretiak, reached great heights, or the outcome could have been 10–10. Tretiak was making an unexpected start for the Soviets. The Soviets had planned to start Viktor Zinger, but he was reported to be ill before the game. The Soviets coach Bobrov complained about the refereeing and the play of Wayne Cashman, stating that \"if that game had been played in Europe, he would have spent the whole game in the penalty box.\"\n\nGame four was played in Vancouver at the Pacific Coliseum. Team Canada was surprised to find that the crowd booed Canada during the warm-up and cheered louder for the Soviets during the game's introduction. The game started with two consecutive penalties by Bill Goldsworthy and Boris Mikhailov scored power play goals on both penalties to give the Soviets a 2–0 lead. Goldsworthy, who had started in place of Wayne Cashman, wanted to replace Cashman's truculence, but only hurt his team and was criticized privately by Sinden. In the second, Gilbert Perreault scored on a Soviet own-goal to get Canada within one goal, but Blinov scored less than a minute later to restore the two-goal lead. Rod Gilbert scored a questionable goal that was disallowed and Canada's protests went unheeded. To Sinden, that was the turning point of the game, and the result could have been different had the goal been allowed, although Sinden admitted that it was \"a beating.\" Vikulov scored to put the Soviets ahead 4–1 after two periods. In the third, Goldsworthy made partial amends to get Canada to 4–2, but Shadrin scored to put the game out of reach. Dennis Hull scored in the final minute to make it closer, but it was too late.\n\nSinden had changed the lineup and the Canadian goals were all scored by players Sinden had inserted in place of players who had played in Winnipeg. Still, Sinden felt that changing the lineup had been a mistake. According to Sinden, Ken Dryden, who had replaced Tony Esposito, did not have a good game; he was shaky and Tretiak was great. According to Conacher, the Soviets used cross-ice passing in the attacking zone, a tactic that caused problems for Dryden. Serge Savard missed the game after fracturing his ankle in practice.\n\nTeam Canada was booed off the ice at game's end. Responding to the negative public and media reaction in light of the expectation for an overwhelming Team Canada sweep of the series, Phil Esposito made an emotional outburst in a post-game interview:\n\nBrad Park and Frank Mahovlich also criticized the booing. According to Park: \"We get nothing — not a dime for this. Brother, I'm sick\". Other players were more sanguine. Dryden didn't lash out at the fans. \"I'm disappointed, but I can understand it. The fans wanted us to do real good, and they're frustrated we didn't. I didn't think I deserved to be booed. Tretiak frustrated us, but I guess I didn't frustrate them enough.\"\n\nAfter the fourth game, the series went on a two-week hiatus. The Soviets returned to the Soviet Union and continued playing in an ice hockey tournament. The Canadians took a few days off, then travelled to Sweden for a pair of exhibition games before arriving in Moscow.\n\nTeam Canada arrived in Moscow for the final four games at the Luzhniki Ice Palace, accompanied by 3,000 Canadian fans. Not long after starting practices in Moscow, Team Canada players Vic Hadfield, Rick Martin and Jocelyn Guevremont left the team and went home for what they felt was a lack of playing time. Team Canada used its practice-time in the Dvoretz Sporta to learn the differences of the Soviet rinks. While there had been concern about the wider ice surface, what was most strange to the Canadian players was the fish-netting draped at the ends of the rink above the boards instead of glass. Considered \"in play\", the netting was strung tight, and a slap shot to the netting could catapult the puck back as fast as the original shot.\n\nGame five was held on September 22. Luzhniki was filled to its 14,000 capacity, including Communist Party Secretary Leonid Brezhnev, Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin and Soviet President Nikolai Podgorny and a large contingent of the military in dress uniform. The 3,000 Canadian fans were given seats, but a second group, of 150 Canadian sports figures, were unable to get seats. The players marched out to the rink for the game to loud cheers, and accompanied by the song \"Cowards Don't Play Hockey\". During the pre-game introductions, Jean Ratelle, captain for the night, was given the traditional gift of bread. The players were all given red and white carnations. Phil Esposito was given flowers, but he slipped and fell on a flower stem, landing on his back. Esposito recovered to laugh at his pratfall, and bowed to the delight of all of the spectators.\n\nIn the game, Parise scored the only goal of the first period, and Clarke and Henderson scored in the second to give Canada a 3–0 lead into the third period. Blinov scored for the Soviets at 3:34 and Henderson scored at 4:56 to restore Canada's lead. Anisin scored on a deflection at 9:05 to start a run of four straight goals by the Soviets, who won 5–4. According to Bobby Clarke, \"we're not a defensive club, yet we tried to play defensively.\"\n\nDespite the loss, all Canadian fans present sang \"O Canada\" as Team Canada left the ice. The cheering of the Canadian fans was unknown at Soviet hockey games. The Russian newspaper \"Pravda\" noted wryly that the roof of the arena had withstood the loudness of the cheering and had remained in place.\n\nTeam Canada was now faced with the daunting task of having to win all three remaining games to win the series. To add to the Canadian struggles, Gilbert Perreault left Team Canada for home to focus on getting into shape for the upcoming NHL season. Perreault had played in game five, practiced with the team the day after, and then asked to return home.\n\nGame six was a Canadian 3–2 victory. There was no scoring during the first period. Lyapkin scored the first goal at 1:12 of the second period, but the Canadians' confidence did not waver. The Canadians caught the Soviets in a lapse and scored three goals in a one-and-a-half-minute span to take a 3–1 lead. Hull flipped a rebound over Tretiak to tie the score after Gilbert had capitalized on a Soviet giveaway. Cournoyer scored on a set-up from behind the net by Berenson. Fifteen seconds later, Henderson scored what turned out to be the winning third goal on a thirty-foot slap shot. Yakushev scored late in the second on a power play to finish the scoring.\n\nAccording to \"Montreal Gazette\" sports editor Ted Blackman, Canadian players Ken Dryden and Brad Park turned in their first big games of the series. Dryden ended a personal losing streak to Soviet teams dating back to his amateur career and two previous games in the series. In his opinion, the Canadian penalty-killing unit of Serge Savard, Peter Mahovlich, Bill White and Pat Stapleton was \"brilliant\" as it held the Soviets to one power play goal despite the disadvantage in penalty minutes. Savard himself was recovering from a fractured ankle during the series. According to commentator Brian Conacher, Team Canada had adjusted its game to not play \"dump and chase\" but instead retain possession in the offensive zone. The strategy led directly to Henderson's winning goal on an interception of an errant Soviet pass. According to Conacher, \"for the first time, the Soviets had opened the door a crack and Team Canada had rushed through like a freight train.\"\n\nFollowing the game, the Canadians complained that Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader, the German referees of the match (the same ones who refereed a controversial Canada-Sweden game), were biased, since Canada was handed 31 minutes in penalties during the game, while the Soviets only received four minutes. Phil Esposito complained that one goal by the Soviets was directly the result of the referee dropping the puck while he was talking to a teammate. The Canadians gave the pair the nickname of \"Badder and Worse.\"\n\nDuring game six, Valeri Kharlamov was targeted by Team Canada for attention. According to Conacher, \"every time they get a chance, they're taking him for a rough ride along the boards.\" Kharlamov was the target of numerous bodychecks by Brad Park. Things started to heat up in the second period. Kharlamov had knocked down Bobby Clarke, who in retaliation, rubbed Kharlamov's face with his glove to raise Kharlamov's temper and the two exchanged punches. Bergman then stepped in and bumped into Kharlamov and harassed him all the way back to the bench. Peter Mahovlich later elbowed Kharlamov, who retaliated by dumping Mahovlich to the ice. Later, Clarke raced down the ice to catch a streaking Kharlamov and deliberately slashed Kharlamov's already sore ankle, injuring it and according to reports, fracturing it. Kharlamov skated over to the Canadian bench and yelled at the Canadians, before limping off the ice to the dressing room. The referees handed Clarke a minor penalty for slashing and an additional 10-minute misconduct penalty. Later, with Clarke still stuck in the box serving the misconduct, the referees also gave Dennis Hull a slashing penalty, during which Yakushev scored. On his injured ankle, Kharlamov returned to play and very nearly scored on Dryden during a power play later in the second period.\n\nThe incident was widely reported and condemned by the Soviet press. Kharlamov himself believed that \"Bobby Clarke was given the job of taking me out of the game.\" The slash was apparently done at the instigation of assistant coach John Ferguson. \"I remember that Kharlamov's ankle was hurting pretty bad. I called Clarke over to the bench, looked over at Kharlamov and said, 'I think he needs a tap on the ankle.' I didn't think twice about it. It was Us versus Them. And Kharlamov was killing us. I mean, somebody had to do it.\" Canadian journalist Dick Beddoes asked Clarke about it later at a team reunion, calling it a \"wicked two-hander\", to which Clarke replied \"Dick, if I hadn't learned how to lay on a two-hander once in a while, I'd never have left Flin Flon.\"\n\nIn a 2006 interview with the Russian \"Sport Express\" magazine, Clarke states that he was unaware of Kharlamov's sore ankle at the time and does not recall Ferguson telling him to target the ankle. Further, he recalled that Kharlamov had used stick work on him, and Clarke's slash was in retribution for Kharlamov's actions:\n\nOn the thirtieth anniversary of the series, Henderson called the incident \"the low point of the series\", but would later apologize to Clarke. In his 2007 book, Conacher wrote that \"from the broadcast booth I was shocked and disgusted when I saw Clarke viciously chop at Kharlamov's left ankle.\" He noted \"that emotionally these games had clearly gone beyond sport for Team Canada and had truly become unrestricted war on ice.\" Media opinion is divided on the effect it had on the outcome of the series. The controversy and admissions that have come forth throughout the years have led some to the belief that the incident could be considered a form of cheating. Kharlamov, who had been one of the Soviets' best forwards, missed game seven, when the Soviets could have clinched the series and while he did play in game eight, he was not at 100% and did not score. In Clarke's opinion, there were other factors for Team Canada's turnaround in Moscow: \"In Moscow we played much better than in Canada. We were almost equal to the Soviet team physically by then, we passed much better, we shot the puck much better, we became faster and played better on defence. Besides, when you have nothing to lose, it is easier to play. And after the fifth game we had nothing to lose.\"\n\nCanada won game seven by the score of 4–3. In the first period Phil Esposito scored two goals around a pair by Yakushev and Petrov, ending the first period tied 2–2. The second period was scoreless. In the third, Gilbert put Canada ahead, but Yakushev scored again to tie the score at three. At 17:54, Henderson fooled Soviet defender Tsygankov with a pass through Tsygankov's feet, then skated around Tsygankov to pick up the puck and break in on Tretiak. As Henderson shot and scored, Tsygankov tripped Henderson and Henderson did not see his shot go in. The goal light went on and off quickly and Team Canada rushed onto the ice to congratulate Henderson before there was any doubt raised about the goal. The Soviet coach Bobrov publicly blamed the loss on Tsygankov. After the game, Henderson commented about the goal as the \"one that gave him his most personal satisfaction ever.\"\n\nThe game also featured a controversial incident: At 16:26 of the third period, a scuffle broke out between Canada's Gary Bergman, and the USSR's Boris Mikhailov, in which Mikhailov kicked Bergman two times before the fight ended. Czech referee Rudolf Baťa and Swede referee Ove Dahlberg officiated the match, and it was announced that the German referee pair of Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader had been sent home and Baťa and Dahlberg would referee the final game, in exchange for a promise that Bergman would not publicly berate Bobrov.\n\nControversy ensued when the Soviets wanted to back out of the refereeing agreement. The Soviets wanted to include the German pair of referees, originally scheduled for the game. Eagleson threatened to pull Team Canada from playing the eighth game. In a compromise, Kompalla refereed along with Bata instead of Baader. The ill will spilled over into the presentation of a totem pole as a gift from Team Canada. The pre-game presentation was cancelled by the Soviets, but restored on the insistence of Team Canada. According to Coach Sinden, Eagleson stated that they \"were going to take this totem pole and bring it to centre ice and they'll have to take it or skate around it the whole game.\"\n\nHeading into the eighth and final game, each team had three wins and three losses and one tie, but the Soviets were ahead in goal differential by two goals. In Canada, much of the country enjoyed an unofficial 'half a day' holiday, with many students in Toronto being sent home the afternoon of the game (which began at 1pm Eastern Time), while many others watched the game at work or school. In Montreal's Central Station, 5,000 fans gathered around ten TV sets to watch the game, which was simulcast in English on CBC Television and CTV, and in French by Radio-Canada. Until the men's hockey gold-medal game of the 2010 Winter Olympics, it was the most-watched sporting event in the history of Canadian television.\n\nTeam Canada took a number of questionable early penalties. With two Canadians (White and Peter Mahovlich) off, Yakushev scored to give the Soviets the lead 1–0. The game was delayed after a mistaken call against J. P. Parise, (he was called for interference, but Parise admitted later he was guilty of cross-checking) and emotions boiled over. Parise was called for a misconduct for banging his stick on the ice, and when he saw the misconduct called, he dashed across the ice with his stick raised. Parise nearly swung his stick at Kompalla and got a match penalty. Sinden threw a chair on the ice. Some writers have commented that the incidents resulted in the rest of the game being refereed capably.\n\nAfter Parise's penalty was served, it was Canada's turn to go on the power play, and Esposito scored his sixth goal of the series to tie it at 1–1. The teams exchanged power plays before Lutchenko scored a power play goal on a slap shot to put the Soviets ahead 2–1. Brad Park then scored his only goal of the series at even strength to complete some pretty passing between Dennis Hull and the Rangers' teammates of Ratelle, Gilbert and Park to tie the score. The period ended with the teams tied 2–2.\n\nIn the second, the Soviets started with a quick goal by Shadrin after 21 seconds. The last ten minutes saw two goals from the Soviets: Yakushev scoring his seventh of the series followed by Vasiliev on the power play to put the Soviets ahead 5–3 after two periods. White had countered for Canada midway through the period. It was one of few moments for Canada to cheer as the Soviets played an excellent period. The other was a goal-saving play by Esposito who stopped a shot by Yury Blinov who had faked goaltender Dryden out of position and had an empty net to shoot at. Blinov was denied by Esposito who stopped the puck with his stick on the goal line. Blinov and the crowd had prematurely celebrated the apparent goal, and Blinov shook his head in disbelief.\n\nSinden told the players to try to get one back quickly, but play tight defensively and not allow the game to get out of hand. Don't gamble until after the half-way point if need be. Esposito scored to put the Canadians within one. The tension rose at the rink, and extra soldiers were dispatched for security. It was matched on the ice as Gilbert and Yevgeni Mishakov had a fight. Foster Hewitt noticed: \"You can feel the tension almost everywhere!\"\n\nAt the ten-minute mark, Sinden noticed that the Soviets had changed their style, playing defence to protect the lead, rather than pressing. However, the strategy back-fired on the Soviets. The change in tactics gave the Canadians more chances to score and Cournoyer scored to even it up.\n\nAfter the Cournoyer goal, the goal judge refused to put the goal light on despite the fact that it was signalled a goal on the ice. In response, Alan Eagleson (seated across the ice from the Team Canada bench) attempted to reach the timer's bench to protest, causing a ruckus in the crowd as he made his way to the timer's bench. As he was being subdued by the Soviet police, the Canadian players headed over and Peter Mahovlich jumped over the boards to confront police with his stick. Eagleson was freed and the coaches escorted him across the ice to the bench. In anger, he shoved his fist to the Soviet crowd, as a few other Canadian supporters also gave the finger to the Soviets. The Soviets continued to play defensively. Sinden speculates the Soviets were willing to accept the tie and win the series on goal differential.\n\n\nIn the final minute of play, with Phil Esposito, Yvan Cournoyer and Peter Mahovlich out on the ice, Paul Henderson stood up at the bench and called Mahovlich off the ice as he was skating by. \"I jumped on the ice and rushed straight for their net. I had this strange feeling that I could score the winning goal\", recalls Henderson. Bobby Clarke was supposed to replace Esposito, but Phil didn't come off (\"There was no way I was coming off the ice in that situation\" Esposito said). Cournoyer picked up a puck that had been passed around the boards by the Soviets in a clearing attempt. He missed Henderson with a pass, but two Soviets mishandled the puck in the corner and Esposito shot the puck on Tretiak.\n\nHenderson, who had fallen behind the net, got up and went to the front of the net where he was uncovered. Henderson recovered the rebound of Esposito's shot, shot the puck and was stopped, but recovered the rebound. With Tretiak down, he put the puck past Tretiak with only 34 seconds to play. Foster Hewitt's voice rose in excitement as he called the winning goal:\nThe scene was captured on film by cameraman Frank Lennon. The picture became iconic in Canada. Canada held on for the win in the game and thus won the series, four games to three. Pat Stapleton picked up the puck after the game.\n\nSomewhat overshadowed by Henderson's winning goal, was a four-point game by Phil Esposito, two goals and two assists, and a hand in all three goals of the third period. Esposito was the only player on either team to score four points in a game during the series. According to Ron Ellis, he had \"never seen another player have a period where there was so much pressure and was still able to accomplish what he did.\" Sinden considered it to be Esposito's \"finest hour.\" Esposito describes it as \"there was no stopping me. And I think some of the guys got a little angry with me. If we had lost, I would have been the goat. But we didn't lose. I just had enough faith in myself, that I was going to get it done, one way or another.\"\n\nTeam Canada arrived back in Canada on October 1. The team was mobbed by an estimated crowd of 10,000 at Montreal's Dorval Airport. Also greeting the team was Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau and City of Montreal Mayor Jean Drapeau. Montrealers Ken Dryden, Serge Savard, Yvan Cournoyer, Jean Ratelle and coach John Ferguson stayed in Montreal, while the rest of the team travelled on to Toronto. In Toronto, an estimated crowd of 80,000 attended a ceremony at Nathan Phillips Square to salute the players. The players were welcomed by Ontario Premier Bill Davis and Toronto Mayor William Dennison.\n\nAfter the series, it was reported that NHL president Clarence Campbell and Chicago Black Hawks' owner Bill Wirtz had concluded an agreement with the Soviets for the Soviet national team to play an exhibition series in January 1973 against the Boston Bruins, New York Rangers and Chicago Black Hawks. Campbell characterized the reports as \"presumptuous\". The NHL and the Soviets had held talks during the Moscow games, during which the Soviets had requested further games, but Campbell stated \"we don't even know if we could schedule such a series\" and \"we're a long way from any arrangement.\" Although the 1973 exhibition series did not take place, exhibition series would take place a few years later.\n\nKompalla gave an interview with newspaper \"General-Anzeiger\" after the series. \"When I recall these matches, my flesh creeps. Ten more such games and I would age several years. I am very glad that I got back home uninjured.\" He went on to state that the Canadians played \"very crudely, purposely using foul methods that endanger the lives of their rivals.\" He complained that the Canadian team threw \"cucumbers and other leftovers\" at his colleague Franz Baader on the flight from Moscow to Prague and harassed visitors in hotels. Bobby Hull also criticized Team Canada, stating that the fighting and gestures of the Canadian players \"were a bad example to young players and diplomatically harmful.\"\n\nThe Soviet coaches Bobrov and Kulagin were interviewed after the series in \"Sovietsky Sport\". They accused Team Canada of \"trying several methods to intimidate their players, though this war of nerves did not bring them success.\" The coaches said they were astonished that the Canadians argued with the referees. They singled out Team Canada Assistant Coach John Ferguson for his \"pugnacity\". They did compliment Team Canada on their defensive skills but felt that the Soviets were technically superior, and, but for some deplorable mistakes by their players, the Soviets would have won the series.\n\nAlan Eagleson was not repentant for his actions during game eight. Eagleson was not the only one jostled by police; Eagleson's wife and the Canadian ambassador's wife were also jostled. Eagleson woke up with bruises from his treatment. Eagleson was not sorry, but he regretted the incident and planned to not get involved in further series. He did get a letter of support from Robert Ford, the ambassador, who basically agreed with Eagleson's actions. Mail and messages about the incident was mostly in favour of Eagleson. According to Ted Blackman, Canadian fans were basically understanding of Team Canada's actions as being provoked while the team was under duress.\n\nAs well as the disputes over the refereeing, the goal judges on several occasions did not turn on the red light indicating a goal after a Canadian score. After Henderson's goal in game seven, Sinden sent the entire team off the bench to ensure the goal was counted. A similar incident during game eight led to the melee that Eagleson was involved in.\n\nDuring Team Canada's stay in Moscow, the team's treatment was the source of numerous complaints by the players. When leaving Sweden, the team was informed that the players would stay at one hotel, their wives at another. The players threatened not to go, and the arrangements were changed to keep the players and wives together at the Intourist Hotel. The players' wives were fed sub-standard food and the players would smuggle some of their food to their wives. The team had contracted to have Canadian beer and steaks delivered to them in Moscow. The beer was lost at the airport, while the steaks were cut in half. At a practice after game six, the Soviets tried to cut short the Canadians' practice.\n\nDuring the two-week hiatus between games four and five, the Canadians visited Sweden and played two exhibition games versus the Swedish national team. The Team Canada management had arranged for the visit to Sweden to get used to the bigger ice surfaces in Europe, and stopping in Sweden would provide some rest for Team Canada before resuming the series in Moscow. The games took place on September 16 and 17 at the Johanneshovs Isstadion arena in Stockholm. Canada won game one 4–1; the second game was a 4–4 tie. The first exhibition game introduced Canada to the two West German referees, Josef Kompalla and Franz Baader. These two referees would figure prominently in games six and eight of the Canada-Russia series.\n\nSinden considered the first period of the first Swedish game the team's worst since the team was put together, but the team improved and started to take command. Henderson, Clarke, Cashman and Parise scored. Sinden criticized the German referees: \"... they were absolutely terrible. They couldn't even skate. They were miles behind the play all night and don't know the damn rules. Their incompetence helped the game become very bitter.\" The players were also introduced to the style of play of the Swedes, who were well used to using stick work to throw off their opponents. \"They were spearing, holding, interfering, and most of all, backstabbing.\" The Canadian players would retaliate and be penalized for their retribution. As an example of the referees' incompetence, Sinden pointed out that Esposito had been penalized for cross-checking, and given a misconduct for it. Sinden, who had played international ice hockey, knew that under international rules at the time, you could not give a misconduct for cross-checking.\n\nA dirty incident marred the second game. Cashman was cut in the mouth by Sweden's Ulf Sterner's stick. The cut to his tongue required nearly 50 stitches and forced him to miss the rest of the Summit Series, although he stayed with the team. Sterner was not penalized on the play. During the second intermission, Team Canada and Team Sweden scuffled in the runway to their dressing rooms before being separated by police. Canada took a 2–1 lead in the game, but the Swedes were not in awe of Canada like they had been at the beginning of game one. The Swedish tactics were effective; Canada took 31 minutes in penalties to Sweden's two. Sweden led the game 4–3 before Esposito scored on a 35-foot shot in the final minute. The Swedish defenceman had actually backed into their goaltender, allowing Esposito an easy shot for goal. Sinden also admitted that the tying goal was off-side but the referees had missed the call. Sinden was \"thrilled with the tie. I wouldn't be able to stomach their gloating if they beat us.\"\n\nTeam Canada was heavily criticized by the Swedish media for its \"criminal\"-style play during the two games. Pictures in the newspapers highlighted the blood from a two-stitch cut the Swedish captain Lars-Erik Sjöberg had received on a cross-check from Vic Hadfield. Reports of the games led to criticism from back home in Canada, which incensed Sinden. The team cooled off the next day with a session in Södertälje playing for the employees of a Volkswagen plant. The team played mock games against local teams of youngsters 12 and 13 years in age. The practice improved the mood of the players. The team drank beer on the bus, and started \"singing songs like a bunch of kids.\" Several of the players then went out drinking, impressing Sinden the next day with their best practice session to date. The time in Sweden helped bring Team Canada together as a team and focused them for the final four games.\n\nAfter the series, Team Canada played an exhibition game against the Czechoslovak national team; at the time, the world champions. The game took place on September 30 at the Sportovní hala in Prague and ended in a 3–3 tie. Canada took the lead in the first period on goals by Serge Savard and Peter Mahovlich. The Czechoslovakian team tied it with two goals in the second by Bohuslav Stastny. Jiri Kochta scored at 2:28 of the third and the lead nearly held up until the end. Canada pulled its goalie and Savard scored his second goal with four seconds left.\n\nFor the game, Stan Mikita was named captain of the Canadian team. Mikita had left Czechoslovakia at age eight to live in Canada with an aunt and uncle, leaving behind his mother. During player introductions, Mikita received the largest ovation of any player. He took the opening faceoff and very nearly scored during the game.\n\nThe games' broadcasts were produced by Hockey Canada, using experienced hockey commentators from Canadian television networks. In English, CBC Television (CBC) and CTV Television Network (CTV) split the coverage, with CTV carrying games one, three, five, seven and eight, while CBC aired games two, four, six and eight. Foster Hewitt called the plays and former player Brian Conacher was the commentator for all of the games. At the request of the broadcasters, Hewitt came out of semi-retirement to be part of the broadcast. In French, all games were broadcast on SRC and the broadcast team was Rene Lecavalier and former player Gilles Tremblay. For the eighth game, it was estimated that 16 million Canadians watched the match. (A year earlier, the national census had counted 21,963,000 Canadians.)\n\nA partnership between Bobby Orr Enterprises and Harold Ballard bought the broadcast rights from Hockey Canada for $750,000. The bid, negotiated by Alan Eagleson, who, at the time, was both Orr's agent and a Hockey Canada director, outbid McLaren Advertising, producers of \"Hockey Night in Canada\", which had offered $500,000. Ballard-Orr realized a profit on the series of $1.2 million.\n\nThe series was picked up by some U.S. television stations, such as WSNS (Channel 44) in Chicago. The telecasts of games one through four were produced by WSBK (Channel 38) in Boston and called by Bruins' announcers Fred Cusick and John Peirson. After efforts by WSBK to get rights to the four games in Moscow broke down, a last-minute deal by Boston public television station WGBH-TV allowed it to broadcast the CBC/CTV feed of games five through eight and to make the telecast available to PBS stations in several American cities, mostly those who had NHL, minor-league, or major college hockey teams. WGBH fed the Canadian telecasts; games six, seven, and eight were seen on WGBH and PBS on a tape-delay in prime-time.\n\nThe Soviet play-by-play was done by Nikolai Ozerov. In the style of that time, the Soviets did not televise anything during the pre-game, intermissions or post-game. During the intermission, the screen went black, with classical music playing quietly. After the games, the broadcast simply ended and Soviet television networks returned to regular programming.\n\nWhile Canada formally won the series, there was no winning title, and both teams could claim victory. The Soviets earned the respect of fans and players alike; the Canadians went from scoffing at their antiquated equipment and strange training methods and practices to admiration for their talent and conditioning. Frank Mahovlich said, \"give the Russians a football and they'd win the Super Bowl in two years.\"\n\nMany Soviet citizens believed that the outcome may have been different if Anatoli Firsov and Vitaly Davydov had not sat out the series to protest a coaching change. In response, some offer that Canada was without Bobby Orr due to his knee injury as well as Bobby Hull (due to his departure from the NHL to the newly formed WHA league). These were arguably the best Canadian players at the time (along with Phil Esposito), so neither team had all of its greatest talent on the ice. The Soviet team had an obvious advantage of playing together year-round. Meanwhile, the Canadian team was picked and prepared in only a few weeks and most players were not yet in top shape when the series began. At the time, NHL players did not regularly train during the summer months, using the period for a holiday or other activities.\n\nIn the end, the Summit Series conclusively proved that the gap between the best Canadian NHL players and the top national teams of Europe (USSR, Czechoslovakia, Sweden) was much narrower than most observers on both sides of the Atlantic had anticipated. The Swedish national team coach Billy Harris (a former NHL pro with the Toronto Maple Leafs) later recalled that \"the (Swedish) media would ask me, 'do you see even one Swedish player who could possibly have a chance in the National Hockey League?' I answered, 'No, I see 14 of them!'\" The success of the 1972 Summit Series would lead to the development of the Canada Cup ice hockey world championship tournament open to both pros and amateurs, starting in 1976. It also led to regular series of games between Soviet and NHL clubs, known as the Super Series. By the 1980s, an increasing number of players were former members of the Swedish or Czechoslovak national teams. The top Soviet players were finally allowed to sign contracts with NHL clubs in the late 1980s and early 1990s as the USSR crumbled.\n\nIn North America, the Series (particularly the first few games) exposed the need for better preparation and off-season training. Philadelphia Flyers coach Fred Shero became an avid student of the Soviet style and was one of the first to bring the Soviet training techniques to the NHL as the Flyers won two Stanley Cup championships in 1974 and 1975. Tom Mellor (who joined the small but rapidly growing group of American-born NHL players after the 1972 Olympics) lamented that the NHL training methods of the early 1970s were vastly inferior to those of the Soviets. \"When I went to play for Detroit after the Olympics, Alex Delvecchio was the coach. ... When he would coach, we would do a couple of one-on-ones, two-on-twos, three-on-twos, we'd scrimmage, and he would scrimmage with us. At the end of the scrimmage, we'd do a couple of figure eights and then go to the bar. That was the NHL and pro mentality.\" Mark Howe commented that the Soviet national team must have trained six hours on the day of a game in the 1972 Winter Olympics. On the other hand, Swedish sports journalists were extremely impressed by the toughness and \"never say die\" fighting spirit of the Canadians, who lost only one game out of seven on European ice despite often trailing in the third period. According to Soviet player Boris Mikhailov, who later became a coach, \"it was a meeting between two schools of hockey and we have since continued this great exchange and we have learned from each other, taking the best of both styles.\"\n\nAs time passed, the significance of the series grew in the public consciousness, and the term \"Summit Series\" became its unofficial accepted name. In Canada, the Summit Series is a source of national pride, and is seen by many as a landmark event in Canadian cultural history. In Canada, Paul Henderson's goal is considered to be one of the most famous in the history of the game. The series is also seen by many Canadians as an important win in the Cold War.\n\nMany of the players would face each other again in subsequent international contests. Henderson would play the Soviets in the 1974 Summit Series organized by the WHA. Eleven of the Soviet 1972 team players would play against the Montreal Canadiens in the December 31, 1975 game of the \"Super Series '76\". Five players of Team Canada 1972 would play for Montreal (Awrey, Cournoyer, Dryden, Lapointe and Savard). Many of the players would also play in the 1976 Canada Cup, including Bobby Orr, making his first appearance against the Soviets as a professional. He had the missed the chance in the Super Series '76, also due to injury.\n\nIn 1987, fifteen years after the series, a 60-minute commemorative video was directed and produced by Tom McKee and published by Labatt Brewing Company Limited, Toronto. The video includes interviews with Alan Eagleson and former players Bobby Clarke, Yvan Cournoyer, Paul Henderson, and Serge Savard in the studio. Every goal from the series is included as is a mention of the Soviets' \"shenanigans,\" as they try to interfere with one of the Canadians' practices in Moscow. Eagleson would later be barred from public appearances with Team Canada members after his fraud convictions related to his hockey business dealings.\n\nIn 1989, Marcel Dionne retired as a member of the New York Rangers. He was the last active player from the Canadian roster. That same year, Sergei Priakin became the first Soviet to be given permission to play in the NHL, for the Calgary Flames.\n\nIn 1997, the Royal Canadian Mint released a commemorative silver dollar coin to mark the 25th anniversary.\n\nOn November 2, 2005, the team was honoured, en masse, as members of the Canadian Sports Hall of Fame. In the induction ceremony, Phil Esposito spoke: \"A lot of people will go back and say 1972 changed the face of the game and actually I believe it did. I'm not so sure it changed for the better, by the way. But it did change the way we think and look at hockey in this country.\"\n\nIn 2006, the CBC aired a two-part mini-series called \"Canada Russia '72\", directed by T. W. Peacocke. The film is a dramatization of the series. The film was later made available on DVD.\n\nIn 2007, for the 35th anniversary of the series, Canadian and Russian national junior teams competed in the 2007 Super Series. Four games were played in Russia, followed by four in Canada. Canada won seven of eight games and game seven was a tie.\n\nIn 2010, the sweater Henderson wore while scoring the decisive final goal of the series was put up for auction by an anonymous American collector. The 42nd and winning bid of US$1,067,538 ($1,275,000 with auction fees, confirmed as the world record for hockey memorabilia by Guinness World Book of Records in March 2012.) was placed by Mitchell Goldhar, a Canadian shopping mall mogul. It was also announced that Goldhar would be taking it on a tour of Canada, the locations of which to be decided by voters on Facebook.\n\nIn 2012, the 40th anniversary, several events took place. The 2012 Canada–Russia Challenge, a series between Canadian and Russian players took place in August. In September, two books were published to mark the anniversary. That month, in Russia, members of Team Canada went on a tour of Russian cities to celebrate the anniversary. A reciprocal tour of Canada was planned but no funding was available from the Government of Canada to sponsor the tour. Nevertheless, the anniversary was marked with several events in Canada. Team Canada received a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in Toronto. The series was replayed that month on Canadian television, and the Canadian team was honoured with a dinner at the Hockey Hall of Fame. The players again refused to appear with Alan Eagleson.\n\nHenderson's goal in 1972 has been described as the \"goal that everyone remembers\" by the Canadian rockers The Tragically Hip in their song \"Fireworks\" from their album \"Phantom Power\". The song describes the national eruption of celebration over the goal.\n\nIn the 1994 film \"\", director Nikita Mikhalkov observes that to be a great nation, \"Russia needed great enemies\". The film then shows Phil Esposito in the penalty box from video of the series. Esposito is \"performing a menacing pantomime\" in the words of author Dave Bidini. The term \"Esposito\" also was added as a derogatory term to street slang in Russia.\n\nThe \"Corner Gas\" episode \"The Good Old Table Hockey Game\" featured an eight-game table hockey series based on the Summit Series. It referenced events such as the fans booing and Esposito's speech after game four, Esposito falling on the ice before game six, and Henderson's winning goal in game eight.\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks\n\n\nSource: Dryden & Mulvoy, Podnieks\n\nSource: Dryden & Mulvoy, Podnieks\n\nSource: Podnieks,Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nStatistics do not include the games in Czechoslovakia and Sweden.\n\nSource: MacSkimming 1996, Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nSources: \"The Globe and Mail\", Society for International Hockey Research Plus-minus: Dryden & Mulvoy\n\nOf these players, all played against Sweden, except for Bobby Orr. Dionne, Glennie and Tallon played against Czechoslovakia.\n\nJersey numbers: \"The Globe and Mail\"\n\nThree junior-age players were invited to training camp to take part in practices. All three had been drafted in the 1972 NHL Entry Draft and were clients of Alan Eagleson. The three stayed with the team during the Canadian stage of the series.\n\n\n\nSources: \"The Globe and Mail\", Society for International Hockey Research Plus-minus: Dryden & Mulvoy\n\n\nJersey numbers: \"The Globe and Mail\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "286628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286628", "title": "Supporters' trust", "text": "Supporters' trust\n\nIn British sports, a supporters' trust is a formal, democratic and not-for-profit organisation of fans who attempt to strengthen the influence of supporters over the running of the club they support. There are over 140 supporters' trusts across England, Wales and Scotland and the majority of these are affiliated to football clubs, however trusts also exist for Rugby League and Rugby Union clubs.\n\nWith government and with cross-party support, Supporters Direct was established to encourage the formation of supporters' trusts to promote democratic supporter ownership. Supporters Direct encourages these bodies to be formed as Industrial and Provident Societies (IPSs) and assists with their formation, legal and start-up costs.\n\nSupporters' trusts were commonly founded in response to a financial crisis which threatens the future of a team, as was the case at Chesterfield, Lincoln City York City, and Real Oviedo. Their involvement has reportedly ensured the survival of over 20 different clubs entering into administration, particularly during the period of crisis as a result of the collapse of ITV Digital. Supporters' trusts are now more commonly founded in order to increase influence at clubs through a financial stake in the club.\n\nThe first trust established was at Northampton Town in January 1992. The largest is the Manchester United Supporters Trust, which used to be known as Shareholders United and currently has over 200,000 members. Other large trusts such as Leeds, Exeter City, Dundee United, Reading, Spurs and Glasgow Rangers have between 3,000 and 7,000 members.\n\nThe main objective of a supporters' trust is to provide a vehicle for fans to influence the running of their club. This is achieved by a number of different strategies, including gaining control by fundraising to finance the acquisition of shares in the club or direct board representation.\n\nThe most effective method of influencing the running of a club is club ownership. In the UK more than 110 supporters' trusts currently hold equity within their football clubs while supporters' trusts have outright or majority ownership or control at two Football League and others.\n\nOver 40 football clubs currently have supporter representation within the boards of their football clubs, such as the Rangers Supporters Trust at Rangers F.C., Lincoln City Supporters' Trust at Lincoln City F.C., ArabTRUST at Dundee United F.C., the Oldham Athletic Supporters Trust and the Swans Trust at Swansea City A.F.C.. The Bluebirds Trust at Barrow AFC have a board representation and are fundraising to purchase shares. However their formation is different to the vast majority of Trusts, they are not born from crisis but success; Barrow AFC were a members owned club but voted to become a privately owned club. Barrow born Texan businessman Paul Casson of Casson-Mark (C-Mark) Corp. purchased the club in the Summer of 2014. In Real Oviedo's case, when the club whas about to go bankrupt, the club started putting shares up for sale to people across the world to help the club. Thousand of people invested, including 2nd richest man Carlos Slim and Youtuber Spencer Owen (aka Spencer F.C). As was the case for Ebbsfleet United.\n\nAbout 100 football trusts currently have shares in their clubs.\n\nThere are many Rugby League supporters' trusts currently in the UK who run and operate their respective clubs, such as Rochdale Hornets for example, likewise, so do some rugby union clubs, for example Friends of Newport Rugby, representing Newport RFC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53721319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53721319", "title": "Uniformed Derby", "text": "Uniformed Derby\n\nUniformed Derby is the name given to football matches that involves Home United and Warriors FC. The derby started since the 90's as both are quite successful teams in Singapore.\n\nHome United FC was founded in 1940 and its current head coach is Aidil Sharin. Its actual name was Police FC for the Singapore Police Force and changed to the current name in 1997 as it includes HomeTeam departments of the Singapore Ministry of Home Affairs such as the Singapore Civil Defence Force and the Immigration and Checkpoints Authority.\n\nWarriors FC was founded in 1975 and its current head coach is Razif Onn. They were previously known as the Singapore Armed Forces Football Club (SAFFC) since their establishment on 16 February 1996.\n\n\"From 2009 to current\"\nHonours counted for the S.League, Singapore Cup, Singapore League Cup and the Singapore Community Shield.\n"}
{"id": "567655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567655", "title": "Varsity team", "text": "Varsity team\n\nVarsity (also known as Virginity team) is an alteration and shortening of the term \"university\". The meaning differs depending on the region, but is usually related to sporting activity.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, varsity team or varsity club refers to groups participating in varsity matches in sport or other competitions between rival universities, most famously Oxford University vs. Cambridge University; also University of St Andrews vs. University of Edinburgh, King's College London vs. University College London, University of Bristol vs. University of the West of England and University of Sheffield vs. Sheffield Hallam University, among others. The term originally referred strictly to university-sponsored teams, and dates from the 1840s.\n\nIn contemporary Scots language the term \"varsity\" is often interchangeable with \"university\" in contexts unrelated to sporting activity.\n\nIn the United States and Canada varsity teams are the principal athletic teams representing a college, university, high school, or other secondary school. Such teams compete against similar teams at corresponding educational institutions. Groups of varsity sports teams are often organized into athletic conferences, which are groups of teams that regularly play each other during a given athletic season. In recognition of their high level of performance, athletes on varsity teams are often given varsity letters. They are in contrast to the institution's club sports. A major difference between varsity and club sports is the source for allocated funds. Varsity teams receive financial support, equipment, and facilities from college and university athletic department budgets. Universities often allocate club sport budgets through student life departments similar to other clubs on campus. Because club sports cost more than other clubs, many club student-athletes must pay to play and also engage in team fundraising efforts to pay for facilities time, equipment, and other team expenses. At various levels of collegiate sports, varsity student athletes are eligible for scholarships solely or partially based on athletic skills.\n\nVarsity can be compared with the junior varsity level, which is typically for less-experienced underclassmen. Players may be able to go up a level to varsity playing by performing well.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the Varsity is the oldest and most prestigious rowing race. It was held for the first time in 1878, and was started as a Dutch equivalent for the Boat Race between Oxford and Cambridge.\n\nIn South Africa and some other Commonwealth countries, varsity is often still used in place of the word university, in contexts unrelated to sporting activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "3533439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3533439", "title": "Wild card (sports)", "text": "Wild card (sports)\n\nA wild card (variously spelled wildcard or wild-card, also known as at-large berth) is a tournament or playoff berth awarded to an individual or team that fails to qualify in the normal way, for example by having a high ranking or winning a qualifying stage. In some events, wild cards are chosen freely by the organizers. Other events have fixed rules. Some North American professional sports leagues compare the records of teams which did not qualify directly by winning a division or conference.\n\nIn international sports, the term is perhaps best known in reference to big international sporting events such as the Olympic Games and Wimbledon. Countries which fail to produce athletes who meet qualification standards are granted \"wild cards\", which allow them to enter competitors whose proven abilities are below the standard otherwise required. In some instances, wild cards are given to the host nation in order to boost its chances.\n\nIn Olympic and World Championship competitions in track and field and swimming, however, nations are automatically allowed to enter two competitors, so these instances are technically not wild cards. In some other Olympic sports, such as judo, archery, and badminton, wild cards are in use, and they are granted by the respective sport federations.\n\nOn rare occasions, a competitor who had gained entry by wild card succeeds in winning a medal or the championship. For example, Kye Sun-Hui won gold in judo at the 1996 Summer Olympics, Ding Junhui won the 2005 China Open snooker championship, Goran Ivanišević won the 2001 Wimbledon Championships, Kim Clijsters won the 2009 US Open, and Lin Dan won the 2013 BWF World Championships.\n\nIn North American professional sports leagues, \"wild card\" refers to a team that qualifies for the championship playoffs without winning their specific conference or division outright. The number of wild card teams varies. In most cases, the rules of the league call for the wild card team to survive an extra round or to play the majority of their postseason games away from home.\n\nThe term \"wild card\" does not apply to postseason formats where a set number of teams per division qualify. Former examples include: the American Football League's 1969 playoffs (qualifying the top two finishers from each division), the National Basketball Association's 1967-through-1970 playoffs (top four finishers from each division) and 1971–1972 playoffs (top two finishers in each division), and the National Hockey League's 1968–1974 and 1982–1993 playoffs (top four finishers from each division) are not true wild-card formats. When a wild-card playoff format is used, the number of teams in a division that qualify is not fixed; the divisional champion automatically qualifies, but non-division winners qualify, based either on league record or conference record.\n\nIn Major League Baseball (MLB), wild-card playoff spots are given to the two teams in each league (four teams overall) with the best records among the non-division winners. The initial wild-card format was implemented after MLB expanded to 28 teams and realigned its two leagues to each have three divisions. Since a three-team playoff would require one team to receive a bye, the wild card was created to allow a fourth team. The wild card has been in effect since 1995, although it was supposed to be used in 1994; the postseason was canceled due to the players' strike. In 2012, a second wild card was added to each league. The two wild card teams in each league face each other in a one-game playoff, with the winner facing the number 1 seed in the Division Series.\n\nThe advantages of the wild card format are that it allows a second- (or third-) place team a chance to win the World Series, even if there is a dominant division winner. As the wild cards are not awarded by division, the additional teams are part of league-wide races for the fourth and fifth spots. Critics of the wild card, such as broadcaster Bob Costas in his book \"Fair Ball: A Fan's Case for Baseball\", have argued that, of the four major North American sports, baseball, having the most regular-season games (now 162), places the largest importance on the regular season, and the wild cards diminish the importance of the regular season by permitting a \"second banana\" team to make the playoffs, and that while it creates a league-wide race, it is for second place (and maybe third place) in a division, and takes away what would otherwise be a pennant race between first- and second-place teams, and can lead to teams playing for the wild card rather than to win the division. The second wild card was added in 2012 to address the issue of teams being content to rest players and win the wild card instead of trying to win the division. Also, because of the \"sudden-death\" round, these teams often use their best starting pitcher, leaving them unavailable for much of the Division Series.\n\nA wild-card team must surrender home-field advantage the first two rounds of the playoffs. For the World Series, however, home-field advantage is determined without reference to wild-card status. Prior to 2003, it was decided by alternating each year between the American and National Leagues. From 2003 to 2016, it was granted to the winner of the All-Star Game. Since 2017, it has been granted to the team with the better record. In the 2002 World Series, both the Anaheim Angels and the San Francisco Giants were wild-card teams, as were the Giants and the Kansas City Royals in the 2014 World Series. The World Series champions in 1997, 2003, 2004, and 2011 were also wild-card teams.\n\n\n\nIn the National Football League (NFL), each of the two conferences sends two wild-card teams along with four division champions to its postseason. The first round of the playoffs is called the \"Wild Card Round\". In this round, each conference's two best (by regular-season record) division champions are exempted from play and granted automatic berths in the \"Divisional Round\". The four division champions are seeded from #1 through #4, while the two wild card teams are seeded #5 and #6; within these separations, seeding is by regular-season record. In the \"Wild Card Round\", the #6 team (a wild card team) plays against the #3 team (a division champion), and the #5 team (a wild card team) plays against the #4 team (a division champion). The division champions have automatic home-field advantage in these games. In the \"Divisional Round\", the worst seeded remaining team plays the #1 seeded team, while the best seeded remaining team that played in the wildcard round plays the #2 seed. Both the #1 seed and #2 seed have home-field advantage in the divisional round.\n\nThe NFL was the first league ever to use the wild-card format. The decision to implement a Wild Card coincided with the completion of the AFL-NFL merger in 1970. Prior to the merger, the right to compete in the postseason for the NFL title was restricted to division/conference champions. Until 1967, a tiebreaker game was played to resolve a deadlock for first place in either of the two conferences. When the league expanded to 16 teams, it realigned into four divisions and expanded the playoffs to two rounds. Tiebreaker games were eliminated in favor of the use of performance-based criteria to determine division champions. The rival American Football League, which reached a final size of ten teams in two divisions, also restricted its postseason to division winners until the 1969 season (the AFL's last as a separate league) when it expanded the playoffs to include division runners-up. The runners-up played the winners of the opposite divisions for the right to contest the AFL Championship Game.\n\nFollowing AFL upsets in the last two Super Bowls prior to the merger, the merged league realigned into two conferences of thirteen teams each, with three \"old-line\" NFL teams joining the AFL teams in the newly-formed American Football Conference. The decision to make the conferences equal in size meant they could not feasibly align into anything except three divisions of four and five teams each. This led to a debate as to how the postseason of the merged league should be structured. Both the NFL and AFL playoff formats of 1969 had attracted fierce critics. The NFL format was criticized for its ability to cause a team tied for first overall in the league to miss the playoffs (this happened once, in 1967, when the Baltimore Colts missed the postseason despite a .917 winning percentage after losing a tiebreaker to the Los Angeles Rams). The AFL's 1969 playoffs were criticized by NFL purists for breaking with longstanding tradition, also, due to the fact that they allowed runners-up to qualify no matter how much disparity existed between the divisions, the AFL playoff structure could allow a mediocre team to qualify - this did occur when the Houston Oilers, a .500 team, finished second in the Eastern Division - the Oilers were throttled in the playoffs 56-7 by the Western champion Oakland Raiders. The Raiders went on to lose the AFL title game to the Western runner-up (and eventual Super Bowl IV champion) Kansas City Chiefs.\n\nDespite Kansas City's win, some purists argued for the tradition of having only division champions contest the playoffs to continue. Had they prevailed, the post-merger NFL playoffs would have consisted of six teams and might have closely resembled the playoffs of the modern Canadian Football League, with the regular season champion of each conference earning the right to host the championship game against the winner of a game between the champions of the other two divisions. However, the old-line NFL owners, who still expected their teams to dominate the merged league for at least the first half of the 1970's, thought a repeat of the 1967 Colts-Rams fiasco would be very likely under the new alignment combined with a six team format. In any event, most owners in both conferences wanted to keep the even four-team playoff field in each conference. This was established by having the three division champions in each conference joined by the best second-place finisher in the conference.\n\nAs with much of the NFL's nomenclature, the \"wild card\" was not initially referred to as such and was instead referred as the \"Best Second-Place Team\" (or sometimes simply as the \"Fourth Qualifier\"). The media, however, began referring to the qualifying teams as \"wild cards\". Eventually, the NFL officially adopted the term. During the 1975, 1976, and 1977 seasons, the divisional playoffs featured the #1 seed hosting the wild card team and the #2 seed hosting the #3 seed unless the #1 seed and wild card team were divisional rivals. In that case, the #1 seed hosted the #3 seed and the #2 seed hosted the wild card team. This was also the format used in Major League Baseball from 1995 through 2011.\n\nIn 1978, the playoffs were expanded to 10 teams; however, the restriction against teams in the same division playing each other in the divisional round continued until the playoffs expanded to 12 teams in 1990. During this time, the #1 seed hosted the winner of the #4 vs #5 wild card game, while the #2 seed played the #3 seed. If the #1 seed and the winner of the #4 vs #5 wild card game were in the same division, then the #1 seed played the #3 seed, while the #2 seed played the #4 vs #5 winner. When Major League Baseball expanded its playoffs to 10 teams in 2012, it also used this format, although teams in the same division could play each other in the Division Series. From 1970 through 1974, the NFL used a rotation to determine which teams would host conference semifinal and final games, and which teams would play which other teams (coincidentally, baseball also used a rotation when it began to have this number of teams, for both of the aforementioned purposes, from 1995–1997 before switching to the seeding method).\n\nThe number of wild-card qualifiers was expanded to two per conference in 1978 — the divisional winners were granted a bye week while the wild card teams played (hence the origin of the phrase \"Wild Card Round\"). Like wild card teams before, the wild card game winner played the #1 seed, or the #2 seed if they and the #1 seed were divisional rivals. The playoffs were expanded again to three wild cards per conference in 1990 (or 12 teams total, which remains now) with the lowest ranked divisional winner losing its bye. Following the addition of the Houston Texans in 2002, the league added a fourth division to each conference. The league decided not to change the number of playoff teams, and thus the number of wild card qualifiers was reduced to two per conference, with the two lowest ranked divisional winners not receiving byes. The term \"Wild Card Round\" continues to be used for the opening weekend of NFL playoffs, even though that weekend has involved both wild card and non-wild card teams since 1990.\n\nAs of the start of the 2018 season, there has never been a meeting of two wild card teams in either conference's championship game or in the Super Bowl. By extension, this means that two wild card teams have not met in the playoffs (and, by further extension, that a wild card team has not hosted a playoff game) since the league expanded to 32 teams in 2002.\n\n\n\nThe 1980 Raiders, 2005 Steelers, and 1992 Bills tied for first in their division but lost a tiebreaker.\n\nWhile not a wild card team, the 1969 Kansas City Chiefs were the first non-division winner to win the Super Bowl. They finished second in the Western Division of the American Football League, and in that season, the last before the merger, the AFL went from having its two division winners meeting for the league title to adding a second round in which the second place team in each division qualified for the post-season. These teams played cross-division in the semifinal round. Thus the Chiefs, who finished second in the West, defeated the East Division champion New York Jets in the AFL semifinals and then defeated the West Division champion Oakland Raiders to advance to Super Bowl IV, where they beat the Minnesota Vikings. Because the term \"wild card\" was not instituted until the following year, the Chiefs are not included in the above list, but are recognized as the first team to win the Super Bowl without winning a division title.\n\nAlthough the National Basketball Association (NBA) include wild-card teams in their playoff structures, the term \"wild card\" is seldom used; instead, each playoff team is most commonly denoted by its seeding position within the conference.\n\nIn the NBA, division champions within each conference were given the #1-3 seeds based on their regular-season records. The two fourth-placed wild-card teams are awarded the #7 and #8 seeds, respectively, also based on their regular-season records. In the NBA playoffs, home court advantage is determined strictly by regular-season record, without regard to seeding.\n\nBefore the 2006–07 NBA season, the NBA seeded its teams in the same manner as the NHL. Until 2015, the NBA seeds the three division winners and the wild-card team with the best record by regular-season record. This means that the wild-card with the best record got a seed as high as #2 (if that team is in the same division as the team with the best record in the conference); however, the next four wild-card teams will still be limited to the #5 through #8 seeds. This change was made to ensure that the two best teams in each conference could not meet until the conference final, and also (allegedly) to try and eliminate incentives for a playoff-bound team to deliberately lose games at the end of the regular season in order to \"choose\" a higher-seeded team that has won fewer games (and, due to the unique home-court rules of the NBA, possibly gain home-court advantage for that series).\n\nThe notion of \"wild cards\" was essentially abolished the 2015–16 NBA season, as changes made prior to the season mean the top eight teams in each conference qualify regardless of divisional rank, with the seeded teams ranked by percentage. The only particular advantage to winning a division now is that a divisional title serves as the first tiebreaker for qualification seeding purposes. Unlike some other leagues, there is no tie-breaker advantage at all to finishing in any divisional rank lower than first - meaning (for example) that while a division winner \"will\" automatically win a tie-breaker over another division's runner-up, a division runner-up \"will not\" automatically win a tie-breaker over teams finishing third, fourth or fifth in other divisions. The new format means it is possible for an especially weak division to send \"no\" teams (not even its champion) to the NBA playoffs, although as of the start of the 2018–19 season this has not yet occurred.\n\nIn the NBA, the winner of the #1 vs. #8 series goes on to face the winner of the #5 vs. #4 series, while the winner of the #2 vs. #7 series faces the winner of the #6 vs. #3 series. Notice that the winner of the #1 vs. #8 series will usually play against a wild-card team in the Conference Semifinals; this is arranged deliberately to \"reward\" the #1 seeded team by giving it the most winnable matchups in the first and second rounds.\n\nIn the National Hockey League (NHL), the first, second, and third place teams in each division qualify for the playoffs automatically, and two additional teams, regardless of divisional alignment, also qualify by having the best records among the remaining teams in the conference. These teams are referred to as the Wild Cards. The division champions play the Wild Cards, while the second and third placed teams in each division play each other; therefore the bracket is fixed, like the NBA. Home ice advantage is given to the higher seed in the divisional rounds, with the better record being used in the Conference Finals and Stanley Cup Finals.\n\nThe NHL's current format is similar in some respects to the \"cross-over rule\" used by the Canadian Football League since 1997 in that it the format emphasizes intra-divisional ranking and brackets in the playoff structure and yet allows two teams from one division to qualify for the playoffs at the expense of the two teams finishing with worse records and in the same divisional ranks in another division. The main difference is that the CFL only allows the lowest ranked playoff qualifying team from a division to cross over into the other division's playoffs, whereas in the NHL it is possible for either Wild Card team to \"cross over\" to the other division, or even (in cases where four teams qualify from each division) for the Wild Card teams to swap divisional playoff brackets. Also, unlike the CFL the NHL does not require the second Wild Card qualifier to have an outright better record than a superior-ranked team in the other division - in the event of such a tie at the end of the NHL season standard tie-breaking procedures are used to determine playoff qualification.\n\nFrom 1999 until 2013, division champions within each conference were given the #1-3 seeds based on their regular-season records. Among the remaining teams within each conference, five additional teams with the best records are awarded seeds #4 through #8. The division champions (first-third seeds) and the team with the best record that isn't a division champion (fourth seed) were given home ice advantage in the opening playoff series, in which they face the eighth-seeded through fifth-seeded teams, respectively. However, the playoff format differed slightly from that of the NBA. In the NHL, the highest winning seed of the first round played the lowest winning seed of the first round in the next round of the playoffs. For example, if the #1, #4, #6, and #7 seeds win their respective first round series then the second round of the playoffs matched the #1 seed (highest) versus the #7 seed (lowest) and the #4 seed (2nd highest) versus the #6 seed (second lowest). Home ice advantage in each NHL playoff series prior to the Stanley Cup Finals was granted by superior seed, even if the \"wild card\" team had a better regular season record. For the Finals, the team with the better record will receive home ice advantage.\n\nMajor League Soccer (MLS), the top level of soccer (football) in both countries, used a wild card format starting in its 2011 playoffs. The top three teams from each of its two conferences automatically qualified for the conference semifinals, while the four remaining teams with the highest point totals in league play, without regard to conference, earned \"wild cards\" into the playoffs. The wild card matches were single games, with the #7 seed hosting the #10 seed and the #8 seed hosting the #9 seed. The lowest surviving seed then played the Supporters' Shield winner (i.e., the team with the highest point total), while the other surviving wild card played the top seed in the other conference.\n\nThe \"wild card\" format was revamped for the 2012 season. Since 2015, the top six teams from each conference qualify for the playoffs, with the #1 & #2 seeds in each conference automatically qualifying for the conference semifinals, and seeds #3-6 in each conference being wild cards. The lowest-seeded winner (played between the #4 & #5, and #3 & #6 seeds) in each conference plays the #1 seed, and the next-lowest playing the #2 seed in the conference semifinals.\n\nCurling Canada introduced Wild Card teams starting with the 2018 Scotties Tournament of Hearts and 2018 Tim Hortons Brier. The change was made as part of a wider set of changes which expanded the tournaments to 17 teams and eliminated the unpopular Pre-Qualifying Tournaments. From 2018, the round robin stage of the Tournament of Hearts and Brier will consist of two seeded \"pools\" of eight teams as opposed to the old format consisting a single group of twelve teams. This allows the main tournament to include \"Team Canada\" (either the defending champions or, when the champions decline to or are unable to defend their title, the runners-up) and teams representing all fourteen constituent associations representing the ten provinces and three territories plus Northern Ontario. The remaining two participants in the tournament are the Wild Cards, which compete in an MLB-style play-in game prior to the main tournament to determine the sixteenth team in the main tournament. Just as is the case with MLB division titles, the format is designed to give teams an incentive to win their provincial championships. The Wild Cards are the top two teams in the Canadian Team Ranking System (CTRS) standings that did not win either the previous year's tournament or their respective provincial or territorial championship. The top ranked of these two teams receives the hammer (last rock) to start the game. \n\nThe CTRS standings are also used to determine the seeding of all teams in the main tournament, with one important caveat - for the purposes of seeding the round robin pools and so as to allow the main round robin schedule to be drawn up prior to the Wild Card game, the ranking of the top Wild Card team is the ranking that is used for seeding purposes regardless of who wins the game. Whereas teams in the Tournament of Hearts and Brier are traditionally referred to by their respective province or territory (other than Northern Ontario and Team Canada), the team that wins the Wild Card game is referred to as the \"Wild Card\" for the duration of the tournament. As is the case with Team Canada, the Wild Card retains that designation even if the team that is representing the same province or territory as the Wild Card team is eliminated prior to the Wild Card team.\n\nWith the introduction of pools, the round robin portion of the Tournament of Hearts and Brier now consists of two stages. The top four teams in each pool qualify for the second stage, formally known as the \"Championship Pool.\" Unlike most tournaments which use a similar format, teams carry over their entire round robin records from the preliminary stage as opposed to only those results against teams that also qualify. This ensures that each Championship Pool team still plays eleven games that count for the purposes of determining playoff qualification.\n\nThe format is designed to ensure that a competitive team fills the Wild Card slot - due to the significant disparity in playing caliber between the top teams of Canada's fourteen member associations, it is widely expected that the Wild Card will consistently come from one of the provinces with the toughest fields in the playdowns, and that it will consistently be a championship contending team.\n\nWhile the Canadian Football League does not officially use the term \"wild card\" to denote any playoff qualifier, its crossover rule acts similar to a wild card in many respects.\n\nCalls to change the CFL's playoff format came about soon after the CFL finished its evolution from two regional conferences, which were originally the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union in the East and the Western Interprovincial Football Union in the West. Although the CFL was officially founded in 1958, its constituent sections did not fully merge until 1981. At the time, it was agreed that three teams from each division would qualify, regardless of overall league standings. This quickly proved controversial, as a wide disparity in playing caliber had emerged between the East and West divisions. Since the league had also implemented a fully balanced schedule (each of the nine teams played each opponent once at home and once on the road), this disparity (made even worse by the fact the West had one more team than the East) was fully exposed in the standings - in each of the first three seasons of the new format, the fourth place team missed the playoffs with records as good as 9-7 in the West, while in the East records as bad as 3-13 were good enough for third place and a playoff berth. In 1981, even the fifth place Western team's record of 6-10 was good enough for outright possession of sixth place overall.\n\nIn 1986, the playoff format was changed. The new format the fourth place team in one division to qualify if it finished with an outright better record than the third place team in the other division. The Eastern owners agreed in exchange for expanding the schedule to 18 games, and also with a stipulation that the qualifying fourth-place team would stay in its own division for the playoffs. As a result, the change introduced the possibility of a four team bracket in one division and a two game total point series in the other (the two game total point format was nothing new in Canadian football - it was commonly used until the early 1970's). It also introduced the possibility of the first place teams losing their traditional byes based on results elsewhere in the league. This occurred in 1986, when the 11-7 Calgary Stampeders qualified in place of the 4-14 Montreal Alouettes. The Alouettes folded before the start of the following season. Although it is highly questionable whether a 1986 playoff appearance would have saved the floundering Montreal franchise, the CFL quickly re-instated the traditional playoff format for the 1987 season. It also moved the Winnipeg Blue Bombers (the West's easternmost team) to the Eastern Division. This balanced the divisions both in numbers as well as, to a considerable extent, in playing caliber, and the reduction in teams also caused the schedule to be changed to emphasize more divisional games. As a result, the three top finishers of the two divisions finishers always had the six best league records from 1987 up until the start of the league's U.S. expansion experiment, which started in the 1993.\n\nThe current rule was adopted after the league re-activated the Alouettes and reverted to an all-Canadian alignment in 1996. It allows the fourth place team of one division to \"cross over\" and take the place of the third place team in the other divisional bracket, provided the fourth place team has more points (i.e. an outright better record) than the third place team. Since the cross over team enters as the third place team, it never receives home field advantage in the playoffs, even if its record is better than that of one or both of the qualifying teams in the other division.\n\nAs of 2018, all teams to qualify under this rule have crossed over from the Western Division to the Eastern bracket, although there have been a handful of occasions where a fourth placed Eastern team was in mathematical contention for a Western cross-over berth late in the season. Cross-over teams have advanced as far as the Eastern Final, but as of 2018 have never advanced to the Grey Cup game. There is no provision for a fifth placed team in one division to cross over in place of the other division's runner-up, even if it has a better record - a somewhat academic point until 2018, as since 1981 this scenario has yet to recur although on occasion it has been a possibility up to the final week of the regular season. In 2018 the Edmonton Eskimos finished fifth in the West with a 9-9 record and missed the playoffs while the Hamilton Tiger-Cats finished 8-10 and qualified as Eastern runners-up.\n\nIn professional tennis tournaments, a wild card refers to a tournament entry awarded to a player at the discretion of the organizers. All ATP and WTA tournaments have a few spots set aside for wild cards in both the main draw, and the qualifying draw, for players who otherwise would not have made either of these draws with their professional ranking. They are usually awarded to players from the home and/or sponsoring country (sometimes after a tournament where the winner is awarded the wild card), promising young players, players that are likely to draw a large crowd, have won the tournament earlier or players who were once ranked higher and are attempting a comeback (for instance, following a long-term injury). High ranked players can also ask for a wild card if they want to enter a non-mandatory tournament after the normal entry deadline, for example because they lost early in another tournament. This means a wild card player sometimes becomes the top seed.\n\nThree of the Grand Slam tournaments swap some wild cards: the Australian Open, French Open, and US Open. A New York Times journalist has described this practice as \"nothing more than mutual back scratching\" and \"an outdated symbol of elitism\".\n\n\nIn motorcycle racing the term 'wild card' is used for competitors only involved in individual rounds of a championship, usually their local round. Local riders taking advantage of their local knowledge (often having raced that circuit on that bike before) and affording to take risks without planning for a championship, often upset established runners. Makoto Tamada and Shaky Byrne have both taken double victories in Superbike World Championship rounds in their home countries. \nThe most famous wild card entry perhaps was the late Daijiro Kato with finishing 3rd at his first appearance in 1996 and then winning the Japanese 250cc Grand Prix back to back in 1997 and 1998 on his way to become the most successful 250cc World Champion of all time in 2001.\n\nGrand Prix motorcycle racing\n\nEach Grand Prix host Federation (FMNR) may nominate 3 wild card entries for the Moto3 and Moto2 classes in their own Grand Prix only.\n\nThe MSMA (Motorcycle Sport Manufacturers’ Association) may, at each event, nominate 1 wild card entry for the Moto2 and MotoGP classes.\n\nThe FIM may, at each event, nominate 2 wild card entries for the Moto3 and Moto2 classes and FIM/DORNA may, at each event, nominate 1 wild card entry for the MotoGP class.\n\nSuperbike World Championship\n\nEach Event host Federation (FMNR) may nominate 4 wild card entries for the Superbike class and 2 wild card entries for the Supersport and Superstock classes, in their own event only.\n\nThe FIM may nominate 2 wild card entries for the Superbike class.\n\nMotorcycle Speedway\n\nIn Motorcycle Speedway, wild cards compete in the Speedway Grand Prix events in which there is 1 wild card per competition (until 2005 there were 2 per Grand Prix). six wild cards have won a Grand Prix: Mark Loram in 1999, Martin Dugard in 2000, Hans Andersen in 2006 (later that year he replaced a permanent rider and went on to win another GP), Michael Jepsen Jensen in 2012, Adrian Miedziński in 2013 and Bartosz Zmarzlik in 2014.\n\nWild Card entries are not unknown in auto racing either, although the Concorde Agreement in modern-day Formula One requires all teams to participate in every event. John Love came close to winning the 1967 South African Grand Prix in a wild card type situation, long before the term had been coined. Although the term is rarely used in NASCAR, the concept of a road course ringer is similar. Before the late-1990s, NEXTEL Cup and Busch Series races in the West and Northeast respectively would have several drivers from the Winston West and Busch North series, as the series regulations were very similar, and until the mid-2000s, ARCA drivers would usually attempt Cup races in the Midwest and at restrictor-plate races.\n\nDuring the period of the mid-1980s until 2004, individual NASCAR races utilized the \"Promoter's Option\" (also known as Provisionals) to allow a top driver/team that did not qualify for the race, the opportunity for a \"wild card\" type starting position at the end of the grid. This allowed track owners to advertise and guarantee to fans that the most popular drivers would participate in the race (pleasing fans in attendance, and preventing no-shows) even if the driver had an unfortunate mishap (e.g., blown engine) or crash during time trials. Starting in 2005, only the Former Champion's Provisional remains.\n\nDuring the NASCAR Sprint All-Star Race (a non-points exhibition event) one driver who fails to qualify for the race is awarded a wild card spot via \"Fans Choice\" vote. In 2008, Kasey Kahne, was selected as a wild card via fan vote, and went on to win the race.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, NASCAR's top-level Sprint Cup Series, since renamed the Monster Energy NASCAR Cup Series, used \"wild cards\" in a different context, namely that of qualifying for the season-ending Chase for the Sprint Cup, now rebranded as the NASCAR playoffs. In previous seasons, the top 12 drivers in championship points after the first 26 races of the season automatically qualified for the Chase, with their points reset to a point unreachable by any other driver. Under the 2011–2013 system, only the top 10 drivers automatically qualified. The other two Chase qualifiers were the two drivers ranked from 11th through 20th after 26 races with the most race wins, with tiebreakers used as necessary to restrict the number of \"wild cards\" to two. Major changes to the Chase format that took effect in 2014, most notably determining the newly expanded Chase field of 16 mainly by race wins, eliminated this type of \"wild card\".\n\nNCAA tournaments in all of its sports have included wild card berths, typically known as \"at-large berths\" at that level. Winners of each athletic conference's tournament (or, in the case of basketball's National Invitation Tournament, the team with the best regular season record in that conference) are granted automatic bids into the tournament, and a selection committee fills the remaining slots in the tournament bracket with who it determines to be the best teams who did not win their tournament (in practice, major conferences with stronger reputations and more revenue are invariably favored over mid-majors with similar records).\n\nAlthough the term \"wild card\" is not generally used in this context outside North America, a few competitions effectively employ such a system to determine one or more places in a future phase of a competition.\n\nIn the Olympics, several sport governing bodies award wild cards to nations in order to further promote their sport. Sports governing bodies will either make selections or hold a tournament to determine the wild cards. One such notable wild card selection was Equatorial Guinea swimmer Eric Moussambani, who finished last in the 100m meter event in the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe Euroleague, a Europe-wide competition for elite basketball clubs, once had one \"wild card\" advancing from its first phase, officially the Regular Season, to its second, called the Top 16. The rule was in place through the 2007–08 season.\n\nAt that time, the competition began each year with 24 clubs, divided into three groups. (Today, the competition starts with a preliminary stage of 16 teams playing down to two survivors, who join 22 other teams in the Regular Season.) Then as now, the groups played a double round-robin for the Regular Season, with eight clubs eliminated and the remaining clubs advancing to the Top 16.\n\nUnder the rules in place through 2007–08, the top five clubs in each group automatically advanced. The final \"wild card\" spot in the Top 16 went to the sixth-place club with the best overall record, with three potential tiebreaking steps. A coin toss is not indicated as a possible step.\n\nStarting in 2008–09, the \"wild card\" was abolished when the Regular Season was reorganized into four groups with 6 teams apiece. Now, the top four teams in each group advance to the Top 16. No change to the tiebreakers was made.\n\nThe world championship for basketball, the FIBA Basketball World Cup, invites four wild cards to complete its 24-team field. Teams have to participate in qualifying for the World Cup, have to apply to be one, and FIBA is not allowed more than three teams from the same continent in order to be selected. This setup began in 2006, where Italy, Puerto Rico, Serbia and Montenegro, and Turkey were selected by FIBA; Turkey made the best performance, reaching the quarterfinals. In 2010, FIBA selected Germany, Lithuania, Lebanon, and Russia as the wild cards, with Lithuania finishing third, and Russia making it to the quarterfinals. For the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup, FIBA selected Brazil, Finland, Greece, and Turkey; 2014 will be the last time FIBA will select wild cards, as the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup would no longer have wild cards when it expands to 32 teams. The perennial top two FIBA Oceania team namely Australia and New Zealand as wild card teams of FIBA Asia Cup 2017 in Lebanon. These two teams are also part of FIBA Asia in Basketball tournaments including FIBA World Qualifying Tournament for FIBA World Cup 2019 in China.\n\nRugby union's analogue to the Euroleague is the European Rugby Champions Cup, which replaced the previous top-level club competition, the Heineken Cup, starting with the 2014–15 season. The Champions Cup maintains a system originally created for the Heineken Cup in which some \"wild card\" teams advance to the competition's knockout stages. Also starting in 2014–15, the organiser of the Champions Cup, European Professional Club Rugby, introduced this type of \"wild card\" to the second-level European Rugby Challenge Cup.\n\nDuring the last five seasons of the Heineken Cup (2009–10 to 2013–14), another \"wild card\" system allowed teams to parachute into the original European Challenge Cup, which has now been replaced by the current Challenge Cup. This was scrapped with the creation of the current Challenge Cup.\n\nBoth the Champions Cup and current Challenge Cup involve 20 clubs (compared to 24 in the Heineken Cup and 20 in the original Challenge Cup), divided into pools of four clubs with each club playing a double round-robin within its pool. In both competitions, eight clubs advance to the knockout stages. The top club in each pool advances; the three \"wild card\" places are filled by the second-place clubs with the best overall records. For the Champions Cup, the number of wild cards increased by one from the Heineken Cup era; both versions of the Challenge Cup had three wild cards, but the original version filled them in an entirely different manner.\n\nIn the final years of the Heineken Cup, starting in 2009–10 and ending with the 2014 reorganisation of European club rugby, the three second-place teams with the next-best records after those that advanced to the Heineken Cup knockout stage parachuted into the Challenge Cup.\n\nThe tiebreaking procedure used to determine overall seeding, which was devised in the Heineken Cup era and carried over intact into the current era, is almost as elaborate as that of the NFL, with a total of seven steps (a coin flip is the last).\n\nPrior to 2009–10, the original Challenge Cup also had \"wild card\" teams entering its knockout stages. The top club in each pool advanced to the knockout stage, along with the three second-place teams with the best records, using the same tiebreaking procedure as the Heineken Cup. Starting in 2009–10, only the winner of each pool entered the knockout stage, to be joined by the teams parachuting in from the Heineken Cup. As noted above, with the creation of the new Challenge Cup, that competition abandoned this system in favour of the system used in the Champions Cup.\n\nThe Super Rugby competition, involving regional franchises from Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa, adopted a new playoff system with \"wild cards\" when it expanded to 15 teams in 2011.\n\nIn its previous incarnations as Super 12 and Super 14 (each number reflecting the number of teams in the competition), it used a Shaughnessy playoff system in which the top four teams advanced to a knockout stage. The expansion to 15 teams led to major changes in the competition format.\n\nThrough the 2015 season, the competition was divided into three conferences of five teams each, with every conference consisting solely of teams from one of the participating countries. At the end of the regular season, the winners of each conference received playoff berths. These teams were joined by three \"wild cards\", specifically the three non-winners with the most competition points without regard to conference. (Tiebreakers were employed as necessary.)\n\nWith the expansion of Super Rugby to 18 teams in 2016, featuring a permanent sixth franchise for South Africa and new teams based in Argentina and Japan, the competition format was changed again.\n\nThe competition is now divided into the Australasian Group, including all Australian and New Zealand teams, and the African Group, consisting of the South African teams plus the Argentine and Japanese franchises. In turn, the Australasian Group is divided into Australia and New Zealand Conferences, and the African Group is split into Africa 1 and Africa 2 Conferences. As in the 2011–15 system, the conference winners will receive playoff berths. The number of wild cards will increase to four, with the three top non-winners from the Australasian Group and the top non-winner from the African Group, again based on competition points, earning those spots.\n\nIn the Philippine Basketball Association, the playoffs are done after an elimination (in 2005-06, a classification) round where the top two teams with the best records are given semi-final byes, the next 3 are given quarterfinal byes, the next 4 are given entry to the wildcard phase, and the tenth team is eliminated.\n\nThe winner of the wild card playoffs, varying in format from a round-robin, a single-elimination or sudden death, usually meets the strongest quarterfinalist (the 3rd seed). The wild card winner's next opponent for the quarterfinals rested while the wild card phase was ongoing so the chance of advancing to the semi-finals (in which a team rested longer) is slim.\n\nThe only wild card champion are the 7th-seeded Barangay Ginebra Kings in the 2004 PBA Fiesta Conference after 7 years of championship drought they made an epic run all the way to the throne, in which the top 2 teams were given semifinal byes while the bottom eight went through a knock-out wild card tournament. Since the addition of the quarterfinal bye, no wild card has entered the Finals, although the Air21 Express won the third-place trophy at the 2005-06 PBA Fiesta Conference.\n\nThe wild card set up was no longer used when the league reverted to the 3-conference format starting from the 2010–11 PBA season.\n\nFor both the junior and senior Grand Prix of Figure Skating Final (which starting in the 2008–2009 figure skating season will be merged into a single two-division event), the hosting federation may issue a wild card invitation to one of their own skaters should no skater from the host country qualify for the event through the Grand Prix circuit. Use of the wild card has not been common; however, it was used at the 2007–2008 Junior Grand Prix Final by the Polish federation.\n\nThe same rationale exists in international association football, specifically FIFA World Cup qualifying stages. In FIFA World Cup qualifying stages in Europe, for example, 2nd placed teams are all ranked by number of points. The team with the most points is guaranteed automatic qualification to the FIFA World Cup, while the team with the least points is eliminated (points from victories against the last-placed team in each country's respective group being deducted), while teams in between generally play a 2-game playoff to determine qualification.\n\nOther qualifying regions which use a wild card format include CONMEBOL, CONCACAF, and the AFC.\n\nIn the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship, the premier competition in Gaelic football, each of the thirty-two counties in Ireland as well as London and New York play in their respective Provincial Championships through a knock-out cup competition format without seeds. The winners of each of the four Provincial Championships earn one of eight places in the All-Ireland Quarter Finals.\n\nThe thirty teams that fail to win their respective Provincial Championships receive a second opportunity to reach the All-Ireland Series via the All Ireland Qualifiers (also known as the 'back door', similar to a Wild Card).\n\nIn road cycling (teams), a wild card refers to an invitation to a race which a particular team would not normally be able to enter. Usually used for top division (currently UCI World Tour) races where the organization want more teams, lower league teams will be invited. It is very common to offer a wild card for teams from the same country to help local sport and to boost national pride. For example, for the 100th \"Tour de France\" in 2013, the organisers (the Amaury Sport Organisation) awarded three wild cards to French teams: Cofidis, Sojasun and Team Europcar, all of which were UCI Professional Continental teams at the time and therefore not automatically invited, unlike the UCI ProTeams which made up the vast majority of the entry list.\nTeams can apply for a wild card.\n\nIn January 2015, Team MTN-Qhubeka from South Africa accepted an invitation to participate in the 2015 edition of \"Tour de France\". MTN-Qhubeka was the first African team to receive a wild card entry into the event that was held from 4 to 26 July 2015.\n\nIn the current format of the Rugby World Cup, a team that finishes 3rd in their group automatically gains a berth in the next Rugby World Cup (although they do not advance to the next round).\n\nAdditionally, the Rugby World Cup qualifying format uses a repechage, in which teams from other regions that did not gain the automatic spot play each other for the final spots in the World Cup.\n"}
{"id": "30331394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30331394", "title": "World Fit", "text": "World Fit\n\nWorld Fit is a program of the United States Olympic Committee (USOC), and the United States Olympians and Paralympians Association (USOP) to promote physical fitness and the Olympic Games ideals to school children through kids fitness programs, school fitness programs, and childhood obesity programs. World Fit is part of the world's largest obesity-prevention network, EPODE International Network\n\nWorld Fit was founded by three Olympians:\n\nWorld Fit promotes youth fitness programs and Olympic ideals under the Olympic Charter to middle school fitness programs for children by having Olympic Games athletes and Paralympic athletes act as Role models for fitness and encouraging children to embrace a lifetime of fitness.\n\nUnited States Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes adopt schools for life, promote a culture of health and fitness for children, inspire students about the importance of health & fitness, and promote the Olympic values of perseverance, respect and fair play.\n\nApproximately 7,000 USA Olympians and Paralympians are recruited by the USOP to adopt at least one school, and speak annually to its students about the importance of physical fitness activities & a healthier lifestyle, and promote school Walking programs.\n\nThe Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes encourage the students to participate in the World Fit Walk, which is held each spring on the school’s campus, where the students, teachers and family walk daily for 6 weeks.\n\nThe World Fit Program includes the following components for Kids School Fitness Programs:\n\nEach Olympic athlete or Paralympic athlete adopts up to three schools in the region where he or she lives, and adopts the schools for life, for kids school fitness programs.\n\nA daily school fitwalking program, where the numbers of miles walked, jogged, or run are logged each day and totaled for the kids fitness programs.\n\nPrepared lessons are offered by the World Fit organization to school teachers on the topics of:\n\nAn on-line social media community that facilitates the involvement of USA Olympians, families and students in a project of physical education.\n\nStudents who reach a minimum of 10 miles per week receive a certificate for their achievement signed by the Olympic athlete or Paralympic athlete, the Athletic Director, and the Principal of the school.\nTwenty five Olympic style medals are given to each participating school to award to their top students in kids fitness programs education.\n\nThe University of Miami Miller School of Medicine department of Pediatric Research provides studies and outcome analysis of the World Fit program.\n\nWorld Fit is supported by the following USA Olympic athletes and Paralympic athletes\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33123754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33123754", "title": "Youth sports", "text": "Youth sports\n\nYouth sport (British English) or youth athletics (American English) is any sports event where competitors are younger than adult age, whether children or adolescents. Youth sport includes school sport at primary and secondary level, as well as sport played outside the education system, whether informally or organized.\n\nIn sports studies and public policy contexts, an age limit of 18 (the age of majority) is usual in discussing \"youth sport\". Not all sports governing bodies define \"youth\" as \"under-18\": while the Youth Olympic Games and the FA Youth Cup are for under-18s, the LEN Junior Water Polo European Championship is for under-17s. Many youth sport programmes have multiple age levels, for example under-8, under-10, under-12, etc. It is not, however, only underage sport that may be considered as \"youth\" sport; for example, the existence of the World Rowing U23 Championships recognises that adults aged 18–22 have not yet reached peak condition.\n\nSport is one of the most popular activities among youth all over the world. The most popular sports are association football and swimming. In 2008, a United Nations-sponsored report on \"Sport for Development and Peace\" stated:\n\nAccording to WinterGreen Research, the size of the U.S. youth sports market has grown 55 percent since 2010 and is a $15.3 billion market in 2017.\n\nParticipation in organized sports during childhood and adolescence has important benefits for physical, psychological, and social health. Sport based youth development programs outside of school promote a wide range of learning and life skill development. Involvement in youth athletics encourages youth to live a healthy and happy lifestyle, foregoing the common issues many youth face such as obesity and depression. However, sport involvement goes beyond health, other benefits allow them to form and strengthen affective relationships, teach youth to value self-improvement over winning, how to be competitive in a competitive society, and to work culturally with different peers and authorities. In the classroom, high school student-athletes are far less likely to drop out of school and 15% more likely to attend college.\n\nThe practice of sport fosters young people's physical and emotional health and builds valuable social connections. It also offers opportunities for play and self -expression especially for those young people with few other opportunities. Sport also acts as a healthy alternative to harmful actions such as drug abuse, and involvement in crime. Beyond the individual, sport involvement cuts barriers that divide societies, making it a powerful tool to support conflict prevention both symbolically on the global level and practically within communities.\n\nThe number of dropouts reaches a peak in the adolescent years and the most important reason for not playing sport are “not having enough time,” “no interest anymore,” and “other leisure activities”.\n\nNegative experiences can be created through a sport that is overly focused on competition and winning at all costs or that fails to place the healthy development of youth at the center of the experience. Such negative experiences may result in a young person's low self-esteem, involve them in negative relationships, encourage poor sportsmanship, permit aggression and violence, allow racism, perpetuate gender discrimination, or expose them to psychological, sexual and commercial exploitation and abuse. Many of these negative experiences can be avoided when parents and coaches are chosen carefully, ensuring that programs offer a positive development experience for youth.\n\nInjuries have always been of concern in terms of sport but youth are much more susceptible to injury considering both their immature musculoskeletal system and increasingly high intensity training. According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, participation in organized sports is on the rise. Nearly 30 million children and adolescents participate in youth sports just in the United States. This high rise in sport participation has led to some startling statistics, high school athletes account for an estimated 2 million injuries, 500,000 doctor visits, and 30,000 hospitalizations each year. The most common types of sports-related injuries among youth are sprains, muscle strains, bone or growth plate injuries, and overuse injuries.\n\nEarly sports specialization has long been typical among children and teenagers in gymnastics, swimming, diving and figure skating, especially if they have aspirations of being competitive at elite levels. Undeniably, the main purpose for athletes to specialize in sport is to become a better player in order to increase their chances of making it to the big leagues or to become an elite athlete. Unfortunately, the data does not prove that specializing as a youth will be enough to make a child into a successful athlete later on (Latorre-Roman, Pinillos, & Robles, 2018). Youth athletes that are considered less specialized have been found to exhibit more all around athleticism and other advantages that specialized athletes do not benefit. (Rugg, Kador, Feley, & Pandya, 2018). Studies have supported that decreasing specialization at a young age will lower the rates of injuries for the players while increasing playing times and length of careers compared to athletes who specialized as a youth (Rugg, Kador, Feley, & Pandya, 2018). Still, sport specializers tend to dramatically outweigh those who stayed multi sport athletes because of the standards people place on sports and how valuable a sports career can be. As youth athletes exhibit skills at higher levels than there peers at a young age, parents, coaches, and the athletes themselves tend to focus on that sport in order to take advantage of their natural skills. parents, coaches, and athletes should know that showing promise in sport from a young age does not guarantee future success as competition levels rise and the athlete develops as a person (Latorre-Roman, Pinillos, & Robles, 2018).\n\nNoting that specializing in a sport at a young age by no means guarantees success, it is most important understand that sport specialization in youth can lead to higher injury rates throughout ones sports career (Mcguine et al., 2017). Research has found that high school athletes that specialize in one sport are more likely to be injured than athletes that play multiple sports (Mcguine et al., 2017) .Further, students who were classified to play moderate amount of sports were found to have less injuries than those who specialized in only one (McGuine et al., 2017) This helps to emphasize the importance of sport diversity in youth athletes and its impact on preventing injuries. Looking at sport specialization more in depth, researchers have suggested that athletes, coaches, and parents monitor the weekly, monthly, and yearly participation rates for youth athletes in a single sport (Post et al., 2017) It is generally recognized that athletes should not participate in more than 8 months worth of intense sport practice and no more than an athletes age in hours of practice a week (post et al., 2017). Also, experts recommend that all athletes engage in a wide variety of athletic activities, including unstructured athletic activities such as playing outside, until at least the age of 15.\"\"'\n\nIn response to the evidence of negative experiences in sport for many youth, especially low-income youth, youth of color, overweight youth, and LGBTQ youth, sports-based youth development (SBYD) emerged. Sports-based youth development is a theory and practice model for programs to place the mental and physical health of a youth over their athletic success. Programs that use SBYD to define program activities and train staff members generally provide free or reduced-cost programming to reduce the barriers low-income youth face when playing sports. These programs are typically found in low-income and under-served neighborhoods, but any sports coach or sports program can apply SBYD principles.\n\nGlobal South nations tend to have less access to organized sports because the politics of their countries do not have the resources to have leisure and entertainment influence their lives. Children in Global South nations have less opportunity to attend school where majority of organized sport takes place. Sport programs within the community provide children marginalized by poverty, gender, disability, family dissolution, ethno-cultural background and conflict with family, crime and other lack of opportunity.\n\nIn Global North nations, the evolving and complex youth sport system requires significant resources such as time, access, and money to develop as an athlete and play competitively. The financial costs involved in facilitating organized sport at an elite level ranges from an average of a few thousand dollars per year, to more than 20,000 dollars per year in some sports. For these financial reasons, participation is not feasible for a majority of kids growing up in lower income families.\n\nIn recent years, youth sports have become more expensive in the United States. The financial burden of organized sports has grown, and children from low-income families are less likely to participate. The single greatest predictor of whether a child will start playing organized sports young, is whether their household income exceeds $100,000 per year.\n\nGender conditioning often starts at an early age where boys and girls are taught behave differently and participate in certain activities. While there is no doubt that girls' sport participation has skyrocketed in recent decades, a gender inequality in youth sports still exists. The \"separate but equal\" ideal of gender in youth sports is very much prevalent in society and its contradictions inherent a strategy that pushes for both individual equal opportunity and categorical separation of the sexes. Team sport participation peaks at age 11 and participation in sport by girls are high and continuing to increase. However, frequent participation by both boys and girls in team sports is declining.\n\nGirls are more likely to enter sport later than boys and are more likely to take part in cheerleading, dance, competitive jump roping and volleyball while boys tend to stick with more traditional sports such as baseball, basketball and football. No matter the sport, the benefits of participating remain. With this said, the gender gap in the global south is much larger than that of the global north based on significant power relations and religious beliefs, specifically within Muslim communities in countries like Bosnia, Egypt, Morocco, Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. For many, religion is a way of life in which sporting and educational institutions are culturally constructed by cultural and religious dynamics, as well as political, social, and economic factors.\n\nThe gap between participation in sport in the global south and the global north can be due to a shortage of physical education, a lack of financing, few sport facilities and little equipment and no capacity to host major sporting event in the global south. Other limitations for people living in certain countries may include a lack of accessible transportation, education and lack of understanding of the sport. There are also several social and cultural barriers faced by youth living in the global south that impact sport participation. A few of these are religion, culture and language.\n\nThere are typically two types of youth sport programs. One is sponsored by schools and the other is sponsored by city recreational departments and agencies. Generally school sponsored programs have qualified coaches and dedicated facilities for their sports but that is not always the case. Requirements for coaches for school sponsored programs vary from state to state, but the standard for the head coach of a major sport is usually a teaching certificate, with some coaching experience and training. Non-school youth sports programs operate in a different way and use volunteers as coaches. They have to find places to practice such as open gyms. Youths in these programs are assigned or drafted to different teams depending on the program.\n\nThe Sport for Development and Peace organization was found in research by Simon Darnell to have positive outcomes on the twelve-year-old boys participating in the program by promoting time management and personal responsibility. This helped the boys fit into the goals of self-regulation required in neoliberal societies. The nature of sport in itself also showcased leaders and those willing to make sacrifices for the sake of their team and also their families.\n\nThe Culture, Education, Sport and Ethics program (CESEP) is an international outreach initiative to engage teachers and student from different countries and cultures in the dialogue of healthy sport. This program seeks to create collaboration among teachers, students under 18, and counselors to exchange ideas about sports and culture in an educational program.\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's Sports for Hope program, located in Lusaka, Zambia, enhances national sports development through organized sports competitions, camps and clinics. They organize seminars for coaches and sports administrators as well as community development services. The program has an educational component about important societal issues, including girls’ empowerment, civic participation, HIV/AIDS, malaria and other health issues for athletes and the general public. The center offers indoor and outdoor sports fields, lockers, a gym, a boxing hall, classrooms and a variety of sports.\n\nYouth Athletics were played and were popular in 20th-century America. In an attempt to “energize America’s youth and transform its fledgling bodies into healthy future citizens” recreation facilities for youth were created. Muscular Christianity was based on the philosophy of sports and exercise strengthening the body which was the shelter of the soul. This philosophy shaped the creation of YMCA programs across America. This led to the invention of basketball and volleyball in the late 19th Century. Also, the YMCA had a female counterpart, the YWCA. The social gospel movement, “found sports to be a useful tool to draw inner-city youth to their churches, which often housed gymnasiums.” The social gospel movement lead to the creation of settlement houses, where middle-class men and women would study the social problems of the neighbourhood and attempt to fix them. The best known settlement house was Hull house in Chicago which had a community institution which attempted to Americanize immigrants. At Hull house, “they also provided a gym and sponsored athletic teams for both boys and girls, both as part of the acculturation process and the broader goal of improving the social, mental and physical well-being of inner-city residents.\n\nSocial agencies such as the YMCA and YWCA, as well as Boys and Girls Clubs, and Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts, provided most of the organized sports to youth in America prior to 1954. While athletics was encouraged by the social gospel movement, youth sports were often organized by youth themselves through the social agencies. This shifted to adults organizing youth sports programs, which was exemplified with the advent of Little League Baseball by Carl Stotz. Little League Baseball was formed in 1939, with a three team league, while in 1954, there were 70,000 participants. Evidently, organized youth athletics grew rapidly throughout the 20th century in America. There were multiple reasons to support youth athletics programs, but one that was mostly agreed upon was “the notion of providing wholesome, character-building activities to occupy the leisure time of children and youth, to enable them to make the transition from childhood to adulthood.”\n\nWithin the 20th century, youth athletics were supported for their many believed positive aspects on youth culture. This included the fact that many believed participation in youth athletics would decrease delinquency. In 1965 Coleman wrote, “if it were not for inter-scholastic athletics or something like it, the rebellion against school, the rate of drop-out, and the delinquency of boys might be far worse than they presently are.” Also, youth athletics were a way for Jewish immigrants to disprove the stereotypes that they were bookish and weak in the early 20th century. Some Jews pursued professional careers in sports, which provided young Jewish Americans with role models who showed, “the possibility and benefits of assimilation,” which encouraged more participation in youth athletics. Catholic youths were interested in youth sports to, “demonstrate patriotism and morality.” Overall, both Catholics and Jews were attracted to youth athletics, to “demonstrate American-ness and experience a sense of belonging in the United States.” As well as physical fitness, sports were also seen as a way to increase social and moral development in youth. However, there remained some believed negative aspects of youth athletics. This included the fact that, “premature sports insolvent may result in undesirable emotional consequences for children.” The stress placed on youths during sports could lead to frustration, discouragement and low self-esteem.\n\nRace has played a role within youth sports as it has enforced racial segregation, but it has also given opportunities to racial minorities. In some ways, youth sports perpetrated segregation, as schools were segregated in the early 20th century. Within African American neighbourhoods in America, there was not the same level of public and private sports facilities as in other neighbourhoods. However, the streets and vacant lots became centres for youth sports. Segregation and prejudice kept African Americans out of sports facilities, but sports also played a positive role. While schools and subsequently sports teams were created out of segregation, athletics could bring success and accomplishment to schools. Sports were ways that members of the African- American community could gain self- esteem and a sense of community.\n\nYouth sports were an important way of life for Native Americans within boarding schools. Sports for Native Americans living in boarding schools were so important that they were on a similar level of importance as work and teaching. School sports such as track and field, basketball, and wrestling were activities that some Native Americans felt pride in when they participated. This pride was created by the appeal of competition and success, especially against white teams. Former resident of a boarding school for Native Americans, Jeff McCloud's experiences in sports, \"helped him to critically read the pain and degradation of contemporary life on and off Indian reservations as something other than a flaw in Native American character or the inevitable outcome of historical progress.\" Through these experiences, sport could be a positive aspect of the lives of Native Americans.\n\nFemale youth athletics was advocated for in the early 20th century because it was, “believed that sports improved young women’s health and beauty, promoted self-confidence, and offered a source of enjoyment.” However, girls' sports was not supported by all Americans as some believed it would lead to injuries and girls acting too aggressive and manly. During the early parts of the 20th century, some people felt that sport might reduce a girl's femininity and produce too much competitiveness. Some sports, such as basketball, were modified for girls' play. These modifications included eliminating physical contact and playing half-court games to limit exhaustion. American girls participated in more organized sports after the passage of Title IX in 1972 as they gained more opportunities to do so. It has been stated that, “among the many forms of sexism in sports, perhaps the most pervasive and devastating is the lack of equal opportunities for girls to compete in programs similar to those offered for boys.” Girls' participation remained much lower than that of boys, but it increased “from 32 percent of the male’s participation in 1973-74 to 63 percent in 1994-95.” While there are barriers to girls' participation in sports, it grew sizeably in the 20th century.\n\nYouth athletics also affected the lives of boys as it could be used to define masculinity. Sports were a way to promote bravery, and were tied to masculinity through Muscular Christianity. Sports were even thought to reduce degeneracy as boys were thought to be becoming less brave than their forefathers by some. Betty DeBerg believes that gender divisions increased as some feared that industrialization and city life were changing gender roles. Sports were thought to be a way to increase masculinity in boys and to perpetrate social divisions. Furthermore, the masculine aspect of sports perpetrated through the 20th century, has continued an idea of homophobia. Eric Anderson states, \"in a time of greatly decreasing cultural and institutional homophobia, institutions of sport have remained steadfast in their production of a homophobic and conservative gender ideology.\" In 1997, a high school football player wrote that he faced, \"victimization and personal distress over the profusion of homophobia within his sport...\" This homophobic environment lead to depression for the victim. The heightened idea of masculinity has allowed homophobia to also permeate sports. Youth sports within the 20th century enforced masculinity on boys, as well as created an environment filled with homophobia.\n\n\n"}
