{"id": "988326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988326", "title": "798 Art Zone", "text": "798 Art Zone\n\n798 Art Zone (), or Dashanzi Art District, comprise a complex of 50-year-old decommissioned military factory buildings boasting a unique architectural style, located in Dashanzi, Chaoyang District of Beijing, that houses a thriving artistic community. The area is often called the 798 Art District or Factory 798 although technically, Factory #798 is only one of several structures inside a complex formerly known as 718 Joint Factory. The buildings are within alleys number 2 and 4 on Jiǔxiānqiáo Lù (酒仙桥路), south of the Dàshānziqiáo flyover (大山子桥). In recent years, it has been the main venue for the annual Beijing Queer Film Festival and Beijing Design Week.\n\nThe Dashanzi factory complex began as an extension of the \"Socialist Unification Plan\" of military-industrial cooperation between the Soviet Union and the newly formed People's Republic of China. By 1951, 156 \"joint factory\" projects had been realized under that agreement, part of the Chinese government's first Five-Year Plan. However the People's Liberation Army still had a dire need of modern electronic components, which were produced in only two of the joint factories. The Russians were unwilling to undertake an additional project at the time, and suggested that the Chinese turn to East Germany from which much of the Soviet Union's electronics equipment was imported. So at the request of then-Premier Zhou Enlai, scientists and engineers joined the first Chinese trade delegation to East Germany in 1951, visiting a dozen factories. The project was green-lighted in early 1952 and a Chinese preparatory group was sent to East Berlin to prepare design plans. This project, which was to be the largest by East Germany in China, was then informally known as Project #157.\n\nThe architectural plans were left to the Germans, who chose a functional Bauhaus-influenced design over the more ornamental Soviet style, triggering the first of many disputes between the German and Russian consultants on the project. The plans, where form follows function, called for large indoor spaces designed to let the maximum amount of natural light into the workplace. Arch-supported sections of the ceiling would curve upwards then fall diagonally along the high slanted banks or windows; this pattern would be repeated several times in the larger rooms, giving the roof its characteristic sawtooth-like appearance. Despite Beijing's northern location, the windows were all to face north because the light from that direction would cast fewer shadows.\n\nThe chosen location was a 640,000 square metre area in Dashanzi, then a low-lying patch of farmland northeast of Beijing. The complex was to occupy 500,000 square metres, 370,000 of which were allocated to living quarters. It was officially named Joint Factory 718, following the Chinese government's method of naming military factories starting with the number 7. Fully funded by the Chinese side, the initial budget was enormous for the times: 9 million rubles or approximately 140 million RMB (US$17 million) at today's rates; actual costs were 147 million RMB.\n\nGround was broken in April 1954. Construction was marked by disagreements between the Chinese, Soviet and German experts, which led at one point to a six-month postponement of the project. The Germans' harshest critic was the Russian technology consultant in charge of Beijing's two Soviet-built electronics factories (714 and 738), who was also head consultant of the Radio Industrial Office of the Second Ministry of Machine Building Industry. The disputes generally revolved around the Germans' high but expensive quality standards for buildings and machines, which were called \"over-engineering\" by the Russians. Among such points of contention was the Germans' insistence, historical seismic data in hand, that the buildings be built to withstand earthquakes of magnitude 8 on the Richter scale, whereas the Chinese and Russians wanted to settle for 7. Communications expert Wang Zheng, head of Communications Industry in the Chinese Ministry of National Defense and supporter the East German bid from the start, ruled in favor of the Germans for this particular factory.\n\nAt the height of the construction effort, more than 100 East German foreign experts worked on the project. The resources of as many as 22 of their factories supplied the construction; at the same time, supply delays were caused by the Soviet Red Army's tremendous drain on East Germany's industrial production. The equipment was transported directly through the Soviet Union via the Trans-Siberian railway, and a 15 km track of railroad between Beijing Railway Station and Dongjiao Station was built especially to service the factory. Caltech-educated scientist Dr. Luo Peilin (罗沛霖), formerly head of the preparatory group in 1951-1953, was Head Engineer of Joint Factory 718 during its construction phase. Dr. Luo, now retired in Beijing, is remembered by his former colleagues as a dedicated perfectionist whose commitment to the obstacle-strewn project was a major factor of its eventual success.\n\nJoint Factory 718 began production in 1957, amid a grandiose opening ceremony and display of Communist brotherhood between China and East Germany, attended by high officials of both countries. The first director was Li Rui (李瑞), who had been involved in the early negotiations in Berlin.\n\nThe factory quickly established a reputation for itself as one of the best in China. Through its several \"danwei\" or \"work units\", it offered considerable social benefits to its 10,000-20,000 workers, especially considering the relative poverty of the country during such periods as the Great Leap Forward. The factory boasted, among others:\n\n\nThe factory even had its own volunteer military reserves or \"jinweishi\" (近卫师), which numbered hundreds and were equipped with large-scale weapons and anti-aircraft guns.\n\nWorkers' skills were honed by frequent personnel exchanges, internships and training in cooperation with East Germany. Different incentives kept motivation high, such as rewards systems and \"model worker\" distinctions. At the same time, political activities such as Maoism study workshops kept the workers in line with Communist Party of China doctrine. During the Cultural revolution, propaganda slogans for Mao Zedong Thought were painted on the ceiling arches in bright red characters (where they remain today at the latter tenants' request).\n\nFrequent VIP visits contributed to the festive atmosphere. Notable guests included Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, Liu Shaoqi, Zhu De, and Kim Il-Sung.\n\nThe Joint Factory produced a wide variety of military and civilian equipment. Civilian production included acoustic equipment for Beijing's Workers' Stadium and Great Hall of the People, as well as all the loudspeakers on Tiananmen Square and Chang'an Avenue. Military components were also exported to China's Communist allies, and helped establish North Korea's wireless electronics industry.\nAfter 10 years of operation, Joint Factory 718 was split into more manageable components, such as sub-Factories 706, 707, 751, 761, 797 and 798. The first Head of sub-Factory 798 (the largest) was Branch Party Secretary Fu Ke (傅克), who played a major role in recruiting skilled workers from southern China and among returned overseas Chinese.\n\nHowever, the factory came under pressure during Deng Xiaoping's reforms of the 1980s. Deprived of governmental support like many state-owned enterprises, it underwent a gradual decline and was eventually rendered obsolete. By the late 1980s and early 1990s, most sub-factories had ceased production, 60% of the workers had been laid off, and the remains of the management were reconstituted as a real-estate operation called \"Seven-Star Huadian Science and Technology Group\", charged with overseeing the industrial park and finding tenants for the abandoned buildings.\n\nThe Dashanzi factory complex was vacated at around the time when most of Beijing's contemporary artist community was looking for a new home. Avant-garde art being frowned upon by the government, the community had traditionally existed on the fringes of the city. From 1984 to 1995, they worked in run-down houses near the Old Summer Palace (Yuanmingyuan) in northwestern Beijing, until their eviction. Many then moved to the eastern Tongxian County (now Tongzhou District), more than an hour's drive from the city center.\n\nThen in 1995, Beijing's Central Academy of Fine Arts (CAFA), looking for cheap, ample workshop space away from downtown, set up in the now defunct Factory 706. The temporary move became permanent and in 2000 Sui Jianguo(隋建国), Dean of the Department of Sculpture, located his own studio in the area. The cluttered sculpture workshops have always remained open for visitors to peek at the dozens of workers milling about.\n\nIn 2001, American Robert Bernell (considered by many to be the founder of contemporary 798) moved his Timezone 8 Art Books bookshop, gallery and publishing office into a former factory canteen; he was the first foreigner to move in. One of Timezone 8's early employees was fashion designer Xiao Li, who along her husband, performance artist Cang Xin,and Bernell, helped artists secure and rent spaces in the area.\n\nThrough word-of-mouth, artists and designers started trickling in, attracted to the vast cathedral-like spaces. Despite the lack of any conscious aesthetic in the Bauhaus-inspired style, which grounded architectural beauty in practical, industrial function, the swooping arcs and soaring chimneys had an uplifting effect on modern eyes, a sort of post-industrial chic. At the artists' requests, workers renovating the spaces preserved the prominent Maoist slogans on the arches, adding a touch of ironic \"Mao kitsch\" to the place.\n\nLater that year, Mr. Tabata Yukihito from Japan's Tokyo Gallery set up Beijing Tokyo Art Projects (BTAP, 北京东京艺术工程) inside a 400-m² division of Factory 798's main area; this was the first renovated space featuring the high arched ceilings that would become synonymous with the Art District. BTAP's 2002 opening exhibition \"Beijing Afloat\" (curator: Feng Boyi), drew a crowd of over 1,000 people and marked the beginning of the popular infatuation with the area.\n\nIn 2002, designer artist Huang Rui (黄锐) and hutong photographer Xu Yong (徐勇) set up the 798 Space gallery (时态空间) next to BTAP. With its cavernous 1200-m² floor and multiple-arched ceilings at the center of Factory 798, it was and still is the symbolic center of the whole district. (Huang and Xu since designed at least seven spaces in the area and became the prime movers and de facto spokespersons of the District.) A glass-fronted café was set up in the former office section at the back of the 798 space, opening into a back alley now lined with studios and restaurants such as Huang's own At Café, and Cang Xin's #6 Sichuan restaurant, the area's \"canteen\".\n\nIn 2003, Lu Jie (卢杰) set up the Long March Foundation, an ongoing project for artistic re-interpretation of the historical Long March, inside the 25,000 \"Li\" Cultural Transmission Center (二万五千里文化传播中心). Around that time, Singapore-owned China Art Seasons (北京季节画廊) opened for display for pan-Asian art, and was one of several new galleries setting up at that time.\n\nSeveral exhibitions of note took place in 2003. In March 2004, \"Transborder Language\", part of the First Dashanzhi International Art Festival, (curators: Huang Rui and Thomas J. Berghuis) combined poetry installation and performance art. \"Blue Sky Exposure\" was held outdoors in southern Beijing and then relocated to the Art District. On April 13, despite widespread fear of public gatherings during SARS, the exhibitions \"Reconstruction 798\" (798 space) and \"Operation Ink Freedom\" (25,000 \"Li\" Cultural Transmission Center) drew crowds of 5,000 and definitely confirmed the area's widespread appeal.\n\nIn July, with Beijing in full construction boom, Wang Wei's \"Temporary Space\" (curator: Philip Tinari) featured workers completely enclosing an area of the exhibition with a brick wall and then removing the bricks one by one. In September, \"Left Hand - Right Hand\" (curator: Feng Boyi) showcased Chinese and German sculptors at 798 Space and Daoyaolu Workshop A. Among the works was Sui Jianguo's enormous concrete sculpture \"Mao's Right Hand\", which is just what the name suggests, and an example of modern Chinese art's ironic reflections on history.\n\nThe first Beijing Biennale was held on September 18, 2003 at the Art District and featured 14 exhibitions. \"Tui-Transfiguration\" (curator: Wu Hung; \"tui\" here roughly means \"moult\") featured photographs by East Village chronicler Rong Rong (荣荣) and his wife, Japan-born Inri (映里). Their works notably featured their own naked bodies in various strange locales, and were generally well-received despite being criticized by some as typical of the self-centered nature of much art in the area.\n\nThe first Dashanzi International Art Festival, directed by the ever-present Huang Rui, was held from April 24 to May 23, 2004. This first edition, named \"Radiance and Resonance/Signals of Time\" (光•音 / 光阴), was beset by logistical problems arising from landowner Seven-Star Group's increasing irritation with the art community. As such, the festival became as much a public protest against the area's upcoming destruction that a showcase of art itself.\n\nThe environmental performance artist Brother Nut installed his project, “Nongfu Spring Market,” in 798 Art Zone in 2018. A commentary on pollution in China, this project received international attention including an article in the New York Times. One of the most (in)famous displays at the Festival was performance artist He Yunchang having himself cemented shut in a wooden box with only two pipes for ventilation, and staying there for 24 hours before being chiseled out, prompting the proverbial \"Is it art?\" questionings. \"Shock\" exhibitions have become increasingly common in the Art District (see \"China Daily\"'s article \"The avant-garde art goes too far?\" for some extreme examples).\n\nIn 2008 the notable exhibition of foreign artists from Italy (\"Rabarama. Italian Shape\", AnniArt Gallery 798,): Rabarama and Cesare Berlingeri.\n\nThe district's popularity has exploded since the opening of BTAP and 798 Space in 2002, with scores of galleries, lofts, publishing firms, design companies, high-end tailor shops, and cafés and fancy restaurants setting up. In 2003, around 30 artists and organizations had set up studios or offices in the area, with 200 more reportedly on the waiting list to move in.\n\nFashionable clubs also sprang up such as Zhou Ying's \"Vibes\", known for its fetish nights. A former factory cafeteria became Yan Club (仁俱乐部), owned by well-known Beijing socialite and writer Li Xuebing or \"Bing Bing\" (冰冰), also owner of Sanlitun's Jam House. Notable performers at Yan included Morcheeba in March 2003.\n\nIn keeping with the area's \"community spirit\", most galleries and spaces in Dashanzi do not charge either exhibitors or visitors. Instead, they generally sustain themselves by hosting profitable fashion shows and corporate events; among others, Sony had a product launch gala at 798 space, and watchmaker Omega presented a fashion show at Yan Club. Others include Christian Dior, Royal Dutch Shell and Toyota; supermodel Cindy Crawford also made an appearance. Even Li Ka-shing's Cheung Kong Holdings held an event in the district, which some found unsettling given the real-estate industry's designs on the land it sits on.\n\nAs such, Dashanzi is now a center of Beijing's nascent \"BoBo\" (bourgeois-bohemian) community. Huang Rui and Xu Yong are good representatives of the type. And a local guru of sorts is artist/curator/architect Ai Weiwei (艾未未), whose self-designed house in Caochangdi just outside the factory complex was a trend-setter.\n\nIn the absence of any rent control, tenants' costs have escalated. In 2000–2001, rents were 0.8 RMB per square metre per day (24 RMB or US$2.90/m²/month, or about US$0.27/sq.foot/month). They increased slightly to 30 RMB/m²/month in 2003, and then doubled to 60 RMB/m²/month (US$0.67/sq.foot/month) in 2004. Total costs can be quite high considering the average 200–400 m² area of the spaces, and the overhead of renovating and retrofitting the rooms to use modern appliances.\n\nAnother sign of creeping gentrification is the increasing number of luxury cars parked near the galleries; local artist Zhao Bandi purchased the first Alfa Romeo convertible in Beijing. Some (but not all) of the resident artists and their patrons are quite rich compared to other occupants of the area, the remaining factory workers. Some of the workshops are still operational on a small scale, mostly doing car repair or industrial laundry.\n\nSome local artists such as Zhang Zhaohui, a New York-trained art critic and curator, and architect Zhu Jun, a new Dashanzi resident, have criticized the Art District as being less about art and more about show. Says Zhang: \"Few of the artists come to seriously practice art. Most of them just come for opportunities to exhibit and sell works or just have parties and gatherings.\" (\"China Daily\") On the other hand, young artists like Zhang Yue find this atmosphere particularly conducive to establishing one's career. In the course of one summer, Dashanzi Art District's Platform China Contemporary Art Institute and Unlimited Art Gallery afforded this rising artist two well-received solo shows.\n\nIn the days of Joint Factory 718, Dashanzi was chosen for its peripheral position well outside the city center. The artists who later moved there were attracted from the fringes of the city as well. However, the area today sits right on the strategic corridor between the Capital Airport and downtown Beijing along the Airport Expressway. In the context of China's current real estate bubble, the district is highly likely to be demolished in the near future. Hints of development are already appearing with the western entrances of the complex flanked by the Jiuxian and Hongyuan luxury apartment towers. There is all the current government projects which call for the expansion of the neighbouring industrial park to turn all of Dashanzi into a high-tech development zone similar to Zhongguancun. Landowner Seven-Star Group thus hopes to re-employ some of the 10,000 laid-off workers it is still responsible for.\n\nInfluential members of the artist community and architects are lobbying various government instances to persuade them to allow the old buildings to remain, as part of a cultural center which Beijing otherwise lacks and that can only grow organically. In 2003, International Architects Salon roped in architects from various international architectural associations and renowned architects like Bernard Tschumi and Coop Himmelblau's Wolf Prix to hammer in the point how attractive spaces like Factory 798 can be to international design community. They point out that such communities are important if Beijing, and China, is to become a major source of creative design instead of mere low cost low value-added manufacturing. (This issue has far-reaching implications in the domain of intellectual property protection in China - some experts believe that the local IP laws will start to be enforced only when China becomes a source of its own intellectual property.)\n\nPart of the lobbying effort is resident sculptor Li Xiangqun, professor at the Academy of Arts and Design of Tsinghua University, who was elected deputy of the 12th National People's Congress in 2004. Li presented the municipal government with a formal bill in February, requesting suspension of the destruction plans and preservation of the buildings as part of an Olympic-caliber cultural center.\n\nProfessors from architecture schools such as Beijing's Central Academy of Fine Arts and the Southern California Institute of Architecture have proposed various development plans for the area that involve preserving the buildings, although those do not appear especially profitable financially.\n\nMeanwhile, attempts have been made to appeal to the developers' sense of economics by pointing out similarities with New York's Greenwich Village and SoHo, where the high profitability of real estate is due partly to the presence of former post-industrial artists' dwellings. Those arguments have so far been ignored.\n\nIn 2004, Seven-Star Group froze the rental of new spaces and prohibited all renewals. Tenants resorted to subdividing and subleasing their spaces, to which the Group responded by attempting to forbid subleasing to cultural organizations or to foreigners, hoping to drive out the artists. Tenants, despite some of them having leases still valid for several years, were given the ultimatum of December 31, 2005 to vacate the premises.\n\nBy 2006, public outcry was relentless, and prominent cultural organizations from around the world spoke up. An unlikely duo including SevenStar, a government-led consortium acting as stewards of a pension fund for former factory workers, and Guy Ullens, a Belgian philanthropist who had amassed the world's largest collection of contemporary Chinese art, commissioned Boston-based design firm Sasaki Associates to produce a vision plan which sought to re-purpose the district into a stable source of revenue while providing a much needed destination for China's burgeoning arts scene. The plan needed to inspire multiple stakeholders with often divergent interests. First, the city government in Beijing wanted to ensure that the district would a visible and acclaimed destination. Second, land-holder SevenStar Group needed to generate a sustainable revenue stream to endow the pension fund of former factory workers. Third, international and Chinese non-profit cultural institutions investing in 798 such as the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art wanted to focus on culture and protecting the district’s distinctive character. Finally, residents of adjacent neighborhoods were vocal about the need for community parks, recreation, and job opportunities. \nConsidering these voices equally, the Sasaki Associates master plan for 798 endeavored to reach consensus with a long-game approach to redevelopment. Leading with clear principles and detailed guidelines, the plan was an opportunity to codify the values of the district. To address the city’s concerns, connections from nearby transit stations were strengthened, historic buildings were catalogued, and guidelines for their preservation and adaptive reuse were outlined. Next, a long-term strategy for obtaining revenue from new building leases was realized. A proposed arts school, artist-in-residence program, and requirements that tenants are involved in a creative industry provided cultural institutions with a sense that 798 would attract new talent and ideas. Last, multiple parks and plazas responded to community desire for more public open space.\n\nBy the end of 2007 it was decided that the area would continue in its current format of a special art zone. In 2009, the area has been refurbished and is thriving. 798’s abandoned factory buildings have been transformed into new museums, galleries, and cafes. Fallow fields and once hidden courtyards have reemerged as settings for outdoor sculpture, fashion shows, and other cultural events. The roads have been repaved, new galleries have opened, and a cafe culture is emerging. What began as a small collection of ephemeral studios and other work spaces has become the third most visited destination in Beijing, after the Forbidden City and the Great Wall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51738599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51738599", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Frosinone", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Frosinone\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Frosinone is an academy of fine arts located in Frosinone, Italy. It was founded in 1973.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "48752551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48752551", "title": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo", "text": "Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo\n\nThe Accademia di Belle Arti di Palermo (\"Academy of Fine Arts of Palermo\") is a public tertiary academy of art in Palermo, Sicily. It was established in 1780.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "20359562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20359562", "title": "Agbogho Mmuo", "text": "Agbogho Mmuo\n\nAgbogho Mmuo, or Maiden Spirits are annual performances held during the dry season in the Nri-Awka area in the northern part of the Igbos' traditional territory. Performed only by men wearing masks, the masquerades imitate the character of adolescent girls, exaggerating the girls' beauty and movements. The performance is always accompanied by musicians who sing and play tributes to both real and spirit maidens.\n\nThe performances showcase an ideal image of an Igbo maiden. This ideal is made up by the smallness of a young girl’s features and the whiteness of her complexion, which is an indication that the mask is a spirit. This whiteness is created using a chalk substance used for ritually marking the body in both West Africa and the African Diaspora. The chalky substance is also used in uli design, created and exhibited on the skin of Igbo women. Most maiden spirit mask are decorated with representations of hair combs, and other objects, modeled after late 19th-century ceremonial hairstyles. These hairstyles include elaborate coiffures and crests which intend to add beauty to the mask.\n\nThis art style is featured in the book Purple Hibiscus written by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie.\n"}
{"id": "40342680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40342680", "title": "Alcalá de Guadaira school", "text": "Alcalá de Guadaira school\n\nThe Alcalá de Guadaira school was the name given to the circle of painters, initially brought together by Manuel Ussel de Guimbarda, who from 1890, centered on the figure of Emilio Sanchez Perrier, assembled and painted en plein air on the banks of the river Guadaíra, near Seville.\n"}
{"id": "177250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177250", "title": "Aleatoricism", "text": "Aleatoricism\n\nAleatoricism is the incorporation of chance into the process of creation, especially the creation of art or media. The word derives from the Latin word \"alea\", the rolling of dice. \"Aleatory\" should not be confused with either improvisation or indeterminacy.\n\nCharles Hartman discusses several methods of automatic generation of poetry in his book \"The Virtual Muse\".\n\nThe term aleatory music was first coined by Werner Meyer-Eppler in 1955 to describe a course of sound events that is \"determined in general but depends on chance in detail\". When his article was published in English, the translator mistakenly rendered his German noun \"Aleatorik\" as an adjective, and so inadvertently created a new English word, \"aleatoric\". Pierre Boulez applied the term in this sense to his own pieces to distinguish them from the indeterminate music of John Cage. While Boulez purposefully composed his pieces to allow the performer certain liberties with regard to the sequencing and repetition of parts, Cage often composed through the application of chance operations without allowing the performer liberties. Another prolific composer of aleatory music was Karlheinz Stockhausen.\n\nAleatoric techniques are sometimes used in contemporary film music. Examples can be found in John Williams's scores as well as, for example, Mark Snow's music for \"X-Files: Fight the Future\".\n\nIn film-making, there are several avant-garde examples; one is Andy Voda's \"Chance Chants\" which features Allison Knowles' computer poem \"House of Dust\", \n\nFred Camper's \"SN\" (1984, first screening 2002) uses coin-flipping for one section to determine which three of 16 possible reels to screen and what order they should go in (3360 permutations).\n\nFilm scholar Barry Salt directed the 1971 film \"Six Reels of Film to Be Shown in Any Order\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25211329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211329", "title": "Anti-genre", "text": "Anti-genre\n\nAnti-genre is a self-descriptive label attributed to any artistic style devoid of genre. This lack of genre-status can either be the result of:\n(1) an active attempt to evade categorization (transcend all genres), \n(2) conscious negation of the ethos of its medium (unlearning of history),\n(3) an active and conscious negation of itself.\n\nThe anti-genre is not simply an assault on tradition (previous artistic styles), for every anti-thesis in history would then fall under this title. (see Hard versus Soft section) The anti-genre, rather implies a more direct and nihilistic attack on the foundations of its medium. The anti-genre is in a perpetual state of evasion both from external taxonomy, but also from itself.\n\nThe artistic movement known as Dada is likely the best example of the anti-genre, although the Dada manifestos of Hugo Ball and Tristan Tzara never use the term 'anti-genre' to describe Dada,\n\nDADA DOES NOT MEAN ANYTHING. Every man must shout: there is great destructive, negative work to be done. To sweep, to clean.\n\nThe etymology of the term anti-genre borrows its semantic form from the terms anti- meaning \"against\" and \"genre\", (French \"kind,\" related to the English \"gender\")\n\nThe best example of the anti-genre in music is John Cage's 1952 composition 4′33″, in which the entire performance consists of four and a half minutes of utter silence. The musicians are instructed not to play their instruments. All the audience can hear is the sound of themselves.\n\nIn this famous and controversial piece, John Cage presents silence as the antithesis of music. Thus, the absence of all audible content becomes music's anti-genre. There are, however other examples.\n\nIf music is the artistic arrangement of sound, then the non-artistic arrangement of sound might be a suitable candidate for musical-negation. Non-music becomes noise, rather than artful melody and rhythm. Examples of noise music range from guitar-based feedback recordings and live performances (The Melvins, Nine Inch Nails, Jimi Hendrix) to the screeching sounds of Screamo, Grindcore, industrial music or contemporary dance electronic styles like Gabber, Terrorcore, Breakcore, Glitch, etc. Indeed, the entire ethos of the Punk subculture was based on nihilism, which by its very nature seeks category annihilation.\n\nThe anti-genre, in literature, comes into being in particular during the mid to late 19th century. Both Fyodor Dostoyevsky's 1864 novel Notes from Underground, with his introduction of the anti-hero (referred to as the Underground Man) as well as Friedrich Nietzsche's The Antichrist published in 1895, represent early works in the tradition.\n\nFor Dostoyevsky's underground man, all the virtues of the traditional protagonist (the hero) are turned upside down. Rather than courageous he is weak and complains of both physical pain as well as deeper (more existential) angst. Rather than altruism and chivalry he feels vengeance and spite towards others. Dostoyevsky's underground man introduces to western literature the archetype of the anti-hero. His early work also attacks the positivists of the Enlightenment era, thereby strengthening the case against utopian optimism. The introduction of the anti-hero combined with his dystopian proposal, represent more of a soft anti-genre status rather than the more technical definition of the term.\n\nFor Nietzsche, the task of overcoming history required a grand declaration of war. His enemies were many: In the last sane year of his life he was able to complete two final texts, Twilight of the Idols and The Anti-Christ.\n\nMore technical examples of the anti-genre in literature might include meta-fiction or aleatoricism, but there is lack of contemporary scholarship on the topic to resolve this matter definitively.\n\nIs the anti-genre itself a genre?\n\nThis poses a problem. For, if it is a genre, then it does not exist but if it is not a genre then no discussion of it as a coherent entity can take place. The anti-genre therefore suffers from an identity crisis. Of course, nothing would make the anti-genre more happy than to deny its own existence.\n\nBy referencing a negation of itself in its own definition, \"anti-genre\" achieves a contradictory truth status (both true and false at the same time). This happens any time that the definition of the word in question (or interpretation of the sentence in question) is a denial of its own meaning. For example,\n\nWhen it is true (that it is false) it becomes a negation of itself. It cannot be both true and false at the same time. The anti-genre suffers from this same type of self-annihilation.\n\nBut, although this might pose a problem for a symbolic logician or software engineer, it poses no problem for the anti-artist. The goal of the artist working in their respective anti-genre is to evade genre-classification. Thus, the inability of their category to hold down a definition becomes an asset rather than a liability.\n\nThe most technical description of the paradox of the anti-genre can be found in computer science. In computer programming an infinite loop is often an un-intended result (bug) of circular self-reference in the program code.\n\nFor example, the Dada artist's eternal maxim declares,\nDada had only one rule: Never follow any rules.\nIf we (hypothetically) run this maxim through a recursive computer algorithm, it would cause program error. For, if Dada does not obey this rule then Dada would be free to follow any rules (a direct refutation of this maxim), but if it obeys this maxim then there is at least one rule which it is following (a contradiction). In the language of computer programming this is fatal (it prevents an exit condition from being met) but for the artist this might be the ultimate goal of his/her art.\n\nThe technical definition of anti-genre (hard version) is not merely art that insults its predecessors. The hard version is more active in its flight from meaning. It is self-consciously involved in the process of not just breaking with tradition but undoing the entire framework that distinguishes the different genre categories in that medium. Silence in place of music and the blank canvas in place of paint, are two obvious examples of this.\n\nThe soft version however, is a little harder to nail down. The definition of a soft anti-genre might include art intentionally dispensing with conventions of its medium or violently breaking with tradition by subversion, vandalism-art, irrationality, self-defeat or other strategies in a rebellious spirit.\n\nThe problem with this lighter version of anti-genre is that all artistic movements by definition represent a decisive break with the traditions that came before them. If not, then they would merely be continuous with their predecessors. This is known as the process of dialectic. First, a thesis is proposed. Then the thesis is rejected by the anti-thesis. This rejection is eventually accepted by the community and a synthesis of thesis and anti-thesis come together to create the new proposal ready for rejection. And so the cycle continues.\n\nIt is important to emphasize the hard and soft distinction however because there is a tendency in postmodernity to associate negative/rebellious attitudes in artistic movements with formal categories like anti-genre, despite the fact that the anti-genre, in its hard version, has a much more technical definition.\n\nWhat is the logical conclusion of an artistic movement that is essentially suicidal? (see Paradox of the Anti-genre section)\n\nAfter annihilating everything in their path, every artistic style and movement that had come before them, every political attitude and social value, the DaDa artist eventually had nothing left to consume and so retired to a life of seclusion and chess.\n\nLikewise, and for all of his proselytizing (calling for a complete transvaluation of all human values), Nietzsche ended his life deep inside a state of mental illness.\nAnd so it is not uncommon to hear writers lament that the only cure for history is a good psychiatrist and a lot of prescription medicine.\n"}
{"id": "206432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206432", "title": "Art &amp; Language", "text": "Art &amp; Language\n\nArt & Language is a conceptual artists' collaboration that has undergone many changes since it was created in the late 1960s. The group was founded by artists who shared a common desire to combine intellectual ideas and concerns with the creation of art. The first issue of the group's journal, Art-Language, was published in November 1969 in Chipping Norton in England, and was an important influence on conceptual art in the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe \"Art & Language\" group was founded around 1967 in the United Kingdom by Terry Atkinson (b. 1939), David Bainbridge (b. 1941), Michael Baldwin (b. 1945) and Harold Hurrell (b. 1940). These four artists began their collaboration around 1966 while they were art teachers in Coventry. The name of the group was derived from their journal, Art-Language The Journal of conceptual art, originally created as a work conversation in 1966. The group was critical of what was considered mainstream modern art practices at the time. In their work conversations, they created conceptual art as part of their discussions.\n\nBetween 1968 and 1982, the group grew to nearly fifty people. Among the first to join were critic and art historian, Charles Harrison, and artist Mel Ramsden. In the early 1970s, individuals including Ian Burn, Michael Corris, Preston Heller, Graham Howard, Joseph Kosuth, Andrew Menard, and Terry Smith joined the group. Two collaborators from Coventry, Philip Pilkington and David Rushton, followed.\nThe relative degree of anonymity held within the group continues to have historical significance in the art community. Due to an uncertainty of the exact member lists, it is hard to know unequivocally not only who all of the contributors were but also what their exact contributions were.\n\nThe first issue of Art-Language The Journal of conceptual art(Volume 1, Number 1, May 1969) is subtitled \"The Journal of Conceptual Art\". By the second issue (Volume 1, Number 2, February 1970), it became clear that there were conceptual art pieces and conceptual artists for whom and to whom the journal did not speak. In order to better encompass the purpose of the journal, the title was abandoned. Art-Language The Journal of conceptual art|Art-Language]] had, however, brought to light the beginning of a new art movement. It was the first imprint to identify a public entity called \"Conceptual Art.\" The journal was the first of its kind to serve the theoretical and conversational interests of a community of artists and critics, who were also its producers and users. While that community was far from a unanimous agreement as to how to define the nature of conceptual art, the editors and most of its historic contributors shared similar opinions about other art movements. Conceptual art was critical of modernism for its bureaucracy and its historicism, and of minimalism for its philosophical conservatism. The practice of conceptual art, especially in its early years of origin, was primarily based on theory, and its form, predominately textual.\n\nAs the distribution of the journal and the teaching practices of the editors and others contributors expanded, the conversation grew to include more people. In England, by 1971, artists and critics including Charles Harrison, Philip Pilkington, David Rushton, Lynn Lemaster, Sandra Harrison, Graham Howard and Paul Wood had joined. Around the same time in New York, Michael Corris joined, followed by Paula Ramsden, Mayo Thompson, Christine Kozlov, Preston Heller, Andrew Menard and Kathryn Bigelow.\n\nThe name \"Art & Language\" remained precarious due to the various interpretations of both the many pieces of art and the purpose of the group. Its significance, or instrumentality, varied from person to person, alliance to alliance, discourse to discourse, and from those in New York who produced \"The Fox\" (1974–1976), for example, to those engaged in music projects and those who continued the Journal's edition. There was disagreement among members, and by 1976, there was a growing sense of divide that eventually led to competing individualities and varied concerns.\n\nThroughout the 1970s, \"Art & Language\" dealt with questions about art production and attempted a shift from conventional \"nonlinguistic\" forms of art, such as painting and sculpture, to more theoretically text-based works. The group often took argumentative positions against such prevailing views of critics like Clement Greenberg and Michael Fried.\nThe \"Art & Language\" group that exhibited in the international \"Documenta 5\" exhibitions of 1972 included Atkinson, Bainbridge, Baldwin, Hurrell, Pilkington, Rushton, and Joseph Kosuth, the American editor of Art-Language. The work consisted of a filing system of material published and circulated by \"Art & Language\" members.\n\nBurn and Ramsden co-founded \"The Society for Theoretical Art\" and \"Analysis in New York\" in the late 1960s. They joined \"Art & Language\" in 1970-71. \"New York Art & Language\" became fragmented after 1975 because of disagreements concerning principles of collaboration. Karl Beveridge and Carol Condé, who had been peripheral members of the group in New York, returned to Canada where they worked with trade unions and community groups. In 1977, Ian Burn returned to Australia and Mel Ramsden to the United Kingdom.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s, the group was essentially reduced to Baldwin, Harrison, and Ramsden with the occasional participation of Mayo Thompson and his group Red Crayola. The political analysis and development within the group resulted in several members leaving the group to work in more activist-oriented political occupations. Ian Burn returned to Australia, joining Ian Milliss, a conceptual artist who had begun work with trade unions in the early 1970s, in becoming active in Union Media Services, a design studio for social and community initiatives and the development of trade unions. Other members from the United Kingdom drifted off into a variety of creative, academic and sometimes \"politicized\" activities.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1970s, there were about thirty members. The \"Art & Language\" group emphasized the use of language on the theory that language is the basis from which ideas and concepts are built. Their philosophy was that language permits index words which appear, disappear, and for some even persist, thus allowing viewers and artists alike to analyze the evolution of a word through the proposal of different definitions.\n\nIn 1986, \"Art & Language\" was nominated for the Turner Prize.\nIn 1999, \"Art & Language\" exhibited at PS1 MoMA in New York, with a major installation entitled \"The Artist Out of Work\". This was a recollection of \"Art & Language\"'s dialogical and other practices, curated by Michael Corris and Neil Powell. This exhibition closely followed the revisionist exhibition of \"Global Conceptualism: Points of Origin\" at the Queens Museum of Art, also in New York. The \"Art & Language\" show at PS1 offered an alternative account of the antecedents and legacy of '\"classic\" conceptual art and reinforced a transatlantic rather than nationalistic version of events from 1968-1972. In a negative appraisal of the exhibition, art critic Jerry Saltz wrote, \"A quarter century ago, 'Art & Language' forged an important link in the genealogy of conceptual art, but next efforts have been so self-sufficient and obscure that their work is now virtually irrelevant.\"\n\nOther exhibits around the world include the works of Atkinson and Baldwin (working as \"Art & Language\") held in the collection of the Tate in the United Kingdom. Papers and works relating to \"New York Art & Language\" are held at the Getty Research Institute, Los Angeles. \n\nIn March 2011, Philippe Méaille loaned 800 artworks of the \"Art & Language\" collective to the Barcelona Museum of Contemporary Art, also known as MACBA. In June 2015, the and Philippe Méaille signed a long term lease agreement for the Château de Montsoreau to promote contemporary art in the Loire Valley. \n\n\n\n\n\"Art & Language\" and the \"Jackson Pollock Bar\" collaborated for the first time in January 1995, during the \"Art & Language & Luhmann\" symposium, organized by the Contemporary Social Considerations Institute (Institut für Sozial Gegenwartsfragen) of Freiburg. The 3-day symposium saw the intervention of speakers including Catherine David, who prepared the Documenta X, and Peter Weibl, artist and curator. There was also a theoretical installation of a \"Art & Language\" text produced in playback by the \"Jackson Pollock Bar\". The installation was interpreted by five German actors playing the roles of Jack Tworkow, Philip Guston, Harold Rosenberg, Robert Motherwell and Ad Reinhardt. Using lip sync, the actors used pre-recorded text for a \"New Conceptual\" conversation. Ever since this collaboration, each new \"Art & Language\" exhibition has been joined by a \"Jackson Pollock Bar\" theoretical installation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42747932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747932", "title": "Art Jog", "text": "Art Jog\n\nArt Jog is a contemporary art fair, held annually in Taman Budaya Yogyakarta, Indonesia. The fair started out in 2008 as part of the Yogyakarta Art Festival. The Jogja Art Fair became independent in 2009, and changed its name to Art Jog in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1408731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1408731", "title": "Art criticism", "text": "Art criticism\n\nArt criticism is the discussion or evaluation of visual art. Art critics usually criticise art in the context of aesthetics or the theory of beauty. A goal of art criticism is the pursuit of a rational basis for art appreciation but it is questionable whether such criticism can transcend prevailing socio-political circumstances.\n\nThe variety of artistic movements has resulted in a division of art criticism into different disciplines which may each use different criteria for their judgements. The most common division in the field of criticism is between historical criticism and evaluation, a form of art history, and contemporary criticism of work by living artists.\n\nDespite perceptions that art criticism is a much lower risk activity than making art, opinions of current art are always liable to drastic corrections with the passage of time. Critics of the past are often ridiculed for either favouring artists now derided (like the academic painters of the late 19th century) or dismissing artists now venerated (like the early work of the Impressionists). Some art movements themselves were named disparagingly by critics, with the name later adopted as a sort of badge of honour by the artists of the style (e.g., Impressionism, Cubism), with the original negative meaning forgotten.\n\nArtists have often had an uneasy relationship with their critics. Artists usually need positive opinions from critics for their work to be viewed and purchased; unfortunately for the artists, only later generations may understand it.\n\nArt is an important part of being human and can be found through all aspects of our lives, regardless of the culture or times. There are many different variables that determine one's judgment of art such as aesthetics, cognition or perception. Art can be objective or subjective based on personal preference toward aesthetics and form. It can be based on the elements and principle of design and by social and cultural acceptance. Art is a basic human instinct with a diverse range of form and expression. Art can stand-alone with an instantaneous judgment or can be viewed with a deeper more educated knowledge. Aesthetic, pragmatic, expressive, formalist, relativist, processional, imitation, ritual, cognition, mimetic and postmodern theories are some of many theories to criticize and appreciate art. Art criticism and appreciation can be subjective based on personal preference toward aesthetics and form, or it can be based on the elements and principle of design and by social and cultural acceptance.\n\nArt criticism has many and often numerous subjective viewpoints which are nearly as varied as there are people practising it. It is difficult to come by a more stable definition than the activity being related to the discussion and interpretation of art and its value. Depending on who is writing on the subject, \"art criticism\" itself may be obviated as a direct goal or it may include art history within its framework. Regardless of definitional problems, art criticism can refer to the history of the craft in its essays and art history itself may use critical methods implicitly. According to art historian R. Siva Kumar, \"The borders between art history and art criticism... are no more as firmly drawn as they once used to be. It perhaps began with art historians taking interest in modern art.\"\n\nArt criticism includes a descriptive aspect, where the work of art is sufficiently translated into words so as to allow a case to be made. The evaluation of a work of art that follows the description (or is interspersed with it) depends as much on the artist's output as on the experience of the critic. There is in an activity with such a marked subjective component a variety of ways in which it can be pursued. As extremes in a possible spectrum, while some favour simply remarking on the immediate impressions caused by an artistic object, others prefer a more systematic approach calling on technical knowledge, favoured aesthetic theory and the known sociocultural context the artist is immersed in to discern their intent.\n\nCritiques of art likely originated with the origins of art itself, as evidenced by texts found in the works of Plato, Vitruvius or Augustine of Hippo among others, that contain early forms of art criticism. Also, wealthy patrons have employed, at least since the start of Renaissance, intermediary art-evaluators to assist them in the procurement of commissions and/or finished pieces.\n\nArt criticism as a genre of writing, obtained its modern form in the 18th century. The earliest use of the term art criticism was by the English painter Jonathan Richardson in his 1719 publication \"An Essay on the Whole Art of Criticism\". In this work, he attempted to create an objective system for the ranking of works of art. Seven categories, including drawing, composition, invention and colouring, were given a score from 0 to 18, which were combined to give a final score. The term he introduced quickly caught on, especially as the English middle class began to be more discerning in their art acquisitions, as symbols of their flaunted social status.\n\nIn France and England in the mid 1700s, public interest in art began to become widespread, and art was regularly exhibited at the Salons in Paris and the Summer Exhibitions of London. The first writers to acquire an individual reputation as art critics in 18th-century France were Jean-Baptiste Dubos with his \"Réflexions critiques sur la poésie et sur la peinture\" (1718) which garnered the acclaim of Voltaire for the sagacity of his approach to aesthetic theory; and Étienne La Font de Saint-Yenne with \"Reflexions sur quelques causes de l'état présent de la peinture en France\" who wrote about the Salon of 1746, commenting on the socioeconomic framework of the production of the then popular Baroque art style, which led to a perception of anti-monarchist sentiments in the text.\n\nThe 18th-century French writer Denis Diderot greatly advanced the medium of art criticism. Diderot's \"The Salon of 1765\" was one of the first real attempts to capture art in words. According to art historian Thomas E. Crow, \"When Diderot took up art criticism it was on the heels of the first generation of professional writers who made it their business to offer descriptions and judgments of contemporary painting and sculpture. The demand for such commentary was a product of the similarly novel institution of regular, free, public exhibitions of the latest art\".\n\nMeanwhile, in England an exhibition of the Society of Arts in 1762 and later, in 1766, prompted a flurry of critical, though anonymous, pamphlets. Newspapers and periodicals of the period, such as the \"London Chronicle\", began to carry columns for art criticism; a form that took off with the foundation of the Royal Academy in 1768.\nIn the 1770s, the \"Morning Chronicle\" became the first newspaper to systematically review the art featured at exhibitions.\n\nFrom the 19th century onwards, art criticism became a more common vocation and even a profession, developing at times formalised methods based on particular aesthetic theories. In France, a rift emerged in the 1820s between the proponents of traditional neo-classical forms of art and the new romantic fashion. The Neoclassicists, under Étienne-Jean Delécluze defended the classical ideal and preferred carefully finished form in paintings. Romantics, such as Stendhal, criticized the old styles as overly formulaic and devoid of any feeling. Instead, they championed the new expressive, Idealistic, and emotional nuances of Romantic art. A similar, though more muted, debate also occurred in England.\n\nOne of the prominent critics in England at the time was William Hazlitt, a painter and essayist. He wrote about his deep pleasure in art and his belief that the arts could be used to improve mankind's generosity of spirit and knowledge of the world around it. He was one of a rising tide of English critics that began to grow uneasy with the increasingly abstract direction J. M. W. Turner's landscape art was moving in.\n\nOne of the great critics of the 19th century was John Ruskin. In 1843 he published \"Modern Painters\" in which he robustly defended the work of J. M. W. Turner from his critics, who charged Turner with being unfaithful to nature. Through painstaking analysis and attention to detail, Ruskin was able to demonstrate the very opposite, in what the art historian E. H. Gombrich called \"the most ambitious work of scientific art criticism ever attempted.\" Ruskin became renowned for his rich and flowing prose, and later in life he branched out to become an active and wide-ranging critic, publishing works on architecture and Renaissance art, including the \"Stones of Venice\".\nAnother dominating figure in 19th-century art criticism, was the French poet Charles Baudelaire, whose first published work was his art review \"Salon of 1845\", which attracted immediate attention for its boldness. Many of his critical opinions were novel in their time, including his championing of Eugène Delacroix. When Édouard Manet's famous \"Olympia\" (1865), a portrait of a nude courtesan, provoked a scandal for its blatant realism, Baudelaire worked privately to support his friend. He claimed that \"criticism should be partial, impassioned, political— that is to say, formed from an exclusive point of view, but also from a point of view that opens up the greatest number of horizons\". He tried to move the debate from the old binary positions of previous decades, declaring that \"the true painter, will be he who can wring from contemporary life its epic aspect and make us see and understand, with colour or in drawing, how great and poetic we are in our cravats and our polished boots\".\n\nIn 1877, John Ruskin derided \"Nocturne in Black and Gold: The Falling Rocket\" after the artist, James McNeill Whistler, showed it at Grosvenor Gallery: \"I have seen, and heard, much of Cockney impudence before now; but never expected to hear a ask two hundred guineas for flinging a pot of paint in the public's face.\" This criticism provoked Whistler into suing the critic for libel. The ensuing court case proved to be a Pyrrhic victory for Whistler.\n\nTowards the end of the 19th century a movement towards abstraction, as opposed to specific content, began to gain ground in England, notably championed by the playwright Oscar Wilde. By the early twentieth century these attitudes formally coalesced into a coherent philosophy, through the work of Bloomsbury Group members Roger Fry and Clive Bell. As an art historian in the 1890s, Fry became intrigued with the new modernist art and its shift away from traditional depiction. His 1910 exhibition of what he called post-Impressionist art attracted much criticism for its iconoclasm. He vigorously defended himself in a lecture, in which he argued that art had moved to attempt to discover the language of pure imagination, rather than the staid and, to his mind, dishonest scientific capturing of landscape. Fry's argument proved to be very influential at the time, especially among the progressive elite. Virginia Woolf remarked that: \"in or about December 1910 [the date Fry gave his lecture] human character changed.\"\n\nIndependently, and at the same time, Clive Bell argued in his 1914 book \"Art\" that all art work has its particular 'significant form', while the conventional subject matter was essentially irrelevant. This work laid the foundations for the formalist approach to art. In 1920, Fry argued that \"it’s all the same to me if I represent a Christ or a saucepan since it's the form, and not the object itself, that interests me.\" As well as being a proponent of formalism, he argued that the value of art lies in its ability to produce a distinctive aesthetic experience in the viewer. an experience he called \"aesthetic emotion\". He defined it as that experience which is aroused by significant form. He also suggested that the reason we experience aesthetic emotion in response to the significant form of a work of art was that we perceive that form as an expression of an experience the artist has. The artist's experience in turn, he suggested, was the experience of seeing ordinary objects in the world as pure form: the experience one has when one sees something not as a means to something else, but as an end in itself.\n\nHerbert Read was a champion of modern British artists such as Paul Nash, Ben Nicholson, Henry Moore and Barbara Hepworth and became associated with Nash's contemporary arts group Unit One. He focused on the modernism of Pablo Picasso and Georges Braque, and published an influential 1929 essay on the meaning of art in \"The Listener\". He also edited the trend-setting \"Burlington Magazine\" (1933–38) and helped organise the London International Surrealist Exhibition in 1936.\n\nAs in the case of Baudelaire in the 19th century, the poet-as-critic phenomenon appeared once again in the 20th, when French poet Apollinaire became the champion of Cubism. Later, French writer and hero of the Resistance André Malraux wrote extensively on art, going well beyond the limits of his native Europe. His conviction that the vanguard in Latin America lay in Mexican Muralism (Orozco, Rivera and Siqueiros) changed after his trip to Buenos Aires in 1958. After visiting the studios of several Argentine artists in the company of the young Director of the Museum of Modern Art of Buenos Aires Rafael Squirru, Malraux declared the new vanguard to lie in Argentina's new artistic movements. Squirru, a poet-critic who became Cultural Director of the OAS in Washington, D.C., during the 1960s, was the last to interview Edward Hopper before his death, contributing to a revival of interest in the American artist.\n\nIn the 1940s there were not only few galleries (The Art of This Century) but also few critics who were willing to follow the work of the New York Vanguard. There were also a few artists with a literary background, among them Robert Motherwell and Barnett Newman who functioned as critics as well.\n\nAlthough New York and the world were unfamiliar with the New York avant-garde, by the late 1940s most of the artists who have become household names today had their well established patron critics. Clement Greenberg advocated Jackson Pollock and the color field painters like Clyfford Still, Mark Rothko, Barnett Newman, Adolph Gottlieb and Hans Hofmann. Harold Rosenberg seemed to prefer the action painters such as Willem de Kooning and Franz Kline. Thomas B. Hess, the managing editor of \"ARTnews\", championed Willem de Kooning.\n\nThe new critics elevated their protégés by casting other artists as \"followers\" or ignoring those who did not serve their promotional goal. As an example, in 1958, Mark Tobey \"became the first American painter since Whistler (1895) to win top prize at the Biennale of Venice. New York's two leading art magazines were not interested. \"Arts\" mentioned the historic event only in a news column and \"Art News\" (Managing editor: Thomas B. Hess) ignored it completely. \"The New York Times\" and \"Life\" printed feature articles\".\n\nBarnett Newman, a late member of the Uptown Group wrote catalogue forewords and reviews and by the late 1940s became an exhibiting artist at Betty Parsons Gallery. His first solo show was in 1948. Soon after his first exhibition, Barnett Newman remarked in one of the Artists' Session at Studio 35: \"We are in the process of making the world, to a certain extent, in our own image\". Utilizing his writing skills, Newman fought every step of the way to reinforce his newly established image as an artist and to promote his work. An example is his letter to Sidney Janis on 9 April 1955: \n\nThe person thought to have had most to do with the promotion of this style was a New York Trotskyist, Clement Greenberg. As long time art critic for the \"Partisan Review\" and \"The Nation\", he became an early and literate proponent of Abstract Expressionism. Artist Robert Motherwell, well-heeled, joined Greenberg in promoting a style that fit the political climate and the intellectual rebelliousness of the era.\n\nClement Greenberg proclaimed Abstract Expressionism and Jackson Pollock in particular as the epitome of aesthetic value. Greenberg supported Pollock's work on formalistic grounds as simply the best painting of its day and the culmination of an art tradition going back via Cubism and Cézanne to Monet, in which painting became ever \"purer\" and more concentrated in what was \"essential\" to it, the making of marks on a flat surface.\n\nJackson Pollock's work has always polarised critics. Harold Rosenberg spoke of the transformation of painting into an existential drama in Pollock's work, in which \"what was to go on the canvas was not a picture but an event\". \"The big moment came when it was decided to paint 'just to paint'. The gesture on the canvas was a gesture of liberation from value—political, aesthetic, moral.\"\n\nOne of the most vocal critics of Abstract Expressionism at the time was \"New York Times\" art critic John Canaday. Meyer Schapiro and Leo Steinberg were also important postwar art historians who voiced support for Abstract Expressionism. During the early to mid sixties younger art critics Michael Fried, Rosalind Krauss and Robert Hughes added considerable insights into the critical dialectic that continues to grow around Abstract Expressionism.\n\nFeminist art criticism emerged in the 1970s from the wider feminist movement as the critical examination of both visual representations of women in art and art produced by women. It continues to be a major field of art criticism.\n\nArt critics today work not only in print media and in specialist art magazines as well as newspapers. Art critics appear also on the internet, TV, and radio, as well as in museums and galleries. Many are also employed in universities or as art educators for museums. Art critics curate exhibitions and are frequently employed to write exhibition catalogues. Art critics have their own organisation, a UNESCO non-governmental organisation, called the International Association of Art Critics which has around 76 national sections and a political non-aligned section for refugees and exiles.\n\nSince the early 21st century, online art critical websites and art blogs have cropped up around the world to add their voices to the art world. Many of these writers use social media resources like Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and Google+ to introduce readers to their opinions about art criticism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21207536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21207536", "title": "Art history", "text": "Art history\n\nArt history is the study of objects of art in their historical development and stylistic contexts; that is genre, design, format, and style. The study includes painting, sculpture, architecture, ceramics, furniture, and other decorative objects. \n\nArt history is the history of different groups of people and their culture represented throughout their artwork. Art historians compare different time periods in art history. Such as a comparison to Medieval Art to Renaissance Art. This history of cultures is shown in their art work in different forms. Art can be shown by attire, architecture, religion, sports. Or more visual pieces of art such as paintings, drawings, sculptures.\n\nAs a term, art history (its product being history of art) encompasses several methods of studying the visual arts; in common usage referring to works of art and architecture. Aspects of the discipline overlap. As the art historian Ernst Gombrich once observed, \"the field of art history [is] much like Caesar's Gaul, divided in three parts inhabited by three different, though not necessarily hostile tribes: (i) the connoisseurs, (ii) the critics, and (iii) the academic art historians\".\n\nAs a discipline, art history is distinguished from art criticism, which is concerned with establishing a relative artistic value upon individual works with respect to others of comparable style, or sanctioning an entire style or movement; and art theory or \"philosophy of art\", which is concerned with the fundamental nature of art. One branch of this area of study is aesthetics, which includes investigating the enigma of the sublime and determining the essence of beauty. Technically, art history is not these things, because the art historian uses historical method to answer the questions: How did the artist come to create the work?, Who were the patrons?, Who were his or her teachers?, Who was the audience?, Who were his or her disciples?, What historical forces shaped the artist's oeuvre, and how did he or she and the creation, in turn, affect the course of artistic, political, and social events? It is, however, questionable whether many questions of this kind can be answered satisfactorily without also considering basic questions about the nature of art. The current disciplinary gap between art history and the philosophy of art (aesthetics) often hinders this inquiry.\n\nArt history is not only a biographical endeavor. Art historians often root their studies in the scrutiny of individual objects. They thus attempt to answer in historically specific ways, questions such as: What are key features of this style?, What meaning did this object convey?, How does it function visually?, Did the artist meet their goals well?, What symbols are involved?, and Does it function discursively?\n\nThe historical backbone of the discipline is a celebratory chronology of beautiful creations commissioned by public or religious bodies or wealthy individuals in western Europe. Such a \"canon\" remains prominent, as indicated by the selection of objects present in art history textbooks. Nonetheless, since the 20th century there has been an effort to re-define the discipline to be more inclusive of non-Western art, art made by women, and vernacular creativity.\n\nArt history as we know it in the 21st century began in the 19th century but has precedents that date to the ancient world. Like the analysis of historical trends in politics, literature, and the sciences, the discipline benefits from the clarity and portability of the written word, but art historians also rely on formal analysis, semiotics, psychoanalysis and iconography. Advances in photographic reproduction and printing techniques after World War II increased the ability of reproductions of artworks. Such technologies have helped to advance the discipline in profound ways, as they have enabled easy comparisons of objects. The study of visual art thus described, can be a practice that involves understanding context, form, and social significance.\n\nArt historians employ a number of methods in their research into the ontology and history of objects.\n\nArt historians often examine work in the context of its time. At best, this is done in a manner which respects its creator's motivations and imperatives; with consideration of the desires and prejudices of its patrons and sponsors; with a comparative analysis of themes and approaches of the creator's colleagues and teachers; and with consideration of iconography and symbolism. In short, this approach examines the work of art in the context of the world within which it was created.\n\nArt historians also often examine work through an analysis of form; that is, the creator's use of line, shape, color, texture, and composition. This approach examines how the artist uses a two-dimensional picture plane or the three dimensions of sculptural or architectural space to create his or her art. The way these individual elements are employed results in representational or non-representational art. Is the artist imitating an object or image found in nature? If so, it is representational. The closer the art hews to perfect imitation, the more the art is \"realistic\". Is the artist not imitating, but instead relying on symbolism, or in an important way striving to capture nature's essence, rather than copy it directly? If so the art is non-representational—also called abstract. Realism and abstraction exist on a continuum. Impressionism is an example of a representational style that was not directly imitative, but strove to create an \"impression\" of nature. If the work is not representational and is an expression of the artist's feelings, longings and aspirations, or is a search for ideals of beauty and form, the work is non-representational or a work of expressionism.\n\nAn iconographical analysis is one which focuses on particular design elements of an object. Through a close reading of such elements, it is possible to trace their lineage, and with it draw conclusions regarding the origins and trajectory of these motifs. In turn, it is possible to make any number of observations regarding the social, cultural, economic, and aesthetic values of those responsible for producing the object.\n\nMany art historians use critical theory to frame their inquiries into objects. Theory is most often used when dealing with more recent objects, those from the late 19th century onward. Critical theory in art history is often borrowed from literary scholars, and it involves the application of a non-artistic analytical framework to the study of art objects. Feminist, Marxist, critical race, queer, and postcolonial theories are all well established in the discipline. As in literary studies, there is an interest among scholars in nature and the environment, but the direction that this will take in the discipline has yet to be determined.\n\nMore recently, media and digital technology introduced possibilities of visual, spatial and experiential analyses. The relevant forms vary from movies, to interactive forms, including virtual environments, augmented environments, situated media, networked media, etc. The methods enabled by such techniques are in active development and promise to include qualitative approaches that can emphasize narrative, dramatic, emotional and ludic characteristics of history and art.\n\nThe earliest surviving writing on art that can be classified as art history are the passages in Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" (c. AD 77-79), concerning the development of Greek sculpture and painting. From them it is possible to trace the ideas of Xenokrates of Sicyon (c. 280 BC), a Greek sculptor who was perhaps the first art historian. Pliny's work, while mainly an encyclopaedia of the sciences, has thus been influential from the Renaissance onwards. (Passages about techniques used by the painter Apelles c. (332-329 BC), have been especially well-known.) Similar, though independent, developments occurred in the 6th century China, where a canon of worthy artists was established by writers in the scholar-official class. These writers, being necessarily proficient in calligraphy, were artists themselves. The artists are described in the \"Six Principles of Painting\" formulated by Xie He.\n\nWhile personal reminiscences of art and artists have long been written and read (see Lorenzo Ghiberti \"Commentarii,\" for the best early example), it was Giorgio Vasari, the Tuscan painter, sculptor and author of the \"Lives of the Painters\", who wrote the first true \"history\" of art. He emphasized art's progression and development, which was a milestone in this field. His was a personal and a historical account, featuring biographies of individual Italian artists, many of whom were his contemporaries and personal acquaintances. The most renowned of these was Michelangelo, and Vasari's account is enlightening, though biased in places.\n\nVasari's ideas about art were enormously influential, and served as a model for many, including in the north of Europe Karel van Mander's \"Schilder-boeck\" and Joachim von Sandrart's \"Teutsche Akademie\". Vasari's approach held sway until the 18th century, when criticism was leveled at his biographical account of history.\n\nScholars such as Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717–1768), criticised Vasari's \"cult\" of artistic personality, and they argued that the real emphasis in the study of art should be the views of the learned beholder and not the unique viewpoint of the charismatic artist. Winckelmann's writings thus were the beginnings of art criticism. His two most notable works that introduced the concept of art criticism were \"Gedanken über die Nachahmung der griechischen Werke in der Malerei und Bildhauerkunst\", published in 1755, shortly before he left for Rome (Fuseli published an English translation in 1765 under the title \"Reflections on the Painting and Sculpture of the Greeks\"), and \"Geschichte der Kunst des Altertums\" (\"History of Art in Antiquity\"), published in 1764 (this is the first occurrence of the phrase ‘history of art’ in the title of a book)\". Winckelmann critiqued the artistic excesses of Baroque and Rococo forms, and was instrumental in reforming taste in favor of the more sober Neoclassicism. Jacob Burckhardt (1818–1897), one of the founders of art history, noted that Winckelmann was 'the first to distinguish between the periods of ancient art and to link the history of style with world history'. From Winckelmann until the mid-20th century, the field of art history was dominated by German-speaking academics. Winckelmann's work thus marked the entry of art history into the high-philosophical discourse of German culture.\n\nWinckelmann was read avidly by Johann Wolfgang Goethe and Friedrich Schiller, both of whom began to write on the history of art, and his account of the Laocoon occasioned a response by Lessing. The emergence of art as a major subject of philosophical speculation was solidified by the appearance of Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Judgment\" in 1790, and was furthered by Hegel's \"Lectures on Aesthetics\". Hegel's philosophy served as the direct inspiration for Karl Schnaase's work. Schnaase's \"Niederländische Briefe\" established the theoretical foundations for art history as an autonomous discipline, and his \"Geschichte der bildenden Künste\", one of the first historical surveys of the history of art from antiquity to the Renaissance, facilitated the teaching of art history in German-speaking universities. Schnaase's survey was published contemporaneously with a similar work by Franz Theodor Kugler.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945), who studied under Burckhardt in Basel, is the \"father\" of modern art history. Wölfflin taught at the universities of Berlin, Basel, Munich, and Zurich. A number of students went on to distinguished careers in art history, including Jakob Rosenberg and Frida Schottmuller. He introduced a scientific approach to the history of art, focusing on three concepts. Firstly, he attempted to study art using psychology, particularly by applying the work of Wilhelm Wundt. He argued, among other things, that art and architecture are good if they resemble the human body. For example, houses were good if their façades looked like faces. Secondly, he introduced the idea of studying art through comparison. By comparing individual paintings to each other, he was able to make distinctions of style. His book \"Renaissance and Baroque\" developed this idea, and was the first to show how these stylistic periods differed from one another. In contrast to Giorgio Vasari, Wölfflin was uninterested in the biographies of artists. In fact he proposed the creation of an \"art history without names.\" Finally, he studied art based on ideas of nationhood. He was particularly interested in whether there was an inherently \"Italian\" and an inherently \"German\" style. This last interest was most fully articulated in his monograph on the German artist Albrecht Dürer.\n\nContemporaneous with Wölfflin's career, a major school of art-historical thought developed at the University of Vienna. The first generation of the Vienna School was dominated by Alois Riegl and Franz Wickhoff, both students of Moritz Thausing, and was characterized by a tendency to reassess neglected or disparaged periods in the history of art. Riegl and Wickhoff both wrote extensively on the art of late antiquity, which before them had been considered as a period of decline from the classical ideal. Riegl also contributed to the revaluation of the Baroque.\n\nThe next generation of professors at Vienna included Max Dvořák, Julius von Schlosser, Hans Tietze, Karl Maria Swoboda, and Josef Strzygowski. A number of the most important twentieth-century art historians, including Ernst Gombrich, received their degrees at Vienna at this time. The term \"Second Vienna School\" (or \"New Vienna School\") usually refers to the following generation of Viennese scholars, including Hans Sedlmayr, Otto Pächt, and Guido Kaschnitz von Weinberg. These scholars began in the 1930s to return to the work of the first generation, particularly to Riegl and his concept of \"Kunstwollen\", and attempted to develop it into a full-blown art-historical methodology. Sedlmayr, in particular, rejected the minute study of iconography, patronage, and other approaches grounded in historical context, preferring instead to concentrate on the aesthetic qualities of a work of art. As a result, the Second Vienna School gained a reputation for unrestrained and irresponsible formalism, and was furthermore colored by Sedlmayr's overt racism and membership in the Nazi party. This latter tendency was, however, by no means shared by all members of the school; Pächt, for example, was himself Jewish, and was forced to leave Vienna in the 1930s.\n\nOur 21st-century understanding of the symbolic content of art comes from a group of scholars who gathered in Hamburg in the 1920s. The most prominent among them were Erwin Panofsky, Aby Warburg, and Fritz Saxl. Together they developed much of the vocabulary that continues to be used in the 21st century by art historians. \"Iconography\"—with roots meaning \"symbols from writing\" refers to subject matter of art derived from written sources—especially scripture and mythology. \"Iconology\" is a broader term that referred to all symbolism, whether derived from a specific text or not. Today art historians sometimes use these terms interchangeably.\n\nPanofsky, in his early work, also developed the theories of Riegl, but became eventually more preoccupied with iconography, and in particular with the transmission of themes related to classical antiquity in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. In this respect his interests coincided with those of Warburg, the son of a wealthy family who had assembled an impressive library in Hamburg devoted to the study of the classical tradition in later art and culture. Under Saxl's auspices, this library was developed into a research institute, affiliated with the University of Hamburg, where Panofsky taught.\n\nWarburg died in 1929, and in the 1930s Saxl and Panofsky, both Jewish, were forced to leave Hamburg. Saxl settled in London, bringing Warburg's library with him and establishing the Warburg Institute. Panofsky settled in Princeton at the Institute for Advanced Study. In this respect they were part of an extraordinary influx of German art historians into the English-speaking academy in the 1930s. These scholars were largely responsible for establishing art history as a legitimate field of study in the English-speaking world, and the influence of Panofsky's methodology, in particular, determined the course of American art history for a generation.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin was not the only scholar to invoke psychological theories in the study of art. Psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud wrote a book on the artist Leonardo da Vinci, in which he used Leonardo's paintings to interrogate the artist's psyche and sexual orientation. Freud inferred from his analysis that Leonardo was probably homosexual.\n\nThough the use of posthumous material to perform psychoanalysis is controversial among art historians, especially since the sexual mores of Leonardo's time and Freud's are different, it is often attempted. One of the best-known psychoanalytic scholars is Laurie Schneider Adams, who wrote a popular textbook, \"Art Across Time\", and a book \"Art and Psychoanalysis\".\n\nAn unsuspecting turn for the history of art criticism came in 1914 when Sigmund Freud published a psychoanalytical interpretation of Michelangelo’s Moses titled Der Moses des Michelangelo as one of the first psychology based analyses on a work of art. Freud first published this work shortly after reading Vasari’s \"Lives\". For unknown purposes, Freud originally published the article anonymously.\n\nCarl Jung also applied psychoanalytic theory to art. C.G. Jung was a Swiss psychiatrist, an influential thinker, and founder of analytical psychology. Jung's approach to psychology emphasized understanding the psyche through exploring the worlds of dreams, art, mythology, world religion and philosophy. Much of his life's work was spent exploring Eastern and Western philosophy, alchemy, astrology, sociology, as well as literature and the arts. His most notable contributions include his concept of the psychological archetype, the collective unconscious, and his theory of synchronicity. Jung believed that many experiences perceived as coincidence were not merely due to chance but, instead, suggested the manifestation of parallel events or circumstances reflecting this governing dynamic. He argued that a collective unconscious and archetypal imagery were detectable in art. His ideas were particularly popular among American Abstract expressionists in the 1940s and 1950s. His work inspired the surrealist concept of drawing imagery from dreams and the unconscious.\n\nJung emphasized the importance of balance and harmony. He cautioned that modern humans rely too heavily on science and logic and would benefit from integrating spirituality and appreciation of the unconscious realm. His work not only triggered analytical work by art historians, but it became an integral part of art-making. Jackson Pollock, for example, famously created a series of drawings to accompany his psychoanalytic sessions with his Jungian psychoanalyst, Dr. Joseph Henderson. Henderson who later published the drawings in a text devoted to Pollock's sessions realized how powerful the drawings were as a therapeutic tool.\n\nThe legacy of psychoanalysis in art history has been profound, and extends beyond Freud and Jung. The prominent feminist art historian Griselda Pollock, for example, draws upon psychoanalysis both in her reading into contemporary art and in her rereading of modernist art. With Griselda Pollock's reading of French feminist psychoanalysis and in particular the writings of Julia Kristeva and Bracha L. Ettinger, as with Rosalind Krauss readings of Jacques Lacan and Jean-François Lyotard and Catherine de Zegher's curatorial rereading of art, Feminist theory written in the fields of French feminism and Psychoanalysis has strongly informed the reframing of both men and women artists in art history.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, art historians embraced social history by using critical approaches. The goal was to show how art interacts with power structures in society. One critical approach that art historians used was Marxism. Marxist art history attempted to show how art was tied to specific classes, how images contain information about the economy, and how images can make the status quo seem natural (ideology).\n\nMarcel Duchamp and Dada Movement jump started the Anti-art style. Various artist did not want to create artwork that everyone was conforming to at the time. These two movements helped other artist to create pieces that were not viewed as traditional art. Some examples of styles that branched off the anti-art movement would be Neo-Dadaism, Surrealism, and Constructivism. These styles and artist did not want to surrender to traditional ways of art. This way of thinking provoked political movements such as the Russian Revolution and the communist ideals.\n\nArtist Isaak Brodsky work of art 'Shock-worker from Dneprstroi' in 1932 shows his political involvement within art. This piece of art can be analysed to show the internal troubles Soviet Russia was experiencing at the time.\nPerhaps the best-known Marxist was Clement Greenberg, who came to prominence during the late 1930s with his essay \"Avant-Garde and Kitsch\". In the essay Greenberg claimed that the avant-garde arose in order to defend aesthetic standards from the decline of taste involved in consumer society, and seeing kitsch and art as opposites. Greenberg further claimed that avant-garde and Modernist art was a means to resist the leveling of culture produced by capitalist propaganda. Greenberg appropriated the German word 'kitsch' to describe this consumerism, although its connotations have since changed to a more affirmative notion of leftover materials of capitalist culture. Greenberg later became well known for examining the formal properties of modern art.\n\nMeyer Schapiro is one of the best-remembered Marxist art historians of the mid-20th century. Although he wrote about numerous time periods and themes in art, he is best remembered for his commentary on sculpture from the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance, at which time he saw evidence of capitalism emerging and feudalism declining.\n\nArnold Hauser wrote the first Marxist survey of Western Art, entitled \"The Social History of Art\". He attempted to show how class consciousness was reflected in major art periods. The book was controversial when published during the 1950s since it makes generalizations about entire eras, a strategy now called \"vulgar Marxism\".\n\nMarxist Art History was refined in the department of Art History at UCLA with scholars such as T.J. Clark, O.K. Werckmeister, David Kunzle, Theodor W. Adorno, and Max Horkheimer. T.J. Clark was the first art historian writing from a Marxist perspective to abandon vulgar Marxism. He wrote Marxist art histories of several impressionist and realist artists, including Gustave Courbet and Édouard Manet. These books focused closely on the political and economic climates in which the art was created.\n\nLinda Nochlin's essay \"Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?\" helped to ignite feminist art history during the 1970s and remains one of the most widely read essays about female artists. This was then followed by a 1972 College Art Association Panel, chaired by Nochlin, entitled \"Eroticism and the Image of Woman in Nineteenth-Century Art\". Within a decade, scores of papers, articles, and essays sustained a growing momentum, fueled by the Second-wave feminist movement, of critical discourse surrounding women's interactions with the arts as both artists and subjects. In her pioneering essay, Nochlin applies a feminist critical framework to show systematic exclusion of women from art training, arguing that exclusion from practicing art as well as the canonical history of art was the consequence of cultural conditions which curtailed and restricted women from art producing fields. The few who did succeed were treated as anomalies and did not provide a model for subsequent success. Griselda Pollock is another prominent feminist art historian, whose use of psychoanalytic theory is described above.\n\nWhile feminist art history can focus on any time period and location, much attention has been given to the Modern era. Some of this scholarship centers on the feminist art movement, which referred specifically to the experience of women. Often, feminist art history offers a critical \"re-reading\" of the Western art canon, such as Carol Duncan's re-interpretation of Les Demoiselles d'Avignon. Two pioneers of the field are Mary Garrard and Norma Broude. Their anthologies \"Feminism and Art History: Questioning the Litany\", \"The Expanding Discourse: Feminism and Art History\", and \"Reclaiming Feminist Agency: Feminist Art History After Postmodernism\" are substantial efforts to bring feminist perspectives into the discourse of art history. The pair also co-founded the Feminist Art History Conference.\n\nAs opposed to iconography which seeks to identify meaning, semiotics is concerned with how meaning is created. Roland Barthes’s connoted and denoted meanings are paramount to this examination. In any particular work of art, an interpretation depends on the identification of denoted meaning—the recognition of a visual sign, and the connoted meaning—the instant cultural associations that come with recognition. The main concern of the semiotic art historian is to come up with ways to navigate and interpret connoted meaning.\n\nSemiotic art history seeks to uncover the codified meaning or meanings in an aesthetic object by examining its connectedness to a collective consciousness. Art historians do not commonly commit to any one particular brand of semiotics but rather construct an amalgamated version which they incorporate into their collection of analytical tools. For example, Meyer Schapiro borrowed Saussure’s differential meaning in effort to read signs as they exist within a system. According to Schapiro, to understand the meaning of frontality in a specific pictorial context, it must be differentiated from, or viewed in relation to, alternate possibilities such as a profile, or a three-quarter view. Schapiro combined this method with the work of Charles Sanders Peirce whose object, sign, and interpretant provided a structure for his approach. Alex Potts demonstrates the application of Peirce’s concepts to visual representation by examining them in relation to the \"Mona Lisa\". By seeing the \"Mona Lisa\", for example, as something beyond its materiality is to identify it as a sign. It is then recognized as referring to an object outside of itself, a woman, or \"Mona Lisa\". The image does not seem to denote religious meaning and can therefore be assumed to be a portrait. This interpretation leads to a chain of possible interpretations: who was the sitter in relation to Leonardo da Vinci? What significance did she have to him? Or, maybe she is an icon for all of womankind. This chain of interpretation, or “unlimited semiosis” is endless; the art historian’s job is to place boundaries on possible interpretations as much as it is to reveal new possibilities.\n\nSemiotics operates under the theory that an image can only be understood from the viewer’s perspective. The artist is supplanted by the viewer as the purveyor of meaning, even to the extent that an interpretation is still valid regardless of whether the creator had intended it. Rosalind Krauss espoused this concept in her essay “In the Name of Picasso.” She denounced the artist’s monopoly on meaning and insisted that meaning can only be derived after the work has been removed from its historical and social context. Mieke Bal argued similarly that meaning does not even exist until the image is observed by the viewer. It is only after acknowledging this that meaning can become opened up to other possibilities such as feminism or psychoanalysis.\n\nAspects of the subject which have come to the fore in recent decades include interest in the patronage and consumption of art, including the economics of the art market, the role of collectors, the intentions and aspirations of those commissioning works, and the reactions of contemporary and later viewers and owners. Museum studies, including the history of museum collecting and display, is now a specialized field of study, as is the history of collecting.\n\nScientific advances have made possible much more accurate investigation of the materials and techniques used to create works, especially infra-red and x-ray photographic techniques which have allowed many underdrawings of paintings to be seen again. Proper analysis of pigments used in paint is now possible, which has upset many attributions. Dendrochronology for panel paintings and radio-carbon dating for old objects in organic materials have allowed scientific methods of dating objects to confirm or upset dates derived from stylistic analysis or documentary evidence. The development of good colour photography, now held digitally and available on the internet or by other means, has transformed the study of many types of art, especially those covering objects existing in large numbers which are widely dispersed among collections, such as illuminated manuscripts and Persian miniatures, and many types of archaeological artworks.\n\nConcurrent to those technological advances, art historians have shown increasing interest in new theoretical approaches to the nature of artworks as objects. Thing theory, actor–network theory, and object-oriented ontology have played an increasing role in art historical literature.\n\nThe making of art, the academic history of art, and the history of art museums are closely intertwined with the rise of nationalism. Art created in the modern era, in fact, has often been an attempt to generate feelings of national superiority or love of one’s country. Russian art is an especially good example of this, as the Russian avant-garde and later Soviet art were attempts to define that country’s identity.\n\nMost art historians working today identify their specialty as the art of a particular culture and time period, and often such cultures are also nations. For example, someone might specialize in the 19th-century German or contemporary Chinese art history. A focus on nationhood has deep roots in the discipline. Indeed, Vasari's Lives of the Artists is an attempt to show the superiority of Florentine artistic culture, and Heinrich Wölfflin's writings (especially his monograph on Albrecht Dürer) attempt to distinguish Italian from German styles of art.\n\nMany of the largest and most well-funded art museums of the world, such as the Louvre, the Victoria and Albert Museum, and the National Gallery of Art in Washington are state-owned. Most countries, indeed, have a national gallery, with an explicit mission of preserving the cultural patrimony owned by the government—regardless of what cultures created the art—and an often implicit mission to bolster that country’s own cultural heritage. The National Gallery of Art thus showcases art made in the United States, but also owns objects from across the world.\n\nThe field of Art History is traditionally divided into specializations or concentrations based on eras and regions, with further sub-division based on media. Thus, someone might specialize in \"19th-century German architecture\" or in \"16th-century Tuscan sculpture.\" Sub-fields are often included under a specialization. For example, the Ancient Near East, Greece, Rome, and Egypt are all typically considered special concentrations of Ancient art. In some cases, these specializations may be closely allied (as Greece and Rome, for example), while in others such alliances are far less natural (Indian art versus Korean art, for example).\n\nNon-Western art is a relative newcomer to the Art Historical canon. Recent revisions of the semantic division between art and artifact have recast objects created in non-Western cultures in more aesthetic terms. Relative to those studying Ancient Rome or the Italian Renaissance, scholars specializing in Africa, the Ancient Americas and Asia are a growing minority.\n\n\"Contemporary art history\" refers to research into the period from the 1960s until today reflecting the break from the assumptions of modernism brought by artists of the neo-avant-garde and a continuity in contemporary art in terms of practice based on conceptualist and post-conceptualist practices.\n\nIn the United States, the most important art history organization is the College Art Association. It organizes an annual conference and publishes the \"Art Bulletin\" and \"Art Journal\". Similar organizations exist in other parts of the world, as well as for specializations, such as architectural history and Renaissance art history. In the UK, for example, the Association of Art Historians is the premiere organization, and it publishes a journal titled \"Art History\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3033580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033580", "title": "Arts District, Oklahoma City", "text": "Arts District, Oklahoma City\n\nThe Arts District is an area containing many of Oklahoma City's best attractions and venues. Many of the buildings in the district are known for urban art deco architecture and charm.\n\nLocated at the near western portion of downtown OKC just outside the skyscrapers of the Central Business District, the Arts District includes World Class attractions such as the Myriad Gardens, the Civic Center Music Hall, Stage Centre for the Performing Arts, the Ronald J. Norick Downtown Library, the Oklahoma City Municipal Building, the Oklahoma City Museum of Art, and the Oklahoma City National Memorial.\n\nThe district is currently experiencing a building boom (along with the rest of downtown), as announcements for new housing and retail projects frequent the Oklahoma City media circles.\n\nDue west of the Arts District is the Film Exchange District and WesTown, soon to experience a boom of their own as the renaissance of downtown Oklahoma City continues to move west.\n"}
{"id": "2209985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209985", "title": "Arts and Humanities Citation Index", "text": "Arts and Humanities Citation Index\n\nThe Arts & Humanities Citation Index (A&HCI), also known as Arts & Humanities Search, is a citation index, with abstracting and indexing for more than 1,700 arts and humanities journals, and coverage of disciplines that includes social and natural science journals. Part of this database is derived from Current Contents records. Furthermore, the print counterpart is Current Contents.\n\nSubjects covered are the Arts, Humanities, Language (including Linguistics), Poetry, Music, Classical works, History, Oriental Studies, Philosophy, Archaeology, Architecture, Religion, Television, Theater, and Radio.\n\nAvailable citation (source) coverage includes articles, letters, editorials, meeting abstracts, errata, poems, short stories, plays, music scores, excerpts from books, chronologies, bibliographies and filmographies, as well as citations to reviews of books, films, music, and theatrical performances.\n\nThis database can be accessed online through \"Web of Science\". It provides access to current and retrospective bibliographic information and cited references. It also covers individually selected, relevant items from approximately 1,200 titles, mostly arts and humanities journals but with an unspecified number of titles from other disciplines.\n\nAccording to Thomson Reuters, the \"Arts & Humanities Search\", can be accessed via Dialog, DataStar, and OCLC, with weekly updates and backfiles to 1980.\n\nThe index was originally developed by the Institute for Scientific Information, which was later acquired by Thomson Scientific. It is now published by Thomson Reuters' IP & Science division.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3322157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3322157", "title": "Blason populaire", "text": "Blason populaire\n\nBlason populaire is an umbrella genre in the field of folkloristics used to designate any item of any genre which makes use of stereotypes, usually, but not always, negative stereotypes, of a particular group.\"These stereotypes are manifested in a wide array of folkloric genres, including proverbs, other traditional sayings, nicknames, jokes, songs, rhymes, and football chants. All share a common function in that they are invoked to highlight positive aspects of the in-group by explicit auto-stereotyping or, alternatively, to identify the negative characteristics of out-groups. The explicit positive stereotyping of an in-group may often implicitly suggest negative characteristics of a rival out-group.\"\nIn \"blasons populaires\" nations are homogeneous and have national characteristics.\n\nItems such as ethnic jokes or blonde jokes are very common examples of blason populaire.\n\nThe Irish proverbial material is almost devoid of any national blasons populaires, with the possible exception of the multi-group international comparison. These comparisons are often manifested in epigrammatic form in European languages, with the most salient and representative stereotypical trait being attributed to the nations involved (what Billig (1995) refers to as ‘banal nationalism’). Enumerative structures, usually tri- or quadripartite formulas, are the favoured apparatus. The syntactic and semantic juxtaposition of negative traits for comparative purposes is then counter-balanced by the positive representation of one nation, usually in final position, most commonly the in-group that invokes the comparison. Below is a nineteenth-century German example (Reinsberg-Düringsfeld 1863, 5) in which there is no apparent in-group.\n\nIn Wallonia (Belgium) and Luxembourg, the concept of \"blason populaire\" refers to a demonym-like nickname of the inhabitants of a village or a city.\n\n\"Blasons populaire\" come from the traditional languages (Walloon, Luxembourgish). They are never translated in French, as opposed to the demonyms which exist in French and in Walloon, often in two different constructions.\n\nSome, which have lost their pejorative meaning, are now used to name restaurants, theater groups, communal houses, etc. They are also used in pseudonyms of writers in Walloon.\n\nThe inhabitants of all villages or cities in these regions have a \"blason populaire\" (in Picard language: \"surpitchet\").\n\nFor example, for the town of Amiens the blason is \"chés Maqueus d'gueugues d'Anmien\" ('the Eaters of Walnuts of Amiens'). In 1597, Spanish soldiers mounted a surprise attack. They were disguised as peasants and put walnuts at the doors of the town. The inhabitants were famished and opened the doors, following which the Spanish soldiers entered the city; with deadly consequences for the inhabitants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7357791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7357791", "title": "Body Pressure", "text": "Body Pressure\n\nBody Pressure is a 1974 performance piece by American artist Bruce Nauman. The performer is instructed to press their body against a wall in various positions; Nauman says that it \"may become a very erotic exercise\".\n\nThe piece was re-interpreted and performed by Marina Abramović as part of her \"Seven Easy Pieces\" in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "1681971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681971", "title": "Camaïeu", "text": "Camaïeu\n\nCamaïeu (also called \"en camaïeu\") is a technique that employs two or three tints of a single color, other than gray, to create a monochromatic image without regard to local or realistic color. When a picture is monochromatically rendered in gray, it is called grisaille; when in yellow, cirage.\n\nThe term is also applied to monochrome painting in enamels. This technique uses a buildup of white enamel to create highlights and light areas. However, instead of using a black background, as in grisaille, transparent enamel is laid in first, beneath the whites. This technique is frequently used on snuffboxes, watches and medallions.\n\n\"\" can also refer, following the French usage, to chiaroscuro woodcut prints that imitate highlighted drawing on tinted paper. However, the correct term in English for these is \"chiaroscuro woodcuts\".\n\nThis French word once was synonymous with \"cameo\", but its meaning became restricted in the early eighteenth century.\n\nCamaïeu is also a registered trademark of a manufacturer.\n\n"}
{"id": "25009393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25009393", "title": "Cangiante", "text": "Cangiante\n\nAccording to the theory of the art historian Marcia B. Hall, which has gained considerable acceptance, cangiante is one of four modes of painting colours available to Italian High Renaissance painters, along with sfumato, chiaroscuro and \"unione\". The word itself derives from the Italian \"cangiare\" (\"to change\").\n\n\"Cangiante\" is characterized by a change in color necessitated by an original color's darkness or lightness limitation. For example, when painting shadows on a yellow object, the artist may use a red color simply because the yellow paint cannot be made dark enough. There are other methods of rendering shadows or highlights (for example, mixing the original hue with black or brown), but these can render the shadow color dull and impure. During the Renaissance, the variety and availability of paint colors were severely limited.\n\nThe greatest practitioner of the \"cangiante\" technique was Michelangelo, especially in many parts of the Sistine Chapel ceiling. For example, in the image of the prophet Daniel, a transition from green to yellow is evident in the subject's robes. After Michelangelo's time, the technique found widespread acceptance and is now a standard painting technique.\n\n"}
{"id": "26989188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26989188", "title": "Carbon dust", "text": "Carbon dust\n\nCarbon dust is an artistic technique in which carbon dust is applied to a prepared surface via dry brushes. Highlights may be painted on or scratched out later in the process. Dust is prepared by rubbing carbon pencils against an abrasive surface, such as a metal file. The technique was popularized by Max Brödel (1870-1941) and became widely used among medical and in the twentieth century.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "6804939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6804939", "title": "Cathedral Quarter, Belfast", "text": "Cathedral Quarter, Belfast\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter in Belfast, Northern Ireland, is a developing area of the city, roughly situated between Royal Avenue near where the Belfast Central Library building is, and the Dunbar Link in the city centre. From one of its corners, the junction of Royal Avenue, Donegall Street and York Street, the Cathedral Quarter lies south and east. Part of the area, centred on Talbot Street behind the cathedral, was formerly called the Half Bap. The \"Little Italy\" area,was on the opposite side of Great Patrick Street centred on Little Patrick Street and Nelson Street \n\nThe Cathedral Quarter extends out to the edge of what can be referred as the old merchant quarter of the city. Past where the merchant area meets the Cathedral Quarter is still mostly merchant trade and services orientated and undeveloped for visitor services.\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter is so called because St Anne's Cathedral lies at its heart. St. Anne's or Belfast Cathedral is a Church of Ireland cathedral.\n\nTraditionally, the Cathedral Quarter was the centre of Belfast's trade and warehousing district, which sprung up directly from the prosperous linen and shipbuilding industries. The quarter still retains some of Belfast's oldest buildings and thoroughfares, including Waring Street and Hill Street.\n\nThe area fell into decline in the last century, but more recently it has re-emerged as a dedicated 'cultural quarter' of Belfast. Areas such as North Street are still in a state of dilapidation, but are likely to be redeveloped along with the rest of the quarter.\n\nThe definition of the area as a cultural quarter mostly came about because of the recent significant growth in arts- and culture-based organisations that are located there. As is the case with London's Covent Garden and Dublin's Temple Bar in the years before they became as renowned as they are, low rent and a central city location attracted to the area a wide variety of tenants. Some examples include Northern Visions TV (a.k.a. Belfast Community Television), The Safehouse Arts Gallery (and its parent organisation Community Visual Images), Belfast Print Workshop and Belfast's small Zen Meditation community, which has its headquarters at Black Mountain Zen Centre (a.k.a. Belfast Meditation Centre) in rooms in Cathedral Buildings, opposite St. Anne's. Dilapidated infrastructure, however, prevented any sort of mass repopulation of the area until recently. Development and repopulation may further have been hindered from a time since the North Street Arcade, a listed building from the 1930s in the traditional Art Deco style, burned down in what many people believe were suspicious circumstances in 2004.\n\nA rich literary heritage is evident in the area. \"The Northern Whig\" was a popular satirical newspaper in the 19th century (very much in the same vein as \"Punch\"), with its headquarters on the corner of Waring Street and Bridge Street, opposite the Assembly Rooms. Today, \"The Northern Whig\" building is a pub and restaurant, but the tradition of satirical writing still has a home in Cathedral Quarter through \"The Vacuum\", which has its offices in the area. Cathedral Quarter is very close to both the Belfast Central Library building and the headquarters of local newspaper publication the \"Belfast Telegraph\". (Central Library photo link.) The \"Sunday World\" has its Belfast offices in Commercial Court in the Cathedral Quarter. Another newspaper, the \"Belfast News Letter\", formerly had its headquarters on Donegall Street. \"The Irish News\", another well-known newspaper, still has its head office on Donegall Street.\n\nAs if to connect with this literary flavour, a popular pub in the area is named after Belfast poet John Hewitt. The John Hewitt houses noteworthy and interesting artwork and photographs in changing exhibitions, sometimes of political subjects, often with the art being for sale. As well there is a particular small-but-significant political display installation, and some cuttings about the poet John Hewitt.\n\nBelfast's Custom House, situated on the very edge of Cathedral Quarter by the city's central Laganside bank, was a popular site for public speakers during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. In those times, in the vein of London's Speakers' Corner, the city's citizens often participated in the art of lively and spontaneous debate on any given subject. Today, in the site's reincarnation as Custom House Square, activities can be widely varied, from more pedestrian and family-orientated performances and activities to large-scale music concerts, D.J. performances and circus-style performance events for both adults and children. In autumn 2008, a showcase style afternoon with a succession of performers of roots, modern folk and country music from all over the world was hosted in tents. This is a characteristic type of occasion in Custom House Square which happens quite a number of times each year. This occasion was the closing day of the internationally highly acclaimed annual Open House Festival of the city. The festival takes place in many venues, including others within Cathedral Quarter, and its presence within marquees in Custom House Square in 2008 included an international festival of chilli peppers and chilli dishes.\n\nThe annual Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival in late Spring is one of the larger of the city's many cultural festivals. This festival has become internationally recognised and attracts a good number of international performers. Though the CQAF is a notably smaller affair than the Belfast Festival at Queen's which has been known at times as the second largest international European arts Festival (second in size to the Edinburgh Festival). An offshoot of this festival which is organised by the same Cathedral Quarter festival company is a smaller annual cultural festival, which however has a duration of most of the month: The Out to Lunch Arts Festival happens in The Cathedral Quarter in January.\n\nAlso central to the area is the Belfast campus of the University of Ulster, incorporating the Art College. Nearby North Street is home to many of Belfast's most notorious bars and venues, particularly renowned during the punk movement of the 1970s. These include The Front Page and Giro's (closed 2004). Derry rockers The Undertones were regular visitors to the University of Ulster's student union building, the Conor Hall, as well as The Assembly Rooms (a building which currently houses a Central Belfast gallery of The Emer Gallery, and has been known as The Northern Bank theatre). Local punk producer Terri Hooley ran a record store called Cathedral Records in the North Street Arcade before 2004's fire.\n\nOther arts organisations active in the area include:\n\nThe area hosts a good number of various kinds of artists' spaces, though these are generally not open to the public. There are meetings in and around the area of various cultural and community organisations which members of the public can attend; for example the Belfast Humanist Group meet a couple of times a month at the Community Arts Forum opposite the cathedral.\n\nThe cathedral itself remains a venue for cultural events, including evening and sometimes lunchtime music concerts. Concerts can be given by the musical performers associated with the cathedral and, more often, by independent musicians. The services of the cathedral frequently include sung services by the cathedral choir, and organ playing by the cathedral organist or sometimes a visiting organist. Evensong is also sung here. The Sunday sung service is at 11 am. There is also a youth choir of the cathedral which performs, of persons in their late teens and early twenties who are thought to be of a high standard of music making. Their aim is to perform and produce marketed recordings and radio recordings. Persons of any religion or none are welcome to attend services, musical or otherwise. Concerts given by independent musicians are given in a lovely venue and are not connected with the spiritual affairs of the Church of Ireland cathedral.\n\nThe Northern Ireland War Memorial is a quite recently established commemorative museum and exhibition space in Talbot Street (along one side of the cathedral). Prince Michael of Kent was Guest of Honour at a commemorative service in re-dedication of the War Memorial on November 4, 2008.\n\nOn the corner of Donegall Street and Waring Street, a former bank building had become known as the Northern Bank Theatre, having housed irregular dramatic performances, mostly limited to festival times. This fine city building had been known in a former incarnation as the Exchange and Assembly Rooms. In 2008's Cathedral Quarter Arts Festival, a monologue production about the Burmese opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi, \"The Lady of Burma\", was a popular play, it also proving a good use of this building. There has been much comment about the desire for this building to have a cultural use, given its excellent location and spatial quality. A future permanent function of the building is not known publicly.\n\nLate in 2008, the former Northern Bank building has become a city centre location for The Emer Gallery, an established Belfast gallery which is based near the northern edge of Belfast in the Cavehill vicinity. A large retrospective of the work of Armagh artist J. B. Vallely was programmed here until early 2009. This exhibition also demonstrated the suitability of the building as a gallery space. The Emer Gallery is named after a female Irish mythological character.\n\nIn recent years, Belfast based public-private body Laganside Corporation has announced plans to revitalise the area. Their sponsored initiatives have included a 'Managed Workspace' scheme, in which artists are invited to inhabit workshop space owned and refurbished by Laganside. The first such scheme was the refurbishment in 2002 of an old cotton warehouse, named Cotton Court. Other Managed Workspaces are at 23-25 Donegall Street and 9-13 Royal Avenue. It was at this time that Cathedral Quarter was given its name. Such was the popularity of the scheme that many other quarters have subsequently emerged in Belfast, both spontaneously and by design, such as the Gaeltacht Quarter, Titanic Quarter and Queen's Quarter.\n\nThe new-found enthusiasm for the Cathedral Quarter has seen the commitment of a number of private investors, resulting in a number of hotel and bar developments appearing in recent years. Three competing commercial developments are currently in progress in the area. Public investment, mostly on the part of Belfast City Council, has also been apparent. In 2003, the council began a programme of street landscaping that began with laying new paving stones in Hill Street and Talbot Street, and which culminated in the opening in 2004 of Custom House Square, a council-managed public square in front of Belfast's old Custom House building.\n\nThe extent of private development in the Cathedral Quarter has led to criticism from the area's residents as to the intentions of Laganside Corporation in the area. A mixture of public and private developments initiatives has resulted in a general groundswell of support for the area, but critics have noted that Cathedral Quarter suffers from a lack of general leadership and accountability. The majority of the land in the area is owned by private developers, and the area fronting Royal Avenue and Donegall Street, which has been earmarked for a development due to open in 2010, was recently center of a controversy between the planners Dunloe-Ewart and coalition of the residents fronted by the Community Arts Forum. Eventually, the argument had to be mediated by the Northern Ireland Office, though the N.I.O. have no more of a say in the future of the area as any other party.\n\nSome of these problems may be ironed out when Laganside closes its offices in 2009, when it has promised to split responsibility for its development briefs, including Cathedral Quarter, between the Department of Culture, Arts and Leisure for Northern Ireland (D.C.A.L., usually pronounced as 'Dee-Kal') and Belfast City Council. The future of the area in the favour of public ownership over private development is hoped to become clear by a reasonable time after the planned transfer.\n\nDisappointingly, a once touted planned development of \"The Four Corners\" site into a new major arts and entertainment space with cafe and bar provision did not materialise and it seems much of the great potential of such a significant site has not been heeded. Many will have been or are disappointed; the proposed arts development was advertised with illustrations outside the building. This historic Belfast building has been redeveloped as the second hotel in Belfast of the lower mid-price hotel chain, Premier Inn, and includes a large restaurant and bar, as also at Premier Inn, Alfred Street.\n\nIn the meantime, it can be seen that Cathedral Quarter has been developing, neither very quickly nor very slowly, into a quite diverse and in part, and at times, lively area, with an attractive variety of eateries and drinking hostelries. The close vicinity to The Merchant Hotel, extending to include the area from Malmaison Hotel, past McHughs Bar, to Mynt Bar and Club, can be one of the liveliest city districts on a weekend night.\n\nThe Cathedral Quarter is clearly a developing area of the city. While it has considerable good attractions presently, it is also true that its designation as a cultural quarter may easily lead to an apprehension of a usually busy and significantly developed cultural area of Belfast presently, which may bring some disappointment to visitors.\n\nThe good number of established attractions and their collection in this area of spirit and good interest are to any visitor likely to be found as well appreciated, rewarding establishments. The collection here makes the area attractive to residents and visitors certainly, and also assures great potential of the area for sensitive, hopefully unrestricted cultural development. However, presently, the area can also be reasonably quiet, and can seem a fractionally developed, half alive and half neglected world, weekend nights near The Merchant Hotel and the few main city arts festivals times aside.\n\nMany properties in this prime area lie dormant and neglected. The increasing popularity of the quarter is apparent, while there is some development: at this time (mid-Autumn '08) at the junction of Waring Street and Donegall Street, Belfast's second, new Premier Inn hotel has opened, which has connected the public bar \"The Four Corners\" and restaurant attached at street level. It seems that this area is ripe for rapid, sensitive cultural redevelopment.\n\nThe Future Belfast web site provides information about developments, completed, in progress and planned, within The Cathedral Quarter. (Link to Future Belfast Cathedral Quarter web page.)\n\nIn 2006, Belfast's Old Museum Arts Centre arts company and the Northern Ireland Arts Council announced plans to develop a dedicated arts venue for the city on the site of the Talbot Street car park. N.I.A.C. and Belfast City Council provided funds for a temporary arts venue on Hill Street, named 'The Black Box', until the Talbot Street development was finished. Currently referred to as The Metropolitan Arts Centre, or The M.A.C., the building opened in 2012 following an architectural design competition managed by RIBA Competitions where Hackett Hall McKnight Architects were appointed. There was some high-profile publicizing of the anticipated arts centre, including an involvement with Hollywood actress, Meryl Streep. The MAC has since been awarded the Downes Medal, by the Architectural Association of Ireland for an individual project and received an RIBA National Award. The building was nominated for the European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture – Mies van der Rohe Award and the Design Museum Designs of the Year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54450622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54450622", "title": "Chalkboard art", "text": "Chalkboard art\n\nChalkboard art or chalk art is the use of chalk on a blackboard as a visual art. It is similar to art using pastels and related to sidewalk art that often uses chalk. Chalkboard art is often used in restaurants, shops or walls.\n\nChalkboard art is ephemeral.\n\nChalkboard artists include Catherine Owens, Chris Yoon, Maggie Choate, Bryce Wisdom.\n"}
{"id": "7535429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7535429", "title": "Chess in the arts", "text": "Chess in the arts\n\nChess became a source of inspiration in the arts in literature soon after the spread of the game to the Arab World and Europe in the Middle Ages. The earliest works of art centered on the game are miniatures in medieval manuscripts, as well as poems, which were often created with the purpose of describing the rules. After chess gained popularity in the 15th and 16th centuries, many works of art related to the game were created. One of the most well-known, Marco Girolamo Vida's \"Scacchia ludus\", written in 1527, made such an impression on the readers that it singlehandedly inspired other authors to create poems about chess.\n\nIn the 20th century, artists created many works related to the game, sometimes taking their inspiration from the life of famous players (Vladimir Nabokov in \"The Defense\") or well-known games (Poul Anderson in \"Immortal Game\", John Brunner in \"The Squares of the City\"). Some authors invented new chess variants in their works, such as stealth chess in Terry Pratchett's \"Discworld\" series or Tri-Dimensional chess in the \"Star Trek\" series.\n\nPalatine Chapel in the Norman Palace in Palermo you can admire the first painting of a chess game that is known to the world. The work dates from around 1143 and the artists who created the Muslims were chosen by the Norman king of Sicily Roger II of Hauteville, who erected the church.\nThe earliest known reference to chess in a European text is a Medieval Latin poem, \"Versus de scachis\". The oldest manuscript containing this poem has been given the estimated date of 997. Other early examples include miniatures accompanying books. Some of them have high artistic value. Perhaps the best known example is the 13th-century \"Libro de los juegos\". The book contains 151 illustrations, and while most of them are centered on the board, showing problems, the players and architectural settings are different in each picture. The pieces illustrating chess problems in Luca Pacioli's manuscript \"De ludo scacchorum\" () (c. 1500), described as \"futuristic\" even by today's standards, may have been designed by Leonardo da Vinci.\n\nAfter chess became gradually more popular in Europe in the 15th and 16th centuries, especially in Spain and Italy, many artists began writing poems using chess as a theme. \"Scachs d'amor\" (), written by an unknown artist in the end of the 15th century, describes a game between Mars and Venus, using chess as an allegory of love. The story also serves as a pretence to describe the rules of the game. \"De ludo scacchorum\" (unrelated to the manuscript mentioned above) by , also created at that time, is a collection of gameplay advice, presented in poetic fashion.\n\nOne of the most influential works of chess-related art is Marco Girolamo Vida's \"Scaccia ludus\" (1527), centered on a game played between Apollo and Mercury on Mount Olympus. It is said that, because of its high artistry, the poem made a great impression on anyone who read it, including Desiderius Erasmus. It also directly inspired at least two other works. The first is Jan Kochanowski's poem \"Chess\" (c. 1565), which describes the game as a battle between two armies, while the second is William Jones'\" Caissa, or the game of chess\" (1772). The latter poem popularised the pseudo-ancient Greek dryad Caïssa to be the \"goddess of chess\".\n\nSince the 19th century, artists have been creating novels and – since the 20th century – films related to chess. Sometimes, they are inspired by famous games, like John Brunner's \"The Squares of the City\", structured after the famous match between Wilhelm Steinitz and Mikhail Chigorin; Poul Anderson's short story \"Immortal Game\", inspired by the 1851 game played by Adolf Anderssen and Lionel Kieseritzky (which also appears in the film \"Blade Runner\"); or Waldemar Łysiak's \"Szachista\" (), centered on a game played between Napoleon Bonaparte and The Turk. The game Frank Poole versus HAL 9000 from the film \"\" is also based on an actual match, albeit not widely known.\n\nOther artists drawn their inspirations from the life of players. Vladimir Nabokov wrote \"The Defense\" after learning about Curt von Bardeleben, while the musical \"Chess\" was loosely based on the life of Bobby Fischer. Some authors invented new chess variants in their works, such as stealth chess in Terry Pratchett's \"Discworld\" series or Tri-Dimensional chess in the \"Star Trek\" series.\n\nOne unusual connection between art and chess is the life of Marcel Duchamp, who almost fully suspended his artistic career to focus on chess in 1923.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs the popularity of the game became widespread during the 15th and 16th centuries, so too did the number of paintings depicting the subject. Continuing into the 20th century, artists created works related to the game often taking inspiration from the life of famous players or well-known games. An unusual connection between art and chess is the life of Marcel Duchamp, who in 1923 almost fully suspended his artistic career to focus on chess.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371321", "title": "Cloisonnism", "text": "Cloisonnism\n\nCloisonnism is a style of post-Impressionist painting with bold and flat forms separated by dark contours. The term was coined by critic Edouard Dujardin on the occasion of the Salon des Indépendants, in March 1888. Artists Émile Bernard, Louis Anquetin, Paul Gauguin, Paul Sérusier, and others started painting in this style in the late 19th century. The name evokes the technique of cloisonné, where wires (\"cloisons\" or \"compartments\") are soldered to the body of the piece, filled with powdered glass, and then fired. Many of the same painters also described their works as Synthetism, a closely related movement.\n\nIn \"The Yellow Christ\" (1889), often cited as a quintessential cloisonnist work, Gauguin reduced the image to areas of single colors separated by heavy black outlines. In such works he paid little attention to classical perspective and boldly eliminated subtle gradations of color—two of the most characteristic principles of post-Renaissance painting.\n\nThe cloisonnist separation of colors reflects an appreciation for discontinuity that is characteristic of Modernism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21011109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21011109", "title": "Combine painting", "text": "Combine painting\n\nA combine painting is an artwork that incorporates various objects into a painted canvas surface, creating a sort of hybrid between painting and sculpture. Items attached to paintings might include photographic images, clothing, newspaper clippings, ephemera or any number of three-dimensional objects. The term is most closely associated with the artwork of American artist Robert Rauschenberg (1925–2008) who coined the phrase to describe his own creations. Rauschenberg’s Combines explored the blurry boundaries between art and the everyday world. In addition, his cross-medium creations challenged the doctrine of medium specificity mentioned by modernist art critic Clement Greenberg. Frank Stella created a large body of paintings that recall the combine paintings of Robert Rauschenberg by juxtaposing a wide variety of surface and material in each work ultimately leading to Stella's sculpture and architecture of the 21st century.\n\nRauschenberg and his artist friend/flatmate Jasper Johns used to design window displays together for upscale retailers such as Tiffany's and Bonwit Teller in Manhattan before they became better established as artists. They shared ideas about art as well as career strategies. Paul Schimmel of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art described Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" as \"some of the most influential, poetic and revolutionary works in the history of American art.\" But they've also been called \"ramshackle hybrids between painting and sculpture, stage prop and three-dimensional scrap-book assemblage\" according to \"The Guardian\"s critic Adrian Searle. Searle believed the \"different elements of the Combines have been described as having no more relation than the different stories that vie for attention on a newspaper page.\" Jasper Johns, as well, used similar techniques; in at least one painting, Johns attached a paintbrush right inside his painting.\n\nExamples of Rauschenberg's \"Combine paintings\" include \"Bed\" (1955), \"Canyon\" (1959), and the free-standing \"Monogram\" (1955–1959). Rauschenberg's works mostly incorporated two-dimensional materials held together with \"splashes and drips of paint\" with occasional 3-D objects. Critic John Perreault wrote \"The Combines are both painting and sculpture–or, some purists would say, neither.\" Perreault liked them since they were memorable, photogenic, and could \"stick in the mind\" as well as \"surprise and keep on surprising.\" Rauschenberg added stuffed birds on his 1955 work \"Satellite\", which featured a stuffed pheasant \"patrolling its top edge.\" In another work, he added a ladder. His Combine \"Broadcast\", featuring three radios blaring at once, was a \"melange of paint, grids, newspaper clips and fabric snippets.\" According to one source, his \"Broadcast\" had three radios playing simultaneously, which produced a sort of irritating static, so that one of the work's owners, at one point, replaced the \"noise\" with tapes of actual programs when guests visited. Rauschenberg's \"Bed\" had a pillow attached to a patchwork quilt with paint splashed over it. The idea was to promote immediacy.\n\nThe prevailing theme of Rauschenberg's \"combine\" paintings is \"nonmeaning, the absurd, or antiart.\" In this regard the combine paintings relate to Pop art and their much earlier predecessor Dada.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Rauschenberg's Combines sold from $400 to $7,500. But their value shot upwards. In 1999, the Museum of Modern Art, which had balked at buying Rauschenberg's work decades earlier, spent $12 million to buy his \"Factum II\" which the artist made in 1957. Rauschenberg's \"Rebus\" was valued in 1991 at $7.3 million. A three-panel work created in 1955 that takes its name from the Latin for a \"puzzle of images and words\", it \"builds a narrative from seemingly nonsensical sequences of found images and abstract elements,\" according to \"The New York Times\". MOMA bought \"Rebus\" in 2005. Rauschenberg reportedly said that the images in \"Rebus\" jostle with each other \"like pedestrians on a street.\" Rauschenberg's \"Photograph\", a Combine painting from 1959, was valued at $10.7 million by Sotheby's in 2008. His work \"Bantam\" sold for $2.6 million in 2009. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" art critic Roberta Smith, who described Combines as \"multimedia hybrids\", wrote MOMA was \"Rauschenberg Central\" because it owned over 300 of his works. The Whitney owned 60 Rauschenbergs. In 2012, \"Canyon\" was donated to MoMA by the children of Ileana Sonnabend as part of an IRS settlement that valued the work at $65 million.\n\n\"Canyon,\" one of Rauschenberg's most recognizable Combines, has been the subject of art historical debate revolving around the validity of reading Rauschenberg's work iconographically. Historian Kenneth Bendiner famously proposed \"Canyon\" as a playful recreation of a 1635 Rembrandt painting depicting the abduction of Ganymede, interpreting the suspended pillow as Ganymede's buttocks and the stuffed bald eagle as the form assumed by the Greek god Zeus. Other historians and critics, such as Joseph Branden have argued that searching for iconography in Rauschenberg's Combines is useless because it can be made to exist anywhere. Bendiner's interpretation is discredited for failing to account for compositional movement and for disregarding a number of elements within the work, for example the blue and red text in the center, in order to mould the interpretation to it.\n\nInterpretations of Rauschenberg's Combines vary from: a deeply personal and subjective collage of expression (often homoerotic), to a surface of indecipherable, or rather infinitely cipher-able, materials which challenge notions of painting, sculpture, reception, and chance, to a multivalent iconographic landscape that seems to resist fixed decoding in favor of a more open-ended play of meaning. Rauschenberg himself states \"I don't want a painting to be just an expression of my personality. I feel it ought to be much better than that … I’ve always felt as though, whatever I’ve used and whatever I’ve done, the method was always closer to a \"collaboration\" with materials than to any kind of conscious manipulation and control.\"\n\nMoira Roth links the Combines to Duchamp's indifferent attitude in art, arguing that the perceived density of the content, and the integration of mass media elements is a facade born out of the alienation and indifference experienced by the artist during the McCarthy Period. Jonathan Katz argues that underneath the impersonal and inexpressive appearance of his work is a secret homosexual code that can unlock some of the significance of Rauschenberg's work, but Ed Krčma points out the weakness of steering the analysis towards preconceived conclusions, especially since Rauschenberg's work is described as a poetry of infinite possibilities.\n\nMore recent interpretations of \"Canyon,\" reconsider the work in postmodern terms, claiming that the Combine works more like a human mind than a human eye; Fragmented scraps of images, news cutouts, found objects and paint interact in esoteric ways and more closely resemble a cerebral process than a 'traditional' image. Yve-Alain Bois calls the search for iconographic meaning in Rauschenberg's work misguided because it is too limiting. His art's \"lack of center\" is a statement in itself, and the infinite permutations of meaning that can result highlight the subjectivity of art reception that postmodernism explores.\n\nUnder U.S. law, \"Canyon\" can never be sold since it contains a stuffed bald eagle, violating the 1940 Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act as well as the 1918 Migratory Bird Treaty Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "30247481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30247481", "title": "Commercial graffiti", "text": "Commercial graffiti\n\nCommercial graffiti (also known as aerosol advertising or graffiti for hire) is the commercial practice of graffiti artists being paid for their work. In New York City in particular, commercial graffiti is big business and since the 1980s has manifested itself in many of the major cities of Europe such as London, Paris and Berlin. Increasingly it has been used to promote video games and even feature prominently within them, reflecting a real life struggle between street artists and the law. Commercial graffiti has created significant controversy between those who view it as an effective medium of advertising amongst specific target audiences and those who believe that legal graffiti and advertising using it encourages illegal graffiti and crime.\n\nGraffiti as a commercial activity dates back to Ancient Greece, when pottery makers employed artists to decorate their items with motifs and intricate designs. The modern era, the phenomenon has been strongly associated with New York City since the late 1960s and the hip hop culture that emerged in the 1980s, according to a 1993 \"New York Times\" article that focused on the issue. The term \"commercial graffiti\" was used in an article by \"Time\" as early as 1968 and used to describe activity in Chicago as early as 1970. In 1981, Times Square was referenced as featuring \"commercial graffiti\" through \"Japanization\", and more recently further \"Japanization\" of children's culture is cited to be taking place through forms of graffiti in video games and in the increasing popularity of Japanese innovations such as anime. Since the early 1980s, commercial graffiti has evidenced itself in Los Angeles and other major American cities and across Europe, particularly Paris, and London and Berlin and features on the walls of numerous galleries across Europe.\n\nWith the increasing popularity and legitimization of graffiti, it has increasingly undergone commercialization. In 2001, computer giant IBM launched an advertising campaign in Chicago and San Francisco which involved people spray painting on sidewalks a peace symbol, a heart, and a penguin (Linux mascot), to represent \"Peace, Love, and Linux.\" However, due to illegalities some of the street artists were arrested and charged with vandalism, and IBM was fined more than US$120,000 for punitive and clean-up costs.\n\nThe practice of commercial artistry is controversial, because many commercial establishments feel that professional graffiti art is a valuable form of advertising, while other businesses, law enforcement and others disagree. Legal and commercial graffiti is increasing and has created significant debate amongst graffiti writers and those associated with hip-hop culture. The primary concern by those who oppose graffiti is that the tolerance of professional graffiti in one space leads to more illegal graffiti in other spaces. In some areas such as sports, over advertising in sports venues and even player uniforms in soccer has sometimes been viewed negatively.\n\nCommercial graffiti, seen as a frontier between the street world and the art world, is argued in some cases to promote a more responsible lifestyle for the graffiti artist through formal employment, which may range from actual graffiti advertising on buildings, to making prints and logos for clothing and gallery showcasing. Nancy MacDonland in her book \"The graffiti subculture: youth, masculinity, and identity in London and New York\" argues that commercial graffiti artistry \"moves writers out of the boundaries of the subculture\", because artists \"no longer paint for their peers and themselves, they have a new audience\".\n\nEven in major cities such as New York City and Chicago, commercial graffiti has created some very mixed reactions. For instance in Chicago, despite a significant following in graffiti artistry, in the mid 1980s a commercial which featured a kid spraying \"The end is near\" caused considerable outrage by Chicago citizens who protested to the Ford Motor Company to take the commercial off air as they believed it encouraged children to freely graffiti property as they desire. Similarly, in 2005, Peter Vallone Jr., a City Council member in New York and several other councilors protested against Sony's decision to use graffiti commercially in their PlayStation Portable advertising in New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Los Angeles and Miami as they believed it would have a negative influence on children and encourage them to deface property.\n\nIn New York City, legal graffiti and employment has become big business, appearing with owners' permission on everything from walls to railroad boxcars. According to Cooper and Sciorra, many young graffiti artists are keen to use their talents and aspire to achieve entrepreneurial success. Local businesses employing well-known graffiti artists are also said to enhance their credibility and business-customer relationship as well as reducing crime by employment. One prominent group in New York City is the \"King of Murals\" which run a commercial graffiti business and have been employed to promote global brands such as Coca-Cola and M&M's in advertising campaigns and even hired by schools, hospitals and other healthcare groups to create artwork. Bronx-based TATS CRU has made a name for themselves doing legal advertising campaigns for companies like Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Toyota, and MTV. Smirnoff and even Microsoft have hired artists to use reverse graffiti (the use of high pressure hoses to clean dirty surfaces to leave a clean image in the surrounding dirt) to increase awareness of their product. In 2011, Klughaus Gallery started Graffiti USA, a company offering interior graffiti murals for companies. Their work includes murals at the corporate offices of Linked In, Facebook, MasterCard, and ABC News, which featured a Graffiti USA commissioned mural on October 8, 2014 episode of Nightline.\n\nIn Boston, Massachusetts, a company named Alt Terrain specializes in hiring graffiti writers to paint legal murals as part of public performances which are hyped as \"brand events\" and may cost up to $12,500 for live performances. In Pittsfield, Massachusetts for example, after the death of Michael Jackson, Solomon \"Disco\" Stewart and a team of four artists named \"The Berkshire Graffiti Network\" for instance were paid to paint a \"Michael Jackson Tribute\" mural on the wall of a Pittsfield market on North Street.\nIn the United Kingdom, Covent Garden's Boxfresh used stencil images of a Zapatista revolutionary in the hopes of cross referencing would promote their store. Even the Israeli West Bank barrier has acted as a canvas for professional graffiti for hire teams. One Palestinian pacifist group will spray paint any message for 30 Euros, providing that it is not racist or violently motivated. The Art Crimes website is the first to be established in the field of commercial graffiti and hires some sixty artists to produce artwork.\n\nGraffiti has become an important part of video game culture, often reflecting the oppression facing graffiti artists in public and battle for it to be seen by the establishment as a legitimate and indeed a legal art form. The \"Jet Set Radio\" series (2000–2003) tells the story of a group of teens fighting the oppression of a totalitarian police force that attempts to limit the graffiti artists' freedom of speech and others such as \"Rakugaki Ōkoku\" series (2003–2005) for Sony's PlayStation 2 revolves around an anonymous hero and his magically imbued-with-life graffiti creations as they struggle against an evil king who only allows art to be produced which can benefit him. Similarly \"\" (2006), features a story line involving training in graffiti artistry and fighting against a corrupt city and its oppression of free speech, as in the \"Jet Set Radio\" series. Numerous other non-graffiti-centric video games allow the player to produce graffiti, such as the \"Half-Life\" series, the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, \"\", \"Rolling\" and \"\".\n\nGraffiti has become a common stepping stone for many members of both the art and design community in North America and abroad. Within the United States, graffiti artists such as Mike Giant, Pursue, Rime, Noah and countless others have made careers in skateboard, apparel and shoe design for companies such as DC Shoes, Adidas, Rebel8 Osiris or Circa Meanwhile, there are many others such as DZINE, Daze, Blade, The Mac etc. which have developed into gallery artists and at times do not even use their initial medium (spray paint) to produce artwork.\n\nKeith Haring, a well-known graffiti artist, contributed to bringing graffiti to the commercial mainstream. In the 1980s, Haring opened his first Pop Shop: a store that offered everyone access to his works—which until then could only be found spray-painted on city walls. Pop Shop offered commodities like bags and T-shirts. Haring explained that, \"The Pop Shop makes my work accessible. It's about participation on a big level, the point was that we didn't want to produce things that would cheapen the art. In other words, this was still art as statement\". Marc Ecko, an urban clothing designer, has been an advocate of graffiti as an art form during this period, stating that \"Graffiti is without question the most powerful art movement in recent history and has been a driving inspiration throughout my career.\"\n\nBut perhaps the greatest example of graffiti artists infiltrating mainstream pop culture is by the French crew, 123Klan. 123Klan founded as a graffiti crew in 1989 by Scien and Klor, have gradually turned their hands to illustration and design while still maintaining their graffiti practice and style. In doing so they have designed and produced, logos and illustrations, shoes, and fashion for numerous global firms.\n\nMost of the major cities across the world have graffiti and street art tours, often run by local graffiti artists who want to bring their talent to the public on a more socially accepted level.\n\nOriginally started with walking or biking tours around the cities, street art tours have expanded to include graffiti workshops, using graffiti art tools, stencils and spray cans.\n\nTours exist in New York, London, Berlin, Hamburg, Reykjavik, Barcelona, Montreal and Paris.\n\nCommercial graffiti is used as a type of marketing known as guerrilla marketing where one company has limited funds for advertising its product may it be goods or services. Generally done by smaller companies at the beginning due to small budgets but adopted by big brands (e.g. Coca-Cola). This type of marketing has a way of going viral as it is done in a public place with limited resources but with new technology such as smart phones which can upload pictures and videos instantly to social media, so if there is legal permission by the government for graffiti people would do it during peak hours in communities for maximum exposure( Navrátilová, L. Milichovský, F(2015)).\n"}
{"id": "26141345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26141345", "title": "Contour drawing", "text": "Contour drawing\n\nContour drawing, is an artistic technique used in the field of art in which the artist sketches the contour of a subject by drawing lines that result in a drawing that is essentially an outline; the French word contour meaning, “outline.” The purpose of contour drawing is to emphasize the mass and volume of the subject rather than the detail; the focus is on the outlined shape of the subject and not the minor details. However, because contour can convey a three-dimensional perspective, length and width as well as thickness and depth are important; not all contours exist along the outlines of a subject. This technique is manifested in different styles and practiced in drawing development and learning.\n\nContour drawing is an essential technique in the field of art because it is a strong foundation for any drawing or painting; it can potentially modify a subjects’ form through variation within the lines. Its objective is to capture the life, action, or expression of the subject. It is widely accepted among schools, art institutions, and colleges as an effective training aid and discipline for beginner artists. In the hands of a talented master, the line that conveys contour can deliver an astonishing amount of visual delight.\n\nIn a continuous-line drawing, the artist looks both at the subject and the paper, moving the medium over the paper, and creating a silhouette of the object. Like blind contour drawing, contour drawing is an artful experience that relies more on sensation than perception; it’s important to be guided by instinct. To make a blind contour drawing, an artist does not look at the paper or canvas on which he/she is working. Another technique similar to contour drawing is outline drawing; a division between form and the space a subject occupies. All three types of drawing are considered to be gesture drawings; the practice of drawing a series of bodies in still form. An outline drawing does not include the visual amusement of human sight, while a contour drawing contains form, weight, mass, space, and distance.\n\nBy altering the character of the mark, an artist can emulate many aspects of the subject that relate form and space to the viewer. For example, a line can be lighter in value (gradation) to suggest greater distance between objects in the drawing. A darker portion of the contour could represent an object with little or no light source; the space is compressed or the object is lower. Continuous lines used inside the outline of a subject can add accent or cast shadow, depending on the value of the line.\n\nThe purpose of drawing blindly is to force the artist’s eye to move along the contour of the subject as his or her pencil moves along the paper. Initially, this type of drawing may be difficult and slow, but an artist will find that with practice, it is an effective way of defining observation skills such as identifying and underlying the structure of the subject, relating forms, and conveying the sensual experience of the subject. Through thorough practice in this style, he/she will be skilled at drawing anything quickly and successively.\n"}
{"id": "1744532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1744532", "title": "Creative director", "text": "Creative director\n\nA creative director is a position often found within the graphic design, film, music, video game, fashion, advertising, media, or entertainment industries, but may be useful in other creative organizations such as web development and software development firms as well.\n\nA creative director is a vital role in all of the arts and entertainment industries. In another sense, they can be seen as another element in any product development process. The creative director may also assume the roles of an art director, copywriter, or lead designer. The responsibilities of a creative director include leading the communication design, interactive design, and concept forward in any work assigned. For example, this responsibility is often seen in industries related to advertisement. The creative director is known to guide a team of employees with skills and experience related to graphic design, fine arts, motion graphics, and other creative industry fields. Some example works can include visual layout, brainstorming, and copywriting. To assume the role of a creative director, one must already have an existing set of skills and expertise in many areas. Often, these types of artists start up from the very beginning in fields that can relate to motion graphics, advertisement in television, and/or book (or magazine) publishing.\n\nIn the advertising industry, a creative director is determined to develop various marketing schemes and strategies for a company or client that he or she is hired by. Assuming one is hired by a company that is fairly well known and established, there would be some type of creative department or management that the director would work with. The creative director would also serve as the project manager that works directly with employers, and in most circumstances, they would be responsible for designing concepts for advertisements and other promotional needs for their client(s). Some examples of their duties involve copywriting and laying out chronological advertisement plans which explain the ongoing process of a project. It is important for an advertisement creative director to meet their goals at specific deadline with maximum efficiency as possible. To do so, they must be able to guide the creative department effectively from start to finish. Educational requirements of this position involve a blending of skills in business and journalism. To even be considered as a creative director, one would need to have a couple of years of experience in advertising (as little as five to as many as ten years).\n\nAdvertising creative directors are usually promoted from copy writing or art directing positions. Familiarity with film-making techniques is also common. Creative directors rise to become executive creative directors or chief creative officers, a position with executive responsibility for the entire creative department, and some progress to chairman of a firm.\n\nCreative directors usually possess a communication design or fine arts & animation degree. Copywriters may have degrees in journalism, language arts, or media innovation, or may develop more emphasis on advertising copy writing while pursuing a communication design degree.\n\nWith the increased team sizes and more specialised disciplines in the games industry, certain game designers are titled as 'creative director', 'executive designer', or 'game director'. A creative director in a video game company is usually responsible for product development across a number of titles and is generally regarded as the prime design authority across the company's product range. Some examples are Peter Molyneux, Sam Lake, Neil Druckmann, or Shigeru Miyamoto whose influence extends across more than one project.\n\nThe creative director has an important responsibility in this industry. The director must devise ideas to lead a video game project forward and many responsibilities involve working with various individuals or teams spread out within the entire project/video game production. This can include cross-functional collaboration with the various disciplines involved in games development. Academically speaking, a creative director is usually degree educated but there are some circumstances where a high school education strongly focusing on aspects such as art, graphics, computer science, and math can be acceptable and provide some valuable insight to students who hope to aspire in this field of work. Some skills that a creative director working in the video game industry may have include proficiency in computer programming and graphic development (illustrations, fine art) and have excellent interpersonal and writing skills (since they deal with many other clients and management leaders). The exact skills a game director possesses will depend on their background in the industry. Creative director, or game director, is not usually an entry level position, but in a smaller studio it can be. This is more common in start up companies for instance though normally one would have to earn that role by showing their skills and development over a period of years. The entertainment industry is not always a meritocracy, however, and sometimes people just luck into or inherit such positions. Creative directors have often done their share of lower level startup positions such as internships or assisting other directors in art related work fields. It is all about advancing through the career chain, and once one has earned the position a creative director, they may be eligible to work for larger and more popular game developing companies depending on how successful they have been with past collaborative projects.\n\nThe creative director in the film industry is referred to as the production designer. A production designer carries a large responsibility of designing the look of a movie. The job is similar to a creative director's role in the video game industry in that he or she manages a team of employees and has to consistently develop new ideas and methods of working. It is vital that designers in this field are able to produce expressive/creative ideas and translate them into something cinematic. Usually a certain sum of funds is distributed among different departments in the production of a film (in this case, the art department). Creative directors must decide on how to distribute and use the funds in the most efficient and effective way to ensure maximum quality in the films art department. An example can include the structuring of scenes and sets once a film begins to undergo the shooting process. During this process, it is important for creative directors to understand what props and effects should be used and how they should be used among various sets and scenes of the film. Some important qualifications that one should have include being able to manage teams, having expertise in design (specifically in theatre, interior sets and art design), being open minded to new ideas and methods in regards to organizing film sets, and having an understanding of coordinating among different departments in order to move a project towards success. A creative director in the film industry usually starts out in lower ranks of the chain, such as an assistant to other art directors and/or as a draughtsman.\n\nCreative directors in the field of music can be broken down into various key roles that make up the whole (it may be said that one can be known as a 'music director'). It is in this artistic field where the individual, the director, must master tasks that are relatable to one another. An orchestral conductor is a prime example (but not exclusive) of this role and how one would direct music and harmonize symphonies as well as guide/direct other musician’s in an ensemble. The three roles in this sense can consist of: the active musician, the musical art director, and the instructor that teaches and informs music for society. The main requirements one would need to have is an extensive background and knowledge of music (being able to master one or more instrument), understanding the principles and theories behind music composition, developing an understanding and connection with musicians that the director would be working with to communicate music in a harmonic and creative sense, and most importantly being able to develop leadership skills among other musicians.\n\nCreative director is the highest creative position in a fashion house. The creative director does not design clothes, but instead formulates and impresses upon the designers an overarching concept or concepts for a certain collection and the label as a whole. \nA fashion creative director's main role is to establish what designs should be created, what will appeal to the target market, and how the concepts will be applied and distributed in collaboration with fashion designers who are responsible for creating the clothing and fabrics.\n\n"}
{"id": "43386313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43386313", "title": "Creative industry in Brazil", "text": "Creative industry in Brazil\n\nThe creative industry in Brazil refers to various economic sectors of Brazil that depend on the talents and creativity to develop. In other words, it is about generating wealth for the region through knowledge, culture and creativity, in order to contribute to sustainable development (environmental, economic and social). The term 'creative industries' was coined by the United Kingdom in 1990 and in 2001 won two updates: one by researcher John Howkins, which gave it an entrepreneurial vision when focusing on the transformation of creativity in product; and another one by professor Richard Florida, which focused on professionals involved in the creative processes of production, addressing the social aspects and the \"potential contribution to the development\" of the \"creative class\". The first study of international coverage only emerged in 2008 - conducted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) - the same year it was published another study on the subject, only fully about Brazil.\n\nBased on the \"Classificação Brasileira de Ocupações - CBO\" (read \"Brazilian Classification of Occupations\"), the Ministry of Labour and Employment's list of all professions in the country, the creative work market was mapped. The result of the study listed fourteen creative professions, in which knowledge is a transforming input of production:\n\nThe first initiative to map the creative industries from any country was from the United Kingdom at the end of 1990. The goal was to prove that these sectors have an important role to the culture and the potential to generate jobs and wealth to the country. Then, these creative industries were mapped, and all others who maintained relations with them as well. Thus, it was built a view of the weight of the creative chains in the production process.\n\nThree years after this pioneering work, specifically in 2001, two others arose:\n\n\nIt did not take long for the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD, 2008) to launch another study on the subject, only this time with an international scope. According to the survey, the exports of the creative industries in the world exceeded 500 billion dollars.\nGiven the importance of the issue to the world and specifically to Brazil, the study \"A Cadeia da Indústria Criativa no Brasil\" (read \"The Chain of Creative Industry in Brazil\"), was undertaken. It was updated in 2011 and published in 2012. This tool to map the creative industry in the country is able to list information about each of these professions, such as the amount of jobs, wages and the education level required. Thus, it unites information from both the \"Classificação Nacional de Atividades Econômicas\" (i.e. \"National Classification of Economic Activities\") and the \"Brazilian Classification of Occupations\".\n\nIn general, the creative industries encompass \"economic activity directly related to the art world - especially the visual arts, performing arts, literature and publishing, photography, crafts, libraries, museums, galleries, archives, spots designated by the National Historic Landmark and festivals of arts (...) electronic media and other recent media (...) design-related activities.\n\nThe theme is sometimes confused with the term \"culture industry\". However, \"the scope of the creative economy is determined by the extent of the creative industries.\" In other words, cultural products and services would be part of a larger category of creative products and services.\n\nFor the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the chain of creative industry comprises the \"cycles of creation, production and distribution of goods and services that use creativity and intellectual capital as primary inputs.\" Thus, it can be divided into three major areas: creative core (the creative economic activities) related activities (provide goods and services directly to the core) and support (provide goods and services indirectly to the core).\n\nThe United Kingdom's Department for Culture, Media and Sport considers as creative industries activities \"that have their origin in creativity, skill and individual talent and which have a potential for creating wealth and jobs through the generation and exploitation of intellectual property.\" Based on this concept, it can be said that Brazil is very important when it comes to creative industry. After all, he is one of the largest producers in the world of creativity. Analyzing the remuneration of the Brazilian people, it was found that the wages of those working in the creative industry in Brazil are almost three times higher than the national average wage (comparison value: R$4,693 and R$1,733, respectively). And among creative professionals, those from Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and the Federal District receive the best salaries. These are data from the \"Creative Industries Mapping\", which was based on information from 2011. The study addresses issues such as jobs, wages, average wage per state, number of employees by segment and even from the GDP creative country.\n\nThe sector has gained so much importance that, in May 2012, the Brazilian president Dilma Rousseff decreed the creation of the \"Secretaria da Economia Criativa\" (\"Creative Economy Secretariat\"). The goal of SEC is to create, implement and monitor public policy that have the culture as a strategic axis, \"prioritizing support and encouragement to professionals and to the micro and small Brazilian creative endeavors.\"\n\nAccording to a report from the United Nations, Brazil is not among the top twenty producers in the industry yet, but the initiative of creating the SEC indicated the government's desire to reposition the \"culture as development axis of the Brazilian state.\" To the President of the National Bank for Economic and Social Development (BNDES), Luciano Coutinho, this is a recognition that creative activities are important for the country \"in a long-term perspective, having as a goal a more inclusive and sustainable development.\n\nGlobally, the countries that have excelled in the industry are China, in the first place, followed by the United States and Germany. But Brazil has contributed greatly in the fields of architecture, fashion and design, revealing its creative potential worldwide.\n\nThe creative industry in Brazil gathers, generally, \"young, educated and well-paid professionals\" that earn 42% above the average wage in the country. It is difficult to know how much an idea or innovation costs, once they are intangible assets. One way of finding that out would be to create metrics and to use qualitative and quantitative researches. What is possible to identify are general economic data related to the Creative Industry in Brazil, such as:\n\nAccording to the Creative Economy Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Cláudia Leitão, the country is learning to grow in this area, transforming the \"Brazilian creativity into innovation and innovation into wealth.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25245841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25245841", "title": "Crucifixion in the arts", "text": "Crucifixion in the arts\n\nCrucifixions and crucifixes have appeared in the arts and popular culture from before the era of the pagan Roman Empire. The crucifixion of Jesus has been depicted in religious art since the 4th century CE. In more modern times, crucifixion has appeared in film and television as well as in fine art, and depictions of other historical crucifixions have appeared as well as the crucifixion of Christ. Modern art and culture have also seen the rise of images of crucifixion being used to make statements unconnected with Christian iconography, or even just used for shock value.\n\nThe earliest known artistic representations of crucifixion predate the Christian era, including Greek representations of mythical crucifixions inspired by the use of the punishment by the Persians.\n\nThe Alexamenos graffito, currently in the museum in the Palatine Hill, Rome, is a Roman graffito from the 2nd century CE which depicts a man worshiping a crucified donkey. This graffito, though apparently meant as an insult, is the earliest known pictorial representation of the crucifixion of Jesus. The text scrawled around the image reads Αλεξαμενος ϲεβετε θεον, which translates to \"Alexamenos worships God\" or some variant of this sentence.\n\nIn the first three centuries of Early Christian art, the crucifixion was rarely depicted. Some engraved gems thought to be 2nd or 3rd century have survived, but the subject does not appear in the art of the Catacombs of Rome, and it is thought that at this period the image was restricted to heretical groups of Christians. The earliest Western images clearly originating in the mainstream of the church are 5th-century, including the scene on the doors of Santa Sabina, Rome. Constantine I forbade crucifixion as a method of execution, and early church leaders regarded crucifixion with horror, and thus, as an unfit subject for artistic portrayal.\n\nThe purported discovery of the True Cross by Constantine's mother, Helena, and the development of Golgotha as a site for pilgrimage, together with the dispersal of fragments of the relic across the Christian world, led to a change of attitude. It was probably in Palestine that the image developed, and many of the earliest depictions are on the Monza ampullae, small metal flasks for holy oil, that were pilgrim's souvenirs from the Holy Land, as well as 5th-century ivory reliefs from Italy. Prior to the Middle Ages, early Christians preferred to focus on the \"triumphant\" Christ, rather than a dying one, because the concept of the risen Christ was so central to their faith. The plain cross became depicted, often as a \"glorified\" symbol, as the crux gemmata, covered with jewels, as many real early medieval processional crosses in goldsmith work were.\n\nEarly depictions showed a living Christ, and tended to minimize the appearance of suffering, so as to draw attention to the positive message of resurrection and faith, rather than to the physical realities of execution. In the early history of the church in Ireland, important events were often commemorated by erecting pillars with elaborate crucifixes carved into them, such as where Saint Patrick, returning as a missionary bishop, saw the place he was held captive in his youth.\n\nEarly Byzantine depictions such as that in the Rabbula Gospels often show Christ flanked by Longinus and Stephaton with their spear and pole with vinegar. According to the gospels, the vinegar was offered just before Christ died, and the lance used just after, so the presence of the two flanking figures symbolizes the \"double reality of God and man in Christ\". In images from after the end of the Byzantine Iconoclasm, Christ is shown as dead, but his \"body is undamaged and there is no expression of pain\"; the Eastern church held that Christ's body was invulnerable. The \"S\"-shaped slumped body type was developed in the 11th century. These images were one of the complaints against Constantinople given by Rome in the Great Schism of 1054, although the Gero Cross in Cologne is probably nearly a century older.\n\nThe earliest Western images of a dead Christ may be in the Utrecht Psalter, probably before 835. Other early Western examples include the Gero Cross and the reverse of the Cross of Lothair, both from the end of the 10th century. The first of these is the earliest near life-size sculpted cross to survive, and in its large scale represents \"suffering in its extreme physical consequences\", a trend that was to continue in the West. Such figures, especially as roods, large painted or sculpted crucifixes hung high in front of the chancel of churches, became very important in Western art, providing a sharp contrast with Eastern Orthodox traditions, where the subject was never depicted in monumental sculpture, and increasingly rarely even in small Byzantine ivories. By contrast, an altar cross, almost always a crucifix, became compulsory in Western churches in the Middle Ages, and small wall-mounted crucifixes were increasingly popular in Catholic homes from the Counter-Reformation, if not before.\n\nAs a broad generalization, the earliest depictions, before about 900, tended to show all three crosses (those of Jesus, the Good Thief and the Bad Thief), but later medieval depictions mostly showed just Jesus and his cross. From the Renaissance either type might be shown. The number of other figures shown depended on the size and medium of the work, but there was a similar trend for early depictions to show a number of figures, giving way in the High Middle Ages to just the Virgin Mary and Saint John the Evangelist, shown standing on either side of the cross, as in the Stabat Mater depictions, or sculpted or painted on panels at the end of each arm of a rood cross.\n\nThe soldiers were less likely to be shown, but others of the party with Mary and John might be. Angels were often shown in the sky, and the Hand of God in some early depictions gave way to a small figure of God the Father in the heavens in some later ones, those these were always in the minority. Other elements that might be included were the sun and moon (evoking the darkening of the heavens at the moment of Christ’s death), and Ecclesia and Synagoga. Although according to the Gospel accounts his clothing was removed from Jesus before his crucifixion, most artists have thought it proper to represent his lower body as draped in some way. In one type of sculpted crucifix, of which the Volto Santo in Lucca is the classic example, Christ continued to wear the long \"collobium\" robe of the Rabbula Gospels.\nIn the Gothic period more elaborate narrative depictions developed, including many extra figures of Mary Magdalene, disciples, especially The Three Marys behind the Virgin Mary, soldiers often including an officer on a horse, and angels in the sky. The moment when Longinus the centurion pierces Christ with his spear (the \"Holy Lance\") is often shown, and the blood and water spurting from Christ's side is often caught in a chalice held by an angel. In larger images the other two crosses might return, but most often not. In some works donor portraits were included in the scene. Such depictions begin in the late 12th century, and become common where space allows in the 13th century.\n\nRelated scenes such as the \"Deposition of Christ\", \"Entombment of Christ\" and \"Nailing of Christ to the Cross\" developed. In the Late Middle Ages, increasingly intense and realistic representations of suffering were shown, reflecting the development of highly emotional andachtsbilder subjects and devotional trends such as German mysticism; some, like the Throne of Mercy, Man of Sorrows and Pietà, related to the Crucifixion. The same trend affected the depiction of other figures, notably in the \"Swoon of the Virgin\", who is very commonly shown fainting in paintings of between 1300 and 1500, though this depiction was attacked by theologians in the 16th century, and became unusual. After typically more tranquil depictions during the Italian Renaissance—though not its Northern equivalent, which produced works such as the Isenheim Altarpiece—there was a return to intense emotionalism in the Baroque, in works such as Peter Paul Rubens's \"Elevation of the Cross\".\n\nThe scene always formed part of a cycle of images of the \"Life of Christ\" after about 600 (though it is noticeably absent before) and usually in one of the \"Life of the Virgin\"; the presence of Saint John made it a common subject for altarpieces in churches dedicated to him. From the late Middle Ages various new contexts for images were devised, from such large scale monuments as the \"calvaire\" of Brittany and the Sacri Monti of Piedmont and Lombardy to the thousands of small wayside shrines still found in many parts of Catholic Europe, and the Stations of the Cross in the majority of Catholic churches.\n\nCrucifixion has appeared repeatedly as a theme in many forms of modern art.\n\nThe surrealist Salvador Dalí painted \"Crucifixion (Corpus Hypercubus)\", representing the cross as a hypercube. Fiona Macdonald describes the 1954 painting as showing a classical pose of Christ superimposed on a mathematical representation of the fourth dimension that is both unseeable and spiritual; Gary Bolyer assesses it as \"one of the most beautiful works of the modern era.\" The sculpture \"Construction (Crucifixion): Homage to Mondrian\", by Barbara Hepworth, stands on the grounds of Winchester Cathedral. Porfirio DiDonna's abstract \"Crucifixion\" is one of a number of religious works he painted in the 1960s, \"blending the artist's devotion to the liturgy and his commitment to painting\". The \"Welsh Window\", given to the 16th Street Baptist Church after it was bombed by four Ku Klux Klansmen in 1963, is a work of support and solidarity. The stained glass window depicts a black man, arms outstretched, reminiscent of the crucifixion of Jesus; it was sculpted by John Petts, who also initiated a campaign in Wales to raise money to help rebuild the church.\n\nPhotographer Robert Mapplethorpe's 1975 self-portrait shows the artist, nude and smiling, posed as if crucified. The 1983 painting \"Crucifixion\", by Nabil Kanso, employs a perspective that places the viewer behind Christ's cross. In 1987 photographer Andres Serrano created \"Piss Christ\", a controversial photograph that shows a small plastic crucifix submerged in a glass of the artist's urine, in which Serrano intended to depict sympathetically the abuse of Jesus by his executioners. In the 1990s, Marcus Reichert painted a series of crucifixions, though he did not identify the figure as Christ, but as a representation of human suffering.\n\nOther artists have used crucifixion imagery as a form of protest. In 1974, Chris Burden had himself crucified to a Volkswagen. Robert Cenedella painted a crucified Santa Claus as a protest against Christmas commercialization, displayed in the window of New York's Art Students League in December 1997. In August 2000, performance artist Sebastian Horsley had himself crucified without the use of any analgesics.\n\nCrucifixion in popular art, as with modern art, is sometimes used for its shock value. For example, a World War I Liberty bond poster by Fernando Amorsolo depicts a German soldier nailing an American soldier, his arms outspread, to the trunk of a tree. Crucifixion imagery is also used to make points in political cartoons.\n\nCrucifixion figures prominently in graphic novels from many cultures throughout the world. In Western comic books, characters in cruciform are seen more often than actual crucifixions. For example, \"Animal Man\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s fifth issue earned an Eisner Award nomination in 1989 for its \"The Coyote Gospel\", the story of Crafty, a thinly-disguised Wile E. Coyote (of the Road Runner cartoons) and the depiction at the culmination of the issue of his dead body in cruciform. Superman, often seen as a Christ figure, has also been crucified, as well as being shown in cruciform.\n\nCrucifixions and crucifixes have appeared repeatedly in Japanese manga and anime. In manga iconography, crucifixes serve two purposes: as death symbols, and as symbols of justice. Scholars such as Michael Broderick and Susan J. Napier argue that Japanese readers associate crucifixion imagery with apocalyptic themes, and trace this symbolism to Japanese secular views of the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, rather than to religious faith. Producers of anime generally deny any religious motivation for depiction of crucifixion. Concern that Westerners may find these portrayals of crucifixion offensive has led some distributors and localization studios to remove crucifixion imagery from manga such as \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" and anime such as \"Sailor Moon\".\nPassion plays are dramatic presentations of the trial and crucifixion of Jesus. They originated as expressions of devotion in the Middle Ages. In modern times, critics have said that some performances are antisemitic.\n\nNumerous movies have been produced which depict the crucifixion of Jesus. Some of these movies depict the crucifixion in its traditional sectarian form, while others intend to show a more historically accurate account. For example, \"Ben-Hur\" (1959), was probably the first movie to depict the nails being driven through Jesus' wrists, rather than his palms. Mel Gibson's controversial \"The Passion of the Christ\" (2004) depicted an extreme level of violence, but showed the nails being driven into Jesus' palms, as is traditional, with ropes supporting the wrists.\n\nAlthough crucifixion imagery is common, few films depict actual crucifixion outside of a Christian context. \"Spartacus\" (1960) depicts the mass crucifixions of rebellious slaves along the Appian Way after the Third Servile War. The character Big Bob is crucified by cannibals in Wes Craven's horror exploitation film \"The Hills Have Eyes\" (1977) as well as its 2006 remake. \"Conan the Barbarian\" (1982) depicts the protagonist being crucified on the Tree of Woe.\n\nThe 1979 British comedy film \"Monty Python's Life of Brian\" ends with a comical sequence in which several of the cast, including Brian, are crucified by the Romans. The film ends with them all singing the song \"Always Look on the Bright Side of Life\". In this sequence, the characters are not nailed to the crosses, but tied at the wrists to the crossbar, and are standing on smaller crosspieces at foot level.\n\nIn the 2010 film \"Legion\", one of the diner patrons is found crucified upside down and covered with huge boils.\n\nSimulated crucifixions have been performed in professional wrestling. On the December 7, 1998, edition of \"WWF Monday Night Raw\", professional wrestling character The Undertaker crucified Steve Austin. On October 26, 1996, in Extreme Championship Wrestling, Raven, during a feud with The Sandman, instructed his Raven's Nest to crucify Sandman.\n\nOther television performers have used crucifixion to make a point. The Australian comedian John Safran had himself crucified in the Philippines as part of a Good Friday crucifixion ritual for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation show, \"John Safran's Race Relations\" (2009). Singer Robbie Williams performed a stunt on an April 2006 Easter Sunday show shown on the UK television channel Channel 4, in which he was affixed to a cross and pierced with needles.\n\nThe HBO television series \"Rome\" (2005–2007) contained several depictions of crucifixion, as it was a common torture method during the historical period the show takes place in.\n\nIn the 2010 \"Starz\" television series \"\", Segovax, a slave recruit to the gladiatorial ludus of Lentulus Batiatus, attempts to assassinate Spartacus in the ludus washrooms and is crucified for doing so \"after being parted from his cock\".\n\nCrucifixion has been depicted in the television series \"\" (1995–2001), where its depiction has been cited in feminist studies as illustrating violent and misogynist tendencies within a messianic paradigm.\n\nIn the History Channel series \"Vikings\", the character Æthelstan, after being captured by the Saxons and named an apostate, is shown wearing a crown of thorns and being nailed to a cross. After the cross is raised he is taken down at the order of King Ecbert.\n\nThe Japanese science fiction series Neon Genesis Evangelion features crucifixion as a recurring motif.\n\nFamous depictions of crucifixion in classical music include the \"St John Passion\" and \"St Matthew Passion\" by Johann Sebastian Bach, and Giovanni Battista Pergolesi's setting of \"Stabat Mater\". Notable recent settings include the \"St. Luke Passion\" (1965) by Polish composer Krzysztof Penderecki and the \"St. John Passion\" (1982) by Estonian composer Arvo Pärt. The 2000 work, \"La Pasión según San Marcos\" (St. Mark Passion) by Argentinian Jewish composer Osvaldo Golijov, was named one of the top classical compositions of the decade for its fusion of traditional passion motifs with Afro-Cuban, tango, Capoeira, and Kaddish themes.\n\nCrucifixion has figured prominently in Easter cantatas, oratorios, and requiems. The third section of a full mass, the \"Credo\", contains the following passage at its climax: \"Crucifixus etiam pro nobis sub Pontio Pilato, passus et sepultus est,\" which means \"And was crucified also for us under Pontius Pilate; he suffered and was buried.\" This passage was sometimes set to music separately as a \"Crucifixus\", the most famous example being that of Antonio Lotti for eight voices.\n\nThe seven utterances of Jesus while on the Cross, gathered from the four gospels, have inspired many musical compositions, from Heinrich Schütz in 1645 to Ruth Zechlin in 1996, with the best known being Joseph Haydn's \"The Seven Last Words of Christ\", composed in 1787.\n\nDepictions of crucifixion outside the Christian context are rare. One of the few examples is in Ernest Reyer's opera \"Salammbô\" (1890).\n\nThe 1970 rock opera Jesus Christ Superstar by Tim Rice and Andrew Lloyd Webber ends with Jesus' crucifixion.\n\nThe cover art of Tupac Shakur's album features an image of Tupac being crucified on a cross. He stated that the image was not a mockery of Christ; rather, it showed how he was being \"crucified\" by the media. Multiple Marilyn Manson videos such as \"I Don't Like The Drugs But The Drugs Like Me\" and \"Coma White\" feature crucifixion imagery, often oddly staged in surreal modern or near modern-day settings. The Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth had several people on stage affixed to crosses to give the appearance of crucifixion at a now infamous concert in Kraków, and repeated this act in the music video for \"Carving a Giant.\" In 2006, singer Madonna caused controversy by opening a concert held near Vatican City with a mock crucifixion, complete with a crown of thorns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5678514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678514", "title": "Decadent movement", "text": "Decadent movement\n\nThe Decadent Movement was a late 19th-century artistic and literary movement, centered in Western Europe, that followed an aesthetic ideology of excess and artificiality. The visual artist Félicien Rops's body of work and Joris-Karl Huysmans's novel \"Against Nature\" (1884) are considered the prime examples of the decadent movement. It first flourished in France and then spread throughout Europe and to the United States. The movement was characterized by self-disgust, sickness at the world, general skepticism, delight in perversion and employment of crude humor and a belief in the superiority of human creativity over logic and the natural world.\n\nThe concept of decadence dates from the eighteenth century, especially from the writings of Montesquieu, the Enlightenment philosopher who suggested that the decline (\"décadence\") of the Roman Empire was in large part due to their moral decay and loss of cultural standards. When Latin scholar Désiré Nisard turned toward French literature, he compared Victor Hugo and Romanticism in general to the Roman decadence, men sacrificing their craft and their cultural values for the sake of pleasure. The trends that he identified, such as an interest in description, a lack of adherence to the conventional rules of literature and art, and a love for extravagant language were the seeds of the Decadent Movement.\n\nThe first major development in French decadence would come when writers Théophile Gautier and Charles Baudelaire used the word proudly, to represent a rejection of what they considered banal \"progress.\" Baudelaire referred to himself as decadent in his 1857 edition of \"Les Fleurs du Mal\" and exalted the Roman decline as a model for modern poets to express their passion. He would later use the term \"decadence\" to include the subversion of traditional categories in pursuit of full, sensual expression. In his lengthy introduction to Baudelaire in the front of the 1868 \"Les Fleurs du Mal,\" Gautier at first rejects the application of the term decadent, as meant by the critic, but then works his way to an admission of decadence on Baudelaire's own terms: a preference for what is beautiful and what is exotic, an ease with surrendering to fantasy, and a maturity of skill with manipulating language.\n\nThough he was Belgian, Félicien Rops was instrumental in the development of this early stage of the Decadent Movement. A friend of Baudelaire, he was also a frequent illustrator of Baudelaire's writing, at the request of the author himself. Rops delighted in breaking artistic convention and shocking the public with gruesome, fantastical horror. He was explicitly interested in the Satanic, and he frequently sought to portray the double-threat of Satan and Woman. At times, his only goal was the portrayal of a woman he'd observed debasing herself in the pursuit of her own pleasure. It has also been suggested that, no matter how horrific and perverse his images could be, Rops' invocation of supernatural elements was sufficient to keep Baudelaire situated in a spiritually-aware universe that maintained a cynical kind of hope, even if the poetry \"requires a strong stomach.\" Their work was the worship of beauty disguised as the worship of evil. For both of them, mortality and all manner of corruptions were always on their mind. The ability of Rops to see and portray the same world as they did, made him a popular illustrator for other decadent authors.\n\nThe concept of decadence lingered after that, but it wasn't until 1884 that Maurice Barrès referred to a particular group of writers as \"Decadents.\" He defined this group as those who had been influenced heavily by Baudelaire, though they were also influenced by Gothic novels and the poetry and fiction of Edgar Allan Poe. Many were associated with Symbolism, others with Aestheticism. The pursuit of these authors, according to Arthur Symons, was \"a desperate endeavor to give sensation, to flash the impression of the moment, to preserve the very heat and motion of life,\" and their achievement, as he saw it, was \"to be a disembodied voice, and yet the voice of a human soul.\"\n\nIn his 1884 decadent novel \"À Rebours (\"English, \"Against Nature\" or \"Against the Grain\"), Joris-Karl Huysmans overthrew the past, subordinated nature to the human creative will, and suggested the primacy of, but inherent disillusion in, pleasure. He also identified likely candidates for the core of the Decadent Movement, which he seemed to view Baudelaire as sitting above: Paul Verlaine, Tristan Corbière, Theodore Hannon, and Stéphane Mallarmé. His character Des Esseintes hailed these writers for their creativity and their craftsmanship, suggesting that they filled him with \"insidious delight\" as they used a \"secret language\" to explore \"twisted and precious ideas.\"\n\nNot only did \"Against Nature\" define an ideology and a literature, but it also created an influential perspective on visual art. The character of Des Esseintes explicitly heralded the work of Gustave Moreau, Jan Luyken, and Odilon Redon. None of these artists would have identified themselves as part of this movement. Nevertheless, the choice of these three established a decadent perspective on art which favored madness and irrationality, graphic violence, frank pessimism about cultural institutions, and a disregard for visual logic of the natural world. It has also been suggested that a dream vision that Des Esseintes describes is based on the series of satanic encounters painted by Félicien Rops.\n\nCapitalizing on the momentum of Huysmans' work, Anatole Baju founded the magazine \"Le Décadent\" in 1886, an effort to define and organize the Decadent Movement in a formal way. This group of writers did not only look to escape the boredom of the banal, but they also sought to shock, scandalize, and subvert the expectations and values of society, believing that such freedom and creative experimentation would better humanity.\n\nNot everyone was comfortable with Baju and \"Le Décadent,\" even including some who had been published in its pages. Rival writer Jean Moréas published his Symbolist Manifesto, largely to escape association with the Decadent Movement, despite their shared heritage. Moréas and Gustave Kahn, among others, formed rival publications to reinforce the distinction. Paul Verlaine embraced the label at first, applauding it as a brilliant marketing choice by Baju. After seeing his own words exploited and tiring of \"Le Décadent\" publishing works falsely attributed to Arthur Rimbaud, however, Verlaine came to sour on Baju personally, and he eventually rejected the label, as well.\n\nDecadence continued on in France, but it was limited largely to Anatole Baju and his followers, who refined their focus even further on perverse sexuality, material extravagance, and up-ending social expectations. Far-fetched plots were acceptable if they helped generate the desired moments of salacious experience or glorification of the morbid and grotesque. Writers who embraced the sort of decadence featured in \"Le Décadent\" include Albert Aurier, Rachilde, Pierre Vareilles, Miguel Fernandez, Jean Lorrain, and Laurent Tailhaide. Many of these authors did also publish symbolist works, however, and it unclear how strongly they would have identified with Baju as decadents.\n\nIn France, the Decadent Movement is often said to have begun with either Joris-Karl Huysmans' \"Against Nature\" (1884) or Baudelaire's \"Les Fleur du Mal\". This movement essentially gave way to Symbolism when \"Le Décadent\" closed down in 1889 and Anatole Baju turned toward politics and became associated with anarchy. A few writers continued the decadent tradition, such as Octave Mirbeau, but Decadence was no longer a recognized movement, let alone a force in literature or art.\n\nBeginning with the association of decadence with cultural decline, it is not uncommon to associate decadence in general with transitional times and their associated moods of pessimism and uncertainty. In France, the heart of the Decadent Movement was during the 1880s and 1890s, the time of fin de siècle, or end-of-the-century gloom. As part of that overall transition, many scholars of Decadence, such as David Weir, regard Decadence as a dynamic transition between Romanticism and Modernism, especially considering the decadent tendency to dehumanize and distort in the name of pleasure and fantasy.\n\nSymbolism has often been confused with the Decadent Movement. Arthur Symons, a British poet and literary critic contemporary with the movement, at one time considered Decadence in literature to be a parent category that included both Symbolism and Impressionism, as rebellions against realism. He defined this common, decadent thread as, \"an intense self-consciousness, a restless curiosity in research, an over-subtilizing refinement upon refinement, a spiritual and moral perversity.\" He referred to all such literature as, \"a new and beautiful and interesting disease.\" Later, however, he would go on to instead describe the Decadent Movement as an \"interlude, half a mock interlude\" that distracted critics from seeing and appreciating the larger and more important trend, which was the development of Symbolism.\n\nIt is true that the two groups share an ideological descent from Baudelaire and for a time they both considered themselves as part of one sphere of new, anti-establishment literature. They worked together and met together for quite a while, as if they were part of the same movement. Maurice Barrès referred to this group as decadents, but he also referred to one of them (Stéphane Mallarmé) as a symbolist. Even Jean Moréas used both terms for his own group of writers as late as 1885.\n\nOnly a year later, however, Jean Moréas wrote his Symbolist Manifesto to assert a difference between the symbolists with whom he allied himself and this the new group of decadents associated with Anatole Baju and \"Le Décadent\". Even after this, there was sufficient common ground of interest, method, and language to blur the lines more than the manifesto might have suggested.\n\nIn the world of visual arts, it can be even more difficult to distinguish decadence from symbolism. In fact, Stephen Romer has referred to Félicien Rops, Gustave Moreau, and Fernand Khnopff as \"Symbolist-Decadent painters and engravers.\"\n\nNevertheless, there are clear ideological differences between those who continued on as symbolists and those who have been called \"dissidents\" for remaining in the Decadent Movement. Often, there was little doubt that Baju and his group were producing work that was decadent, but there is frequently more question about the work of the symbolists.\n\nIn a website associated with Dr. Petra Dierkes-Thrun's Stanford University course, Oscar Wilde and the French Decadents (2014), a student named Reed created a blog post that is the basis for much of what follows.\n\nBoth groups reject the primacy of nature, but what that means for them is very different. Symbolism uses extensive natural imagery as a means to elevate the viewer to a plane higher than the banal reality of nature itself, as when Stéphane Mallarmé mixes descriptions of flowers and heavenly imagery to create a transcendent moment in \"Flowers.\"\n\nDecadence, in contrast, actually belittles nature in the name of artistry. In Huysmans’ \"Against Nature\", for instance, the main character Des Esseintes says of nature: “There is not one of her inventions, no matter how subtle or imposing it may be, which human genius cannot create . . . There can be no doubt about it: this eternal, driveling, old woman is no longer admired by true artists, and the moment has come to replace her by artifice.\"\n\nSymbolism treats language and imagery as devices that can only approximate meaning and merely evoke complex emotions and call the mind toward ideas it might not be able to comprehend. In the words of symbolist poet Stéphane Mallarmé:Languages are imperfect because multiple; the supreme language is missing... no one can utter words which would bear the miraculous stamp of Truth Herself Incarnate... how impossible it is for language to express things... in the Poet's hands... by the consistent virtue and necessity of an art which lives on fiction, it achieves its full efficacy.As Moréas would go on to assert in his manifest on symbolism, words and images serve to dress up the incomprehensible in such a way that it can be approached, if not understood.\n\nDecadence, on the other hand, sees no path to higher truth in words and images. Instead, books, poetry, and art itself as the creators of valid new worlds, thus the allegory of decadent Wilde's Dorian Gray being poisoned by a book like a drug. Words and artifice are the vehicles for human creativity, and Huysmans suggests that the illusions of fantasy have their own reality: \"The secret lies in knowing how to proceed, how to concentrate deeply enough to produce the hallucination and succeed in substituting the dream reality for the reality itself.\"\n\nBoth groups are disillusioned with the meaning and truth offered by the natural world, rational thought, and ordinary society. Symbolism turns its eyes toward Greater Purpose or on the Ideal, using dreams and symbols to approach these esoteric primal truths. In Mallarme's poem “Apparition”, for instance, the word “dreaming” appears twice, followed by “Dream” itself with a capital D. In “The Windows,” he speaks of this decadent disgust of contentment with comfort and an endless desire for the exotic. He writes: “So filled with disgust for the man whose soul is callous, sprawled in comforts where his hungering is fed.” In this continuing search for the spiritual, therefore, Symbolism has been predisposed to concern itself with purity and beauty and such mysterious imagery as those of fairies.\n\nIn contrast, Decadence says there is no oblique approach to ultimate truth, because there is no secret, mystical truth. They despise the very idea of searching for such a thing. If there is truth of value, it is purely in the sensual experience of the moment. The heroes of Decadent novels, for instance, have the unquenchable accumulation of luxuries and pleasure, often exotic, as their goal, would have space in its search for thrills for even the gory and the shocking. In \"The\" \"Temptation of Saint Anthony\", decadent Gustave Flaubert describes Saint Anthony's pleasure from watching disturbing scenes of horror. Later Czech decadent Arthur Breisky has been quoted by scholars as speaking to both the importance of illusion and of beauty: \"But isn’t it necessary to believe a beautiful mask more than reality?\"\n\nUltimately, the distinction may best be seen in their approach to art. Symbolism is an accumulation of “symbols” that are there not to present their content but to evoke greater ideas that their symbolism cannot expressly utter. According to Moréas, it is an attempt to connect the object and phenomena of the world to \"esoteric primordial truths\" that cannot ever be directly approached.\n\nDecadence, on the other hand, is an accumulation of signs or descriptions acting as detailed catalogs of human material riches as well as artifice. It was Oscar Wilde who perhaps lay this out most clearly in \"The Decay of Lying\" with the suggestion of three doctrines on art, here excerpted into a list:\nAfter which, he suggested a conclusion quite in contrast to Moréas' search for shadow truth: \"Lying, the telling of beautiful untrue things, is the proper aim of Art.\"\n\nIn France, the Decadent Movement could not withstand the loss of its leading figures. Many of those associated with the Decadent Movement became symbolists after initially associating freely with decadents. Paul Verlaine and Stéphane Mallarmé were among those, though both had been associated with Baju's \"Le Décadent\" for a time. Others kept a foot in each camp. Albert Aurier wrote decadent pieces for \"Le Décadent\" and also wrote symbolist poetry and art criticism. Decadent writer Rachilde was staunchly opposed to a symbolist take over of \"Le Décadent\" even though her own one-act drama \"The Crystal Spider\" is almost certainly a symbolist work. Others, once strong voices for decadence, abandoned the movement altogether. Joris-Karl Huysmans grew to consider \"Against Nature\" as the starting point on his journey into Roman Catholic symbolist work and the acceptance of hope. Anatole Baju, once the self-appointed school-master of French decadence, came to think of the movement as naive and half-hearted, willing to tinker and play with social realities, but not to utterly destroy them. He left decadence for anarchy.\n\nWhile the Decadent Movement, per se, was truly a French phenomenon, the impact was felt more broadly. Typically, the influence was felt as an interest in pleasure, an interest in experimental sexuality, and a fascination with the bizarre, all packaged with a somewhat trangressive spirit and an aesthetic that values material excess. Many were also influenced by the Decadent Movement's aesthetic emphasis on art for its own sake.\n\nBohemia\n\nCzech writers who were exposed to the work of the Decadent Movement saw in it the promise of a life they could never know. They were neither aristocrats nor bored bourgeoisie. They were poor and hungry for something better. The dreams of the decadents gave them that something better, but something that was hopelessly unattainable. It was that melancholy that drove their art. These Bohemian decadent writers included Karel Hlaváček, Arnošt Procházka, Jiří Karásek ze Lvovic, and Louisa Zikova. One Czech writer, Arthur Breisky, embraced the full spirit of \"Le Décadent\" with its exultation in material excess and a life of refinement and pleasure. From the Decadent Movement he learned the basic idea of a dandy, and his work is almost entirely focused on developing a philosophy in which the Dandy is the consummate human, surrounded by riches and elegance, theoretically above society, just as doomed to death and despair as they.\n\nBritain\nThough influenced through general exposure but also direct contact, the leading decadent figures in Britain associated with decadence were Irish writer Oscar Wilde, poet Algernon Charles Swinburne, and illustrator Aubrey Beardsley, as well as other artists and writers associated with \"The Yellow Book\". Others, such as Walter Pater, resisted association with the movement, even though their works seemed to reflect similar ideals. While most of the influence was from figures such as Baudelaire and Verlaine, there was also very strong influence at times from more purely decadent members of the French movement, such as the influence that Huysmans and Rachilde had on Wilde, as seen explicitly in \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\". British decadents embraced the idea of creating art for its own sake, pursuing all possible desires, and seeking material excess. At the same time, they were not shy about using the tools of decadence for social and political purpose. Beardsley had an explicit interest in the improvement of the social order and the role of art-as-experience in inspiring that transformation. Oscar Wilde published an entire work exploring socialism as a liberating force: \"Socialism would relieve us from that sordid necessity of living for others which, in the present condition of things, presses so hardly upon almost everybody.\" Swinburne wrote explicitly addressed Irish-English politics in poetry, as when he wrote, \"Thieves and murderers, hands yet red with blood and tongues yet black with lies | Clap and clamour--'Parnell spurs his Gladstone well!'\" In many of their personal lives, they also pursued decadent ideals. Wilde had a secret homosexual life. Swinburne had an obsession with flagellation.\n\nRussia\nThe Decadent Movement reached into Russia primarily through exposure to the writings of Charles Baudelaire and Paul Verlaine. The earliest Russian adherents lacked idealism and focused on such decadent themes as subversion of morality, disregard for personal health, and living in blasphemy and sensual pleasure. Russian writers were especially drawn to the morbid aspects of decadence and in the fascination with death. Dmitry Merezhkovsky is thought to be the first to clearly promote a Russian decadence that included the idealism that would eventually inspire the French symbolists to disassociate from the more purely materialistic Decadent Movement. The first Russian writers to achieve success as followers of this Decadent Movement included Konstanin Balmont, Fyodor Sologub, Valery Bryusov, and Zinaida Gippius. As they refined their craft beyond imitation of Baudelaire and Verlaine, most of these authors became much more clearly aligned with symbolism than with decadence. Some visual artists adhered to the Baju-esque late Decadent Movement approach to sexuality as purely an act of pleasure, often ensconced in a context of material luxury. They also shared the same emphasis on shocking society, purely for the scandal. Among them were Konstantin Somov, , and Nikolay Feofilaktov.\n\nSpain\n\nSome art historians consider Francisco de Goya one of the roots of the Decadent movement in Spain, almost 100 years before its start in France. Their works were a cry of denouncement against injustice and oppression. However, Ramón Casas and José María López Mezquita can be considered the model artists of this period. Their paintings are an image of the social conflicts and police repression that was happening in Spain at the time.\nSpaniard writers also wanted to be part of this movement. Emilia Pardo Bazán with works like Los Pazos de Ulloa where terror and decadent topics appear. El monstruo (The Monster), written by Antonio de Hoyos y Vinent belongs to Decadent Movement. But the Decadent Movement is overlapped by the Fin de Siglo Movement with the authors of the Generación del 98 being part-decadent: Ramón María del Valle-Inclán, Unamuno and Pío Baroja are the most essential figures of this period. \n\nUnited States\n\nFew prominent writers or artists in the United States were connected with the Decadent Movement. Those who were connected struggled to find an audience, for Americans were reluctant to see value for them in what they considered the art forms of fin de siècle France. Poet Francis Saltus Saltus was inspired by Charles Baudelaire, and his unpracticed style was occasionally compared to the French poet's more refined experimentation. He embraced the most debauched lifestyle of the French decadents and celebrated that life in his own poetry. At the time, mostly before Baju's \"Le Décadent\", this frivolous poetry on themes of alcohol and depravity found little success and no known support from those who were part of the Decadent Movement. The younger brother of Francis, writer Edgar Saltus had more success. He had some interaction with Oscar Wilde, and he valued decadence in his personal life. For a time, his work exemplified both the ideals and style of the movement, but a significant portion of his career was in traditional journalism and fiction that praised virtue. At the time when he was flourishing, however, multiple contemporary critics, as well as other decadent writers, explicitly considered him one of them. Writer James Huneker was exposed to the Decadent Movement in France and tried to bring it back with him to New York. He has been lauded to his dedication to this cause throughout his career, but it has also been suggested that, while he lived as a decadent and heralded their work, his own work was more frustrated, hopeless, and empty of the pleasure that had attracted him to the movement in the first place. Largely, he focused on cynically describing the impossibility of a true American decadence.\n\nGerman doctor and social critic Max Nordau wrote a lengthy book entitled \"Degeneration\" (1892). It was an examination of decadence as a trend, and specifically attacked several people associated with the Decadent Movement, as well as other figures throughout the world who deviated from cultural, moral, or political norms. His language was colorful and vitriolic, often invoking the worship of Satan. What made the book a success was its suggestion of a medical diagnosis of \"degeneration,\" a neuro-pathology that resulted in these behaviors. It also helped that the book named such figures as Oscar Wilde, Algernon Charles Swinburne, Paul Verlaine, and Maurice Barrès, members of the Decadent Movement who were in the public eye.\n\nIn 1930 Italian art and literature critic Mario Praz completed a broad study of morbid and erotic literature, translated and published in English as \"The Romantic Agony\" (1933). The study included decadent writing (such as Baudelaire and Swinburne), but also anything else that he considered dark, grim, or sexual in some way. His study centered on the 18th and 19th Centuries. The danger of such literature, he believed it unnaturally elevated the instinctive bond between pain and pleasure and that, no matter the artists' intention, the essential role of art is to educate and teach culture.\n\nFrench\n\nAustrian\n\nRussian\n\nBritish\n\nIrish\n\nItalian\n\nAmerican\n\nBelgian\nSpanish\nOthers\n\nFrench\n\nAustrian\n\nBelgian\nSpanish\n\nOther\n\n"}
{"id": "2354244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2354244", "title": "Droste effect", "text": "Droste effect\n\nThe Droste effect (), known in art as \"mise en abyme\", is the effect of a picture recursively appearing within itself, in a place where a similar picture would realistically be expected to appear.\nThe effect is named for a Dutch brand of cocoa, with an image designed by Jan Misset in 1904. It has since been used in the packaging of a variety of products. The effect was anticipated in medieval works of art such as Giotto's Stefaneschi Triptych of 1320.\n\nThe effect is named after the image on the tins and boxes of Droste cocoa powder, one of the main Dutch brands, which displayed a nurse carrying a serving tray with a cup of hot chocolate and a box with the same image, designed by Jan Misset. This image, introduced in 1904, and maintained for decades with slight variations from 1912 by artists including Adolphe Mouron, became a household notion. Reportedly, poet and columnist Nico Scheepmaker introduced wider usage of the term in the late 1970s.\n\nThe appearance is recursive: the smaller version contains an even smaller version of the picture, and so on. Only in theory could this go on forever, as fractals do; practically, it continues only as long as the resolution of the picture allows, which is relatively short, since each iteration geometrically reduces the picture's size.\n\nThe Droste effect was anticipated by Giotto in 1320, in his Stefaneschi Triptych. The polyptych altarpiece portrays in its center panel Cardinal Giacomo Gaetani Stefaneschi offering the triptych itself to St. Peter. There are also several examples from medieval times of books featuring images containing the book itself or window panels in churches depicting miniature copies of the window panel itself.\n\nThe Dutch artist M. C. Escher made use of the Droste effect in his 1956 lithograph Print Gallery, which depicts a gallery containing a print which depicts the gallery, each time both reduced and rotated, but with a void at the centre of the image. The work has attracted the attention of mathematicians including Bart de Smit and Hendrik Lenstra. They devised a method of filling in the artwork's central void in an additional application of the Droste effect by successively rotating and shrinking an image of the artwork.\n\nThe Droste effect was used in the packaging of Land O'Lakes butter, which features a Native American woman holding a package of butter with a picture of herself. Morton Salt similarly makes use of the effect. The cover of the 1969 vinyl album \"Ummagumma\" by Pink Floyd shows the band members sitting in various places, with a picture on the wall showing the same scene, but the order of the band members rotated. The logo of \"The Laughing Cow\" cheese spread brand pictures a cow with earrings. On closer inspection, these are seen to be images of the circular cheese spread package, each bearing the image of the laughing cow. The Droste effect is a theme in Russell Hoban's children's novel, \"The Mouse and His Child\", appearing in the form of a label on a can of \"Bonzo Dog Food\" which depicts itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35563221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35563221", "title": "Electronic Art Cafè", "text": "Electronic Art Cafè\n\nThe Electronic Art Café (EAC) is a touring art project, which consists of events and exhibitions by artists of international avant-garde. The seat was in the Exhibition Palace in Rome.\n\nLocated in New York City in 1994 from an idea of Umberto Scrocca, was hosted in the Great Hall of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art at the symposium \"New York City - Sarajevo\", was attended by Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sontag and Lisa Gaye.\nCurrently the seat is in Rome in Piazza Farnese at the Wine Bar Camponeschi and is curated by Achille Bonito Oliva, which invites artists on stage to perform with their work, a performance or a video, thus creating the brand of artist EAC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49346356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49346356", "title": "Gaur (artistic group)", "text": "Gaur (artistic group)\n\nGaur ('today' in Basque) was a Basque artistic group founded in 1966 by Amable Arias, Rafael Ruiz Balerdi, Nestor Basterretxea, Eduardo Chillida, Remigio Mendiburu, Jorge Oteiza, José Antonio Sistiaga, and José Luis Zumeta. The avant-guard group, based in Gipuzkoa, Spain, provided the springboard for a wide Basque artistic movement with close links to influential social, cultural and political agents in the Basque Country opposed to Franco's dictatorship during the 70s and early 80s. \n\nThe group launched with an exhibition on 28 April 1966 at the Barandiarán Gallery in San Sebastián. It challenged the aesthetic moulds and artistic conventions prevailing during that period in Gipuzkoa, and the Basque Country altogether. The artists founding the movement stirred at the rapid economic and social changes taking place at the moment, the virtually non-existent cultural scene, and the crisis of the Basque collective identity.\n\nIt stood out as the most prolific artistic group in a constellation of groups founded across all the Basque Country during the same period that made up the Basque Art School.\n"}
{"id": "3305098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3305098", "title": "Graphic telescope", "text": "Graphic telescope\n\nThe graphic telescope is a type of camera lucida that has the power of a telescope. It was invented by Cornelius Varley in 1811.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429063", "title": "Information art", "text": "Information art\n\nInformation art (also data art or informatism) is an emerging field of electronic art that synthesizes computer science, information technology, and more classical forms of art, including performance art, visual art, new media art and conceptual art. Information Art often includes interaction with computers that generate artistic content based on the processing of large amounts of data.\n\nInformatism follows on the 1970 exhibition organized by Kynaston McShine called \"Information\", held at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City - a show that formally established conceptual art as a leading tendency in the United States. Conceptual art had emerged simultaneously in dozens of international locations around 1966. At the same time arose the activities of Experiments in Art and Technology known as E.A.T.\n\nInformation art data can be manifested using photographs, census data, micropayments, personal profiles and expressions, video clips, search engine results, digital painting, network signals, and prose.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1405023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1405023", "title": "L'Origine du monde", "text": "L'Origine du monde\n\nArt historians have speculated for years that Courbet's model for was his favourite model, Joanna Hiffernan, also known as \"Jo\". Her lover at the time was the American painter James Whistler, a friend of Courbet.\n\nHiffernan was the subject of a series of four portaits by Courbet entitled \"La belle Irlandaise (Portrait of Jo)\" painted in 1865-66. The possibility that she was the model for or that she was having an affair with Courbet might explain Courbet's and Whistler's brutal separation a short while later. In spite of Hiffernan's red hair contrasting with the darker pubic hair of , the hypothesis that Hiffernan was the model continues. Redhead Jacky Colliss Harvey puts forward the idea that the woman's body-hair suggests a more obvious candidate might be the brunette painted with Hiffernan in Courbet's \"Le Sommeil\"; and that the identification with Hiffernan has been greatly influenced by the eroticised and sexualised image of the female redhead.\nIn February 2013, \"Paris Match\" reported that Courbet expert Jean-Jacques Fernier had authenticated a painting of a young woman's head and shoulders as the upper section of which according to some was severed from the original work. Fernier has stated that because of the conclusions reached after two years of analysis, the head will be added to the next edition of the Courbet catalogue raisonné. The Musée d'Orsay has indicated that \"L'Origine du monde\" was not part of a larger work. \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported that \"experts at the [French] art research centre CARAA (Centre d'Analyses et de Recherche en Art et Archéologie) were able to align the two paintings via grooves made by the original wooden frame and lines in the canvas itself, whose grain matched.\" According to CARAA, it performed pigment analyses which were identified as classical pigments of the 2nd half of the 19th century. No other conclusions were reported by the CARAA. The claim reported by \"Paris Match\" was characterized as dubious by \"Le Monde\" art critic Philippe Dagen, indicating differences in style, and that canvas-similarities could be caused by buying from the same shop.\n\nDocumentary evidence however links the painting with Constance Quéniaux, a former dancer at the Paris Opera and a mistress of the Ottoman diplomat Halil Şerif Pasha (Khalil Bey) who commisioned the painting. According to the historian Claude Schopp and the head of the French National Library's prints department, Sylvie Aubenas, the evidence is found in correspondence between Alexandre Dumas fils and George Sand. Another potential model was Marie-Anne Detourbay, who also was a mistress of Halil Şerif Pasha.\n\nHalil Şerif Pasha (Khalil Bey) is believed to have commissioned the work shortly after he moved to Paris. Charles Augustin Sainte-Beuve introduced him to Courbet and he ordered a painting to add to his personal collection of erotic pictures, which already included (\"The Turkish Bath\") from Ingres and another painting by Courbet, \"Le Sommeil\" (\"The Sleepers\"), for which it is supposed that Hiffernan was one of the models.\n\nAfter Khalil Bey's finances were ruined by gambling, the painting subsequently passed through a series of private collections. It was first bought during the sale of the Khalil Bey collection in 1868, by antique dealer Antoine de la Narde. Edmond de Goncourt hit upon it in an antique shop in 1889, hidden behind a wooden pane decorated with the painting of a castle or a church in a snowy landscape. According to Robert Fernier, who published two volumes of the Courbet catalogue raisonné and founded the Musée Courbet, Hungarian collector Baron Ferenc Hatvany bought it at the Bernheim-Jeune gallery in 1910 and took it with him to Budapest. Towards the end of the Second World War the painting was looted by Soviet troops, but later ransomed by Hatvany. Hatvany left Hungary, which was on the brink of a Communist takeover, in 1947. He was allowed to take only one art work with him, and he took to Paris.\n\nIn 1955 was sold at auction for 1.5 million francs, about 4,285 US dollars at the time. Its new owner was the psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan. He and his wife, actress Sylvia Bataille, installed it in their country house in Guitrancourt. Lacan asked André Masson, his stepbrother, to build a double bottom frame and draw another picture thereon. Masson painted a surrealist, allusive version of .\n\nThe New York public had the opportunity to view in 1988 during the \"Courbet Reconsidered\" show at the Brooklyn Museum; the painting was also included in the exhibition \"Gustave Courbet\" at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2008. After Lacan died in 1981, the French Minister of Economy and Finances agreed to settle the family's inheritance tax bill through the transfer of the work ( in French law) to the Musée d'Orsay; the transfer was finalized in 1995.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the display of the nude body underwent a revolution whose main activists were Courbet and Manet. Courbet rejected academic painting and its smooth, idealised nudes, but he also directly recriminated the hypocritical social conventions of the Second Empire, where eroticism and even pornography were acceptable in mythological or oneiric paintings.\n\nCourbet later insisted he never lied in his paintings, and his realism pushed the limits of what was considered presentable. With , he has made even more explicit the eroticism of Manet's \"Olympia\". Maxime Du Camp, in a harsh tirade, reported his visit to the work's purchaser, and his sight of a painting \"giving realism's last word\".\nBy the very nature of its realistic, graphic nudity, the painting still has the power to shock and triggers censorship.\n\nAlthough moral standards and resulting taboos regarding the artistic display of nudity have changed since Courbet, owing especially to photography and cinema, the painting remained provocative. Its arrival at the Musée d'Orsay caused high excitement. According to postcard sales, is the second most popular painting in the Musée d'Orsay, after Renoir's \"Bal du moulin de la Galette\".\n\nSome critics maintain that the body depicted is not (as has been argued) a lively erotic portray of a female but of a corpse: \"\"L’Origine\" does not represent a full female body but rather a slice of one, cut off by the frame [...]. The pallidness of the skin and the mortuary gauze surrounding the body suggest death.\"\n\nThe explicitness of the picture may have served as an inspiration, albeit with a satirical twist, for Marcel Duchamp's last major work, \"Étant donnés\" (1946–1966), a construction also featuring the image of a woman lying on her back with her legs spread.\n\nIn 1989, French artist Orlan created the cibachrome \"L'origine de la guerre\" (\"The Origin of War\"), a male version of \"L'origine du monde\" showing a penile erection.\n\nIn February 1994, the novel (\"Perpetual Adorations\") by reproduced on its cover. Police visited several French bookshops to have them withdraw the book from their windows. A few proprietors maintained the book, but others complied, and some voluntarily removed it.\n\nBrazilian artist Vik Muniz created two versions of the famous painting. \"The first [1999] is a photograph made of dust or dirt, which plays with the common moralist association between female genitalia and filth. In the second piece [2013], Muniz remakes \"L’Origine\" from an assemblage of journal clippings that are reminiscent of the anatomic and artistic procedure of cutting that produced [...] the female body.\"\n\n\"Two Origins of the World\" (2000) by Mexican artist Enrique Chagoya \"recycles \"L’Origine du monde\" as a spectral backdrop behind three solid black, blue and white squares of canvas in three of the corners of the painting. In the foreground of the bottom right corner, an indigenous man sits at a fourth canvas, this one on an easel, apparently 'interpreting' the Courbet painting.\"\n\nIn 2002, American artist Jack Daws created an homage to the painting. Entitled \"Origins of the World\", it is a collection of various photographs of vulvas, taken from pornographic magazines, and framed in montage.\n\nThe British artist Anish Kapoor created an installation in 2004 called \"L'Origine du monde\", which references Courbet's painting. The piece is in the 21st Century Museum of Contemporary Art, Kanazawa in Japan.\n\nThe image is also referenced as inspiring Catherine Breillat's filming of the female genitalia in her 2004 film (\"Anatomy of Hell\").\n\nThe Serbian performance artist Tanja Ostojić parodied the work in a poster in 2005, informally called the \"EU panties\" poster. Like Courbet's painting, the poster proved controversial, and was ultimately removed from the art exhibition in which it was originally displayed.\n\nOn February 23, 2009 in Braga, Portugal, the police confiscated the book \"Pornocratie\" by Catherine Breillat, displayed in bookshops using as its cover. A great deal of controversy was sparked by the police action. The reason given was the need to maintain public order. Also, the book title incorrectly hinted at pornographic content. Portuguese law forbids public displays of pornography.\n\nIn 2010, British composer Tony Hymas composed a musical suite dedicated to the picture as well as relations between Courbet and the Paris Commune, based on texts by Courbet himself, Charles Baudelaire and Pierre Dupont.\n\nIn February 2011, Facebook censored after it was posted by Copenhagen-based artist Frode Steinicke, to illustrate his comments about a television program aired on DR2. Following the incident, many other Facebook users defiantly changed their profile pictures to the Courbet painting in an act of solidarity with Steinicke. Facebook, which originally disabled Steinicke's profile, finally re-enabled it without the picture. As the case won media attention, Facebook deleted other pages about the painting.\n\nIn October 2011, again, a complaint was lodged against Facebook with the Tribunal de grande instance de Paris (Paris court of general jurisdiction) by a French Facebook user after his profile was disabled for showing a picture of . The picture was a link to a television program aired on Arte about the history of the painting. As he got no answer to his emails to Facebook, he decided to lodge a complaint for \"infringement of freedom of expression\" and against the legality of Facebook's terms which define the courts located in Santa Clara County, California, as the exclusive place of jurisdiction for all litigating claims. In February 2016, the Paris court ruled that Facebook could be sued in France. \n\nThe German-born Turkish artist Taner Ceylan has painted a work named \"1879 (From the Lost Paintings Series)\" (2011) in which a veiled Ottoman noblewoman stands before the framed canvas of \"L'Origine du monde\".\n\nOn 29 May 2014, a Luxembourg performance artist, Deborah De Robertis, sat on the floor in front of the painting and mimicked the view of the subject. This resulted in security guards closing the room and her arrest.\n\nUS artist Candice Lin recreated \"L’Origine du monde\" in a video of her an audiovisual sculpture \"Hunter Moon / Inside Out\" (2015). In it, \"Courbet’s L’Origine du monde with eyes\" \"looks back at the onlookers.\" From a feminist point of view, Lin's work challenges \"the asymmetry of power [...] between those who look and those who are seen.\"\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "14301828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14301828", "title": "List of Lalit Kala Akademi fellows", "text": "List of Lalit Kala Akademi fellows\n\nThe Lalit Kala Akademi Fellowship, also, Lalit Kala Akademi \"Ratna\" (Sanskrit \"ratna\", \"gem\") is an honour for the fine arts in India, given to eminent artists for their lifetime achievements in the field of visual arts. It is awarded by the Lalit Kala Akademi, India's National Academy of Art, it is the highest honour in the fine arts conferred by the Government of India.\n\nThe ‘Fellow,’ carries a purse-money of Rs.25,000/-, a citation and a plaque. The Fellow is honoured with a portfolio about their major art works. The first elected fellow, in 1955, was the artist Jamini Roy.\n\nNo. Name of the Fellow Year\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16615403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16615403", "title": "List of women warriors in folklore", "text": "List of women warriors in folklore\n\nThis is a list of women who engaged in war, found throughout mythology and folklore, studied in fields such as literature, sociology, psychology, anthropology, film studies, cultural studies, and women's studies. A \"mythological\" figure does not always mean a \"fictional\" one, but rather, someone of whom stories have been told that have entered the cultural heritage of a people. Some women warriors are documented in the written record and as such form part of history (e.g. the Ancient Briton queen Boudica, who led the Iceni into battle against the Romans). However, to be considered a warrior, the woman in question must have belonged to some sort of military, be it recognized, like an organized army, or unrecognized, like revolutionaries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNonhelema was a Shawnee chieftess and sister of Cornstalk. She was known by white settlers as the Grenadier or Grenadier Squaw because of her height. She promoted an alliance with the Americans on the frontier in Ohio.\n\nWoman Chief (c. 1806 – 1858) was a Crow chief and war leader in the mid-19th century. Born to the Gros Ventre people, she was adopted into the Crow. She gained renown in battles and raids, and assumed leadership of her lodge when her father died, becoming a leading chief. She married four wives and later participated in peace negotiations after the 1851 Treaty of Fort Laramie.\n\nFallen Leaf (often called Woman Chief by the Americans): She was born to the Gros Ventre nation and taken captive by the Crow when she was 12. After she had counted coup four times in the prescribed Crow tradition, she was considered a warrior and chief and sat in the council of chiefs.\n\nRunning Eagle: she became a Blackfoot (Piegan) warrior after her husband was killed by the Crow.\n\nColestah: In the 1858 battle of Spokane Plains in Washington, Yakama leader Kamiakin's wife Colestah was known as a medicine woman, psychic, and warrior. Armed with a stone war club, Colestah fought at her husband's side. When Kamiakin was wounded, she rescued him, and then used her healing skills to cure him.\n\nBuffalo Calf Road Woman: In the 1876 battle of the Rosebud in Montana, Buffalo Calf Road (aka Calf Trail Woman), the sister of Comes in Sight, rode into the middle of the warriors and saved the life of her brother. Buffalo Calf Road had ridden into battle that day next to her husband Black Coyote. This was considered to be one of the greatest acts of valor in the battle.\n\nMoving Robe Woman: One of the best-known battles in the annals of Indian-American warfare is the 1876 Battle of the Greasy Grass in Montana where Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer was defeated. One of those who led the counterattack against the cavalry was the woman Tashenamani (Moving Robe).\n\nLozen (c. 1840-June 17, 1889) was a female warrior and prophet of the Chihenne Chiricahua Apache. She spent most of her adult life fighting the Apache Wars alongside her brother Victorio and the legendary Geronimo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSomdet Phra Sri Suriyothai () was a royal consort during the 16th century Ayutthaya period of Siam (now Thailand). She is famous for having given up her life in the defense of her husband, King Maha Chakkraphat, in a battle during the Burmese-Siamese War of 1548. For the movie, see \"The Legend of Suriyothai\".\n\nThao Thep Kasattri () and Thao Sri Sunthon () were styles awarded to Than Phuying Chan (), wife of the then recently deceased governor, and her sister, Khun Muk (), who defended Phuket Province in the late 18th century. According to popular belief, they repelled a five-week invasion by Burmaese in 1785, by dressing up as male soldiers and rallying Siamese troops. Chan and Muk were later honored by King Rama I with the Thai honorific \"Thao\", as Thao Thep Kasattri and Thao Sri Sunthon, respectively. The \"Heroine's Monument\" honouring them is situated on the main highway (402) between the Phuket International Airport and Phuket town.\n\n\nThree historical women:\n\nTwo legendary women:\n\nThis Amazon is famous in their traditions: her house or dairy of stone is yet extant; some of the inhabitants dwell in it all summer, though it be some hundred years old; the whole is built of stone, without any wood, lime, earth, or mortar to cement it, and is built in form of a circle pyramid-wise towards the top, having a vent in it, the fire being always in the centre of the floor; the stones are long and thin, which supplies the defect of wood; the body of this house contains not above nine persons sitting; there are three beds or low vaults that go off the side of the wall, a pillar betwixt each bed, which contains five men apiece; at the entry to one of these low vaults is a stone standing upon one end fix’d; upon this they say she ordinarily laid her helmet; there are two stones on the other side, upon which she is reported to have laid her sword: she is said to have been much addicted to hunting, and that in her time all the space betwixt this isle and that of Harries, was one continued tract of dry land.\n\nSimilar stories of a female warrior who hunted the now submerged land between the Outer Hebrides and St Kilda are reported from Harris.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \"From sunrise to the sundown no paragon had she.\n\n\n\n\nKhawlah bint al-Azwar was the daughter of one of the chiefs of Bani Assad tribe, and her family embraced Islam in its first days. The recorded history of that era mentions repeatedly the feats of Khawla in battles that took place in Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and Palestine. In one instance, she fought in disguise as a man to rescue her brother Derar after the Romans captured him. The Romans eventually lost the battle and fled. When her identity was discovered, the commander of the Moslem army was very impressed with her courage, and he allowed her to lead the attack against the fleeing Romans; they were defeated and the prisoners were all released. In another battle in Ajnadin, Khawla's spear broke, and her mare was killed, and she found herself a prisoner. But she was astonished to find that the Romans attacked the women camp and captured several of them. Their leader gave the prisoners to his commanders, and ordered Khawla to be moved into his tent. She was furious, and decided that to die is more honorable than living in disgrace. She stood among the other women, and called them to fight for their freedom and honor or die. They took the tents' poles and pegs and attacked the Roman guards, keeping a formation of a tight circle, as she told them. Khawla led the attack, killed the first guard with her pole, with the other women following her. According to Al Wakidi, they managed to kill 30 Roman soldiers, five of whom were killed by Khawla herself, including the soldier who wanted to rape her. She was a brunette, tall, slim and of great beauty, and she was also a distinguished poet.\n\nNusaybah bint Ka’ab, also known as Umm Ammarah (Ammarah's mother), a Hebrew woman by origin from the Banu Najjar tribe, was an early convert to Islam. Nusaybah was attending the Battle of Uhud like other women, and her intention was to bring water to the soldiers, and attend the wounded while her husband and son fought on the side of the Moslems. But after the Moslem archers disobeyed their orders and began deserting their high ground believing victory was at hand, the tide of the battle changed, and it appeared that defeat was imminent. When this occurred, Nusaybah entered the battle, carrying a sword and shield. She shielded Muhammad from the arrows of the enemy, and received several wounds while fighting. She was highly praised by Muhammad on her courage and heroism. During the battle her son was wounded and she cut off the leg of the aggressor.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25120842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25120842", "title": "Ludic interface", "text": "Ludic interface\n\nA ludic interface is a type of computer interface. In the field of human–computer interaction (HCI), the term ludic Interfaces describes a discipline that focuses on user interfaces that are inherently \"playful\". This field of interface research and design draws on concepts introduced by Dutch historian and cultural theorist Johan Huizinga in the book Homo Ludens (\"Man the Player\" or \"Playing Man\").\nHuizinga's work is considered an important contribution to the development of game studies.\n\nThe various tools and concepts associated with ludic interface development differ from mainstream technological systems that employ human computer interfacing and interaction. Ludic interfaces tend to be more playful, are user-generated and user-driven, flexible, low-cost and cooperative. Such interfaces are often experimental and draw upon methods and knowledge from video game design, interactive media, modding cultures, media conversion, and social networking. The goal of ludic interface design is to create interfacing technology that offers ease of use and is inherently playful.\n\nAt its core, \"ludic interfaces\" is a subcategory of interfaces in general. The notion is not restricted to electronics or human–computer interaction, even if the terminology was developed in respect to digital technology. Various authors suggest to use the term \"ludic interfaces\" for non-digital phenomena, e.g. architectural facades, skins, wearable computers, media art. \"Ludic Interfaces\" is also a Masters programme development on a European level. It is the title of a European collaboration in creating a network of academic institutions and of world leading media centres to investigate, design and test publicly shared digital content. The programme development is a joint project by the University of Potsdam, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Universität für künstlerische und industrielle Gestaltung in Linz, and by the University of Salford in Greater Manchester.\n\nLudic interface design was first defined in 2002 by William Gaver, in \"Designing for Homo Ludens\", expanded in a later article in 2009.\n\nThe term was revisited in 2008 by International Symposium on Electronic Art) curators Gunalan Nadarajan and Vladimir Todorović to describe a panel section of ISEA2008 in Singapore. The term was introduced with the aim of counterbalancing the tendency of \"infantilization of play\" and stressing the \"complicities between technology and pleasure\".\n\nIn the same year a group of game artists and scholars at Leuphana University in Lueneburg started lecturing and writing about the theory of Ludic Interfaces and applied for a European grant to develop a Masters programme in Ludic Interfaces. The application was successful and the development has successfully been completed in 2013.\n\nThe notion of \"ludic interfaces\" has also historical roots in artistic practice and analysis of interfaces (cf. Christa Sommerer, Laurent Mignonneau), the notion of \"playfulness\" as a design and arts strategy, or the \"Ludic Society\" arts organisation.\n\nJess Kilby’s RFID Tarot table consists of a hand-painted black table with letters and signs drawn upon it, and a white set of cards containing radio-frequency tags. The installation is an example for a ludic set-up where the interface contributes significantly to the magic of the game. Hidden information within the blank cards allows the RFID reader, a digital tarot reader automaton, to interpret information hidden from the human eye. Kilby’s system interprets the information contained within the cards and displays videos of a frightening future. The game could certainly be implemented as a Flash simulation or be built for a 2D monitor display system, but without the materiality of the ludic interface, without the special lighting, and without the artist dressed in a fortune teller’s dress the game would not work at all. The same holds true for Mary Flanagan’s “Giant Joystick”. It is the interface with all its materiality, erotic connotations and haptic features which makes the ludic installation work so well. Ludic interfaces can also facilitate play in a musical sense. The \"postvinyl\" performance, originally commissioned by futuresonic festival Manchester in 2004 recontextualizes a computer game in a performance environment.\n\nAn introduction to the field appropriate for general audiences is a publication to be issued in summer of 2010 by furtherfield, London.\n\nNotable conferences in the field include:\n\n"}
{"id": "23407994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23407994", "title": "Minced oaths in media", "text": "Minced oaths in media\n\nIt is common to find minced oaths in literature and media. Writers often include minced oaths instead of profanity in their writing so that they do not offend audiences or incur censorship.\n\nW. Somerset Maugham referred to this problem in his 1919 novel \"The Moon and Sixpence\", where he admitted:\n\nStrickland, according to Captain Nichols, did not use exactly the words I have given, but since this book is meant for family reading, I thought it better—at the expense of truth—to put into his mouth language familiar to the domestic circle.\n\nIn particular, authors of children's fiction sometimes put minced oaths into the mouths of characters who swear a lot, as a way of depicting a part of their behaviour that would be unconvincing not to represent, but also avoiding the use of swear words which would be considered unsuitable for children to read.\n\nIn 1851, Charles Dickens wrote:\nBark's parts of speech are of an awful sort—principally adjectives. I won't, says Bark, have no adjective police and adjective strangers in my adjective premises! I won't, by adjective and substantive! ... Give me, says Bark, my adjective trousers!\n\nThe term \"dickens\" itself, probably from the surname, became a minced oath when referring to the devil.\n\nNorman Mailer's novel \"The Naked and the Dead\" uses \"fug\" in place of \"fuck\" throughout.\n\nMystery writer Fran Rizer deploys \"kindergarten cussin'\" in her Callie Parrish series, where the main character can be heard muttering, \"Dalmatian!\" and \"Shih Tzu!\"\n\nIn Robert Jordan's \"The Wheel of Time\" series, characters use oaths such as \"flaming\" or \"blood and ashes\" or the interjection \"light\" in the same strength as a curse word, without having to print swear words.\n\nScience Fiction writer John Brunner, in novels such as \"The Shockwave Rider\" and \"Stand on Zanzibar\", uses 'Shiv' and 'slit' to refer to male and female body parts (and sometimes males and females) respectively.\n\nThe lead characters of Anthony Crowley (a demon) and Aziraphale (an angel) from \"Good Omens\", by Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman, both use minced oaths on a number of occasions, though for different reasons (Aziraphale genuinely means to avoid offense, while Crowley, being a demon, simply finds it more acceptable to his post to say 'gosh' instead of 'God').\n\nIn Stephen King's 2006 novel \"Lisey's Story\", the main characters, Lisey and Scott Landon, use the word \"smuck\" instead of \"fuck\", replacing it wherever \"fuck\" would be conceivably used: \"smucking, mothersmucker, smucked up\", etc.\n\nIn the \"Gaunt's Ghosts\" series by Dan Abnett, the Imperial Guardsmen use the word \"feth\" as a general all-purpose swear word, primarily to replace the word \"fuck\".\n\nIn the series \"TZA\", John Spencer uses \"spash\" in place of most curses from the second book forth.\n\nThroughout his comic novel \"Myron\", Gore Vidal replaces various obscenities with the names of judges who were involved in an obscenity trial.\n\nIn the \"Codex Alera\" series, by Jim Butcher, most obscenities are replaced with a variation of the word crow, e.g. crows or crowbegotten.\n\nTerry Pratchett uses minced oaths for comic effect, for example in Mort: \"\"A wizard. I hate ----ing wizards.\" \"Well, you shouldn't ---- them then,\" replied the second, effortlessly pronouncing a row of dashes.\" In a later book, The Truth, the character Mr Tulip habitually and persistently uses a similarly diagetic form of pseudo-profane interjection throughout his dialogue.\n\nIn Stephen King's 2009 novel \"Under the Dome\", the character 'Big Jim' Rennie avoids swearing by replacing words such as \"fucking and clusterfuck\" with \"cottonpicking and clustermug\".\n\nErnest Hemingway substituted muck for that with which it rhymes in 'Across the River and into the Trees ' and fornicate for that with which it doesn't rhyme in 'For Whom the Bell Tolls.' It makes for some awkward constructions in the latter.\n\nSpider Robinson, in his science fiction novels, consistently uses \"kark\" in place of \"fuck\", and \"taken slot\" in place of \"fucking slut\" -- \"slot\" perhaps being also a reference to the female anatomy as receptacle.\n\nWarriors features the minced oaths of \"mouse-dung\" and rarely \"fox-dung,\" and others relevant to the forest are used in place of curses.\n\nIn the Judge Dredd comic strip featured in \"2000 AD\", the futuristic justice department approved the terms \"Stomm\", \"Drokk\", and \"Grud\". This last is a clear reference to the Christian God as it is accompanied by the apparatus of an organized religion, including \"Church of Grud\" and similar. Use of the terms includes the colorful \"Grud on a Greenie!\". From 1977 to 1979, \"2000 AD\" also featured a \"Dan Dare\" comic strip, loosely set in the same continuity as \"Judge Dredd\", and these strips too used such parlance as \"Stomm\" and \"Drokk\".\n\nIn comic series \"Johnny the Homicidal Maniac\", the characters sometimes use the word \"fook\" in place of \"fuck\".\n\nThe DC Comics character Lobo, an invulnerable, intergalactic bounty hunter uses the term \"bastich\" or \"bastiches\" as a combination of bastard and bitch. i.e. \"Take that you lousy bastiches!\"\n\nCaptain Haddock, from \"The Adventures of Tintin\", swears unlike a real sailor with sesquipedalian ejaculations like \"billions of blistering blue barnacles\" and \"thundering typhoons\".\n\nIn the Al Pacino epic \"Scarface\", the title character Tony Montana, played by Pacino, is warned by his Colombian accomplice in the censored version of the film, \"Don't fool with me, Tony\", and \"I warned you not to fool with me, you foolish little monkey\". Otherwise, the film, especially in its uncensored version, is filled with use of the word 'fuck', and the censored TV version replaces these in their dozens with 'fool'.\n\n\"Napoleon Dynamite\", in the film of the same name, which is rated PG, uses minced oaths to a particularly comical effect.\n\nIn the 1945 war film \"A Walk in the Sun\", the screenplay substitutes \"loving\" for \"fucking\" (the universal American soldier's descriptor).\n\nIn \"A Christmas Story\", the character Ralphie is punished by his parents for saying \"Oh, fuck,\" although the offensive word is replaced with \"fudge\" in the film. The narrator, an adult version of Ralphie (voiced by Jean Shepherd), explains that \"I didn't say fudge. I said THE word...the queen mother of dirty words: the F-dash-dash-dash word.\"\n\nIn the 1984 film \"Johnny Dangerously\", the character Roman Maronie is known for butchering the English language, especially English vulgarities:\n\nOne of the more infamous TV edits is that of John McClane's iconic line from \"Die Hard\", \"Yippee-ki-yay, motherfucker\" is changed to \"Yippee-ki-yay, Mr. Falcon\".\n\nThe TV edit of the film \"The Usual Suspects\", instead of having the police lineup say, \"Give me the keys, you fucking cocksucker\", they say \"Give me the keys, you fairy godmother\".\n\nIn the 1998 film \"The Big Lebowski\", a well-known television edit exists of one profane-heavy scene altered. \"See what happens when you fuck a stranger in the ass\" is changed to \"See what happens when you find a stranger in the alps\" and \"this is what happens when you feed a stoner scrambled eggs\".\n\nA television edit of the film \"Repo Man\" contains the injunction \"Flip you, melon farmer!\" (Fuck you, motherfucker!)\n\nA censored version of the 2004 film Shaun of the Dead contains a scene where \"fuck\" and \"prick\" are changed to \"funk\" and \"prink\", respectively. This leads to an exchange of minced oaths beginning, \"it's four in the funking morning!\" and ending with \"it's not hip-hop, it's electro. Prink\".\n\nIn Disney's 2016 animated film \"Zootopia\", Officer Judy Hopps uses the minced oath \"Oh sweet cheese and crackers\".\nThe televised version of the 2006 film \"Snakes on a Plane\" received the following edits to two of Samuel L. Jackson's lines: The line \"I've had with these motherfucking snakes on this motherfucking plane\" was changed to \"I've had it with these monkey-fighting snakes on this Monday-to-Friday plane\", and a later use of \"fucking\" is replaced with \"freaking\".\n\nLate Elizabethan drama contains a profusion of minced oaths, probably due to Puritan opposition to swearing. Seven new minced oaths are first recorded between 1598 and 1602, including \"<nowiki>'sblood</nowiki>\" for \"By God's blood\" from Shakespeare, \"<nowiki>'slight</nowiki>\" for \"God's light\" from Ben Jonson, and \"<nowiki>'snails</nowiki>\" for \"By God's nails\" from the historian John Hayward. Swearing on stage was officially banned by the Act to Restraine Abuses of Players in 1606, and a general ban on swearing followed in 1623.\n\nIn some cases the original meanings of these minced oaths were forgotten; \"<nowiki>'struth</nowiki>\" (\"By God's truth\") came to be spelled \"<nowiki>'strewth</nowiki>\" and \"zounds\" changed pronunciation so that it no longer sounded like \"By God's wounds\". Other examples from this period include \"<nowiki>'slid</nowiki>\" for \"By God's eyelid\" (1598) and \"sfoot\" for \"By God's foot\" (1602). \"Gadzooks\" for \"by God's hooks\" (the nails on Christ's cross) followed in the 1650s, \"egad\" for \"oh God\" in the late 17th century, and \"ods bodikins\" for \"by God's little body\" in 1709. This is similar to the use popularized in the 1950s of \"gee whiz\" as an oath for \"Jesus' wisdom\".\n\nIn modern times, the gang members in the musical \"West Side Story\" talk in an invented 1950s-style slang that includes several minced oaths. At the end of the \"Jet Song,\" they sing \"We're gonna beat / Every last buggin' gang / On the whole buggin' street / On the whole ever-mother-lovin' street!\" where \"buggin\" and \"mother-lovin\" are obvious minced oaths.\n\n\"Freaking\" (or sometimes \"fricking\") is often employed on U.S. over-the-air television entertainment programming as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my freaking food?\" It is rarely used to replace \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse.\n\nIn the \"Father Ted\" episode \"The Old Grey Whistle Theft\", Ted's picnic at the local picnic area is disturbed by people claiming that he is in their \"fupping spot\". The man yells out \"Fup off, ya grasshole\" and when Ted asks them why they are talking like that, the man points to a list of picnic area rules, one of which is \"No Swearing\". The man finishes by yelling out \"Fup off, ya pedrophile.\" In every single episode of \"Father Ted\" no Irish character utters the word \"fuck\", apart from one scene in \"Chirpy Burpy Cheap Sheep\" where the phrase \"fucking hell\" is shouted twice; although its attenuated alternative \"feck\" is heard repeatedly throughout.\n\nIn both incarnations of the television series \"Battlestar Galactica\", characters use the word \"frack\" (original) or \"frak\" (re-imagined) in place of \"fuck\" in every sense of the word, as an interjection, as an alternative to the adjective \"fucking\", as in \"where's my fracking food?\" as well as \"fuck\" or \"fucking\" as a term for sexual intercourse. Characters in the original series also use \"felgercarb\" in place of \"shit\". Characters on \"Veronica Mars\" then adopted \"frak\" from \"Battlestar Galactica\".\n\nIn the TV series \"Farscape\" the characters use the word \"frell\" as a combination of \"frig\", \"fuck\", and \"hell\" (as in \"What the frell is going on?\"), and the word \"dren\" instead of \"shit\". \"Hezmana\" and \"yotz\" are also used as rough replacements for \"hell\" and \"crap\" respectively.\n\nIn the TV series \"Firefly\", characters often use the word \"gorram\" in place of \"goddam\" or \"god damned.\" Further, the word \"fuck\" and its variants is replaced variously by \"hump\", \"humped\" or \"rutting\". For example, \"I would appreciate it if one person on this boat would not assume I'm an evil, lecherous hump,\" \"If they find us at all, we're humped.\" and \"It's the chain I go get and beat you with 'til you understand who's in ruttin' command here.\" Additionally, the characters do much of their cursing in Mandarin Chinese. This keeps the show unobjectionable enough to air on network television, yet at the same time maintain a realistic level of profanity for a show about outlaws, inspired by the wild west.\n\nLikewise, in \"Red Dwarf\", characters use a series of minced oaths regularly. Two such are used moderately, \"Gimboid\" and \"goit\" are derivations of \"gimp\" and \"git\" respectively (although \"git\" is frequently used also), but the final is a series trademark, \"smeg\". Although it is said to have derived from \"smegma\", the show's writers have said it is just a coincidence, as its similarity to the label of an Italian white-goods manufacturer. In any case, it has evolved into a word almost entirely specific to the Red Dwarf universe and numerous alterations were used in the show, such as: \"smeg-head\", \"smeg-for-brains\", \"smegging\", etc.\n\nIn \"South Park\" the word \"fudge\" (instead of \"fuck\") is frequently used, especially in the episode \"Chef's Chocolate Salty Balls\", where Chef sells chocolate fudge delicacies called \"Fudge 'Ems\", \"Fudge This\", \"Go Fudge Yourself\", \"I Don't Give a Flying Fudge\" and \"I Just Went and Fudged Your Momma\". \"Lover\" and \"loving\" are used in place of \"fuck\" through the \"South Park\" episode \"Chickenlover\". This is explained in the episode to be for the purpose of protecting young news viewers.\n\nThe television series \"A Bit of Fry and Laurie\" contains a sketch in which Fry and Laurie employ minced oaths; it is situated in a courthouse, and Laurie plays a policeman reciting the words of an offender. Examples include, \"I apprehended the accused and advised him of his rights. He replied \"Why don't you ram it up your pim-hole, you fusking cloff prunker.\"\" and \"Skank off, you cloffing cuck, you're all a load of shote-bag fuskers, so prunk that up your prime-ministering pim-hole.\" The sketch ends with Fry asking of Laurie's response to this language, and Laurie proclaiming, \"I told him to mind his fucking language, m'lud.\"\n\nIn the Nickelodeon children's show \"iCarly\", characters often use the term \"chizz\" as a general purpose expletive, most often used in place of 'shit'.  \"iCarly\" is notorious for its thinly veiled adult humor.  Likewise, in the spinoff \"Sam & Cat\", the term \"wazz\" is used in place of 'piss'.\n\nCharacters in the series \"The Good Place\" find themselves in an afterlife where they are incapable of using profanity. When they intend to curse, the word instead comes out as a benign minced oath such as \"fork\" for \"fuck\", \"shirt\" for \"shit\", or \"bench\" for \"bitch\".\n\nDubbing of movies for television often replaces \"Fuck you!\" with \"Forget you!\", \"bastard\" with \"buzzard\", \"fucking\" with \"stinking\", and \"prick\" with \"pig\".\n\nThe Fugs, a mid-1960s band named by Tuli Kupferberg, used a euphemism for \"fuck\" found in Norman Mailer's novel (above), \"The Naked and the Dead\".\n\nIn a discussion of profanity, writer Leigh Lundin uses the glyph ƒ. He further discusses being \"nannied\" by Internet software, noting that words like cockatoo, pussycat, and even Hummer may be flagged, which has become known as the Scunthorpe problem.\n\nIn that vein, ProBoards forums replace the word \"cock\" with \"thingy\", thereby transforming the statement \"cock his shotgun\" into \"thingy his shotgun\". Similarly, the Something Awful forums, filters replace \"fuck\" with the phrase \"gently caress\" and \"shit\" with \"poo-poo\" for unregistered users, and the Fark website replaces words such as \"fuck\" with \"fark\".\n\nOnline, alternative typographical glyphs are sometimes used to evade profanity filters (such as $hit or $#!+ instead of shit, @$$ or @rse instead of ass or arse).\n\n\"fsck\", from \"filesystem check\", is commonly used on Usenet and in other technology-related circles to replace \"fuck\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52723490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52723490", "title": "Necrorealism", "text": "Necrorealism\n\nNecrorealism is a Russian art movement primarily focusing on black humor and the absurd. Russia artist and filmmaker Yevgeny Yufit (1961–2016) is generally considered the father of the movement. The name is a parody of the term Socialist realism.\n\nOther early Necrorealists included Igor Bezrukov, Yevgeniy Kondratiev, and Konstantin Mitenev. Their film-making efforts in the 1980s outside of the official Soviet Goskino State Cinema system became known as Parallel Cinema. Necrorealist works often explore the themes of death, decay, and the transformation of the body.\n"}
{"id": "42371917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371917", "title": "Nut art", "text": "Nut art\n\nNut art was an artistic consciousness movement centered in northern California that flourished primarily in the late 60s and early 70s.\n\nThe term \"Nut art\" was coined by artist Roy De Forest (in conversation with writer David Zack) to describe an approach to art making which embraced humor along with the phantasmagorical. According to De Forest, Nut artists sought to create fantasy worlds reflective of their own quirks and eccentricities. As such, Nut art placed a high degree of emphasis on evolving visions, of which specific artworks were produced as part of the ongoing process of self-definition, or in service to creating new personas and personal mythologies.(Among these personas was that of Ralph \"Doggy\" Dinsmore, which was used by De Forest.)\n\nAs with Conceptual art, the idea or underlying concept with Nut art was paramount. As a result, the creation of the Nut artist was not restricted by style or medium, allowing the movement to embrace emerging formats such as performance, text pieces, and appropriation, in addition to more traditional two and three dimensional mediums such as drawing, photography, and sculpture. Because of the emphasis on concept and satire, Nut art welcomed contributions from participants without formal artistic backgrounds as well as those with advanced technical skill and training. Nut art also reflected the importance of process over product, which had been a central tenet of the Action painters a generation previous.\n\nBesides De Forest, other key practitioners of Nut art included Robert Arneson, Clayton Bailey (as well as Bailey's alter-ego Dr. Gladstone), Victor Cicansky (alter-ego Victor Ceramski), Robert Cumming, Lowell Darling, Jack Ford, David Gilhooly, Jerry Gooch, Linda Renner, Peter Saul, Harold Schlotzhauer, Richard Shaw, Irv Tepper, Chris Unterseher, Peter VandenBerge, Franklin Williams, Maija Zack (alter-ego Maija Woof), and David Zack.\n\nDavid Zack, who was also a poet and art critic, reviewed many of the group's exhibitions. Zack also participated in the movement as an exhibiting artist.\n\nThe first major exhibition of Nut art took place in 1972 at the University Art Gallery of California State University, Hayward. The show was co-curated by Clayton Bailey (then art faculty) and Gallery Director Irene Keil. The show produced a catalog which included a preface written by De Forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "7603861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7603861", "title": "Old master print", "text": "Old master print\n\nAn old master print is a work of art produced by a printing process within the Western tradition. The term remains current in the art trade, and there is no easy alternative in English to distinguish the works of \"fine art\" produced in printmaking from the vast range of decorative, utilitarian and popular prints that grew rapidly alongside the artistic print from the 15th century onwards. Fifteenth-century prints are sufficiently rare that they are classed as old master prints even if they are of crude or merely workmanlike artistic quality. A date of about 1830 is usually taken as marking the end of the period whose prints are covered by this term.\n\nThe main techniques used, in order of their introduction, are woodcut, engraving, etching, mezzotint and aquatint, although there are others. Different techniques are often combined in a single print. With rare exceptions printed on textiles, such as silk, or on vellum, old master prints are printed on paper. This article is concerned with the artistic, historical and social aspects of the subject; the article on printmaking summarizes the techniques used in making old master prints, from a modern perspective.\n\nMany great European artists, such as Albrecht Dürer, Rembrandt, and Francisco Goya, were dedicated printmakers. In their own day, their international reputations largely came from their prints, which were spread far more widely than their paintings. Influences between artists were also mainly transmitted beyond a single city by prints (and sometimes drawings), for the same reason. Prints therefore are frequently brought up in detailed analyses of individual paintings in art history. Today, thanks to colour photo reproductions, and public galleries, their paintings are much better known, whilst their prints are only rarely exhibited, for conservation reasons. But some museum print rooms allow visitors to see their collection, sometimes only by appointment.\n\nThe oldest technique is woodcut, or woodblock printing, which was invented as a method for printing on cloth in China, and perhaps separately in Egypt in the Byzantine period. This had reached Europe via the Byzantine or Islamic worlds before 1300, as a method of printing patterns on textiles. Paper arrived in Europe, also from China via Islamic Spain, slightly later, and was being manufactured in Italy by the end of the thirteenth century, and in Burgundy and Germany by the end of the fourteenth. Religious images and playing cards are documented as being produced on paper, probably printed, by a German in Bologna in 1395. However, the most impressive printed European images to survive from before 1400 are printed on cloth, for use as hangings on walls or furniture, including altars and lecterns. Some were used as a pattern to embroider over. Some religious images were used as bandages, to speed healing.\n\nThe earliest print images are mostly of a high artistic standard, and were clearly designed by artists with a background in painting (on walls, panels or manuscripts). Whether these artists cut the blocks themselves, or only inked the design on the block for another to carve, is not known. During the fifteenth century the number of prints produced greatly increased as paper became freely available and cheaper, and the average artistic level fell, so that by the second half of the century the typical woodcut is a relatively crude image. The great majority of surviving 15th-century prints are religious, although these were probably the ones more likely to survive. Their makers were sometimes called \"Jesus maker\" or \"saint-maker\" in documents. As with manuscript books, monastic institutions sometimes produced, and often sold, prints. No artists can be identified with specific woodcuts until towards the end of the century.\n\nThe little evidence we have suggests that woodcut prints became relatively common and cheap during the fifteenth century, and were affordable by skilled workers in towns. For example, what may be the earliest surviving Italian print, the \"Madonna of the Fire\", was hanging by a nail to a wall in a small school in Forlì in 1428. The school caught fire, and the crowd who gathered to watch saw the print carried up into the air by the fire, before falling down into the crowd. This was regarded as a miraculous escape and the print was carried to Forlì Cathedral, where it remains, since 1636 in a special chapel, displayed once a year. Like the majority of prints before approximately 1460, only a single impression (the term used for a copy of an old master print; \"copy\" is used for a print copying another print) of this print has survived.\n\nWoodcut blocks are printed with light pressure, and are capable of printing several thousand impressions, and even at this period some prints may well have been produced in that quantity. Many prints were hand-coloured, mostly in watercolour; in fact the hand-colouring of prints continued for many centuries, though dealers have removed it from many surviving examples. Italy, Germany, France and the Netherlands were the main areas of production; England does not seem to have produced any prints until about 1480. However prints are highly portable, and were transported across Europe. A Venetian document of 1441 already complains about cheap imports of playing cards damaging the local industry.\n\nBlock-books were a very popular form of (short) book, where a page with both pictures and text was cut as a single woodcut. They were much cheaper than manuscript books, and were mostly produced in the Netherlands; the \"Art of Dying\" (Ars moriendi) was the most famous; thirteen different sets of blocks are known. As a relief technique (see printmaking) woodcut can be printed easily together with movable type, and after this invention arrived in Europe about 1450 printers quickly came to include woodcuts in their books. Some book owners also pasted prints into prayer books in particular. Playing cards were another notable use of prints, and French versions are the basis of the traditional sets still in use today.\n\nBy the last quarter of the century there was a large demand for woodcuts for book-illustrations, and in both Germany and Italy standards at the top end of the market improved considerably. Nuremberg was the largest centre of German publishing, and Michael Wolgemut, the master of the largest workshop there worked on many projects, including the gigantic Nuremberg Chronicle. Albrecht Dürer was apprenticed to Wolgemut during the early stages of the project, and was the godson of Anton Koberger, its printer and publisher. Dürer's career was to take the art of the woodcut to its highest development.\n\nEngraving on metal was part of the goldsmith's craft throughout the Medieval period, and the idea of printing engraved designs onto paper probably began as a method for them to record the designs on pieces they had sold. Some artists trained as painters became involved from about 1450–1460, although many engravers continued to come from a goldsmithing background. From the start, engraving was in the hands of the luxury tradesmen, unlike woodcut, where at least the cutting of the block was associated with the lower-status trades of carpentry, and perhaps sculptural wood-carving. Engravings were also important from very early on as models for other artists, especially painters and sculptors, and many works survive, especially from smaller cities, which take their compositions directly from prints. Serving as a pattern for artists may have been a primary purpose for the creation of many prints, especially the numerous series of apostle figures.\n\nThe surviving engravings, though the majority are religious, show a greater proportion of secular images than other types of art from the period, including woodcut. This is certainly partly the result of the relative survival rates—although wealthy fifteenth-century houses certainly contained secular images on walls (inside and outside), and cloth hangings, these types of image have survived in tiny numbers. The Church was much better at retaining its images. Engravings were relatively expensive and sold to an urban middle-class that had become increasingly affluent in the belt of cities that stretched from the Netherlands down the Rhine to Southern Germany, Switzerland and Northern Italy. Engraving was also used for the same types of images as woodcuts, notably devotional images and playing cards, but many seem to have been collected for keeping out of sight in an album or book, to judge by the excellent state of preservation of many pieces of paper over five hundred years old.\nAgain unlike woodcut, identifiable artists are found from the start. The German, or possibly German-Swiss, Master of the Playing Cards was active by at least the 1440s; he was clearly a trained painter. The Master E. S. was a prolific engraver, from a goldsmithing background, active from about 1450–1467, and the first to sign his prints with a monogram in the plate. He made significant technical developments, which allowed more impressions to be taken from each plate. Many of his faces have a rather pudding-like appearance, which reduces the impact of what are otherwise fine works. Much of his work still has great charm, and the secular and comic subjects he engraved are almost never found in the surviving painting of the period. Like the Otto prints in Italy, much of his work was probably intended to appeal to women.\n\nThe first major artist to engrave was Martin Schongauer (c. 1450–1491), who worked in southern Germany and was also a well-known painter. His father and brother were goldsmiths, so he may well have had experience with the burin from an early age. His 116 engravings have a clear authority and beauty and became well known in Italy as well as northern Europe, as well as much copied by other engravers. He also further developed engraving technique, in particular refining cross-hatching to depict volume and shade in a purely linear medium.\n\nThe other notable artist of this period is known as the Housebook Master. He was a highly talented German artist who is also known from drawings, especially the Housebook album from which he takes his name. His prints were made exclusively in drypoint, scratching his lines on the plate to leave a much shallower line than an engraver's burin would produce; he may have invented this technique. Consequently, only a few impressions could be produced from each plate—perhaps about twenty—although some plates were reworked to prolong their life. Despite this limitation, his prints were clearly widely circulated, as many copies of them exist by other printmakers. This is highly typical of admired prints in all media until at least 1520; there was no enforceable concept of anything like copyright. Many of the Housebook Master's print compositions are only known from copies, as none of the presumed originals have survived — a very high proportion of his original prints are only known from a single impression. The largest collection of his prints is at Amsterdam; these were probably kept as a collection, perhaps by the artist himself, from around the time of their creation.\nIsrahel van Meckenam was an engraver from the borders of Germany and the Netherlands, who probably trained with Master ES, and ran the most productive workshop for engravings of the century between about 1465 and 1503. He produced over 600 plates, most copies of other prints, and was more sophisticated in self-presentation, signing later prints with his name and town, and producing the first print self-portrait of himself and his wife. Some plates seem to have been reworked more than once by his workshop, or produced in more than one version, and many impressions have survived, so his ability to distribute and sell his prints was evidently sophisticated. His own compositions are often very lively, and take a great interest in the secular life of his day.\n\nPrintmaking in woodcut and engraving both appeared in Northern Italy within a few decades of their invention north of the Alps, and had similar uses and characters, though within significantly different artistic styles, and with from the start a much greater proportion of secular subjects. The earliest known Italian woodcut has been mentioned above. Engraving probably came first to Florence in the 1440s; Vasari typically claimed that his fellow-Florentine, the goldsmith and nielloist Maso Finiguerra (1426–64) invented the technique. It is now clear this is wrong, and there are now considered to be no prints as such that can be attributed to him on anything other than a speculative basis. He may never have made any printed engravings from plates, as opposed to taking impressions from work intended to be nielloed. There are a number of complex niello religious scenes that he probably executed, and may or may not have designed, which were influential for the Florentine style in engraving. Some paper impressions and sulphur casts survive from these. These are a number of paxes in the Bargello, Florence, plus one in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York which depict scenes with large and well-organised crowds of small figures. There are also drawings in the Uffizi, Florence that may be by him.\n\nWhere German engraving arrived into a still Gothic artistic world, Italian engraving caught the very early Renaissance, and from the start the prints are mostly larger, more open in atmosphere, and feature classical and exotic subjects. They are less densely worked, and usually do not use cross-hatching. From about 1460–1490 two styles developed in Florence, which remained the largest centre of Italian engraving. These are called (although the terms are less often used now) the \"Fine Manner\" and the \"Broad Manner\", referring to the typical thickness of the lines used. The leading artists in the Fine Manner are Baccio Baldini and the \"Master of the Vienna Passion\", and in the Broad Manner, Francesco Rosselli and Antonio Pollaiuolo, whose only print was the \"Battle of the Nude Men\" (right), the masterpiece of 15th-century Florentine engraving. This uses a new zigzag \"return stroke\" for modelling, which he probably invented.\n\nA chance survival is a collection of mostly rather crudely executed Florentine prints now in the British Museum, known as the Otto Prints after an earlier owner of most of them. This was probably the workshop's own reference set of prints, mostly round or oval, that were used to decorate the inside covers of boxes, primarily for female use. It has been suggested that boxes so decorated may have been given as gifts at weddings. The subject matter and execution of this group suggests they were intended to appeal to middle-class female taste; lovers and cupids abound, and an allegory shows a near-naked young man tied to a stake and being beaten by several women.\n\nThe other notable early centre was Ferrara, from the 1460s, which probably produced both sets of the so-called \"Mantegna Tarocchi\" cards, which are not playing cards, but a sort of educational tool for young humanists with fifty cards, featuring the Planets and Spheres, Apollo and the Muses, personifications of the Seven liberal arts and the four Virtues, as well as \"the Conditions of Man\" from Pope to peasant.\n\nAndrea Mantegna who trained in Padua, and then settled in Mantua, was the most influential figure in Italian engraving of the century, although it is still debated whether he actually engraved any plates himself (a debate revived in recent years by Suzanne Boorsch). A number of engravings have long been ascribed to his school or workshop, with only seven usually given to him personally. The whole group form a coherent stylistic group and very clearly reflect his style in painting and drawing, or copy surviving works of his. They seem to date from the late 1460s onwards.\n\nIn the last five years of the fifteenth century, Dürer, then in his late twenties and with his own workshop in Nuremberg, began to produce woodcuts and engravings of the highest quality which spread very quickly through the artistic centres of Europe. By about 1505 most young Italian printmakers went through a phase of directly copying either whole prints or large parts of Dürer's landscape backgrounds, before going on to adapt his technical advances to their own style. Copying of prints was already a large and accepted part of the printmaking culture but no prints were copied as frequently as Dürer's.\n\nDürer was also a painter, but few of his paintings could be seen except by those with good access to private houses in the Nuremberg area. The lesson of how he, following more spectacularly in the footsteps of Schongauer and Mantegna, was able so quickly to develop a continent-wide reputation very largely through his prints was not lost on other painters, who began to take much greater interest in printmaking.\n\nFor a brief period a number of artists who began by copying Dürer made very fine prints in a range of individual styles. They included Giulio Campagnola, who succeeded in translating the new style Giorgione and Titian had brought to Venetian painting into engraving. Marcantonio Raimondi and Agostino Veneziano both spent some years in Venice before moving to Rome, but even their early prints show classicizing tendencies as well as Northern influence. The styles of the Florentine Cristofano Robetta, and Benedetto Montagna from Vicenza are still based in Italian painting of the period, and are also later influenced by Giulio Campagnola.\n\nGiovanni Battista Palumba, once known as \"Master IB with the Bird\" from his monogram, was the major Italian artist in woodcut in these years, as well as an engraver of charming mythological scenes, often with an erotic theme.\n\nPrints copying prints were already common, and many fifteenth century prints must have been copies of paintings, but not intended to be seen as such, but as images in their own right. Mantegna's workshop produced a number of engravings copying his \"Triumph of Caesar\" (now Hampton Court Palace), or drawings for it, which were perhaps the first prints intended to be understood as depicting paintings—called \"reproductive prints\". With an increasing pace of innovation in art, and of a critical interest among a non-professional public, reliable depictions of paintings filled an obvious need. In time this demand was almost to smother the old master print.\n\nDürer never copied any of his paintings directly into prints, although some of his portraits base a painting and a print on the same drawing, which is very similar. The next stage began when Titian in Venice, and Raphael in Rome, almost simultaneously began to collaborate with printmakers to make prints to their designs. Titian at this stage worked with Domenico Campagnola and others on woodcuts, whilst Raphael worked with Raimondi on engravings, for which many of Raphael's drawings survive. Rather later, the paintings done by the School of Fontainebleau were copied in etchings, apparently in a brief organised programme including many of the painters themselves.\n\nThe Italian partnerships were artistically and commercially successful, and inevitably attracted other printmakers who simply copied paintings independently to make wholly reproductive prints. Especially in Italy, these prints, of greatly varying quality, came to dominate the market and tended to push out original printmaking, which declined noticeably from about 1530–40 in Italy. By now some publisher/dealers had become important, especially Dutch and Flemish operators like Philippe Galle and Hieronymus Cock, developing networks of distribution that were becoming international, and much work was commissioned by them. The effect of the development of the print-selling trade is a matter of scholarly controversy, but there is no question that by the mid-century the rate of original printmaking in Italy had declined considerably from that of a generation earlier, if not as precipitously as in Germany.\n\nAlthough no artist anywhere from 1500 to 1550 could ignore Dürer, several artists in his wake had no difficulty maintaining highly distinctive styles, often with little influence from him. Lucas Cranach the Elder was only a year younger than Dürer, but he was about thirty before he began to make woodcuts, in an intense Northern style reminiscent of Matthias Grünewald. He was also an early experimenter in the chiaroscuro woodcut technique. His style later softened, and took in the influence of Dürer, but he concentrated his efforts on painting, in which he became dominant in Protestant Germany, based in Saxony, handing over his very productive studio to his son at a relatively early age.\n\nLucas van Leyden had a prodigious natural talent for engraving, and his earlier prints were highly successful, with an often earthy treatment and brilliant technique, so that he came to be seen as Dürer's main rival in the North. However, his later prints suffered from straining after an Italian grandeur, which left only the technique applied to far less dynamic compositions. Like Dürer, he had a \"flirtation\" with etching, but on copper rather than iron. His Dutch successors for some time continued to be heavily under the spell of Italy, which they took most of the century to digest.\n\nAlbrecht Altdorfer produced some Italianate religious prints, but he is most famous for his very Northern landscapes of drooping larches and firs, which are highly innovative in painting as well as prints. He was among the most effective early users of the technique of etching, recently invented as a printmaking technique by Daniel Hopfer, an armourer from Augsburg. Neither Hopfer nor the other members of his family who continued his style were trained or natural artists, but many of their images have great charm, and their \"ornament prints\", made essentially as patterns for craftsmen in various fields, spread their influence widely.\n\nHans Burgkmair from Augsburg, Nuremberg's neighbour and rival, was slightly older than Dürer, and had a parallel career in some respects, training with Martin Schongauer before apparently visiting Italy, where he formed his own synthesis of Northern and Italian styles, which he applied in painting and woodcut, mostly for books, but with many significant \"single-leaf\" (i.e. individual) prints. He is now generally credited with inventing the coloured chiaroscuro (coloured) woodcut. Hans Baldung was Dürer's pupil, and was left in charge of the Nuremberg workshop during Dürer's second Italian trip. He had no difficulty in maintaining a highly personal style in woodcut, and produced some very powerful images. Urs Graf was a Swiss mercenary and printmaker, who invented the white-line woodcut technique, in which his most distinctive prints were made.\n\nThe Little Masters is a term for a group of several printmakers, who all produced very small finely detailed engravings for a largely bourgeois market, combining in miniature elements from Dürer and from Marcantonio Raimondi, and concentrating on secular, often mythological and erotic, rather than on religious themes. The most talented were the brothers Bartel Beham and the longer-lived Sebald Beham. Like Georg Pencz, they came from Nuremberg and were expelled by the council for atheism for a period. The other principal member of the group was Heinrich Aldegrever, a convinced Lutheran with Anabaptist leanings, who was perhaps therefore forced to spend much of his time producing ornament prints.\n\nAnother convinced Protestant, Hans Holbein the Younger, spent most of his adult career in England, then and for long after too primitive as both a market and in technical assistance to support fine printmaking. Whilst the famous blockcutter Hans Lützelburger was alive, he created from Holbein's designs the famous small woodcut series of the \"Dance of Death\". Another Holbein series, of ninety-one Old Testament scenes, in a much simpler style, was the most popular of attempts by several artists to create Protestant religious imagery. Both series were published in Lyon in France by a German publisher, having been created in Switzerland.\n\nAfter the deaths of this very brilliant generation, both the quality and quantity of German original printmaking suffered a strange collapse; perhaps it became impossible to sustain a convincing Northern style in the face of overwhelming Italian productions in a \"commoditized\" Renaissance style. The Netherlands now became more important for the production of prints, which would remain the case until the late 18th century.\n\nSome Italian printmakers went in a very different direction to either Raimondi and his followers, or the Germans, and used the medium for experimentation and very personal work. Parmigianino produced some etchings himself, and also worked closely with Ugo da Carpi on chiaroscuro woodcuts and other prints.\n\nGiorgio Ghisi was the major printmaker of the Mantuan school, which preserved rather more individuality than Rome. Much of his work was reproductive, but his original prints are often very fine. He visited Antwerp, a reflection of the power the publishers there now had over what was now a European market for prints. A number of printmakers, mostly in etching, continued to produce excellent prints, but mostly as a sideline to either painting or reproductive printmaking. They include Battista Franco, Il Schiavone, Federico Barocci and Ventura Salimbeni, who only produced nine prints, presumably because it did not pay. Annibale Carracci and his cousin Ludovico produced a few influential etchings, while Annibale's brother Agostino engraved. Both brothers influenced Guido Reni and other Italian artists of the full Baroque period in the next century.\n\nThe Italian artists known as the School of Fontainebleau were hired in the 1530s by King Francis I of France to decorate his showpiece Chateau at Fontainebleau. In the course of the long project, etchings were produced, in unknown circumstances but apparently in Fontainebleau itself and mostly in the 1540s, mostly recording wall-paintings and plasterwork in the Chateau (much now destroyed). Technically they are mostly rather poor—dry and uneven—but the best powerfully evoke the strange and sophisticated atmosphere of the time. Many of the best are by Leon Davent to designs by Primaticcio, or Antonio Fantuzzi. Several of the artists, including Davent, later went to Paris and continued to produce prints there.\n\nPreviously the only consistent printmaker of stature in France had been Jean Duvet, a goldsmith whose highly personal style seems halfway between Dürer and William Blake. His plates are extremely crowded, not conventionally well-drawn, but full of intensity; the opposite of the languorous elegance of the Fontainebleau prints, which were to have the greater effect on French printmaking. His prints date from 1520 to 1555, when he was seventy, and completed his masterpiece, the twenty-three prints of the Apocalypse.\n\nCornelius Cort was an Antwerp engraver, trained in Cock's publishing house, with a controlled but vigorous style, and excellent at depicting dramatic lighting effects. He went to Italy and in 1565 was retained by Titian to produce prints of his paintings (Titian having secured his \"privileges\" or rights to exclusively reproduce his own works). Titian took considerable trouble to get the effect he wanted; he said that Cort could not work from the painting alone, so he produced special drawings for him to use. Eventually, the results were highly effective and successful, and after Titian's death Cort moved to Rome, where he taught a number of the most successful printmakers of the next generation, notably Hendrik Goltzius, Francesco Villamena and Agostino Carracci, the last major Italian artist to resist the spread of etching.\n\nGoltzius, arguably the last great engraver, took Cort's style to its furthest point. Because of a childhood accident, he drew with his whole arm, and his use of the swelling line, altering the profile of the burin to thicken or diminish the line as it moved, is unmatched. He was extraordinarily prolific, and the artistic, if not the technical, quality of his work is very variable, but his finest prints look forward to the energy of Rubens, and are as sensuous in their use of line as he is in paint.\n\nAt the same time Pieter Brueghel the elder, another Cort-trained artist, who escaped to paint, was producing prints in a totally different style; beautifully drawn but simply engraved. He only etched one plate himself, a superb landscape, the \"Rabbit Hunters\", but produced many drawings for the Antwerp specialists to work up, of peasant life, satires, and newsworthy events.\n\nMeanwhile, numerous other engravers in the Netherlands continued to produce vast numbers of reproductive and illustrative prints of widely varying degrees of quality and appeal—the two by no means always going together. Notable dynasties, often publishers as well as artists, include the Wierix family, the Saenredams, and Aegidius Sadeler and several of his relations. Philippe Galle founded another long-lived family business. Theodor de Bry specialised in illustrating books on new colonial areas.\n\nThe 17th century saw a continuing increase in the volume of commercial and reproductive printmaking; Rubens, like Titian before him, took great pains in adapting the trained engravers in his workshop to the particular style he wanted, though several found his demands too much and left. The generation after him produced a number of widely dispersed printmakers with very individual and personal styles; by now etching had become the normal medium for such artists.\n\nRembrandt bought a printing-press for his house in the days of his early prosperity, and continued to produce etchings (always so called collectively, although Rembrandt mixed techniques by adding engraving and drypoint to some of his etchings) until his bankruptcy, when he lost both house and press. Fortunately his prints have always been keenly collected, and what seems to be a high proportion of his intermediate states have survived, often in only one or two impressions. He was clearly very directly involved in the printing process himself, and probably selectively wiped the plate of ink himself to produce effects \"surface tone\" on many impressions. He also experimented continually with the effects of different papers. He produced prints on a wider range of subjects than his paintings, with several pure landscapes, many self-portraits that are often more extravagantly fanciful than his painted ones, some erotic (at any rate obscene) subjects, and a great number of religious prints. He became increasingly interested in strong lighting effects, and very dark backgrounds. His reputation as the greatest etcher in the history of the medium was established in his lifetime, and never questioned since. Few of his paintings left Holland whilst he lived, but his prints were circulated throughout Europe, and his wider reputation was initially based on them alone.\n\nA number of other Dutch artists of the century produced original prints of quality, mostly sticking to the same categories of genre they painted. The eccentric Hercules Seghers and Jacob van Ruysdael produced landscapes in very small quantities, Nicolaes Berchem and Karel Dujardin Italianate landscapes with animals and figures, and Adriaen van Ostade peasant scenes. None was very prolific, but the Italianate landscape was the most popular type of subject; Berchem had a greater income from his prints than his paintings.\n\nGiovanni Benedetto Castiglione grew up in Genoa and was greatly influenced by the stays there of Rubens and van Dyck when he was a young artist. His etching technique was extremely fluent, and in all mediums he often repeats the same few subjects in a large number of totally different compositions. His early prints include a number of bravura treatments of classical and pastoral themes, whilst later religious subjects predominate. He also produced a large series of small heads of exotically dressed men, which were often used by other artists. He was technically innovative, inventing the monotype and also the oil sketch intended to be a final product. He, like Rembrandt, was interested in chiaroscuro effects (contrasts of light and dark), using a number of very different approaches.\n\nJusepe de Ribera may have learned etching in Rome, but all his fewer than thirty prints were made in Naples during the 1620s when his career as a painter seems to have been in the doldrums. When the painting commissions began to flow again, he all but abandoned printmaking. His plates were sold after his death to a Rome publisher, who made a better job of marketing them than Ribera himself. His powerful and direct style developed almost immediately, and his subjects and style remain close to those of his paintings.\n\nJacques Bellange was a court painter in Lorraine, a world that was to vanish abruptly in the Thirty Years War shortly after his death. No surviving painting of his can be identified with confidence, and most of those sometimes attributed to him are unimpressive. His prints, mostly religious, are Baroque extravaganzas that were regarded with horror by many 19th century critics, but have come strongly back into fashion—the very different Baroque style of another Lorraine artist Georges de La Tour has enjoyed a comparable revival. He was the first Lorraine printmaker (or artist) of stature, and must have influenced the younger Jacques Callot, who remained in Lorraine but was published in Paris, where he greatly influenced French printmaking.\n\nCallot's technical innovations in improving the recipes for etching ground were crucial in allowing etching to rival the detail of engraving, and in the long term spelt the end of artistic engraving. Previously the unreliable nature of the grounds used meant that artists could not risk investing too much effort in an etched plate, as the work might be ruined by leaks in the ground. Equally, multiple stoppings-out, enabling lines etched to different depths by varying lengths of exposure to the acid, had been too risky. Callot led the way in exploiting the new possibilities; most of his etchings are small but full of tiny detail, and he developed a sense of recession in landscape backgrounds in etching with multiple bitings to etch the background more lightly than the foreground. He also used a special etching needle called an \"échoppe\" to produce swelling lines like those created by the burin in an engraving, and also reinforced the etched lines with a burin after biting; which soon became common practice among etchers. Callot etched a great variety of subjects in over 1400 prints, from grotesques to his tiny but extremely powerful series \"Les Grandes Misères de la guerre\". Abraham Bosse, a Parisian illustrative etcher popularized Callot's methods in a hugely successful manual for students. His own work is successful in his declared aim of making etchings look like engravings, and is highly evocative of French life at the middle of the century. \nWenzel Hollar was a Bohemian (Czech) artist who fled his country in the Thirty Years War, settling mostly in England (he was besieged at Basing House in the English Civil War, and then followed his Royalist patron into a new exile in Antwerp, where he worked with a number of the large publishers there). He produced great numbers of etchings in a straightforward realist style, many topographical, including large aerial views, portraits, and others showing costumes, occupations and pastimes. Stefano della Bella was something of an Italian counterpart to Callot, producing many very detailed small etchings, but also larger and freer works, closer to the Italian drawing tradition. Anthony van Dyck produced only a large series of portrait prints of contemporary notables, the \"Iconographia\" for which he only etched a few of the heads himself, but in a brilliant style, that had great influence on 19th century etching. Ludwig von Siegen was a German soldier and courtier, who invented the technique of mezzotint, which in the hands of better artists than he was to become an important, mostly reproductive, technique in the 18th century.\n\nThe last third of the century produced relatively little original printmaking of great interest, although illustrative printmaking reached a high level of quality. French portrait prints, most often copied from paintings, were the finest in Europe and often extremely brilliant, with the school including both etching and engraving, often in the same work. The most important artists were Claude Mellan, an etcher from the 1630s onwards, and his contemporary , whose combination of engraving and etching influenced many later artists. Robert Nanteuil was official portrait engraver to Louis XIV, and produced over two hundred brilliantly engraved portraits of the court and other notable French figures.\n\nThe extremely popular engravings of William Hogarth in England were little concerned with technical printmaking effects; in many he was producing reproductive prints of his own paintings (a surprisingly rare thing to do) that only set out to convey his crowded moral compositions as clearly as possible. It would not be possible, without knowing, to distinguish these from his original prints, which have the same aim. He priced his prints to reach a middle and even upper working-class market, and was brilliantly successful in this.\n\nCanaletto was also a highly successful painter, and though his relatively few prints are vedute, they are rather different from his painted ones, and fully aware of the possibilities of the etching medium. Piranesi was primarily a printmaker, a technical innovator who extended the life of his plates beyond what was previously possible. His \"Views of Rome\"—well over a hundred huge plates—were backed by a serious understanding of Roman and modern architecture and brilliantly exploit the drama both of the ancient ruins and Baroque Rome. Many prints of Roman views had been produced before, but Piranesi's vision has become the benchmark. Gianbattista Tiepolo, near the end of his long career produced some brilliant etchings, subjectless capricci of a landscape of classical ruins and pine trees, populated by an elegant band of beautiful young men and women, philosophers in fancy dress, soldiers and satyrs. Bad-tempered owls look down on the scenes. His son Domenico produced many more etchings in a similar style, but of much more conventional subjects, often reproducing his father's paintings.\n\nThe technical means at the disposal of reproductive printmakers continued to develop, and many superb and sought-after prints were produced by the English mezzotinters (many of them in fact Irish) and by French printmakers in a variety of techniques. French attempts to produce high quality colour prints were successful by the last part of the century, although the techniques were expensive. Prints could now be produced that closely resembled drawings in crayon or watercolours. Some original prints were produced in these methods, but few major artists used them.\n\nThe rise of the novel led to a demand for small, highly expressive, illustrations for them. Many fine French and other artists specialised in these, but clearly standing out from the pack is the work of Daniel Chodowiecki, a German of Polish origin who produced over a thousand small etchings. Mainly illustrations for books, these are wonderfully drawn, and follow the spirit of the times, through the cult of sentiment to the revolutionary and nationalist fervour of the start of the 19th century.\nGoya's superb but violent aquatints often look as though they are illustrating some unwritten work of fiction, but their meaning must be elucidated from their titles, often containing several meanings, and the brief comments recorded by him about many of them. His prints show from early on the macabre world that appears only in hints in the paintings until the last years. They were nearly all published in several series, of which the most famous are: \"Caprichos\" (1799), \"Los desastres de la guerra\" (\"The Disasters of War\" from after 1810, but unpublished for fifty years after). Rather too many further editions were published after his death, when his delicate aquatint tone had been worn down, or reworked.\n\nWilliam Blake was as technically unconventional as he was in subject-matter and everything else, pioneering a relief etching process that was later to become the dominant technique of commercial illustration for a time. Many of his prints are pages for his books, with text and image on the same plate, as in the 15th century block-books. The Romantic Movement saw a revival in original printmaking in several countries, with Germany taking a large part once again; many of the Nazarene movement were printmakers. In England, John Sell Cotman etched many landscapes and buildings in an effective, straightforward style. J. M. W. Turner produced several print series including one, the \"Liber Studiorum\", which consisted of seventy-one etchings with mezzotint that were influential on landscape artists; according to Linda Hults, this series of prints amounts to \"Turner's manual of landscape types, and ... a statement of his philosophy of landscape.\" With the relatively few etchings of Delacroix the period of the old master print can be said to come to an end. Printmaking was to revive powerfully later in the 19th and 20th centuries, in a great variety of techniques.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "863950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863950", "title": "Post-expressionism", "text": "Post-expressionism\n\nPost-expressionism is a term coined by the German art critic Franz Roh to describe a variety of movements in the post-war art world which were influenced by expressionism but defined themselves through rejecting its aesthetic. Roh first used the term in an essay in 1925, \"Magic Realism: Post-Expressionism\", to contrast to Gustav Friedrich Hartlaub's \"New Objectivity\", which more narrowly characterized these developments within German art. Though Roh saw \"post-expressionism\" and \"magic realism\" as synonymous, later critics characterized distinctions between magic realism and other artists initially identified by Hartlaub and have also pointed out other artists in Europe who had different stylistic tendencies but were working within the same trend.\n\nLeading up to World War I, much of the art world was under the influence of Futurism and Expressionism. Both movements abandoned any sense of order or commitment to objectivity or tradition.\n\nThe sentiment of Futurists was most vocally expressed by Filippo Marinetti in the \"Futurist Manifesto\", where he called for a rejection of the past, a rejection of all imitation — of other artists or of the outside world — and praised the virtue of originality and triumph of technology. The Futurist poet Vladimir Mayakovsky, along these lines, said “After seeing electricity, I lost interest in nature.” Marinetti and other Futurists glorified war and violence as a way to revolution – bringing freedom, establishing new ideas, and rallying one to fight for one's own people – and as war was shaping up in Europe, many saw it and encouraged a way to “purify” the culture and destroy old, obsolete elements of society.\n\nExpressionists, likewise abandoning imitation nature, sought to express emotional experience, but often centered their art around angst — inner turmoil; whether in reaction to the modern world, to alienation from society, or in the creation of personal identity. In concert with this evocation of angst, expressionists also echoed some of the same feelings of revolution as did Futurists. This is evidenced by a 1919 anthology of expressionist poetry titled \"Menschheitsdämmerung\", which translates to “Dawn of Humanity” — meant to suggest that humanity was in a 'twilight'; that there was an imminent demise of some old way of being and beneath it the urgings of a new dawning.\n\nBoth futurism and expressionism were always met by opposition, but the destruction that occurred in the war had heightened the criticism against them. Following the war, in and throughout different artistic circles there was a call for a return to order and re-appreciation of tradition and of the natural world. In Italy, this was encouraged by the magazine \"Valori Plastici\" and came together in the Novecento, a group that exhibited in the Venice Biennale and was joined by many Futurists who had rejected their former work. Mario Sironi, a member of this group, stated that they “would not imitate the world created by God but would be inspired by it.” The “New Objectivity” or \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", as coined by Hartlaub, described the developments in Germany and became the title of an exhibition that he staged in 1925. \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" was influenced not only by the “return to order” but also a call to arms among more left-leaning artists who wanted to use their art in a forward, political manner that expressionism didn't enable them to do. In Belgium, there was another vein in the common trend, which would later be referred to as a “retour à l’humain”.\n\nWhen Hartlaub defined the idea of the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", he identified two groups: the \"verists\", who “[tore] the objective form of the world of contemporary facts and represent current experience in its tempo and fevered temperature,” and the \"classicists\", who “[searched] more for the object of timeless ability to embody the external laws of existence in the artistic sphere.”\n\nAlthough Roh originally meant the term 'Magic Realism' to be more or less synonymous with \"Neue Sachlichkeit\", the artists identified by Hartlaub as 'classicists' later became associated with Roh's term. These 'Magic Realists' were all influenced by the classicism developed in Italy by the Novecento, and in turn by de Chirico's concept of \"metaphysical art\", which had also branched into surrealism. Art critic Wieland Schmeid in 1977 posited that despite the fact that the terms were meant to refer to the same thing, the understanding of them as different groups derives from the fact that the movement had a right and left wing, with the Magic Realists on the right — many later supporting fascism or accommodating to it— and the \"verists\" we associate as the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" on the left — fighting against fascism. The two groups in addition to having different political philosophies likewise had different artistic philosophies.\n\nThe third movement that is important to include in post-expressionism, and which Roh excluded, is the reaction to Flemish Expressionism, as opposed to strains of German expressionism and Italian futurism. This is typically referred to as \"animism\".\n\n'Magic Realism' for Roh, as a reaction to expressionism, meant to declare “[that] the autonomy of the objective world around us was once more to be enjoyed; the wonder of matter that could crystallize into objects was to be seen anew.” With the term, he was emphasizing the “magic” of the normal world as it presents itself to us — how, when we really look at everyday objects, they can appear strange and fantastic.\n\nIn Italy, the style that Roh identified was created by a confluence of a renewed focus on harmony and technique called for by the “return to order” and \"metaphysical art\", a style which had been developed by Carlo Carrà and Giorgio de Chirico, two members of the Novecento. Carrà described his purpose as to explore the imagined inner life of familiar objects when represented out of their explanatory contexts: their solidity, their separateness in the space allotted to them, the secret dialogue that may take place between them.\n\nThe leading painter in Italy associated with this style is perhaps Antonio Donghi, who kept to traditional subject matter — popular life, landscapes, and still life — but presented it with strong composition and spatial clarity to give it gravity and stillness. His still lifes often consist of a small vase of flowers, depicted with the disarming symmetry of naive art. He also often painted birds carefully arranged for display in their cages, and dogs and other animals ready to perform for circus acts, to suggest an artificial arrangement placed on top of nature. In Germany, Anton Räderscheidt followed a style similar to Donghi, turning to magic realism after abandoning constructivism. Georg Schrimpf is somewhat like the two, working in a style influenced by primitivism.\n\nFilippo De Pisis, who is often associated with \"metaphysical art\", can also be seen as a magic realist. Like Donghi, he often painted traditional subjects, but rather than developing a strict classical style, used a more painterly brush to bring out the intimacy of the objects, similar to the Belgian \"animists\". His association with \"metaphysical art\" comes from the fact that he would often contrapose objects in his still lifes, and set them in a scene that gave them context.\n\nAnother artist in Italy considered a magic realist is Felice Casorati, whose paintings are rendered with fine technique but often distinguished by unusual perspective effects and bold colorfulness. In 1925, Rafaello Giolli summarized the disconcerting aspects of Casorati's art — “The volumes have no weight in them, and the colors no body. Everything is fictitious: even the living lack all nervous vitality. The sun seems to be the moon ... nothing is fixed or definite.”\n\nOther German artists who worked within this style are Alexander Kanoldt and Carl Grossberg. Kanoldt painted still lifes and portraits, while Grossberg painted urban landscapes and industrial sites rendered with chilly precision.\n\nThe artists most associated with the \"Neue Sachlichkeit\" today are those Hartlaub identified as 'verists'. These artists tended to oppose expressionism, but did not so much exemplify the “return to order” as much as they opposed what they saw as the political impotence of expressionist art. They sought to involve themselves into revolutionary politics and their form of realism distorted appearances to emphasize the ugly, as they wanted to expose what they considered the ugliness of reality. The art was raw, provocative, and harshly satirical.\n\nBertolt Brecht, a German dramatist, was an early critic of Expressionism, referring to it as constrained and superficial. Just like in politics Germany had a new parliament but lacked parliamentarians, he argued, in literature there was an expression of delight in ideas, but no new ideas, and in theater a 'will to drama', but no real drama. His early plays, \"Baal\" and \"Trommeln in der Nacht\" (Drums in the Night) express repudiations of fashionable interest in Expressionism. Opposed to the focus on individual emotional experience in expressionist art, Brecht began a collaborative method to play production, starting with his \"Man Equals Man\" project.\n\nOverall, the \"verist\" critique of expressionism was influenced by Dadaism. The early exponents of Dada had been drawn together in Switzerland, a neutral country in the war, and in common cause, they wanted to use their art as a form of moral and cultural protest — shaking off not only the constraints of nationality, but also of artistic language, in order to express political outrage and encourage political action. Expressionism, to Dadaists, expressed all of the angst and anxieties of society, but was helpless to do anything about it.\n\nOut of this, Dada cultivated a “satirical hyperrealism”, as termed by Raoul Hausmann, and of which the best known examples are the graphical works and photo-montages of John Heartfield. Use of collage in these works became a \"compositional\" principle to blend reality and art, as if to suggest that to record the facts of reality was to go beyond the most simple appearances of things. This later developed into portraits and scenes by artists such as George Grosz, Otto Dix, and Rudolf Schlichter. Portraits would give emphasis to particular features or objects that were seen as distinctive aspects of the person depicted. Satirical scenes often depicted a madness behind what was happening, depicting the participants as cartoon-like.\n\nOther \"verist\" artists, like Christian Schad, depicted reality with a clinical precision, which suggested both an empirical detachment and intimate knowledge of the subject. Schad's paintings are characterized \"an artistic perception so sharp that it seems to cut beneath the skin\", according to Schmied. Often, psychological elements were introduced in his work, which suggested an underlying unconscious reality to life.\n\nIn Belgium, expressionism had been influenced by artists like James Ensor and Louis Pevernagie who had combined expressionism with symbolism. Ensor, known for his paintings of people in masks, carnival outfits, and side-by-side with skeletons, also often painted realistic scenes, but imbued them with a fevered brush, garish colors, and strong contrasts to suggest a strange unreality present in them, as did Pevernagie. Expressionism was also exhibited in the Latemse School, where adherents like Constant Permeke and Hubert Malfait used brushwork in painting and loose form in sculpture to show a mystic reality behind nature.\n\nIn what had been called a “retour à l’humain” (return to the human), many artists working in Belgium after the war had kept the expressive brush of their forebearers, but had rejected what they had seen as the anti-human, unreal distortions in their subject matter. The goal was to use the expressive brush to depict the soul or spirit of the objects, people, and places they were painting, rather than a hyperbolic, externalized, displaced angst of the artist. These artists were often characterized as 'introverts', as opposed to the 'extroverts' of expressionism.\n\nBelgian art critic Paul Haesaerts later gave this movement the title \"animism\", which he took from anthropologist E.B. Tylor's book \"Primitive Culture\" (1871) describing 'animism' as primitive religion that based itself on the idea a soul inhabited all objects. Later, Haesaerts, driven by criticism to do so, also used the terms \"réalisme poétique\" and \"intimism\", although \"animism\" is still most commonly used in literature. \"Intimism\" will more often refer to the art practiced by some members of the Nabis.\n\nThe most recognized painter of these artists is Henri-Victor Wolvens, who painted many scenes of the beach and ocean at Oostende. In his beach scenes, harsh waves are painted with a rough brush, clouds in patches — rougher when in storm — and the sand with a scraped quality. Figures are painted as simply as possible, often as stick figures, and given translucency and movement — so his bathers show the activity of the beach and it the activity of the bathers blend in with the motion of the waves crashing ashore.\n\nThe work of Floris Jespers was strongly influenced by an animist spirit after the war. He uses form and color to give different degrees of vividness to the subjects in his paintings, each to the degree that one would associate them with in life.\n\nOther painters associated with this movement are Anne Bonnet, Albert Dasnoy, Henri Evenepoel, Mayou Iserentant, Jacques Maes, Marcel Stobbaerts, Albert Van Dyck, Louis Van Lint, War Van Overstraeten and Jozef Vinck.\n\nFilippo De Pisis, referenced above, exhibited animist tendencies.\n\nGeorge Grard is the sculptor most associated with animism. Like expressionists, he went against both naturalism and classical tendencies, but used exaggerations from his models to heighten the feeling and sensuality of the form, and chose lyrical subjects. Grard was friends with Charles LePlae, who had a similar style, but kept more in line with natural and classical forms.\n\nHerman De Cuyper is also associated with animism, and abstracted to a more extreme degree than did Grard or LaPlae, and in some ways is more similar to Henry Moore.\n\nAn early revolt against the imposed classicism that was popular in the Novecento took place with the founding of the \"Scuola Romana\".\n\nCorrado Cagli was a member of this group, and identified himself and others whom he met as members of the “New Roman School of Painting”, or \"nuovi pittori romani\" (new Roman painters). Cagli spoke of a spreading sensitivity and an \"Astro di Roma\" (Roman Star) which guided them, affirming it as the poetic basis of their art:\nSometimes referred to as \"romantic expressionism\", art from this group exhibits a wild painting style, expressive and disorderly, violent and with warm ochre and maroon tones. Contrary to early expressionism, the focus isn't on angst and turmoil, but rather seeing the world anew, as Cagli described, through romantic imagination. Yet, the formal rigour of the Novecento was replaced by a distinctly expressionist visionariness.\n\nScipione brought to life a sort of Roman baroque expressionism, where often decadent landscapes appear of Rome's historical baroque centre, populated by priests and cardinals, seen with a vigorously expressive and hallucinated eye.\n\nMario Mafai painted many scenes of Rome and its suburbs, and used warm chromatic colors to convey a sense of freshness and pictorial curiosity. This bent is particularly emphasised in his 1936-1939 work, in a series paintings entitled \"Demolitions\", where in order to make a political statement he painted urban restructuring being carried out by the fascist regime. During the Second World War he painted a series of \"Fantasies\" depicting horrors committed by the fascists. Antonietta Raphaël, Mafai's wife and a sculptor, was also a member of this group.\n\nAnother member was Renatto Guttuso, who like Mafai made paintings which denounced the fascist regime. Guttuso's works are generally bright, lively, and verging on abstraction.\n\nEmanuele Cavalli and Giuseppe Capogrossi have associations both with the \"Scuola Romana\" and with Magic Realism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "192127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192127", "title": "Postmodern art", "text": "Postmodern art\n\nPostmodern art is a body of art movements that sought to contradict some aspects of modernism or some aspects that emerged or developed in its aftermath. In general, movements such as intermedia, installation art, conceptual art and multimedia, particularly involving video are described as postmodern.\n\nThere are several characteristics which lend art to being postmodern; these include bricolage, the use of text prominently as the central artistic element, collage, simplification, appropriation, performance art, the recycling of past styles and themes in a modern-day context, as well as the break-up of the barrier between fine and high arts and low art and popular culture.\n\nThe predominant term for art produced since the 1950s is \"contemporary art\". Not all art labeled as contemporary art is postmodern, and the broader term encompasses both artists who continue to work in modernist and late modernist traditions, as well as artists who reject postmodernism for other reasons. Arthur Danto argues \"contemporary\" is the broader term, and postmodern objects represent a \"subsector\" of the contemporary movement. Some postmodern artists have made more distinctive breaks from the ideas of modern art and there is no consensus as to what is \"late-modern\" and what is \"post-modern.\" Ideas rejected by the modern aesthetic have been re-established. In painting, postmodernism reintroduced representation. Some critics argue much of the current \"postmodern\" art, the latest avant-gardism, should still classify as modern art.\n\nAs well as describing certain tendencies of contemporary art, postmodern has also been used to denote a phase of modern art. Defenders of modernism, such as Clement Greenberg, as well as radical opponents of modernism, such as Félix Guattari, who calls it modernism's \"last gasp,\" have adopted this position. The neo-conservative Hilton Kramer describes postmodernism as \"a creation of modernism at the end of its tether.\" Jean-François Lyotard, in Fredric Jameson's analysis, does not hold there is a postmodern stage radically different from the period of high modernism; instead, postmodern discontent with this or that high modernist style is part of the experimentation of high modernism, giving birth to new modernisms. In the context of aesthetics and art, Jean-François Lyotard is a major philosopher of postmodernism.\n\nMany critics hold postmodern art emerges from modern art. Suggested dates for the shift from modern to postmodern include 1914 in Europe, and 1962 or 1968 in America. James Elkins, commenting on discussions about the exact date of the transition from modernism to postmodernism, compares it to the discussion in the 1960s about the exact span of Mannerism and whether it should begin directly after the High Renaissance or later in the century. He makes the point these debates go on all the time with respect to art movements and periods, which is not to say they are not important. The close of the period of postmodern art has been dated to the end of the 1980s, when the word postmodernism lost much of its critical resonance, and art practices began to address the impact of globalization and new media.\n\nAmerican Marxist philosopher Fredric Jameson argues the condition of life and production will be reflected in all activity, including the making of art.\n\nJean Baudrillard has had a significant influence on postmodern-inspired art and emphasised the possibilities of new forms of creativity. The artist Peter Halley describes his day-glo colours as \"hyperrealization of real color\", and acknowledges Baudrillard as an influence. Baudrillard himself, since 1984, was fairly consistent in his view contemporary art, and postmodern art in particular, was inferior to the modernist art of the post World War II period, while Jean-François Lyotard praised Contemporary painting and remarked on its evolution from Modern art. Major Women artists in the Twentieth Century are associated with postmodern art since much theoretical articulation of their work emerged from French psychoanalysis and Feminist Theory that is strongly related to post modern philosophy.\n\nAs with all uses of the term postmodern there are critics of its application. Kirk Varnedoe, for instance, stated that there is no such thing as postmodernism, and that the possibilities of modernism have not yet been exhausted. Though the usage of the term as a kind of shorthand to designate the work of certain Post-war \"schools\" employing relatively specific material and generic techniques has become conventional since the mid-1980s, the theoretical underpinnings of Postmodernism as an epochal or epistemic division are still very much in controversy.\n\nPostmodernism describes movements which both arise from, and react against or reject, trends in modernism. General citations for specific trends of modernism are formal purity, medium specificity, art for art's sake, authenticity, universality, originality and revolutionary or reactionary tendency, i.e. the avant-garde. However, paradox is probably the most important modernist idea against which postmodernism reacts. Paradox was central to the modernist enterprise, which Manet introduced. Manet's various violations of representational art brought to prominence the supposed mutual exclusiveness of reality and representation, design and representation, abstraction and reality, and so on. The incorporation of paradox was highly stimulating from Manet to the conceptualists.\n\nThe status of the avant-garde is controversial: many institutions argue being visionary, forward-looking, cutting-edge, and progressive are crucial to the mission of art in the present, and therefore postmodern art contradicts the value of \"art of our times\". Postmodernism rejects the notion of advancement or progress in art per se, and thus aims to overturn the \"myth of the avant-garde\". Rosalind Krauss was one of the important enunciators of the view that avant-gardism was over, and the new artistic era is post-liberal and post-progress. Griselda Pollock studied and confronted the avant-garde and modern art in a series of groundbreaking books, reviewing modern art at the same time as redefining postmodern art.\n\nOne characteristic of postmodern art is its conflation of high and low culture through the use of industrial materials and pop culture imagery. The use of low forms of art were a part of modernist experimentation as well, as documented in Kirk Varnedoe and Adam Gopnik's 1990–91 show \"High and Low: Popular Culture and Modern Art\" at New York's Museum of Modern Art, an exhibition that was universally panned at the time as the only event that could bring Douglas Crimp and Hilton Kramer together in a chorus of scorn. Postmodern art is noted for the way in which it blurs the distinctions between what is perceived as fine or high art and what is generally seen as low or kitsch art. Whilst this concept of 'blurring' or 'fusing' high art with low art had been experimented during modernism, it only ever became fully endorsed after the advent of the postmodern era. Postmodernism introduced elements of commercialism, kitsch and a general camp aesthetic within its artistic context; postmodernism takes styles from past periods, such as Gothicism, the Renaissance and the Baroque, and mixes them so as to ignore their original use in their corresponding artistic movement. Such elements are common characteristics of what defines postmodern art.\n\nFredric Jameson suggests postmodern works abjure any claim to spontaneity and directness of expression, making use instead of pastiche and discontinuity. Against this definition, Art and Language's Charles Harrison and Paul Wood maintained pastiche and discontinuity are endemic to modernist art, and are deployed effectively by modern artists such as Manet and Picasso.\n\nOne compact definition is postmodernism rejects modernism's grand narratives of artistic direction, eradicating the boundaries between high and low forms of art, and disrupting genre's conventions with collision, collage, and fragmentation. Postmodern art holds all stances are unstable and insincere, and therefore irony, parody, and humor are the only positions critique or revision cannot overturn. \"Pluralism and diversity\" are other defining features.\n\nRadical movements and trends regarded as influential and potentially as precursors to postmodernism emerged around World War I and particularly in its aftermath. With the introduction of the use of industrial artifacts in art and techniques such as collage, avant-garde movements such as Cubism, Dada and Surrealism questioned the nature and value of art. New artforms, such as cinema and the rise of reproduction, influenced these movements as a means of creating artworks. The ignition point for the definition of modernism, Clement Greenberg's essay, \"Avant-Garde and Kitsch\", first published in \"Partisan Review\" in 1939, defends the avant-garde in the face of popular culture. Later, Peter Bürger would make a distinction between the historical avant-garde and modernism, and critics such as Krauss, Huyssen, and Douglas Crimp, following Bürger, identified the historical avant-garde as a precursor to postmodernism. Krauss, for example, describes Pablo Picasso's use of collage as an avant-garde practice anticipating postmodern art with its emphasis on language at the expense of autobiography. Another point of view is avant-garde and modernist artists used similar strategies and postmodernism repudiates both.\n\nIn the early 20th century Marcel Duchamp exhibited a urinal as a sculpture. His point was to have people look at the urinal as if it were a work of art just because he said it was a work of art. He referred to his work as \"Readymades\". The \"Fountain\" was a urinal signed with the pseudonym R. Mutt, which shocked the art world in 1917. This and Duchamp's other works are generally labelled as Dada. Duchamp can be seen as a precursor to conceptual art. Some critics question calling Duchamp—whose obsession with paradox is well known—postmodernist on the grounds he eschews any specific medium, since paradox is not medium-specific, although it arose first in Manet's paintings.\n\nDadaism can be viewed as part of the modernist propensity to challenge established styles and forms, along with Surrealism, Futurism and Abstract Expressionism. From a chronological point of view, Dada is located solidly within modernism, however a number of critics hold it anticipates postmodernism, while others, such as Ihab Hassan and Steven Connor, consider it a possible changeover point between modernism and postmodernism. For example, according to McEvilly, postmodernism begins with realizing one no longer believes in the myth of progress, and Duchamp sensed this in 1914 when he changed from a modernist practice to a postmodernist one, \"abjuring aesthetic delectation, transcendent ambition, and tour de force demonstrations of formal agility in favor of aesthetic indifference, acknowledgement of the ordinary world, and the found object or readymade.\"\n\nIn general, Pop Art and Minimalism began as modernist movements: a paradigm shift and philosophical split between formalism and anti-formalism in the early 1970s caused those movements to be viewed by some as precursors or transitional postmodern art. Other modern movements cited as influential to postmodern art are conceptual art and the use of techniques such as assemblage, montage, bricolage, and appropriation.\n\nDuring the late 1940s and early 1950s, Pollock's radical approach to painting revolutionized the potential for all Contemporary art following him. Pollock realized the journey toward making a work of art was as important as the work of art itself. Like Pablo Picasso's innovative reinventions of painting and sculpture near the turn of the century via Cubism and constructed sculpture, Pollock redefined artmaking during the mid-century. Pollock's move from easel painting and conventionality liberated his contemporaneous artists and following artists. They realized Pollock's process — working on the floor, unstretched raw canvas, from all four sides, using artist materials, industrial materials, imagery, non-imagery, throwing linear skeins of paint, dripping, drawing, staining, brushing - blasted artmaking beyond prior boundaries. Abstract expressionism expanded and developed the definitions and possibilities artists had available for the creation of new works of art. In a sense, the innovations of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Mark Rothko, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann, Clyfford Still, Barnett Newman, Ad Reinhardt and others, opened the floodgates to the diversity and scope of following artworks.\n\nIn abstract painting during the 1950s and 1960s several new directions like Hard-edge painting and other forms of Geometric abstraction like the work of Frank Stella popped up, as a reaction against the subjectivism of Abstract expressionism began to appear in artist studios and in radical avant-garde circles. Clement Greenberg became the voice of \"Post-painterly abstraction;\" by curating an influential exhibition of new painting touring important art museums throughout the United States in 1964. Color field painting, Hard-edge painting and Lyrical Abstraction emerged as radical new directions.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Postminimalism, Process Art and Arte Povera also emerged as revolutionary concepts and movements encompassing painting and sculpture, via Lyrical Abstraction and the Postminimalist movement, and in early Conceptual Art. Process art as inspired by Pollock enabled artists to experiment with and make use of a diverse encyclopedia of style, content, material, placement, sense of time, and plastic and real space. Nancy Graves, Ronald Davis, Howard Hodgkin, Larry Poons, Jannis Kounellis, Brice Marden, Bruce Nauman, Richard Tuttle, Alan Saret, Walter Darby Bannard, Lynda Benglis, Dan Christensen, Larry Zox, Ronnie Landfield, Eva Hesse, Keith Sonnier, Richard Serra, Sam Gilliam, Mario Merz, Peter Reginato, Lee Lozano, were some of the younger artists emerging during the era of late modernism spawning the heyday of the art of the late 1960s.\n\nDuring the late 1950s and 1960s, artists with a wide range of interests began pushing the boundaries of Contemporary art. Yves Klein in France, and Carolee Schneemann, Yayoi Kusama, Charlotte Moorman, and Yoko Ono in New York City were pioneers of performance based works of art. Groups like The Living Theater with Julian Beck and Judith Malina collaborated with sculptors and painters creating environments; radically changing the relationship between audience and performer especially in their piece \"Paradise Now\". The Judson Dance Theater located at the Judson Memorial Church, New York, and the Judson dancers, notably Yvonne Rainer, Trisha Brown, Elaine Summers, Sally Gross, Simonne Forti, Deborah Hay, Lucinda Childs, Steve Paxton and others collaborated with artists Robert Morris, Robert Whitman, John Cage, Robert Rauschenberg, and engineers like Billy Klüver. These performances were often designed to be the creation of a new art form, combining sculpture, dance, and music or sound, often with audience participation. The reductive philosophies of minimalism, spontaneous improvisation, and expressivity of Abstract expressionism characterized the works.\n\nDuring the same period — the late 1950s through the mid-1960s - various avant-garde artists created Happenings. Happenings were mysterious and often spontaneous and unscripted gatherings of artists and their friends and relatives in varied specified locations. Often incorporating exercises in absurdity, physical exercise, costumes, spontaneous nudity, and various random and seemingly disconnected acts. Allan Kaprow, Joseph Beuys, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Claes Oldenburg, Jim Dine, Red Grooms, and Robert Whitman among others were notable creators of Happenings.\n\nRelated to Abstract expressionism was the emergence of combined manufactured items — with artist materials, moving away from previous conventions of painting and sculpture. The work of Robert Rauschenberg, whose \"combines\" in the 1950s were forerunners of Pop Art and Installation art, and made use of the assemblage of large physical objects, including stuffed animals, birds and commercial photography, exemplified this art trend.\n\nLeo Steinberg uses the term postmodernism in 1969 to describe Rauschenberg's \"flatbed\" picture plane, containing a range of cultural images and artifacts that had not been compatible with the pictorial field of premodernist and modernist painting. Craig Owens goes further, identifying the significance of Rauschenberg's work not as a representation of, in Steinberg's view, \"the shift from nature to culture\", but as a demonstration of the impossibility of accepting their opposition.\n\nSteven Best and Douglas Kellner identify Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns as part of the transitional phase, influenced by Marcel Duchamp, between modernism and postmodernism. These artists used images of ordinary objects, or the objects themselves, in their work, while retaining the abstraction and painterly gestures of high modernism.\n\nAnselm Kiefer also uses elements of assemblage in his works, and on one occasion, featured the bow of a fishing boat in a painting.\n\nLawrence Alloway used the term \"Pop art\" to describe paintings celebrating consumerism of the post World War II era. This movement rejected Abstract expressionism and its focus on the hermeneutic and psychological interior, in favor of art which depicted, and often celebrated, material consumer culture, advertising, and iconography of the mass production age. The early works of David Hockney and the works of Richard Hamilton, John McHale, and Eduardo Paolozzi were considered seminal examples in the movement. While later American examples include the bulk of the careers of Andy Warhol and Roy Lichtenstein and his use of Benday dots, a technique used in commercial reproduction. There is a clear connection between the radical works of Duchamp, the rebellious Dadaist — with a sense of humor; and Pop Artists like Claes Oldenburg, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein and the others.\n\nThomas McEvilly, agreeing with Dave Hickey, says U.S postmodernism in the visual arts began with the first exhibitions of Pop art in 1962, \"though it took about twenty years before postmodernism became a dominant attitude in the visual arts.\" Fredric Jameson, too, considers pop art to be postmodern.\n\nOne way Pop art is postmodern is it breaks down what Andreas Huyssen calls the \"Great Divide\" between high art and popular culture. Postmodernism emerges from a \"generational refusal of the categorical certainties of high modernism.\"\n\nFluxus was named and loosely organized in 1962 by George Maciunas (1931–78), a Lithuanian-born American artist. Fluxus traces its beginnings to John Cage's 1957 to 1959 Experimental Composition classes at the New School for Social Research in New York City. Many of his students were artists working in other media with little or no background in music. Cage's students included Fluxus founding members Jackson Mac Low, Al Hansen, George Brecht and Dick Higgins.\nIn 1962 in Germany Fluxus started with the: FLUXUS Internationale Festspiele Neuester Musik in Wiesbaden with, George Maciunas, Joseph Beuys, Wolf Vostell, Nam June Paik and others. And in 1963 with the: Festum Fluxorum Fluxus in Düsseldorf with George Maciunas, Wolf Vostell, Joseph Beuys, Dick Higgins, Nam June Paik, Ben Patterson, Emmett Williams and others.\n\nFluxus encouraged a do it yourself aesthetic, and valued simplicity over complexity. Like Dada before it, Fluxus included a strong current of anti-commercialism and an anti-art sensibility, disparaging the conventional market-driven art world in favor of an artist-centered creative practice. Fluxus artists preferred to work with whatever materials were at hand, and either created their own work or collaborated in the creation process with their colleagues.\n\nFluxus can be viewed as part of the first phase of postmodernism, along with Rauschenberg, Johns, Warhol and the Situationist International. Andreas Huyssen criticises attempts to claim Fluxus for postmodernism as, \"either the master-code of postmodernism or the ultimately unrepresentable art movement – as it were, postmodernism's sublime.\" Instead he sees Fluxus as a major Neo-Dadaist phenomena within the avant-garde tradition. It did not represent a major advance in the development of artistic strategies, though it did express a rebellion against, \"the administered culture of the 1950s, in which a moderate, domesticated modernism served as ideological prop to the Cold War.\"\n\nBy the early 1960s Minimalism emerged as an abstract movement in art (with roots in geometric abstraction via Malevich, the Bauhaus and Mondrian) which rejected the idea of relational, and subjective painting, the complexity of Abstract expressionist surfaces, and the emotional zeitgeist and polemics present in the arena of Action painting. Minimalism argued extreme simplicity could capture the sublime representation art requires. Associated with painters such as Frank Stella, minimalism in painting, as opposed to other areas, is a modernist movement and depending on the context can be construed as a precursor to the postmodern movement.\n\nHal Foster, in his essay \"The Crux of Minimalism\", examines the extent to which Donald Judd and Robert Morris both acknowledge and exceed Greenbergian modernism in their published definitions of minimalism. He argues minimalism is not a \"dead end\" of modernism, but a \"paradigm shift toward postmodern practices that continue to be elaborated today.\"\n\nRobert Pincus-Witten coined the term Post-minimalism in 1977 to describe minimalist derived art which had content and contextual overtones minimalism rejected. His use of the term covered the period 1966 – 1976 and applied to the work of Eva Hesse, Keith Sonnier, Richard Serra and new work by former minimalists Robert Smithson, Robert Morris, Sol LeWitt, and Barry Le Va, and others. Process art and anti-form art are other terms describing this work, which the space it occupies and the process by which it is made determines.\n\nRosalind Krauss argues by 1968 artists such as Morris, LeWitt, Smithson and Serra had \"entered a situation the logical conditions of which can no longer be described as modernist.\" The expansion of the category of sculpture to include land art and architecture, \"brought about the shift into postmodernism.\"\n\nMinimalists like Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Carl Andre, Agnes Martin, John McCracken and others continued to produce their late modernist paintings and sculpture for the remainder of their careers.\n\nConceptual art is sometimes labelled as postmodern because it is expressly involved in deconstruction of what makes a work of art, \"art\". Conceptual art, because it is often designed to confront, offend or attack notions held by many of the people who view it, is regarded with particular controversy.\n\nPrecursors to conceptual art include the work of Duchamp, John Cage's 4' 33\", in which the music is said to be \"the sounds of the environment that the listeners' hear while it is performed,\" and Rauschenberg's \"Erased De Kooning Drawing\". Many conceptual works take the position that art is created by the viewer viewing an object or act as art, not from the intrinsic qualities of the work itself. Thus, because \"Fountain\" was exhibited, it was a sculpture.\n\nAn important series of movements in art which have consistently been described as postmodern involved installation art and creation of artifacts that are conceptual in nature. One example being the signs of Jenny Holzer which use the devices of art to convey specific messages, such as \"Protect Me From What I Want\". Installation Art has been important in determining the spaces selected for museums of contemporary art in order to be able to hold the large works which are composed of vast collages of manufactured and found objects. These installations and collages are often electrified, with moving parts and lights.\n\nThey are often designed to create environmental effects, as Christo and Jeanne-Claude's \"Iron Curtain, Wall of 240 Oil Barrels, Blocking Rue Visconti, Paris, June 1962\" which was a poetic response to the Berlin Wall built in 1961.\n\nLowbrow is a widespread populist art movement with origins in the underground comix world, punk music, hot-rod street culture, and other California subcultures. It is also often known by the name pop surrealism. Lowbrow art highlights a central theme in postmodernism in that the distinction between \"high\" and \"low\" art are no longer recognized.\n\nDigital art is a general term for a range of artistic works and practices that use digital technology as an essential part of the creative and/or presentation process. The impact of digital technology has transformed activities such as painting, drawing, sculpture and music/sound art, while new forms, such as net art, digital installation art, and virtual reality, have become recognized artistic practices.\n\nLeading art theorists and historians in this field include Christiane Paul, Frank Popper, Christine Buci-Glucksmann, Dominique Moulon, Robert C. Morgan, Roy Ascott, Catherine Perret, Margot Lovejoy, Edmond Couchot, Fred Forest and Edward A. Shanken.\n\nAnother trend in art which has been associated with the term postmodern is the use of a number of different media together. Intermedia, a term coined by Dick Higgins and meant to convey new artforms along the lines of Fluxus, Concrete Poetry, Found objects, Performance art, and Computer art. Higgins was the publisher of the Something Else Press, a Concrete poet, married to artist Alison Knowles and an admirer of Marcel Duchamp. Ihab Hassan includes, \"Intermedia, the fusion of forms, the confusion of realms,\" in his list of the characteristics of postmodern art. One of the most common forms of \"multi-media art\" is the use of video-tape and CRT monitors, termed Video art. While the theory of combining multiple arts into one art is quite old, and has been revived periodically, the postmodern manifestation is often in combination with performance art, where the dramatic subtext is removed, and what is left is the specific statements of the artist in question or the conceptual statement of their action.\nHiggin's conception of Intermedia is connected to the growth of multimedia digital practice such as immersive virtual reality, digital art and computer art.\n\nTelematic art is a descriptive of art projects using computer mediated telecommunications networks as their medium. Telematic art challenges the traditional relationship between active viewing subjects and passive art objects by creating interactive, behavioural contexts for remote aesthetic encounters. Roy Ascott sees the telematic art form as the transformation of the viewer into an active participator of creating the artwork which remains in process throughout its duration. Ascott has been at the forefront of the theory and practice of telematic art since 1978 when he went online for the first time, organizing different collaborative online projects.\n\nIn his 1980 essay \"The Allegorical Impulse: Toward a Theory of Postmodernism,\" Craig Owens identifies the re-emergence of an allegorical impulse as characteristic of postmodern art. This impulse can be seen in the appropriation art of artists such as Sherrie Levine and Robert Longo because, \"Allegorical imagery is appropriated imagery.\" Appropriation art debunks modernist notions of artistic genius and originality and is more ambivalent and contradictory than modern art, simultaneously installing and subverting ideologies, \"being both critical and complicit.\"\n\nThe return to the traditional art forms of sculpture and painting in the late 1970s and early 1980s seen in the work of Neo-expressionist artists such as Georg Baselitz and Julian Schnabel has been described as a postmodern tendency, and one of the first coherent movements to emerge in the postmodern era. Its strong links with the commercial art market has raised questions, however, both about its status as a postmodern movement and the definition of postmodernism itself. Hal Foster states that neo-expressionism was complicit with the conservative cultural politics of the Reagan-Bush era in the U.S. Félix Guattari disregards the \"large promotional operations dubbed 'neo-expressionism' in Germany,\" (an example of a \"fad that maintains itself by means of publicity\") as a too easy way for him \"to demonstrate that postmodernism is nothing but the last gasp of modernism.\" These critiques of neo-expressionism reveal that money and public relations really sustained contemporary art world credibility in America during the same period that conceptual artists, and practices of women artists including painters and feminist theorists like Griselda Pollock, were systematically reevaluating modern art. Brian Massumi claims that Deleuze and Guattari open the horizon of new definitions of Beauty in postmodern art. For Jean-François Lyotard, it was painting of the artists Valerio Adami, Daniel Buren, Marcel Duchamp, Bracha Ettinger, and Barnett Newman that, after the avant-garde's time and the painting of Paul Cézanne and Wassily Kandinsky, was the vehicle for new ideas of the sublime in contemporary art.\n\nCritiques on the institutions of art (principally museums and galleries) are made in the work of Michael Asher, Marcel Broodthaers, Daniel Buren and Hans Haacke.\n\n"}
{"id": "12149529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12149529", "title": "Press support", "text": "Press support\n\nPress support is a government subsidy available for newspapers in some countries. The support can either be direct, in terms of money to the newspaper, or indirect, such as lowered or eliminated sales tax. The justification for press support is typically to maintain some level of diversity in the media market.\n\nPress support is a Norwegian state subsidy available for newspapers. The subsidy is twofold; the first part is a direct subsidy of the second- largest, by circulation, newspapers in each city. The other subsidy is that newspaper are subject to no sales tax (as are books).\nThe direct subsidy is managed by the Norwegian Media Authority, and was NOK 303 million in 2006, paid to 138 newspapers. It was introduced in 1965, because of the fear of a massive newspaper death like Sweden and Denmark had seen, mainly the second largest newspapers in each city. Also, at the time, most newspapers were not political neutral, with many papers being controlled by either conservative forces, the labour movement or political parties. Support is given to all newspapers that are do not have the largest circulation in the city of publishing. There are limitations on the newspapers who can receive support, including that the support will cease if they pay a dividend to their owners. Other support is given to media research, follow-up studies, sami newspapers, immigrant publications and distribution support for Finnmark.\n\nThe press support has been partially successful, with a number of second-largest newspapers surviving, like \"Bergensavisen\" (Bergen), \"Rogalands Avis\" (Stavanger) and \"Dagsavisen\" (Oslo). Other secondary newspapers have been closed, like \"Trondheims-Pressen\". The largest receivers are often national newspapers, targeting special (often political) sectors, like \"Klassekampen\" (Socialist), \"Nationen\" (Agrarian) and \"Vårt Land\" (Christian). Most of the large, business and tabloid newspapers, like Dagbladet or Dagens Næringsliv, do not receive support, since they pay dividend to their owners.\n\nBy far the greatest level of support to newspapers arises out of their exemption from sales tax and exceeds NOK 1 billion. This exemption was instituted to foster a variety of perspectives from newspapers; to stimulate public debate and consciousness, democracy, freedom of speech and to enable the media to act as society's watch-dog.\n"}
{"id": "20637639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20637639", "title": "Talking animals in fiction", "text": "Talking animals in fiction\n\nTalking animals are a common theme in mythology and folk tales, as well as children's literature. Fictional talking animals often are anthropomorphic, possessing human-like qualities but appearing as a creature. The usage of talking animals enable storytellers to combine the basic characteristics of the animal with human behavior, to apply metaphor, and to entertain children.\n\nThere are a number of alleged real-life talking animals.\n\nThe creature retains its original form without much change, other than being able to speak. Sometimes it may only speak as a narration for the reader's convenience. The rabbits in \"Watership Down\" who, except for the ability to discuss their actions, behave exactly as normal rabbits, also come under this category, as do characters from animated films like \"Happy Feet\" and \"The Lion King\".\n\nThe talking creature concept is featured within much traditional literature, such as in Aesop's Fables, and several mythologies, including Greek, Chinese and Indian mythologies. A notable example from the Judaeo-Christian tradition is the talking serpent from the Book of Genesis, which tempts Eve to eat the forbidden fruit of the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil.\n\nMany fairy tales include apparent talking creatures that prove to be shapeshifted people, or even ghosts. The fairy tales \"How Ian Direach got the Blue Falcon\" and \"Tsarevitch Ivan, the Fire Bird and the Gray Wolf\" have the hero aided by a fox and a wolf respectively, but in the similar tale \"The Golden Bird\", the talking fox is freed from a spell to become the heroine's brother, and in \"The Bird 'Grip'\", the fox leaves the hero after explaining that it was the dead man whose debts the hero had paid.\n\nWhether shape-shifted or merely having the magical ability to speak, the talking creature is perhaps the most common trait of fairy tales. The motif is certainly present in many more tales than fairies.\n\nNumerous modern science fiction and fantasy stories intermix human and creature characters. In L. Frank Baum's Land of Oz, creatures (such as the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger) talk. The chicken Billina gains the ability to talk when she is swept away by a storm to land near Oz, as do other animals, and Toto, it is explained in a retcon, always had the ability since arriving in Oz, but never used it. In C. S. Lewis's \"Chronicles of Narnia\", the world of Narnia is ruled by a talking lion by the name of Aslan, and many small characters are talking woodland animals, both of which interact with both the humans of Narnia, and the children who act as the protagonists of the books.\n\nMost people in the industries of professional illustration, cartooning, and animation refer to these types of creature characters as talking animals, funny animals or anthropomorphic characters. However, the mainstream news media and members of furry fandom more commonly refer to this variety of talking animals as furries. The earliest example of talking creatures portraying humans, as opposed to talking creatures portraying creatures, was in Vishnu Sarma's \"Panchatantra\" (\"Fables of Bidpai\"), which was set in a world of talking creatures who represent human morals and behavior. A good Western example of the genre is Henryson's \"Fabillis\". The webcomic \"Anima: Age of the Robots\" (Anima (webcomic)) uses anthropomorphism to portray an alternate world as modern as ours, but inhabited by creature-lookalikes. The intelligent robots they have made rebel and threaten the creatures. This serves as a warning to mankind's thoughtless pursuit of technological advancement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37307005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37307005", "title": "The Golden Arm", "text": "The Golden Arm\n\nThe Golden Arm is a folktale, a story appearing in multiple cultures through oral tradition and folklore, most famously told by Mark Twain and also used by him to instruct others in how to tell a story. The tale begins with a death or a recently deceased victim who has an artificial limb, usually an arm, made of gold. The victim has their limb stolen after their death, most often by a loved one or trusted one in greed. Then the victim comes back from the grave looking to get their golden limb back and scares the robber into giving back their arm.\n\nThe Golden Arm is best spoken rather than read. It is a story told to scare the listeners of the story. The story ends usually with a great shout at the end to make the listeners jump.\n\nThe Golden Arm can be documented at least 200 years back, but it has been told orally for longer. This tale is part of the Aarne–Thompson Type 366 which means that a corpse comes back from the dead to claim what was stolen from them, usually a body part, article of clothing or object. This stems from the belief that “a dead man or animal can find no rest until its physical remains are intact.” \n\nThe folktale was created originally to teach the listeners to be respectful to the dead. Because The Golden Arm was passed down orally the story changed to become a story about avarice, teaching the listeners to not be greedy.\n\nIt is unsure where exactly the folktale started, but each country has a version of The Golden Arm and its own variation.\n\nFrom Joseph Jacobs's Collection, \"English Fairy Tales\"\n\nTHE GOLDEN ARM\n\nTHERE WAS ONCE A MAN who travelled the land all over in\nsearch of a wife. He saw young and old, rich and poor, pretty\nand plain, and could not meet with one to his mind. At last\nhe found a woman, young, fair, and rich, who possessed a\nright arm of solid gold. He married her at once, and thought\nno man so fortunate as he was. They lived happily together,\nbut, though he wished people to think otherwise, he was\nfonder of the golden arm than of all his wife’s gifts besides.\nAt last she died. The husband put on the blackest black,\nand pulled the longest face at the funeral; but for all that he\ngot up in the middle of the night, dug up the body, and cut\noff the golden arm. He hurried home to hide his treasure,\nand thought no one would know.\nThe following night he put the golden arm under his pillow, and was just falling asleep, when the ghost of his dead\nwife glided into the room. Stalking up to the bedside it drew\nthe curtain, and looked at him reproachfully. \nPretending not to be afraid, he spoke to the ghost, and said: “What hast\nthou done with thy cheeks so red?”\n“All withered and wasted away,” replied the ghost, in a hollow tone.\n“What hast thou done with thy red rosy lips?”\n“All withered and wasted away.”\n“What hast thou done with thy golden hair?”\n“All withered and wasted away.”\n“What hast thou done with thy Golden Arm?”\n“THOU HAST IT!” \n\nWith The Golden Arm being an orally told folktale, as it was passed down the story changed. The different variations on the story involve usually these three things:\n\nThe Limb- Sometimes the limb of the deceased is not an arm (America, England, Tuscany, and Friesland ). On occasion it is a leg (Germany, Schleswig-Holstein, France ) or a toe (Texas ). Sometimes the origin of how the limb came to be is different. Sometimes the owner is born with the golden limb; sometimes it is an artificial limb to replace an amputation; and sometimes the origin of the limb is left unexplained. The gold limb is sometimes silver.\n\nThe Deceased and the Robber- Usually the folktale has the deceased and the robber having a relationship of some sort, either by marriage, friend or doctor. But on occasion the deceased will have no relation to the robber. Also, the deceased is not always a woman. There are many variations where the deceased is a male. This also makes it so the robber isn't always male, though it usually is, on occasion the robber is female.\n\nThe Ending- Much of the American and English versions of the folktale end with the great shout at the end to scare the listener. But some countries give an end to the tale leaving the reader unsettled (Germany and France ).\n\nOn a 1964 episode of his television series called \"Back To Nature\", Andy Griffith's character Sheriff Andy Taylor tells the Golden Arm story to Barney, Gomer, and a group of children on a camping trip.\n\nMark Twain went on a reading tour with George Washington Cable in 1884-1885. During this tour he would constantly feature his \"Ghost Stories\" where he told the story of The Golden Arm. He would get reactions from the audience that involved jumping in their seats and screaming in fear. In his book \"How to Tell a Story and Other Essays\" he references The Golden Arm. It is written in that The Golden Arm is a Negro Ghost story, which he learned from his uncle's slave named Uncle Dan'l, and tells the reader to focus on the pause. He states it is a humorous story, most likely because people's reaction to it are funny, and explains to the reader how to tell the story to get such reactions. He then tells the reader to practice using \"The Golden Arm\":\n\n\"On the platform I used to tell a negro ghost story that had a pause in front of the snapper on the end, and that pause was the most important thing in the whole story. If I got it the right length precisely, I could spring the finishing ejaculation with effect enough to make some impressible girl deliver a startled little yelp and jump out of her seat—and that was what I was after. This story was called \"The Golden Arm,\" and was told in this fashion. You can practise with it yourself—and mind you look out for the pause and get it right.\"\n"}
{"id": "4915708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915708", "title": "The Romantic Anonymous Fellowship", "text": "The Romantic Anonymous Fellowship\n\nThe Romantic Anonymous Fellowship was founded by the Stuckist painter Odysseus Yakoumakis on September 2004, as the first, and currently the only, Greek group of Stuckism International. It has an international membership.\n\nOdysseus Yakoumakis discovered Stuckism in July, 2004, while surfing the net, and saw in it an antidote to what he deems \"the ailments of the contemporary Greek 'artscape'\". He contacted Charles Thomson, the London founder of Stuckism, and a few days later founded The Romantic Anonymous Fellowship. He conceived this as a \"Greek version of Stuckism, an antidote to contemporary Greek art's provincialism, sectarianism and servile importation of post-modernism\". He developed the concept of \"Romantic Stuckism\", that is of \"Stuckism with a good injection of Eleatic and Platonic philosophy, oriented rather towards encouraging each artist to pursue his/her genuinely personal artistic vision rather, than towards pointless polemics against the reactionary official art-establishment\". He published the first two Romantic Stuckist theoretical texts on the Fellowship's website.\n\nAt that stage he was the Fellowship's only fellow and, as far as he knew, the only artist in Greece aware of the Stuckist movement. He contacted other fine artists in Athens, but described the reactions he got as \"ranging from a tepid 'academic curiosity' to a sheer lack of interest or even, occasionally, to a politely concealed hostility.\" He was however contacted by artists from overseas and accepted them into the Fellowship. The first to apply was Ian J. Burkett, a painter living in London and founder of the Ealing Stuckists group. Shortly after, followed the painter and etcher Ilania Abileah from Canada, and the painter and etcher Anthe (who is of Greek descent) from the US.\n\nYakoumakis determined that Stuckism should, nevertheless, be brought \"in the flesh\" before the eyes of the Greek fine arts community, and organised the first Stuckist event in Greece, titled \"Under the Cover of Romantic Anonymity\", announced for May 14 of 2010 at the Ash-In-Art Gallery, Athens, Greece.\n\nIn parallel with the show, the new book by Odysseus Yakoumakis will be featured, titled \"Leaflets from the Wilderness (a case study about the artscape in nouveau-Greece and many other lands)\" (Ash-In-Art Publications).\n\nStuckist artists taking part include: \nGuest artists participating are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42932714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42932714", "title": "The Story of Women and Art", "text": "The Story of Women and Art\n\nThe Story of Women and Art is a television documentary series, consisting of three one-hour episodes, on the history of women artists in Europe from the Renaissance onwards, first broadcast in the United Kingdom on BBC Two in May 2014. The series is presented by Professor Amanda Vickery.\n\nArtists featured include Properzia de' Rossi, Sofonisba Anguissola, Lavinia Fontana, Anne Seymour Damer, Angelica Kauffman, and the 17th-century Dutch paper cutter Joanna Koerten. Episode 3 covered Lady Butler, Berthe Morisot, Gertrude Jekyll, Karin Larsson, Madeleine Vionnet, and Georgia O'Keefe.\nThe programme was well received by some critics, but criticized by others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3979884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3979884", "title": "Valley of the Wolves: Iraq", "text": "Valley of the Wolves: Iraq\n\nValley of the Wolves: Iraq () is a 2006 Turkish action film directed by Serdar Akar and starring Necati Şaşmaz, Billy Zane and Ghassan Massoud. The story concerns a Turkish commando team which goes to Iraq to track down the US military commander responsible for the Hood event.\n\nThe film is set during the occupation of Iraq and includes references to other real events such as the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. The film, which went on nationwide general release across Turkey on , was the highest-grossing Turkish films of 2006 and is one of the most expensive Turkish films ever made.\n\nIt is part of the \"Valley of the Wolves\" media franchise, based on the Turkish television series of the same name, and was followed by \"\" (2008) and \"\" (2010).\n\nFilmed with a budget of $14 million, this was the most expensive Turkish film ever made at the time of its release before being surpassed by A.R.O.G.. The film grossed $27.9 million at the box office — $25.1 million in Turkey and $2.8 million in Europe.\n\nOpinions of the film greatly varied. While the \"Wall Street Journal\" characterized it as \"a cross between 'American Psycho' in uniform and the \"Protocols of the Elders of Zion\"\", Turkey's parliamentary speaker Bulent Arinc described it as \"absolutely magnificent\".\n\nThe film covers through fiction real-life events like the occupation of Iraq, the execution of Daniel Pearl and the Abu Ghraib torture scandal. Nevertheless, the film's primary focus is the Hood event (), an incident on July 4, 2003 following the 2003 invasion of Iraq where a group of Turkish military personnel operating in northern Iraq were captured, led away with hoods over their heads, and interrogated by the United States military.\n\nThe arrest is infamous in Turkey as the so-called \"Hood event\". The soldiers were led out of their headquarters at gunpoint, with hoods over their heads and subsequently detained for sixty hours before being released, after Turkey protested to the United States. This was the first time such an incident had taken place between the two NATO allies. Though neither side ever apologized, a US-Turkish commission set up to investigate the incident later issued a joint statement of regret. In addition, US Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld wrote a letter to the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, expressing sorrow over what had happened. Many Turks took offense at the incident while it lasted, and after it as well.\n\nThe film opens with a fictional depiction of a real-life incident, the \"Hood event\". On July 4, 2003, the Turkish soldiers believe they are having an ordinary visit from their NATO allies, but a sudden change occurs, and 11 allied Turkish special forces soldiers and 13 civilians are arrested by Colonel Sam William Marshall (Billy Zane), in the northern Iraq town of Sulaymaniyah. They are forced to wear hoods while in detention, and are released some time later.\n\nA Turkish officer named Suleyman Aslan, who was a member of the special forces troops involved in the Hood event, is unable to bear the shame of what happened, and commits suicide. Before doing so, he writes a letter saying goodbye to his friend, Polat Alemdar (Necati Şaşmaz). Alemdar is a former Turkish intelligence agent who has recently severed links to the government agency for which he worked. Determined to avenge his friend's humiliation, Alemdar travels to Iraq along with several of his colleagues, seeking vengeance on the American commander whose actions led to Aslan's suicide.\n\nAt a checkpoint, Alemdar and his team kill three Iraqi Kurdish paramilitary troops called \"Peshmerge\". They attach explosives to the foundation of a hotel, to which they demand Colonel Sam William Marshall, who was responsible for the hooding incident, come. When Marshall arrives, Polat wants him to put a sack over his head and to publicly leave the hotel with him, allowing journalists to take photos, taking the same insult he committed to Polat's dead friend. The group threatens to blow up the hotel unless Marshall and some of his men let themselves be led out of the hotel while hooded. Marshall refuses and brings in a group of Iraqi children as human shields. Alemdar gives in and leaves.\n\nMarshall raids an Arab wedding on the pretext of hunting \"terrorists\". When the usual celebratory gunfire starts, one soldier states: \"Now they are shooting, now they are terrorists\"; they attack a wedding party, where a small child named Ali sticks a branch up the barrel of one of the soldiers' guns. At first, the soldier just hushes the boy away; the second time, he opens fire and afterwards looks astonished as he sees the little child dead. The rest of the soldiers panic and open fire on the wedding guests, beat up the bride, shoot the groom, the guests and children. The survivors are captured and forced into an airtight container truck and sent to Abu Ghraib prison.\n\nEn route to Abu Ghraib, an American soldier complains that the prisoners might be suffocating in the truck. One of Marshall's men then fires on the truck, spraying the detainees with bullets. \"See, now they won't suffocate to death\", he says. When the soldier threatens to report the incident, he is promptly shot. In Abu Ghraib, a group of American soldiers, among them the sole female Westerner in the film (a clear reference to Lynndie England and the Abu Ghraib torture scandal), is making naked human pyramids from those arrested in the wedding, aided by an Arab interpreter. The prisoners are washed with high pressure nozzles in what appears to be cattle stalls.\n\nIn a later scene, the execution of a Western journalist by Iraqi rebels is about to take place, but the sheikh Abdurrahman Halis Karkuki, who is esteemed by the rebels, prevents it, and offers the journalist the opportunity to kill the rebel who was about to kill him. The rebel does not resist, but the journalist declines the offer. Thereafter, the bride who survived the earlier massacre, Leyla, wants revenge by becoming a suicide bomber, but is talked out of it by the Sheikh. Leyla hurries to a market to stop her brother-in-law Abu Ali, the father of the child killed at the wedding, from blowing himself up in the place where Col. Marshall is having a meeting, but she arrives too late. Alemdar and his men, who are there to assassinate Marshall, are led to safety by Leyla.\n\nAlemdar and his team then attempt to kill Marshall again by rigging a bomb in a piano (which once belonged to Saddam Hussein) that is being delivered to Marshall as a gift. The bomb explodes prematurely, and Marshall survives. Alemdar and Leyla then go to a mosque, to meet the sheikh. Marshall tracks them down, however, and a big firefight ensues. The entire village and mosque are destroyed by heavy gunfire. Together they manage to kill Marshall, but Leyla is also killed by Marshall.\n\n\nThe film upset some viewers for its heavy and incriminating subject matter. Some have criticized it for alleged stereotyping and \"black and white\" portrayal of the opposing forces. The controversy arrives mainly from the following scenes:\n\n\nThe film's scriptwriter Bahadir Ozdener has defined the film by saying:\n\nThe movie's director, Serdar Akar, went further and said the film was supposed to promote a dialogue between religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
