{"id": "17434798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17434798", "title": "Advisor Group", "text": "Advisor Group\n\nAdvisor Group is an Independent Broker-Dealer as of May 2016 as the result of AIG's sale of Advisor Group to Lightyear Capital LLC, a private equity firm specializing in financial services investing, and PSP Investments. With its headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona, it is one of the largest network of independent broker-dealers in the US, with over 6,000 registered representatives, many of whom are also investment advisors. There are four separate broker-dealers that constitute Advisor Group: SagePoint Financial based in Phoenix, AZ; Royal Alliance in New Jersey; FSC Securities Corporation located in Atlanta, GA; and Woodbury Financial Services located in Oakdale, MN.\n\nThe CEO of Advisor Group is Jamie Price and the chairman is Valerie Brown.\n"}
{"id": "44511538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44511538", "title": "Agricultural machinery industry", "text": "Agricultural machinery industry\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry or agricultural engineering industry is the part of the industry, that produces and maintain tractors, agricultural machinery and agricultural implements. This branch is considered to be part of the machinery industry.\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry emerged in Britain and the United States in the 19th century. Until then the common tools of farming were the plough and the sickle. These iron agricultural implements were often made by blacksmiths in the local village, who regularly also acted as farrier. In the first part of the 19th century some of the early agricultural machine manufacturers arose from these blacksmith workshops, such as John Deere who started up with the production of ploughs in series in the 1840s. \n\nOther companies arose from the introduction of horse drawn reaping, which replaced the type of hand reaper in use since biblical times. A company as the McCormick started up with building these kind of harvesting machines around the 1840s. And another origin of agricultural industry was the introduction of combined harvesting, threshing and cleaning in the 1830s. The Case Corporation for example started building those in 1842 as the Racine Threshing Machine Works. Until early 20th century most of those machinery were powered by horses.\n\nMid 19th century the portable steam-powered plowing engines were introduced. They were used in pairs, placed on either side of a field to haul a plow back and forth between them using a wire cable. These portable engines were also used to power threshing machines, mills and pumps. The portable steam engines were produced by specific agricultural machinery maker, such as Ransomes, Sims & Jefferies who had started as brass and iron-founder making casting ploughshares late 18th century.\n\nLate 19th century in Britain more companies such as Richard Garrett & Sons and Mann’s Patent Steam Cart and Wagon Company developed steam tractors for direct ploughing, but the heavy, wet soil of England meant that these designs were less economical than a team of horses. In the United States, where soil conditions permitted, steam tractors were used to direct-haul plows. Steam-powered agricultural engines remained in use well into the 20th century until reliable internal combustion engines had been developed.\n\nCollins (1987) recalled that the impact of the agricultural machinery industry in the 19th century was still limited. He stated : \"prior the third quarter of the nineteenth century the impact of machinery in agriculture was slight compared with that in manufacturing industry. Some operations such as barn work and hay and corn harvesting had been largely mechanized by 1880 but, up to the Second World War, many were still performed by hand labour and large numbers of workers were still required for seasonal tasks such as hop- and fruit-picking and vegetable cultivations.\"\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century in the UK the Agricultural machinery industry \"although composed of many hundreds of firms, was dominated by a few large ones, chiefly in the eastern counties of England. The total output of the industry was estimated to be worth 6.5 million pounds in 1913, or about 5 percent of the total value of the output of the mechanical engineering industry at the first Census of Production in 1907.\"\nIn the first decennia the internal combustion engine; first the petrol engine, and later diesel engines; became the main source of power for the next generation of tractors. Early companies expanded into the tractor business, such as John Deere which bought the Waterloo Gasoline Engine Company in 1918, which manufactured the popular Waterloo Boy tractor. In the 1930s new technologies as rubber ties and hydrologics were introduced in tractors and other farm machinery. The diesel engines also contributed to the development of the self-propelled, combined harvester and thresher, or combine harvester (also shortened to 'combine'). Instead of cutting the grain stalks and transporting them to a stationary threshing machine, these combines cut, threshed, and separated the grain while moving continuously through the field.\n\nIn the second part of the 20th century the production of agricultural machinery in development countries rose rapidly. In the 1960s a country as the UK exported more than 60% of its production to Western Europe, Australia, USA, Canada and South Africa, and main manufacturers started production plants abroad. Another trend was the increased concentration among manufacturers. In the 1970s in the UK six companies supplied 75% of the total output.\n\nThe further mechanization of agriculture in the 20th century made possible by the agricultural machinery industry had a huge impact of the economic structure of society. In the developed countries the total labour force engaged in agriculture dropped from about 75% in 1800 to less than 5% late 20th century. In developing countries, in late 20th century still 75% of all land \"was farmed with only hand-tools and draught-animal technology.\" In Turkey still 48% and in India 66.5% of the labor were working in agriculture, according to the FAO Production Yearbook 1990.\n\nA 2013 report by the VDMA gave the following preview of the current developments in the agricultural machinery industry:\n\nThe agricultural machinery industry produces agricultural machinery, machinery used in the operation of agricultural areas and farms. Main types are:\nIn developed countries overall the largest segment of agricultural equipment sales is tractors.\n\nAgricultural machinery manufacturers exist in sizes from small and medium business to multinationals. James & Akrasanee (1988) stipulated that those forms have different production management, and can be classified into three groups:\n\nThe two largest agricultural machinery manufacturers worldwide based on revenue (in 2012): \n\nIn the United States the revenue of tractor & agricultural machinery manufacturing sector increased from about 35 billion U.S. dollars in 2009 to 42 billion U.S. dollars in 2014.\n\nSome of the more important agricultural machinery associations are:\n\n\nAccording to the CEMA, the European association representing the European agricultural machinery industry, Europe was the largest producer of agricultural machinery globally in 2013: \nIn total, the production of agricultural machinery worldwide in 2013 generated about 95 billion euros, based on a report \"Agricultural Machinery November 2013 : Market Perspectives 2014\" by the VDMA, a German engineering association. Another recent statistic mentioned, that the agricultural machinery industry in 2010 generated worldwide about $56 billion.\n\nYuan'en (2007) stated, that the \"Chinese government has attached great importance to agriculture, rural areas and farmers, made a series of policies that favorite to the farmers, added the financial subsidy to the agriculture, especially constituted the subsidy policies for the farmers on their agricultural machinery purchasing.\"\n\nA 2013-2014 report acknowledged that \"China's agricultural machinery industry has achieved rapid development, the gross output value of agricultural machinery exceeded RMB 300 billion, total power of agricultural machinery surpassed 1 billion kilowatts, and the integrated mechanization level of agricultural crops exceeded 50%, demonstrating that China has entered into a mechanized production-oriented period... Tractors and harvesting machinery are the most important agricultural machinery products in China, with annual output of 2.25 million units and 1.114 million units in 2012 separately...\" \n\nGyanendra (2006) recalled, that \"the early agricultural mechanization in India was greatly influenced by the technological development in England. Irrigation pumps, tillage equipment, chaff cutters, tractors and threshers were gradually introduced for farm mechanization. The high yielding varieties with assured irrigation and higher rate of application of fertilizers gave higher returns that enabled farmers to adopt mechanization inputs, especially after Green revolution in 1960s.\"\n\nThe Turkish Ministry of Economy (2011) explained that \"Turkey is one of the few countries of the world which is self-sufficient in food. At present Turkey is the largest producer and exporter of agricultural products in the Near East and North Africa... The agricultural machinery industry is about 1000 manufacturers countrywide... Companies manufacturing agricultural machinery and equipment except tractors are mostly small and medium size companies. The sector employs about 15,000 workers... The value of agricultural machinery and spare parts and agricultural tractors and trailers exports was US$ 313 million in 2009.\"\nWith a volume of 28 billion euros (2014) agricultural machinery production in the European Union (EU) represented 28 per cent of world total according to VDMA. Out of the EU total, the share of Germany is 27 per cent, followed by Italy (17 per cent) and France (14 per cent). All leading international manufacturers have several production sites on the European continent, and their products from these factories in general are destined for the high end customers who yield for efficiency and accuracy on the fields. \n\nThe EU production of tractors was 187,000 units, correspondent to a value of 9.4 billion euros (2014). Outside the EU, a major production site for tractors is the Minsk Tractor Works (Belarus) with a high market share in the neighbouring countries, especially within the Commonwealth of Independent States. The leading countries for tractor production in the EU are Germany and Italy (with John Deere, Case New Holland, AGCO and Same Deutz-Fahr being the major brands). Germany is also the major place for the manufacturing of harvesting, spraying, fertilizing and seeding equipment. Italy and France have a primary position for soil working machines and transportation vehicles. The majority of the agricultural machinery companies are small and medium-sized and family owned. \n\nOne third of the EU production is destined to markets outside the union, mainly to the Eastern European markets, but also to North America and, increasingly, to Asia. \n\nAfter a peak in 2003 and 29 billion euros of turnover, the sector experienced an economic downturn in 2014/2015. The strategy of the European industry is to keep its leading technological position and to diversify its market presence into the high potential regions (e.g. Asia). \n\nThe AEM (2014) stated that \"U.S. domestic sales of agricultural machinery and equipment rose from about $20 billion in 1999 to $38 billion in 2012. Since 1998 and through 2012, U.S. exports of agricultural equipment have grown relatively quickly, more than doubling from about $4 billion to $8.7 billion.\n\nGraciela summarized (2008) that \"the agricultural machinery industry in Argentina depends for growth on higher exports and further progress towards internationalization, which are strategic goals for the largest firms. Given the dynamism of global demand for this type of machinery, the conclusion is that the sector can increase its sales in export markets, where some of its products are competing well.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "608296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608296", "title": "Arms industry", "text": "Arms industry\n\nThe arms industry, also known as the defense industry or the arms trade, is a global industry responsible for the manufacturing and sales of weapons and military technology. It consists of a commercial industry involved in the research and development, engineering, production, and servicing of military material, equipment, and facilities. Arms-producing companies, also referred to as arms dealers, defence contractors, or as the military industry, produce arms for the armed forces of states and civilians. Departments of government also operate in the arms industry, buying and selling weapons, munitions and other military items. An arsenal is a place where arms and ammunition are made, maintained and repaired, stored, or issued, in any combination, whether privately or publicly owned. Products include guns, artillery, ammunition, missiles, military aircraft, military vehicles, ships, electronic systems, night vision devices, holographic weapon sights, laser rangefinders, laser sights, hand grenades, landmines and more. The arms industry also provides other logistical and operational support.\n\nStockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) estimated that 2012 military expenditures were roughly $1.8 trillion. This represents a relative decline from 1990 when military expenditures made up 4% of world GDP. Part of the money goes to the procurement of military hardware and services from the military industry. The combined arms sales of the top 100 largest arms-producing companies amounted to an estimated $395 billion in 2012 according to SIPRI. In 2004 over $30 billion were spent in the international arms trade (a figure that excludes domestic sales of arms). According to SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–2014 were the United States, Russia, China, Germany and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan.\n\nMany industrialized countries have a domestic arms-industry to supply their own military forces. Some countries also have a substantial legal or illegal domestic trade in weapons for use by its citizens, primarily for self-defence, hunting or sporting purposes. Illegal trade in small arms occurs in many countries and regions affected by political instability. The Small Arms Survey estimates that 875 million small arms circulate worldwide, produced by more than 1,000 companies from nearly 100 countries.\n\nContracts to supply a given country's military are awarded by governments, making arms contracts of substantial political importance. The link between politics and the arms trade can result in the development of what U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower described as a military-industrial complex, where the armed forces, commerce, and politics become closely linked, similarly to the European multilateral defence procurement. Various corporations, some publicly held, others private, bid for these contracts, which are often worth many billions of dollars. Sometimes, as with the contract for the international Joint Strike Fighter, a competitive tendering process takes place, with the decision made on the merits of the designs submitted by the companies involved. Other times, no bidding or competition takes place.\n\nDuring the early modern period, France, United Kingdom, Netherlands and some states in Germany became self-sufficient in arms production, with diffusion and migration of skilled workers to more peripheral countries such as Portugal and Russia.\n\nThe modern arms industry emerged in the second half of the nineteenth century as a product of the creation and expansion of the first large military-industrial companies. As smaller countries (and even newly industrializing countries like Russia and Japan) could no longer produce cutting-edge military equipment with their indigenous resources and capacity, they increasingly began to contract the manufacture of military equipment, such as battleships, artillery pieces and rifles to foreign firms.\n\nIn 1854, the British government awarded a contract to the Elswick Ordnance Company of industrialist William Armstrong for the supply of his latest breech loading rifled artillery pieces. This galvanised the private sector into weapons production, with the surplus being increasingly exported to foreign countries. Armstrong became one of the first international arms dealers, selling his weapon systems to governments across the world from Brazil to Japan. In 1884, he opened a shipyard at Elswick to specialise in warship production—at the time, it was the only factory in the world that could build a battleship and arm it completely. The factory produced warships for many navies, including the Imperial Japanese Navy. Several Armstrong cruisers played an important role in defeating the Russian fleet at the Battle of Tsushima in 1905.\n\nIn the American Civil War in 1861 the north had a distinct advantage over the south as it relied on using the breech-loading rifle against the muskets of the south. This began the transition to industrially produced mechanised weapons such as the Gatling gun.\n\nThis industrial innovation in the defence industry was adopted by Prussia in 1866 & 1870-71 in its defeat of Austria and France respectively. By this time the machine gun had begun entering into the militaries. The first example of its effectiveness was in 1899 during the Boer War and in 1905 during the Russo-Japanese War. However, Germany were leaders in innovation of weapons and used this innovation nearly defeating the allies in World War I.\n\nIn 1885, France decided to capitalize on this increasingly lucrative form of trade and repealed its ban on weapon exports. The regulatory framework for the period up to the First World War was characterized by a laissez-faire policy that placed little obstruction in the way of weapons exports. Due to the carnage of World War I, arms traders began to be regarded with odium as \"merchants of death\" and were accused of having instigated and perpetuated the war in order to maximise their profits from arms sales. An inquiry into these allegations in Britain failed to find evidence to support them. However, the sea change in attitude about war more generally meant that governments began to control and regulate the trade themselves.\n\nThe volume of the arms trade greatly increased during the 20th century, and it began to be used as a political tool, especially during the Cold War where the United States and the USSR supplied weapons to their proxies across the world, particularly third world countries (see Nixon Doctrine).\n\nThis category includes everything from light arms to heavy artillery, and the majority of producers are small. Many are located in third world countries. International trade in handguns, machine guns, tanks, armored personnel carriers, and other relatively inexpensive weapons is substantial. There is relatively little regulation at the international level, and as a result, many weapons fall into the hands of organized crime, rebel forces, terrorists, or regimes under sanctions.\n\nThe Control Arms Campaign, founded by Amnesty International, Oxfam, and the International Action Network on Small Arms, estimated in 2003 that there are over 639 million small arms in circulation, and that over 1,135 companies based in more than 98 different countries manufacture small arms as well as their various components and ammunition.\n\nEncompassing military aircraft (both land-based and naval aviation), conventional missiles, and military satellites, this is the most technologically advanced sector of the market. It is also the least competitive from an economic standpoint, with a handful of companies dominating the entire market. The top clients and major producers are virtually all located in the western world and Russia, with the United States easily in first place. Prominent aerospace firms include Rolls Royce, BAE, Dassault Aviation, Sukhoi, Mikoyan, EADS, Leonardo, Thales Group, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Boeing. There are also several multinational consortia mostly involved in the manufacturing of fighter jets, such as the Eurofighter. The largest military contract in history, signed in October 2001, involved the development of the Joint Strike Fighter.\n\nSome of the world's great powers maintain substantial naval forces to provide a global presence, with the largest nations possessing aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and advanced anti-air defense systems. The vast majority of military ships are conventionally powered, but some are nuclear-powered. There is also a large global market in second-hand naval vessels, generally purchased by developing countries from Western governments.\n\nThe cybersecurity industry is becoming the most important defence industry as cyber attacks are being deemed as one of the greatest risk to defence in the next ten years as cited by the NATO review in 2013. Therefore, high levels of investment has been placed in the cybersecurity industry to produce new software to protect the ever-growing transition to digitally run hardware. For the military industry it is vital that protections are used for systems used for reconnaissance, surveillance and intelligence gathering. However, to protect the cyber world from attacks there are advanced cyber protection strategies used such as content, cloud and wireless security. These can be intertwined to form several secure layers.\n\nNevertheless, cyber attacks and cyber attackers have become more advanced in their field using techniques such as Dynamic Trojan Horse Network (DTHN) Internet Worm, Zero-Day Attack, and Stealth Bot. As a result, the cybersecurity industry has had to improve the defence technologies to remove any vulnerability to cyber attacks using systems such as the Security of Information (SIM), Next-Generation Firewalls (NGFWs) and DDoS techniques.\n\nAs the threat to computers grows, the demand for cyber protection will rise, resulting in the growth of the cybersecurity industry. It is expected that the industry will be dominated by the defence and homeland security agencies that will make up 40% of the industry.\n\nAccording to research institute, SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–14 were the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, China and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Pakistan. The flow of arms to Africa, the Americas, Asia and Oceania, and the Middle East increased significantly between 2005–2009 and 2010–14, while there was a notable decrease in the flow to Europe.\n\nSIPRI has identified 60 countries as exporters of major weapons in 2010–14. The top 5 exporters during the period were responsible for almost 74 per cent of all arms exports. The composition of the five largest exporters of arms changed between 2005–2009 and 2010–14: while the United States and Russia remained by far the largest exporters, China narrowly, but notably, replaced Germany as the third largest exporter as Germany slid down to 6th place. The top 5 exported 14 per cent more arms in 2010–14 than the top 5 in 2005–2009.\n\nIn 2010–14, 153 countries (about three-quarters of all countries) imported major weapons. The top 5 recipients accounted for 33 per cent of the total arms imports during the period (see table 2). India, China and the UAE were among the top 5 importers in both 2005–2009 and 2010–14. Asia and Oceania accounted for nearly half of imports in 2010–14, followed by the Middle East, Europe, the Americas and Africa (see figure 3). SIPRI also identified seven groups of rebel forces as importers of major weapons in 2010–14, but none of them accounted for more than 0.02 per cent of total deliveries.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. The following are estimates from Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.\n\nPlease note that rankings for exporters below a billion dollars are less meaningful, as they can be swayed by single contracts. A much more accurate picture of export volume, free from yearly fluctuations, is presented by 5-year moving averages.\n\nNext to SIPRI there are several other sources that provide data on international transfers of arms. These include national reports by national governments about arms exports, the UN register on conventional arms and an annual publication by the U.S. Congressional Research Service that includes data on arms exports to developing countries as compiled by U.S. intelligence agencies. A list of such sources can be found at the SIPRI website. Due to the different methodologies and definitions used different sources often provide significantly different data. \n\nSIPRI uses the \"trend-indicator values\" (TIV). These are based on the known unit production costs of weapons and represent the transfer of military resources rather than the financial value of the transfer.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. \nPlease note that arms import rankings fluctuate heavily as countries enter and exit wars. Export data tend to be less volatile as exporters tend to be more technologically advanced and have stable production flows. 5-year moving averages present a much more accurate picture of import volume, free from yearly fluctuations.\n\nThis is a list of the world's largest arms manufacturers and other military service companies who profit the most from the War economy, their origin is shown as well. The information is based on a list published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute for 2015. The list provided by the SIPRI excludes companies based in China.\n\nArms control refers to international restrictions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation and usage of small arms, conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction. It is typically exercised through the use of diplomacy, which seeks to persuade governments to accept such limitations through agreements and treaties, although it may also be forced upon non-consenting governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11604823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604823", "title": "Audiovisual", "text": "Audiovisual\n\nAudiovisual (AV) means possessing both a sound and a visual component, such as slide-tape presentations, films, television programs, church services and live theater productions.\n\nAudiovisual service providers frequently offer web streaming, video conferencing and live broadcast services.\n\nComputer-based audiovisual equipment is often used in education, with many schools and universities installing projection equipment and using interactive whiteboard technology.\n\nAnother audiovisual expression is the visual presentation of sound (visual music).\n\nGenerally, residential audiovisual encompasses in-ceiling speakers, flat panel TVs, projectors and projector screens. This could include lighting, blinds, cinema rooms.\n\nThe professional audiovisual industry is a multibillion-dollar industry, comprising the manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators, consultants, programmers, presentations professionals and technology managers of audiovisual products and services.\n\nCommercial audiovisual can sometimes be a very lengthy process to get it right. Boardroom audio visual can be installed for a number of reasons, but usually it is because the executives of the organization/business wants to have meetings with colleagues/customers/suppliers around the world. When creating an array of boardrooms for customers it has been seen that you have to be able to balance the pattern from the audio and microphone so there is no interruption in the sound quality for the individual/s listening in.\n\nThe proliferation of audiovisual communications technologies, including sound, video, lighting, display and projection systems, is evident in every sector of society: in business, education, government, the military, healthcare, retail environments, worship, sports and entertainment, hospitality, restaurants, and museums. The application of audiovisual systems is found in collaborative conferencing (which includes video-conferencing, audio-conferencing, web-conferencing and data-conferencing); presentation rooms, auditoriums, and lecture halls; command and control centers; digital signage, and more. Concerts and corporate events are among the most obvious venues where audiovisual equipment is used in a staged environment. Providers of this type of service are known as rental and staging companies, although they may also be served by an in-house technology team (e.g., in a hotel or conference center).\n\nAccording to a 2006 market forecast study by InfoComm International, a leading trade association representing the audiovisual industry, 2006 was the fourth consecutive year that significant growth was projected for the industry. Revenue for surveyed North American companies was expected to grow by 40% in 2006, and by 10.7% for European audiovisual companies. The single biggest factor for this increase is the increased demand for networked audiovisual products due to the integration of audiovisual and IT technology. The two leading markets for AV equipment in North America and Europe continue to be business/IT and education, especially as conference room technologies become more advanced.\n\nAudiovisual education is instruction where particular attention is paid to the audio and visual presentation of the material, with the goal of improving comprehension and retention.\n\n"}
{"id": "39206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206", "title": "Business", "text": "Business\n\nBusiness is the activity of making one's living or making money by producing or buying and selling products (such as goods and services). Simply put, it is \"any activity or enterprise entered into for profit. It does not mean it is a company, a corporation, partnership, or have any such formal organization, but it can range from a street peddler to General Motors.\" \n\nHaving a business name does not separate the business entity from the owner, which means that the owner of the business is responsible and liable for debts incurred by the business. If the business acquires debts, the creditors can go after the owner's personal possessions. A business structure does not allow for corporate tax rates. The proprietor is personally taxed on all income from the business.\n\nThe term is also often used colloquially (but not by lawyers or by public officials) to refer to a company. A company, on the other hand, is a separate legal entity and provides for limited liability, as well as corporate tax rates. A company structure is more complicated and expensive to set up, but offers more protection and benefits for the owner.\n\nForms of business ownership vary by jurisdiction, but several common entities exist:\n\n\"Less common types of companies are:\"\nNote that \"Ltd after the company's name signifies limited company, and PLC (public limited company) indicates that its shares are widely held.\"\n\nIn legal parlance, the owners of a company are normally referred to as the \"members\". In a company limited or unlimited by shares (formed or incorporated with a share capital), this will be the shareholders. In a company limited by guarantee, this will be the guarantors. Some offshore jurisdictions have created special forms of offshore company in a bid to attract business for their jurisdictions. Examples include \"segregated portfolio companies\" and restricted purpose companies.\n\nThere are, however, many, many sub-categories of types of company that can be formed in various jurisdictions in the world.\n\nCompanies are also sometimes distinguished for legal and regulatory purposes between public companies and private companies. Public companies are companies whose shares can be publicly traded, often (although not always) on a stock exchange which imposes listing requirements/Listing Rules as to the issued shares, the trading of shares and future issue of shares to help bolster the reputation of the exchange or particular market of an exchange. Private companies do not have publicly traded shares, and often contain restrictions on transfers of shares. In some jurisdictions, private companies have maximum numbers of shareholders.\n\nA parent company is a company that owns enough voting stock in another firm to control management and operations by influencing or electing its board of directors; the second company being deemed as a subsidiary of the parent company. The definition of a parent company differs by jurisdiction, with the definition normally being defined by way of laws dealing with companies in that jurisdiction.\n\n\nAccounting is the measurement, processing and communication of financial information about economic entities such as businesses and corporations. The modern field was established by the Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli in 1494. Accounting, which has been called the \"language of business\", measures the results of an organization's economic activities and conveys this information to a variety of users, including investors, creditors, management, and regulators. Practitioners of accounting are known as accountants. The terms \"accounting\" and \"financial reporting\" are often used as synonyms.\n\nFinance is a field that deals with the study of investments. It includes the dynamics of assets and liabilities over time under conditions of different degrees of uncertainty and risk. Finance can also be defined as the science of money management. Finance aims to price assets based on their risk level and their expected rate of return. Finance can be broken into three different sub-categories: public finance, corporate finance and personal finance.\n\nManufacturing is the production of merchandise for use or sale using labour and machines, tools, chemical and biological processing, or formulation. The term may refer to a range of human activity, from handicraft to high tech, but is most commonly applied to industrial production, in which raw materials are transformed into finished goods on a large scale.\n\nMarketing is defined by the American Marketing Association as \"the activity, set of institutions, and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large.\" The term developed from the original meaning which referred literally to going to a market to buy or sell goods or services. Marketing tactics include advertising as well as determining product pricing.\n\nWith the rise in technology, marketing is further divided into a class called digital marketing. It is marketing products and services using digital technologies.\n\nResearch and development refer to activities in connection with corporate or government innovation. Research and development constitute the first stage of development of a potential new service or product. Research and development are very difficult to manage since the defining feature of the research is that the researchers do not know in advance exactly how to accomplish the desired result. \n\nSafety is a key business concept that is defined by Merriam-Webster as “the condition of being safe from undergoing or causing hurt, injury, or loss”. Injuries cost businesses billions of dollars annually. Studies have shown how company acceptance and implementation of comprehensive safety and health management systems reduces incidents, insurance costs and workers’ compensation claims. New technologies, like wearable safety devices and available online safety training, continue to be developed to encourage employers to invest in protection beyond the \"canary in the coalmine\" and reduce the cost to businesses of protecting their employees.\n\nSales are activity related to selling or the amount of goods or services sold in a given time period. Sales are often integrated with all lines of business and are key to a companies' success.\n\nThe efficient and effective operation of a business, and study of this subject, is called management. The major branches of management are financial management, marketing management, human resource management, strategic management, production management, operations management, service management, and information technology management. \n\nOwners may manage their businesses themselves, or employ managers to do so for them. Whether they are owners or employees, managers administer three primary components of the business' value: financial resources, capital (tangible resources), and human resources. These resources are administered in at least six functional areas: legal contracting, manufacturing or service production, marketing, accounting, financing, and human resources.\n\nIn recent decades, states modeled some of their assets and enterprises after business enterprises. In 2003, for example, the People's Republic of China modeled 80% of its state-owned enterprises on a company-type management system. Many state institutions and enterprises in China and Russia have transformed into joint-stock companies, with part of their shares being listed on public stock markets.\n\nBusiness process management (BPM) is a holistic management approach focused on aligning all aspects of an organization with the wants and needs of clients. BPM attempts to improve processes continuously. It can, therefore, be described as a \"process optimization process\". It is argued that BPM enables organizations to be more efficient, effective and capable of change than a functionally focused, traditional hierarchical management approach. \n\nMost legal jurisdictions specify the forms of ownership that a business can take, creating a body of commercial law for each type.\n\nThe major factors affecting how a business is organized are usually:\n\n\nMany businesses are operated through a separate entity such as a corporation or a partnership (either formed with or without limited liability). Most legal jurisdictions allow people to organize such an entity by filing certain charter documents with the relevant Secretary of State or equivalent and complying with certain other ongoing obligations. The relationships and legal rights of shareholders, limited partners, or members are governed partly by the charter documents and partly by the law of the jurisdiction where the entity is organized. Generally speaking, shareholders in a corporation, limited partners in a limited partnership, and members in a limited liability company are shielded from personal liability for the debts and obligations of the entity, which is legally treated as a separate \"person\". This means that unless there is misconduct, the owner's own possessions are strongly protected in law if the business does not succeed.\n\nWhere two or more individuals own a business together but have failed to organize a more specialized form of vehicle, they will be treated as a general partnership. The terms of a partnership are partly governed by a partnership agreement if one is created, and partly by the law of the jurisdiction where the partnership is located. No paperwork or filing is necessary to create a partnership, and without an agreement, the relationships and legal rights of the partners will be entirely governed by the law of the jurisdiction where the partnership is located. A single person who owns and runs a business is commonly known as a \"sole proprietor\", whether that person owns it directly or through a formally organized entity. Depending on the business needs, an adviser can decide what kind is proprietorship will be most suitable.\n\nA few relevant factors to consider in deciding how to operate a business include:\n\n\nA very detailed and well-established body of rules that evolved over a very long period of time applies to commercial transactions. The need to regulate trade and commerce and resolve business disputes helped shape the creation of law and courts. The Code of Hammurabi dates back to about 1772 BC for example, and contains provisions that relate, among other matters, to shipping costs and dealings between merchants and brokers. The word \"corporation\" derives from the Latin \"corpus\", meaning body, and the Maurya Empire in Iron-Age India accorded legal rights to business entities.\n\nIn many countries, it is difficult to compile all the laws that can affect a business into a single reference source. Laws can govern treatment of labour and employee relations, worker protection and safety, discrimination on the basis of age, gender, disability, race, and in some jurisdictions, sexual orientation, and the minimum wage, as well as unions, worker compensation, and working hours and leave.\n\nSome specialized businesses may also require licenses, either due to laws governing entry into certain trades, occupations or professions, that require special education or to raise revenue for local governments. Professions that require special licenses include law, medicine, piloting aircraft, selling liquor, radio broadcasting, selling investment securities, selling used cars, and roofing. Local jurisdictions may also require special licenses and taxes just to operate a business.\n\nSome businesses are subject to ongoing special regulation, for example, public utilities, investment securities, banking, insurance, broadcasting, aviation, and health care providers. Environmental regulations are also very complex and can affect many businesses.\n\n When businesses need to raise money (called capital), they sometimes offer securities for sale.\n\nCapital may be raised through private means, by an initial public offering or IPO on a stock exchange, or in other ways.\n\nMajor stock exchanges include the Shanghai Stock Exchange, Singapore Exchange, Hong Kong Stock Exchange, New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ (the USA), the London Stock Exchange (UK), the Tokyo Stock Exchange (Japan), and Bombay Stock Exchange (India). Most countries with capital markets have at least one.\n\nBusinesses that have gone public are subject to regulations concerning their internal governance, such as how executive officers' compensation is determined, and when and how information is disclosed to shareholders and to the public. In the United States, these regulations are primarily implemented and enforced by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Other western nations have comparable regulatory bodies. The regulations are implemented and enforced by the China Securities Regulation Commission (CSRC) in China. In Singapore, the regulatory authority is the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), and in Hong Kong, it is the Securities and Futures Commission (SFC).\n\nThe proliferation and increasing complexity of the laws governing business have forced increasing specialization in corporate law. It is not unheard of for certain kinds of corporate transactions to require a team of five to ten attorneys due to sprawling regulation. Commercial law spans general corporate law, employment and labor law, health-care law, securities law, mergers and acquisitions, tax law, employee benefit plans, food and drug regulation, intellectual property law on copyrights, patents, trademarks, telecommunications law, and financing.\n\nOther types of capital sourcing include crowdsourcing on the Internet, venture capital, bank loans, and debentures.\n\nBusinesses often have important \"intellectual property\" that needs protection from competitors for the company to stay profitable. This could require patents, copyrights, trademarks, or preservation of trade secrets. Most businesses have names, logos, and similar branding techniques that could benefit from trademarking. Patents and copyrights in the United States are largely governed by federal law, while trade secrets and trademarking are mostly a matter of state law. Because of the nature of intellectual property, a business needs protection in every jurisdiction in which they are concerned about competitors. Many countries are signatories to international treaties concerning intellectual property, and thus companies registered in these countries are subject to national laws bound by these treaties. In order to protect trade secrets, companies may require employees to sign noncompete clauses which will impose limitations on an employee's interactions with stakeholders, and competitors.\n\nA trade union (or labor union) is an organization of workers who have come together to achieve common goals such as protecting the integrity of its trade, improving safety standards, achieving higher pay and benefits such as health care and retirement, increasing the number of employees an employer assigns to complete the work, and better working conditions. The trade union, through its leadership, bargains with the employer on behalf of union members (rank and file members) and negotiates labor contracts (collective bargaining) with employers. The most common purpose of these associations or unions is \"maintaining or improving the conditions of their employment\". This may include the negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing, and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies.\n"}
{"id": "18166327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18166327", "title": "Business acumen", "text": "Business acumen\n\nBusiness acumen (\"Business savvy\" and \"business sense\" are often used as synonyms) is keenness and quickness in understanding and dealing with a \"business situation\" (risks and opportunities) in a manner that is likely to lead to a good outcome. Additionally, business acumen has emerged as a vehicle for improving financial performance and leadership development. Consequently, several different types of strategies have developed around improving business acumen.\n\nIn his 2012 work, \"Seeing the Big Picture, Business Acumen to Build Your Credibility, Career, and Company\", Kevin R. Cope put forward that an individual who possesses business acumen views the business with an \"executive mentality\" - they understand how the moving parts of a company work together to make it successful and how financial metrics like profit margin, cash flow, and stock price reflect how well each of those moving parts is doing its job. Cope proposes that an individual who has the following five abilities could be described as someone having a strong sense of business acumen: \n\nRaymond R. Reilly of the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan and Gregory P. Reilly of the University of Connecticut document traits that individuals with business acumen possess: \nThus, developing stronger business acumen means a more thoughtful analysis, clearer logic underlying business decisions, closer attention to key dimensions of implementation and operation, and more disciplined performance management.\n\nFinancial literacy is a comprehensive understanding of the drivers of growth, profitability, and cash flow; an organization's financial statements; key performance measures; and the implications of decisions on value creation. In a SHRM article entitled, \"Business Acumen Involves More Than Numbers\" Chris Berger, member of human resources at CTPartners, explains that business acumen starts with the ability to understand how a company makes decisions, and that leaders must be financially literate and be able to understand numbers on company financial statements. It entails the ability to take the knowledge of business fundamentals and use it to think strategically and then take appropriate action.\n\nAccording to E. Ted Prince, \"Financial literacy is almost never the need for senior managers and high potentials. Most already possess degrees in business, including MBAs, and many have also had experience in the business sides of their professional roles. The need for these managers is to understand how their actions and their behavior impact their financial decision-making and how this in turn affects financial outcomes at the unit and the corporate level.\" It's evident that an individual with business acumen has some level of financial understanding and knowledge - but someone who is financially literate doesn't necessarily possess strong business acumen.\n\nBob Selden, faculty member of Mobilizing People, a leadership development program based in Switzerland, observes a complementary relationship between business acumen and leadership. Selden states the importance of nurturing both the development of strategic skills and that of good leadership and management skills in order for business leaders to achieve effectiveness.\n\nA study published in Human Resource Management International Digest titled, Business acumen: a critical concern of modern leadership development: Global trends accelerate the move away from traditional approaches, reveals why traditional leadership development approaches, which rely on personality and competency assessments as the scientific core of their approach, are failing. The paper demonstrates the importance of business acumen in leadership-development approaches and contends that business acumen will have an increasing impact on leadership development and HR agendas. Research into this relationship resulted in the creation of the Perth Leadership Outcome Model, which links financial outcomes to individual leadership traits.\n\nIn a study that interviewed 55 global business leaders, business acumen was cited as the most critical competency area for global leaders.\n\nIn their 2011 work, \"The Leadership Pipeline\", Ram Charan, Stephen Drotter, and James Noel study the process and criteria for selecting a group manager, and suggest that the process and criteria are similar for selecting a CEO. According to them an obvious criterium for selecting a leader is well-developed business acumen.\n\nAn organization full of high business acumen individuals can expect to see leaders with a heightened perspective that translates into an ability to inspire and excite the organization to achieve its potential.\n\nPrograms designed to improve an individual or group's business acumen have supported the recognition of the concept as a significant topic in the corporate world. Executive Development Associates' 2009/2010 survey of Chief Learning Officers, Senior Vice Presidents of Human Resources, and Heads of Executive and Leadership Development listed business acumen as the second most significant trend in executive development. A 2011 report explores the impact of business acumen training on an organization in terms of intangibles and more tangible expressions of value. The findings support the notion that business acumen is a learned skill - developed on the job by learning the required skills from knowledge mentors while working in different employment positions. They also suggest that the learning process ranges widely, from structured internal company training programs, to an individual's self-chosen moves from one position to another.\n\nThe combination of these reports and surveys indicate that business acumen is a learned skill of increasing importance within the corporate world. There are different types of business acumen development programs available:\n\nA business simulation is another corporate development tool used to increase business acumen. Several companies offer business simulations as a way to educate mid-level managers and non-financial leaders within their organization on cash flow and financial-decision-making processes. Their forms can vary from computer simulations to boardgame-style simulations.\n\nThe advent of personal assessments for business acumen is based in the emerging theories of behavioral finance and attempts to correlate innate personality traits with positive financial outcomes. This method approaches business acumen not as entirely based in either knowledge or experience, but on the combination of these and other factors which comprise an individual's financial personality or \"signature\". The results from this research have been limited, but noteworthy.\n"}
{"id": "1725756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725756", "title": "Business directory", "text": "Business directory\n\nA business directory is a website or printed listing of information which lists businesses within niche based categories. Businesses can be categorized by niche, location, activity, or size. Business may be compiled either manually or through an automated online search software. Online yellow pages are a type of business directory, as is the traditional phone book.\n\nThe details provided in a business directory may vary. They may include the business name, addresses, telephone numbers, location, contact information, type of service or products the business provides, the number of employees, the served region and any professional associations. Some directories include a section for user reviews, comments, and feedback. Business directories in the past would take a printed format but have recently been upgraded to websites due to the advent of the internet.\n\nMany business directories offer complimentary listings in addition to the premium options. There are many business directories and some of these have moved over to the internet and away from printed format. Whilst not being search engines, business directories often have a search function, enabling users to search businesses by Zip Code, country, state, area or city.\n\nBusiness directories can be in either hard copy or in digital format. Ease of use and distribution means that many trade directories have a digital version.\n\n"}
{"id": "8613151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8613151", "title": "Business economics", "text": "Business economics\n\nBusiness economics is a field in applied economics which uses economic theory and quantitative methods to analyze business enterprises and the factors contributing to the diversity of organizational structures and the relationships of firms with labour, capital and product markets. A professional focus of the journal \"Business Economics\" has been expressed as providing \"practical information for people who apply economics in their jobs.\"\nBusiness economics is an integral part of traditional economics. It is an extension of economic concepts to the real business situations. It is an applied science in the sense of a tool of managerial decision-making and forward planning by management. In other words, Business economics is concerned with the application of economic theory to business management.\n\nBusiness economics is concerned with economic issues and problems related to business organization, management, and strategy. Issues and problems include: an explanation of why \"corporate\" firms emerge and exist; why they expand: horizontally, vertically and spacially; the role of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurship; the significance of organizational structure; the relationship of firms with the employees, the providers of capital, the customers, the government; the interactions between firms and the business environment.\n\nThe term 'business economics' is used in a variety of ways. Sometimes it is used as synonymously with industrial economics/industrial organisation, managerial economics, and economics for business. Still, there may be substantial differences in the usage of 'economics for business' and 'managerial economics' with the latter used more narrowly.\nOne view of the distinctions between these would be that business economics is wider in its scope than industrial economics in that it would be concerned not only with \"industry\" but also businesses in the service sector. Economics for business looks at the major principles of economics but focuses on applying these economic principles to the real world of business. Managerial economics is the application of economic methods in the managerial decision-making process.\n\nMany universities offer courses in business economics and offer a range of interpretations as to the meaning of the word.\n\nThe Bachelor of Business Economics (BBE) Program at University of Delhi is designed to meet the growing need for an analytical and quantitative approach to problem solving in the changing corporate world by the application of the latest techniques evolved in the fields of economics and business.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Barcelona (UAB), the Universidad Pública de Navarra (UPNa) and the University of the Balearic Islands (UIB) developed an official Master of Science in Management, Organization and Business Economics focused on management and business topics to train professionals in the study of organizations, on a conceptual and quantitative basis. To achieve this, advanced analysis tools are used from the fields of Neoclassical economics, New institutional economics, Statistics, Econometrics and Operations research. This focus is complemented with contributing ideas and theories to develop the necessary instruments to facilitate the management of sophisticated and complex organizations.\n\nThe program at Harvard University uses economic methods to analyze practical aspects of business, including business administration, management, and related fields of business economics.\n\nThe University of Miami defines business economics as involving the study of how we use our resources for the production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services. This requires business economists to analyze social institutions, banks, the stock market, the government and their relationships with labor negotiations, taxes, international trade, and urban and environmental issues.\n\nCourses at the University of Manchester interpret business economics to be concerned with the economic analysis of how businesses contribute to welfare of society rather than on the welfare of an individual or a business. This is done via an examination of the relationship between ownership, control and firm objectives; theories of the growth of the firm; the behavioural theory of the firm; theories of entrepreneurship; the factors that influence the structure, conduct and performance of business at the industry level.\n\nItalian Universities borrow their concept of business economics from the tradition of Gino Zappa, for example a standard course at the Politecnico di Milano involves studying corporate governance, accounting, investment analysis, budgeting and business strategy.\n\nLa Trobe University of Melbourne, Australia associates business economics with the process of demand, supply and equilibrium coordinating the behaviour of individuals and businesses in the market. Also, business economics extends to government policy, economic variables and international factors which influence business and competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47827092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47827092", "title": "Business guru", "text": "Business guru\n\nA business guru or management guru is a leading authority on business practices and can be defined as 'a person with influential ideas or theories about business'. The earliest use of the term business guru can be tracked back to the 1960s being used in \"Business Week\". There are no existing qualifications that make someone a business guru. The lists of people who have been accepted as business gurus have constantly changed over time. However, there are some people who have been accepted by a great majority as a business guru and also some organizations which have created their own lists of gurus. One English writer has described management gurus as \"overwhelmingly a US phenomenon.\"\n\nThere is no definitive list of business gurus, but some writers have proposed \"personal\" lists. These lists are mostly created by organizations such as business magazines or management writers. There have been many business guru lists created through history.\n\nA list consisting of people who are included in almost all of the lists created, collectively known as the \"Famous Five\", are: Frederick Winslow Taylor, Michael Porter, Alfred Sloan, Peter Drucker, and Douglas McGregor.\n\nIn 2001, \"Harvard Business Review\" asked the gurus to name their favorite gurus. The people named were Peter Drucker, James March and Herbert Simon.\n\nAnother list includes Peter Drucker, Michael Porter, and Tom Peters as the three leading gurus of our time.\n\nThere are also many gurus who have emerged and disappeared through history. For example, the Japanese were known for making improvements to the business world and bringing out gurus in the 1980s, which included Keniche Ohmae and Akio Morita. Then European gurus emerged, which included Yves Doz, Geert Hofstede, Manfred Kets De Vries and Charles Handy.\n\nOne management expert, Gary Hamel, says there have been \"few genuine breakthroughs\" since the work of Taylor and Max Weber. In his book, Hamel says that management is \"stuck in a time warp.\" Similarly, even one of the authors of a book about management gurus warns that management theory is \"not served well by fads,\" citing Enron as a \"management fad for its supposed culture of innovation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16416558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16416558", "title": "Business idea", "text": "Business idea\n\nA business idea is a concept that can be used for financial gain that is usually centered on a product or service that can be offered for money. An idea is the base of the pyramid when it comes to the business as a whole.\n\nThe characteristics of a promising business idea are:\n\nA business idea is often linked to its creator who needs to identify the business' value proposition in order to launch to market and establish competitive advantage.\n\nFor businesses this could mean; creating new ideas, new product development through research and development or improving existing services. Innovation can be the central focus of a business and this can help them to grow and become a market leader if they execute their ideas properly. Businesses that are focused on innovation are usually more efficient, cost effective and productive. Successful innovation should be built into the business strategy, where you can create a culture of innovation and drive forward creative problem solving.\n\nThese successful companies were built on sheer innovation and we can see how valuable they have become in the short time they have been around or have been focusing on innovation. When we compare Tesla's value to that of General Motors, we see that the market capitalization of General Motors is $53.98 billion today in which the company has been around since 1908 whereas Tesla was founded in 2003 and has achieved 50% of General Motors value within 12 years.\n\nA unique selling point (USP) is the factor that makes a company or a product stand out from its competitors, whether it is through; pricing, quality, customer service or innovation.\n\nEach successful company has a USP and this is what potentially makes their customers loyal to them, as this is the original reason as to why they chose to buy from them. A USP can be created through the element of being first to a market, for example with Uber; who were the first company that gave you the ability to press a button and taxi would appear within 5 minutes to pick you up. Because Uber had reached this market first, it gave them a USP and therefore they received loyal customers for this. However; with fierce competition copying Uber's business model, Uber has had to develop their service through innovation and this is where innovation can be used as a USP, as Uber have had to develop their services to a wider market in which they are now working on a delivery service called \"Uber Rush.\" \n\nBusiness ideas that solve problems are fundamental to developing our world and companies such as Curemark are one of many who do this. Curemark is a biotech company founded by Dr Joan Fallon, who noticed that a lot of the children she treated were low on an enzyme for processing protein and since then she has quit her job and has built Curemark to solve this problem. Curemark has now raised $50 million and is on its way to solving a problem that truly exists.\n\nProfitability is a business's ability to generate earnings compared to its costs over a certain period of time. This is possibly the most important aspect of any business idea in the long term, as this is what makes a business survive in order to keep having the impact that it has. Profitable ideas need a strong revenue stream against its costs and this tends to create the success of the business, however some companies defy this and make losses to begin with, yet are still exceptional business ideas that are worth billions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26085407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26085407", "title": "Business interaction networks", "text": "Business interaction networks\n\nBusiness interaction networks are networks that allow businesses and their communities of interest to collaborate and do business online securely via the Internet. \n\nMary Johnston Turner first discussed the concept in a Network World opinion piece in August, 1995, and attributed the first advocacy for the concept to the now-defunct BBN Planet, the ISP division of BBN Technologies.\n"}
{"id": "22697384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22697384", "title": "Business sector", "text": "Business sector\n\nIn economics, the business sector or corporate sector - sometimes popularly called simply \"business\" - is \"the part of the economy made up by companies\". It is a subset of the domestic economy,\nexcluding the economic activities of general government, of private households, and of non-profit organizations serving individuals. An alternative analysis of economies, the three-sector theory, subdivides them into: \n\n\nIn the United States the business sector accounted for about 78 percent of the value of gross domestic product (GDP) . Kuwait and Tuvalu each had business sectors accounting for less than 40% of GDP .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18958074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958074", "title": "Closure (business)", "text": "Closure (business)\n\nClosure is the term used to refer to the actions necessary when it is no longer necessary or possible for a business or other organization to continue to operate. Closure may be the result of a bankruptcy, where the organization lacks sufficient funds to continue operations, as a result of the proprietor of the business dying, as a result of a business being purchased by another organization (or a competitor) and shut down as superfluous, or because it is the non-surviving entity in a corporate merger. A closure may occur because the purpose for which the organization was created is no longer necessary.\n\nWhile a closure is typically of a business or a non-profit organization, any entity which is created by human beings can be subject to a closure, from a single church to a whole religion, up to and including an entire country if, for some reason, it ceases to exist.\n\nClosures are of two types, voluntary or involuntary. Voluntary closures of organizations are much rarer than involuntary ones, as, in the absence of some change making operations impossible or unnecessary, most operations will continue until something happens that causes a change requiring this situation.\n\nThe most common form of voluntary closure would be when those involved in an organization such as a social club, a band, or other non-profit organization decide to cease operating. Once the organization has paid any outstanding debts and completed any pending operations, closure may simply mean that the organization ceases to exist.\n\nIf an organization has debts that cannot be paid, it may be necessary to perform a liquidation of its assets. If there is anything left after the assets are converted to cash, in the case of a for-profit organization, the remainder is distributed to the stockholders; in the case of a non-profit, by law any remaining assets must be distributed to another non-profit.\n\nIf an organization has more debts than assets, it may have to declare bankruptcy. If the organization is viable, it may reorganizes itself as a result of the bankruptcy and continue operations. If it is not viable for the business to continue operating, then a closure occurs through a bankruptcy liquidation: its assets are liquidated, the creditors are paid from whatever assets could be liquidated, and the business ceases operations.\n\nPossibly the largest \"closure\" in history (but more closely analogous to a demerger) was the split of the Soviet Union into its constituent countries. In comparison, the end of East Germany can be considered a merger rather than a closure as West Germany assumed all of the assets and liabilities of East Germany. The end of the Soviet Union was the equivalent of a closure through a bankruptcy liquidation, because while Russia assumed most of the assets and responsibilities of the former Soviet Union, it did not assume all of them. There have been issues over who is responsible for unpaid parking tickets accumulated by motor vehicles operated on behalf of diplomatic missions operated by the former Soviet Union in other countries, as Russia claims it is not responsible for them.\n\nSeveral major business closures include the bankruptcy of the Penn Central railroad, the Enron scandals, and MCI Worldcom's bankruptcy and eventual merger into Verizon.\n"}
{"id": "2886264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886264", "title": "Core business", "text": "Core business\n\nThe core business of an organization is an idealized construct intended to express that organization's \"main\" or \"essential\" activity. \n\nThe corporate trend in the mid-20th Century, of acquiring new enterprises and forming conglomerates, enabled corporations to reduce costs funds and similar investment vehicles, and sometimes the following of a popular trend among corporate management seeking to appeal to current and impress investors.\n\nCore business process means that a business's success depends not only on how well each department performs its work, but also on how well the company manages to coordinate departmental activities to conduct the core business process, which is;\n\n1. The market-sensing process\nMeaning all activities in gathering marketing intelligence and acting on the information.\n\n2. The new-offering realization process\nCovering all activities in research, development and launching new quality offerings quickly and within budget.\n\n3. The customer acquisition process\nall the activities defining the target market and prospecting for new customers\n\n4. The customer relationship management process\nall the activities covering building deeper understanding, relationships and offerings to individual customers.\n\n5. The fulfillment management process\nall the activities in receiving and approving orders, shipping out on time and collecting payment.\n\nTo be successful, a business needs to look for competitive advantages beyond its own operations. The business needs to look at the competitiveness value chain of suppliers, distributors and customers. Many companies today have partnered with specific suppliers and distributors to create a superior value delivery network.\n\nKotler & Keller, Marketing management, 2009, p76\n\nCore competency\n"}
{"id": "58927325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58927325", "title": "Initiative Q", "text": "Initiative Q\n\nInitiative Q is an attempt to create a new payment network and digital currency. It was created by Israeli entrepreneur Saar Wilf, who previously founded Fraud Sciences, a payment security company acquired by PayPal. Q is backed by Cato Institute economist Lawrence H. White. Unlike Bitcoin the scheme would not take measures to evade state regulation.\n\nThe currency is marketed through chain email multi-level marketing, and will not be released until a critical mass of adopters identify themselves. In November 2018, Vox.com reported that more than 2 Million people had signed-up in 180 countries.\n\nIn October 2018, Frank Chung of news.com.au wrote that the marketing style could be \"perceived as a scam or pyramid scheme\". and FINTECH Singapore and Daniel Huszák of portfolio.hu compared it to multi-level marketing without the fee. Owen Gough of Digital Spy wrote \n\"Is Initiative Q real or fake? Short answer – we have absolutely no idea.\"\n\nBrendan Markey-Tower of Stuff.co.nz explained in November 2018 that the scheme wouldn't \"make you fabulously wealthy. It is, nonetheless, an interesting idea\".\n\nHuszák enumerated potential problems with the scheme such as no clear crypto-currency security measures, unclear transaction/exchange costs, and potential for market manipulation by the largest holders of currency.\n"}
{"id": "328240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328240", "title": "Marketing strategy", "text": "Marketing strategy\n\nMarketing strategy is a long-term, forward-looking approach to planning with the fundamental goal of achieving a sustainable competitive advantage. Strategic planning involves an analysis of the company's strategic initial situation prior to the formulation, evaluation and selection of market-oriented competitive position that contributes to the company's goals and marketing objectives.\n\nStrategic marketing, as a distinct field of study emerged in the 1970s, and built on strategic management that preceded it. Marketing strategy highlights the role of marketing as a link between the organisation and its customers. \n\nAt its most basic level, strategic marketing addresses three deceptively simple questions: (1) Where are we now? (2) Where are we going? and (3) How are we going to get there? In attempting to answer these questions, strategic planners require sophisticated skills in both research and analysis.\n\nScholars continue to debate the precise meaning of marketing strategy. Consequently, the literature offers many different definitions. On close examination, however, these definitions appear to centre around the notion that strategy refers to a broad statement of what is to be achieved.\n\nMarketing Strategy is:\n\nThe distinction between “strategic” and “managerial” marketing is used to distinguish \"two phases having different goals and based on different conceptual tools. Strategic marketing concerns the choice of policies aiming at improving the competitive position of the firm, taking account of challenges and opportunities proposed by the competitive environment. On the other hand, managerial marketing is focused on the implementation of specific targets.\" Marketing strategy is about \"lofty visions translated into less lofty and practical goals [while marketing management] is where we start to get our hands dirty and make plans for things to happen.\" Marketing strategy is sometimes called \"higher order\" planning because it sets out the broad direction and provides guidance and structure for the marketing program.\n\nMarketing scholars have suggested that strategic marketing arose in the late 1970s and its origins can be understood in terms of a distinct evolutionary path:\n\nMarketing strategy involves mapping out the company's direction for the forthcoming planning period, whether that be three, five or ten years. It involves undertaking a 360° review of the firm and its operating environment with a view to identifying new business opportunities that the firm could potentially leverage for competitive advantage. Strategic planning may also reveal market threats that the firm may need to consider for long-term sustainability. Strategic planning makes no assumptions about the firm continuing to offer the same products to the same customers into the future. Instead, it is concerned with identifying the business opportunities that are likely to be successful and evaluates the firm's capacity to leverage such opportunities. It seeks to identify the \"strategic gap\"; that is the difference between where a firm is currently situated (the \"strategic reality\" or \"inadvertent strategy\") and where it should be situated for sustainable, long-term growth (the \"strategic intent\" or \"deliberate strategy\").\n\nStrategic planning seeks to address three deceptively simple questions, specifically:\n\nA fourth question may be added to the list, namely 'How do we know when we got there?' Due to increasing need for accountability, many marketing organisations use a variety of marketing metrics to track strategic performance, allowing for corrective action to be taken as required. On the surface, strategic planning seeks to address three simple questions, however, the research and analysis involved in strategic planning is very sophisticated and requires a great deal of skill and judgement.\n\nStrategic analysis is designed to address the first strategic question, \"Where are we now?\" Traditional market research is less useful for strategic marketing because the analyst is not seeking insights about customer attitudes and preferences. Instead strategic analysts are seeking insights about the firm's operating environment with a view to identifying possible future scenarios, opportunities and threats. \n\nStrategic planning focuses on the three 3C’s, namely: Customer, Corporation and Competitors. A detailed analysis of each factor is key to the success of strategy formulation. The 'competitors' element refers to an analysis of the strengths of the business relative to close rivals, and a consideration of competitive threats that might impinge on the business' ability to move in certain directions. The 'customer' element refers to an analysis of any possible changes in customer preferences that potentially give rise to new business opportunities. The 'corporation' element refers to a detailed analysis of the company's internal capabilities and its readiness to leverage market-based opportunities or its vulnerability to external threats. \n\nMintzberg suggests that the top planners spend most of their time engaged in analysis and are concerned with industry or competitive analyses as well as internal studies, including the use of computer models to analyze trends in the organization. Strategic planners use a variety of research tools and analytical techniques, depending on the environment complexity and the firm's goals. Fleitcher and Bensoussan, for instance, have identified some 200 qualitative and quantitative analytical techniques regularly used by strategic analysts while a recent publication suggests that 72 techniques are essential. No optimal technique can be identified as useful across all situations or problems. Determining which technique to use in any given situation rests with the skill of the analyst. The choice of tool depends on a variety of factors including: data availability; the nature of the marketing problem; the objective or purpose, the analyst’s skill level as well as other constraints such as time or motivation. \n\nThe most commonly used tools and techniques include:\n\nResearch methods\n\nAnalytical techniques\n\nGap analysis is a type of higher order analysis that seeks to identify the difference between the organisation's current strategy and its desired strategy. This difference is sometimes known as the \"strategic gap.\" Mintzberg identifies two types of strategy namely \"deliberate strategy\" and \"inadvertent strategy.\" The deliberate strategy represents the firm's strategic intent or its desired path while the inadvertent strategy represents the path that the firm may have followed as it adjusted to environmental, competitive and market changes. Other scholars use the terms \"realized strategy\" versus \"intended\" strategy to refer to the same concepts. This type of analysis indicates whether an organisation has strayed from its desired path during the planning period. The presence of a large gap may indicate the organisation has become \"stuck in the middle\"; a recipe for strategic mediocrity and potential failure.\n\nThe category/brand development index is a method used to assess the sales potential for a region or market and identify market segments that can be developed (i.e. high CDI and high BDI). In addition, it may be used to identify markets where the category or brand is under-performing and may signal underlying marketing problems such as poor distribution (i.e. high CDI and low BDI).\n\nBDI and CDI are calculated as follows:\n\nStrategic planning typically begins with a scan of the business environment, both internal and external, this includes understanding strategic constraints. An understanding of the external operating environment, including political, economic, social and technological which includes demographic and cultural aspects, is necessary for the identification of business opportunities and threats. This analysis is called PEST; an acronym for Political, Economic, Social and Technological. A number of variants of the PEST analysis can be identified in literature, including: PESTLE analysis (Political, Economic, Social, Technological, Legal and Environmental); STEEPLE (adds ethics); STEEPLED (adds demographics) and STEER (adds regulatory).\n\nThe aim of the PEST analysis is to identify opportunities and threats in the wider operating environment. Firms try to leverage opportunities while trying to buffer themselves against potential threats. Basically, the PEST analysis guides strategic decision-making. The main elements of the PEST analysis are:\n\nWhen carrying out a PEST analysis, planners and analysts may consider the operating environment at three levels, namely \"the supranational\"; \"the national\" and \"subnational\" or local level. As businesses become more globalized, they may need to pay greater attention to the supranational level.\n\nIn addition to the PEST analysis, firms carry out a Strengths, Weakness, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis. A SWOT analysis identifies: \n\nTypically the firm will attempt to leverage those opportunities that can be matched with internal strengths; that is to say the firm has a capability in any area where strengths are matched with external opportunities. It may need to build capability if it wishes to leverage opportunities in areas of weakness. An area of weakness that is matched with an external threat represents a vulnerability, and the firm may need to develop contingency plans.\n\nThe vision and mission address the second central question, 'Where are we going?' At the conclusion of the research and analysis stage, the firm will typically review its vision statement, mission statement and, if necessary, devise a new vision and mission for the outlook period. At this stage, the firm will also devise a generic competitive strategy as the basis for maintaining a sustainable competitive advantage for the forthcoming planning period. \n\nA vision statement is a realistic, long term future scenario for the organisation. (Vision statements should not be confused with slogans or mottos.) A vision statement is designed to present a realistic long-term future scenario for the organisation. It is a \"clearly articulated statement of the business scope.\" A strong vision statement typically includes the following:\nSome scholars point out the market visioning is a skill or competency that encapsulates the planners' capacity \"to link advanced technologies to market opportunities of the future, and to do so through a shared understanding of a given product market.\n\nA mission statement is a clear and concise statement of the organisation’s reason for being and its scope of operations, while the generic strategy outlines how the company intends to achieve both its vision and mission.\n\nMission statements should include detailed information and must be more than a simple \"motherhood statement\". A mission statement typically includes the following:\n\nThe generic competitive strategy outlines the fundamental basis for obtaining a sustainable competitive advantage within a category. Firms can normally trace their competitive position to one of three factors:\n\nIt is essential that the internal analysis provide a frank and open evaluation of the firm's superiority in terms of skills, resources or market position since this will provide the basis for competing over the forthcoming planning period. For this reason, some companies engage external consultants to provide an independent assessment of the firms capabilities and resources.\n\nIn 1980, Michael Porter developed an approach to strategy formulation that proved to be extremely popular with both scholars and practitioners. The approach became known as the \"positioning school\" because of its emphasis on locating a defensible \"competitive position\" within an industry or sector. In this approach, strategy formulation consists of three key strands of thinking: analysis of the five forces to determine the sources of competitive advantage; the selection of one of three possible positions which leverage the advantage and the value chain to implement the strategy. In this approach, the strategic choices involve decisions about whether to compete for a share of the total market or for a specific target group (competitive scope) and whether to compete on costs or product differences (competitive advantage). This type of thinking leads to three generic strategies: \n\nAccording to Porter, these strategies are mutually exclusive and the firm must select one approach to the exclusion of all others. Firms that try to be all things to all people can present a confused market position which ultimately leads to below average returns. Any ambiguity about the firm's approach is a recipe for \"strategic mediocrity\" and any firm that tries to pursue two approaches simultaneously is said to be \"stuck in the middle\" and destined for failure.\n\nPorter's approach was the dominant paradigm throughout the 1980s. However, the approach has attracted considerable criticism. One important criticism is that it is possible to identify successful companies that pursue a hybrid strategy - such as low cost position and a differentiated position simultaneously. Toyota is a classic example of this hybrid approach. Other scholars point to the simplistic nature of the analysis and the overly prescriptive nature of the strategic choices which limits strategies to just three options. Yet others point to research showing that many practitioners find the approach to be overly theoretical and not applicable to their business.\n\nDuring the 1990s, the \"resource-based view\" (also known as the \"resource-advantage theory\") of the firm became the dominant paradigm. It is an inter-disciplinary approach that represents a substantial shift in thinking. It focuses attention on an organisation's internal resources as a means of organising processes and obtaining a competitive advantage. The resource-based view suggests that organisations must develop unique, firm-specific core competencies that will allow them to outperform competitors by doing things differently and in a superior manner. \n\nBarney stated that for resources to hold potential as sources of sustainable competitive advantage, they should be valuable, rare and imperfectly imitable. A key insight arising from the resource-based view is that not all resources are of equal importance nor possess the potential to become a source of sustainable competitive advantage. The sustainability of any competitive advantage depends on the extent to which resources can be imitated or substituted. Barney and others point out that understanding the causal relationship between the sources of advantage and successful strategies can be very difficult in practice. Thus, a great deal of managerial effort must be invested in identifying, understanding and classifying core competencies. In addition, management must invest in organisational learning to develop and maintain key resources and competencies. \n\nMarket Based Resources include:\n\nIn the resource-based view, strategists select the strategy or competitive position that best exploits the internal resources and capabilities relative to external opportunities. Given that strategic resources represent a complex network of inter-related assets and capabilities, organisations can adopt many possible competitive positions. Although scholars debate the precise categories of competitive positions that are used, there is general agreement, within the literature, that the resource-based view is much more flexible than Porter's prescriptive approach to strategy formulation.\n\nHooley et al., suggest the following classification of competitive positions:\n\nThe choice of competitive strategy often depends on a variety of factors including: the firm's market position relative to rival firms, the stage of the product life cycle. A well-established firm in a mature market will likely have a different strategy than a start-up.\nGrowth of a business is critical for business success. A firm may grow by developing the market or by developing new products. The Ansoff product and market growth matrix illustrates the two broad dimensions for achieving growth. The Ansoff matrix identifies four specific growth strategies: market penetration, product development, market development and diversification. \n\nA horizontal integration strategy may be indicated in fast changing work environments as well as providing a broad knowledge base for the business and employees. A benefit of horizontal diversification is that it is an open platform for a business to expand and build away from the already existing market. \n\nHigh levels of horizontal integration lead to high levels of communication within the business. Another benefit of using this strategy is that it leads to a larger market for merged businesses, and it is easier to build good reputations for a business when using this strategy. A disadvantage of using a diversification strategy is that the benefits could take a while to start showing, which could lead the business to believe that the strategy in ineffective. Another disadvantage or risk is, it has been shown that using the horizontal diversification method has become harmful for stock value, but using the vertical diversification had the best effects.\n\nA disadvantage of using the horizontal integration strategy is that this limits and restricts the field of interest that the business. Horizontal integration can affect a business's reputation, especially after a merge has happened between two or more businesses. There are three main benefits to a business's reputation after a merge. A larger business helps the reputation and increases the severity of the punishment. As well as the merge of information after a merge has happened, this increases the knowledge of the business and marketing area they are focused on. The last benefit is more opportunities for deviation to occur in merged businesses rather than independent businesses.\n\n\nVertical integration is when business is expanded through the vertical production line on one business. An example of a vertically integrated business could be Apple. Apple owns all their own software, hardware, designs and operating systems instead of relying on other businesses to supply these. By having a highly vertically integrated business this creates different economies therefore creating a positive performance for the business. Vertical integration is seen as a business controlling the inputs of supplies and outputs of products as well as the distribution of the final product. Some benefits of using a Vertical integration strategy is that costs may be reduced because of the reducing transaction costs which include finding, selling, monitoring, contracting and negotiating with other firms. Also by decreasing outside businesses input it will increase the efficient use of inputs into the business. Another benefit of vertical integration is that it improves the exchange of information through the different stages of the production line. Some competitive advantages could include; avoiding foreclosures, improving the business marketing intelligence, and opens up opportunities to create different products for the market. Some disadvantages of using a Vertical Integration Strategy include the internal costs for the business and the need for overhead costs. Also if the business is not well organised and fully equipped and prepared the business will struggle using this strategy. There are also competitive disadvantages as well, which include; creates barriers for the business, and loses access to information from suppliers and distributors.\n\nIn terms of market position, firms may be classified as market leaders, market challengers, market followers or market nichers.\n\nAs the speed of change in the marketing environment quickens, time horizons are becoming shorter. Nevertheless, most firms carry out strategic planning every 3- 5 years and treat the process as a means of checking whether the company is on track to achieve its vision and mission. Ideally, strategies are both dynamic and interactive, partially planned and partially unplanned. Strategies are broad in their scope in order to enable a firm to react to unforeseen developments while trying to keep focused on a specific pathway. A key aspect of marketing strategy is to keep marketing consistent with a company's overarching mission statement.\n\nStrategies often specify how to adjust the marketing mix; firms can use tools such as Marketing Mix Modeling to help them decide how to allocate scarce resources, as well as how to allocate funds across a portfolio of brands. In addition, firms can conduct analyses of performance, customer analysis, competitor analysis, and target market analysis.\n\nMarketing strategies may differ depending on the unique situation of the individual business. According to Lieberman and Montgomery, every entrant into a market – whether it is new or not – is classified under a Market Pioneer, Close Follower or a Late follower \n\nMarket pioneers are known to often open a new market to consumers based off a major innovation. They emphasise these product developments, and in a significant amount of cases, studies have shown that early entrants – or pioneers – into a market have serious market-share advantages above all those who enter later. Pioneers have the first-mover advantage, and in order to have this advantage, business’ must ensure they have at least one or more of three primary sources: Technological Leadership, Preemption of Assets or Buyer Switching Costs. Technological Leadership means gaining an advantage through either Research and Development or the “learning curve”. This lets a business use the research and development stage as a key point of selling due to primary research of a new or developed product. Preemption of Assets can help gain an advantage through acquiring scarce assets within a certain market, allowing the first-mover to be able to have control of existing assets rather than those that are created through new technology. Thus allowing pre-existing information to be used and a lower risk when first entering a new market. By being a first entrant, it is easy to avoid higher switching costs compared to later entrants. For example, those who enter later would have to invest more expenditure in order to encourage customers away from early entrants. However, while Market Pioneers may have the “highest probability of engaging in product development” and lower switching costs, to have the first-mover advantage, it can be more expensive due to product innovation being more costly than product imitation. It has been found that while Pioneers in both consumer goods and industrial markets have gained “significant sales advantages”, they incur larger disadvantages cost-wise.\n\nBeing a Market Pioneer can, more often than not, attract entrepreneurs and/or investors depending on the benefits of the market. If there is an upside potential and the ability to have a stable market share, many businesses would start to follow in the footsteps of these pioneers. These are more commonly known as Close Followers. These entrants into the market can also be seen as challengers to the Market Pioneers and the Late Followers. This is because early followers are more than likely to invest a significant amount in Product Research and Development than later entrants. By doing this, it allows businesses to find weaknesses in the products produced before, thus leading to improvements and expansion on the aforementioned product. Therefore, it could also lead to customer preference, which is essential in market success. Due to the nature of early followers and the research time being later than Market Pioneers, different development strategies are used as opposed to those who entered the market in the beginning, and the same is applied to those who are Late Followers in the market. By having a different strategy, it allows the followers to create their own unique selling point and perhaps target a different audience in comparison to that of the Market Pioneers. Early following into a market can often be encouraged by an established business’ product that is “threatened or has industry-specific supporting assets”.\n\nThose who follow after the Close Followers are known as the Late Entrants. While being a Late Entrant can seem very daunting, there are some perks to being a latecomer. For example, Late Entrants have the ability to learn from those who are already in the market or have previously entered. Late Followers have the advantage of learning from their early competitors and improving the benefits or reducing the total costs. This allows them to create a strategy that could essentially mean gaining market share and most importantly, staying in the market. In addition to this, markets evolve, leading to consumers wanting improvements and advancements on products. Late Followers have the advantage of catching the shifts in customer needs and wants towards the products. When bearing in mind customer preference, customer value has a significant influence. Customer value means taking into account the investment of customers as well as the brand or product. It is created through the “perceptions of benefits” and the “total cost of ownership”. On the other hand, if the needs and wants of consumers have only slightly altered, Late Followers could have a cost advantage over early entrants due to the use of product imitation. However, if a business is switching markets, this could take the cost advantage away due to the expense of changing markets for the business. Late Entry into a market does not necessarily mean there is a disadvantage when it comes to market share, it depends on how the marketing mix is adopted and the performance of the business. If the marketing mix is not used correctly – despite the entrant time – the business will gain little to no advantages, potentially missing out on a significant opportunity.\n\nThe differentiated strategy\n\nThe customised target strategy\nThe requirements of individual customer markets are unique, and their purchases sufficient to make viable the design of a new marketing mix for each customer.\n\nIf a company adopts this type of market strategy, a separate marketing mix is to be designed for each customer.\n\nSpecific marketing mixes can be developed to appeal to most of the segments when market segmentation reveals several potential targets.\n\nWhereas the vision and mission provide the framework, the \"goals define targets within the mission, which, when achieved, should move the organization toward the performance of that mission.\" \"Goals\" are broad primary outcomes whereas, \"objectives\" are measurable steps taken to achieve a goal or strategy. In strategic planning, it is important for managers to translate the overall strategy into goals and objectives. Goals are designed to inspire action and focus attention on specific desired outcomes. Objectives, on the other hand, are used to measure an organisation's performance on specific dimensions, thereby providing the organisation with feedback on how well it is achieving its goals and strategies. \n\nManagers typically establish objectives using the \"balanced scorecard\" approach. This means that objectives do not include desired financial outcomes exclusively, but also specify measures of performance for customers (e.g. satisfaction, loyalty, repeat patronage), internal processes (e.g., employee satisfaction, productivity) and innovation and improvement activities. \n\nAfter setting the goals marketing strategy or marketing plan should be developed. The marketing strategy plan provides an outline of the specific actions to be taken over time to achieve the objectives. Plans can be extended to cover many years, with sub-plans for each year. Plans usually involve monitoring, to assess progress, and prepare for contingencies if problems arise. Simultaneous such as customer lifetime value models can be used to help marketers conduct \"what-if\" analyses to forecast what potential scenarios arising from possible actions, and to gauge how specific actions might affect such variables as the revenue-per-customer and the churn rate.\n\nDeveloping competitive strategy requires significant judgement and is based on a deep understanding of the firm's current situation, its past history and its operating environment. No heuristics have yet been developed to assist strategists choose the optimal strategic direction. Nevertheless some researchers and scholars have sought to classify broad groups of strategy approaches that might serve as broad frameworks for thinking about suitable choices.\n\nIn 2003, Raymond Miles proposed a detailed scheme using the categories:\n\nMarketing warfare strategies are competitor-centered strategies drawn from analogies with the field of military science. Warfare strategies were popular in the 1980s, but interest in this approach has waned in the new era of relationship marketing. An increased awareness of the distinctions between business and military cultures also raises questions about the extent to which this type of analogy is useful. In spite of its limitations, the typology of marketing warfare strategies is useful for predicting and understanding competitor responses.\n\nIn the 1980s, Kotler and Singh developed a typology of marketing warfare strategies:\n\nThe generic, competitive strategy provides overall structure and guidance for day-to-day operational planning and decision-making. The 4P’s (Price, Product, Place and Promotion), also known as the marketing mix or marketing program represent the tools that marketers can use in day-to-day operational planning. This marketing program enables marketers a means for turning the long-term vision into every day practice. By tweaking the elements of the marketing mix, marketers can adjust the offer to meet different requirements for the current situation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2633364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633364", "title": "Registered office", "text": "Registered office\n\nA registered office is the official address of an incorporated company, association or any other legal entity. Generally it will form part of the public record and is required in most countries where the registered organization or legal entity is incorporated. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and many other common law countries, the registered office address does not have to be where the organization conducts its actual business or trade, and it is not unusual for law firms, accountants or incorporation agents to provide the official registered office address service. In the United Kingdom all statutory correspondence for an incorporated organization (e.g. formal notices, service of process, tax and government communications) is posted or hand delivered to the registered office address as recorded on the Companies House register. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nUnder regulations implemented in the UK on 1 October 2009, company directors may now also use a registered office address instead of their private home address for contact on the Companies House register.\n\nThe company's full registered name must be visible to the public on the premises. The Company's records previously had to be kept at the registered office and available for public inspection. Since 1 October 2009 it has been possible for companies to designate a single alternative inspection location (SAIL) as a place to keep their records which must be available for public inspection.\n\nIn many other countries the address with which a company is registered must be where its headquarters or seat is located, and this will often determine the subnational registry at which the company must be registered.\n\n"}
{"id": "30781093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30781093", "title": "Religion and business", "text": "Religion and business\n\nReligion and business have throughout history interacted in ways that relate to and affected one another, as well as influenced sociocultural evolution, political geographies, and labour laws.\n\nSome areas, countries or cities have an economy based on religious tourism. Examples include Islamic Hajj tourism and Vatican tourism. The hotels and markets of important religious places are a source of income to the locals.\n\nThe boards or shines sometimes receive so much in donations that governments to take it under control for proper utilization of resources and management. The annual revenues of most of the religious places are not regulated.\n\nJudaism outlines requirements of accurate weights and measurements in commerce, as well as prohibitions on monetary deception, verbal deception and misrepresentation.\n\nGlobally, halal products comprise a US$2 trillion industry.\n\nAs of 2003, the kosher industry had certified more than 100,000 products, which total approximately US$165 billion in sales annually.\n\nUnited Kingdom labour law prohibits employer discrimination based on religion, belief, or any lack thereof.\n\nIn the United States, labor laws including Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibit businesses from discriminating against employees based on the basis of religion. Business law is also at times applied to religious organizations, due to their status as incorporated entities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21041941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21041941", "title": "Viability study", "text": "Viability study\n\nA Viability study is an in depth investigation of the profitability of the business idea to be converted into a business enterprise.\n\nThis type of report studies a situation (for example, a problem or opportunity) and the plan for doing something about it, then determines whether that plan is \"feasible\". This would involve determining whether it is technologically possible to achieve and whether it is practical in the current technological, economical and social scenario. The feasibility report does not provide a simple \"Yes\" or \"No\" answer, but is used in the analysis of a decision. It is not just a tool to provide a recommendation, it is also used to gather data and give reasoning behind the recommendation given, to be later used in evaluation.\n\nThis study is the most important especially to people who plan to start their own business.\n\nThis type of report examines either a stated need or a selection of choices, or in some cases both. The report is a collection of analysis and evaluation of the situation, and generally will examine the strengths and weaknesses, opportunities and threats in the situation, take them into account, and be combined with the feasibility report in order to give a recommendation. Sometimes a recommendation can be given to do nothing, if all options currently possible would prove unbeneficial. The recommendation report answers the question \"Which option should we choose?\" (or \"Which are the best options?\") by allowing a recommendation to be made. This can be linked into the analysis of the continuum of choice in the scenario.\n\nThis type of report provides an opinion or judgment rather that is based on the above two report, along with additional data available. It provides a studied opinion on the value or worth of something. This type of report compares the object of the analysis to a set of requirements (or criteria) and determines how well it meets those requirements. Generally, the evaluation report will feature an overall recommendation on the course of action to be taken.\n"}
