{"id": "3143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3143", "title": "Axiology", "text": "Axiology\n\nAxiology (from Greek , \"axia\", \"value, worth\"; and , \"-logia\") is the philosophical study of value. It is either the collective term for ethics and aesthetics, philosophical fields that depend crucially on notions of worth, or the foundation for these fields, and thus similar to value theory and meta-ethics. The term was first used by Paul Lapie, in 1902, and Eduard von Hartmann, in 1908.\n\nAxiology studies mainly two kinds of values: ethics and aesthetics. Ethics investigates the concepts of \"right\" and \"good\" in individual and social conduct. Aesthetics studies the concepts of \"beauty\" and \"harmony.\" Formal axiology, the attempt to lay out principles regarding value with mathematical rigor, is exemplified by Robert S. Hartman's science of value.\n\nBetween the 5th and 6th century BC, it was important in Greece to be knowledgeable if you were to be successful. Philosophers began to recognize that differences existed between the laws and morality of society. Socrates believed that knowledge had a vital connection to virtue, making morality and democracy closely intertwined. Socrates' student, Plato furthered the belief by establishing virtues which should be followed by all. With the fall of the government, values became individual, causing skeptic schools of thought to flourish, ultimately shaping a pagan philosophy that is thought to have influenced and shaped Christianity. During the medieval period, Thomas Aquinas made the distinction between natural and supernatural (theological) virtues. This concept led philosophers to distinguish between judgments based on fact and judgments based on values, creating division between science and philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27389289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27389289", "title": "Bertrand Russell Society", "text": "Bertrand Russell Society\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society is a non-profit learned society whose purpose is to foster a better understanding of Bertrand Russell and his work. The Society was founded in 1974 by, among others, Lady Katharine Tait, Russell's only daughter.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", and all members receive \"Russell: the Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\". The Society holds an annual meeting, and offers numerous prizes for literature and other work. The Society also sponsors talks in conjunction with the American Philosophical Association (APA) and the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society has three aims (Bylaws, Article 2): \n\n\nThe BRS motto is: \"The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge.\"\n-Bertrand Russell (1925) \"What I Believe\"; cited from p. 349 in \"The Basic Writings of Bertrand Russell\" (Routledge Classics, New York: 2009).\n\nFounded in 1974, the Bertrand Russell Society seeks to foster a better understanding of the life, work, and writings of Bertrand Russell (1872-1970) and how his contributions relate to today’s world. The Society has a regular annual meeting featuring scholarly and popular presentations about Russell and related subjects, a business meeting, a banquet, and good fellowship. Usually in June, most often in a university setting, annual meetings have taken place at wide variety of locations.\n\nThe Society publishes the \"Bertrand Russell Society Bulletin\", which is free to all members. Interested persons are invited to submit papers to the editor, William Bruneau. Members also receive the scholarly journal \"Russell\".\n\nThe Bertrand Russell Society Library has a collection of Russell-related books and papers that members can borrow and a large selection of television and radio interviews of Russell online in the members area of the Library. Members of the Bertrand Russell Society may contact us for access.\n\nThe Society awards annual student-paper-prizes for the best new papers about Russell by undergraduate and graduate students. Prize-winners present their papers at our annual meeting, receive $200, free registration, lodging and banquet at the meeting, and a 1-year membership in the BRS.\n\nThe Society also awards an annual BRS Book Award for the best new book on Russell, an annual BRS Award to an individual or an organization whose work best furthers the interests and commitments of Bertrand Russell, and the Lee Eisler Service Award for service to the Russell Society.\n\nThe Society sponsors sessions of talks on Russell and early analytic philosophy more generally at meetings of the American Philosophical Association (APA), often in conjunction with the Society for the Study of the History of Analytical Philosophy (SSHAP).\n\nThe Society helps support Russell scholarship, for example, the scholarly journal \"Russell: The Journal of Bertrand Russell Studies\", which all BRS members receive as part of their membership, and maintains these web pages to provide information on Russell and related subjects and to further our shared interests and values.\n\n"}
{"id": "6978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6978", "title": "Concept", "text": "Concept\n\nConcepts are mental representations, abstract objects or abilities that make up the fundamental building blocks of thoughts and beliefs. They play an important role in all aspects of cognition.\n\nIn contemporary philosophy, there are at least three prevailing ways to understand what a concept is:\n\n\nConcepts can be organized into a hierarchy, higher levels of which are termed \"superordinate\" and lower levels termed \"subordinate\". Additionally, there is the \"basic\" or \"middle\" level at which people will most readily categorize a concept. For example, a basic-level concept would be \"chair\", with its superordinate, \"furniture\", and its subordinate, \"easy chair\".\n\nA concept is instantiated (reified) by all of its actual or potential instances, whether these are things in the real world or other ideas.\n\nConcepts are studied as components of human cognition in the cognitive science disciplines of linguistics, psychology and philosophy, where an ongoing debate asks whether all cognition must occur through concepts. Concepts are used as formal tools or models in mathematics, computer science, databases and artificial intelligence where they are sometimes called classes, schema or categories. In informal use the word \"concept\" often just means any idea.\n\nWithin the framework of the representational theory of mind, the structural position of concepts can be understood as follows: Concepts serve as the building blocks of what are called \"mental representations\" (colloquially understood as \"ideas in the mind\"). Mental representations, in turn, are the building blocks of what are called \"propositional attitudes\" (colloquially understood as the stances or perspectives we take towards ideas, be it \"believing\", \"doubting\", \"wondering\", \"accepting\", etc.). And these propositional attitudes, in turn, are the building blocks of our understanding of thoughts that populate everyday life, as well as folk psychology. In this way, we have an analysis that ties our common everyday understanding of thoughts down to the scientific and philosophical understanding of concepts.\n\nA central question in the study of concepts is the question of what concepts \"are\". Philosophers construe this question as one about the ontology of concepts – what they are really like. The ontology of concepts determines the answer to other questions, such as how to integrate concepts into a wider theory of the mind, what functions are allowed or disallowed by a concept's ontology, etc. There are two main views of the ontology of concepts: (1) Concepts are abstract objects, and (2) concepts are mental representations.\n\nPlatonist views of the mind construe concepts as abstract objects,\n\nThere is debate as to the relationship between concepts and natural language. However, it is necessary at least to begin by understanding that the concept \"dog\" is philosophically distinct from the things in the world grouped by this concept – or the reference class or extension. Concepts that can be equated to a single word are called \"lexical concepts\".\n\nStudy of concepts and conceptual structure falls into the disciplines of linguistics, philosophy, psychology, and cognitive science.\n\nIn the simplest terms, a concept is a name or label that regards or treats an abstraction as if it had concrete or material existence, such as a person, a place, or a thing. It may represent a natural object that exists in the real world like a tree, an animal, a stone, etc. It may also name an artificial (man-made) object like a chair, computer, house, etc. Abstract ideas and knowledge domains such as freedom, equality, science, happiness, etc., are also symbolized by concepts. It is important to realize that a concept is merely a symbol, a representation of the abstraction. The word is not to be mistaken for the thing. For example, the word \"moon\" (a concept) is not the large, bright, shape-changing object up in the sky, but only \"represents\" that celestial object. Concepts are created (named) to describe, explain and capture reality as it is known and understood.\n\nKant declared that human minds possess pure or \"a priori\" concepts. Instead of being abstracted from individual perceptions, like empirical concepts, they originate in the mind itself. He called these concepts categories, in the sense of the word that means predicate, attribute, characteristic, or quality. But these pure categories are predicates of things \"in general\", not of a particular thing. According to Kant, there are twelve categories that constitute the understanding of phenomenal objects. Each category is that one predicate which is common to multiple empirical concepts. In order to explain how an \"a priori\" concept can relate to individual phenomena, in a manner analogous to an \"a posteriori\" concept, Kant employed the technical concept of the schema. He held that the account of the concept as an abstraction of experience is only partly correct. He called those concepts that result from abstraction \"a posteriori concepts\" (meaning concepts that arise out of experience). An empirical or an \"a posteriori\" concept is a general representation (\"Vorstellung\") or non-specific thought of that which is common to several specific perceived objects (Logic, I, 1., §1, Note 1)\n\nA concept is a common feature or characteristic. Kant investigated the way that empirical \"a posteriori\" concepts are created.\nIn cognitive linguistics, abstract concepts are transformations of concrete concepts derived from embodied experience. The mechanism of transformation is structural mapping, in which properties of two or more source domains are selectively mapped onto a blended space (Fauconnier & Turner, 1995; see conceptual blending). A common class of blends are metaphors. This theory contrasts with the rationalist view that concepts are perceptions (or \"recollections\", in Plato's term) of an independently existing world of ideas, in that it denies the existence of any such realm. It also contrasts with the empiricist view that concepts are abstract generalizations of individual experiences, because the contingent and bodily experience is preserved in a concept, and not abstracted away. While the perspective is compatible with Jamesian pragmatism, the notion of the transformation of embodied concepts through structural mapping makes a distinct contribution to the problem of concept formation.\n\nPlato was the starkest proponent of the realist thesis of universal concepts. By his view, concepts (and ideas in general) are innate ideas that were instantiations of a transcendental world of pure forms that lay behind the veil of the physical world. In this way, universals were explained as transcendent objects. Needless to say this form of realism was tied deeply with Plato's ontological projects. This remark on Plato is not of merely historical interest. For example, the view that numbers are Platonic objects was revived by Kurt Gödel as a result of certain puzzles that he took to arise from the phenomenological accounts.\n\nGottlob Frege, founder of the analytic tradition in philosophy, famously argued for the analysis of language in terms of sense and reference. For him, the sense of an expression in language describes a certain state of affairs in the world, namely, the way that some object is presented. Since many commentators view the notion of sense as identical to the notion of concept, and Frege regards senses as the linguistic representations of states of affairs in the world, it seems to follow that we may understand concepts as the manner in which we grasp the world. Accordingly, concepts (as senses) have an ontological status (Morgolis:7).\n\nAccording to Carl Benjamin Boyer, in the introduction to his \"The History of the Calculus and its Conceptual Development\", concepts in calculus do not refer to perceptions. As long as the concepts are useful and mutually compatible, they are accepted on their own. For example, the concepts of the derivative and the integral are not considered to refer to spatial or temporal perceptions of the external world of experience. Neither are they related in any way to mysterious limits in which quantities are on the verge of nascence or evanescence, that is, coming into or going out of existence. The abstract concepts are now considered to be totally autonomous, even though they originated from the process of abstracting or taking away qualities from perceptions until only the common, essential attributes remained.\n\nIn a physicalist theory of mind, a concept is a mental representation, which the brain uses to denote a class of things in the world. This is to say that it is literally, a symbol or group of symbols together made from the physical material of the brain. Concepts are mental representations that allow us to draw appropriate inferences about the type of entities we encounter in our everyday lives. Concepts do not encompass all mental representations, but are merely a subset of them. The use of concepts is necessary to cognitive processes such as categorization, memory, decision making, learning, and inference.\n\nConcepts are thought to be stored in long term cortical memory, in contrast to episodic memory of the particular objects and events which they abstract, which are stored in hippocampus. Evidence for this separation comes from hippocampal damaged patients such as patient HM. The abstraction from the day's hippocampal events and objects into cortical concepts is often considered to be the computation underlying (some stages of) sleep and dreaming. Many people (beginning with Aristotle) report memories of dreams which appear to mix the day's events with analogous or related historical concepts and memories, and suggest that they were being sorted or organised into more abstract concepts. (\"Sort\" is itself another word for concept, and \"sorting\" thus means to organise into concepts.)\n\nThe classical theory of concepts, also referred to as the empiricist theory of concepts, is the oldest theory about the structure of concepts (it can be traced back to Aristotle), and was prominently held until the 1970s. The classical theory of concepts says that concepts have a definitional structure. Adequate definitions of the kind required by this theory usually take the form of a list of features. These features must have two important qualities to provide a comprehensive definition. Features entailed by the definition of a concept must be both \"necessary\" and \"sufficient\" for membership in the class of things covered by a particular concept. A feature is considered necessary if every member of the denoted class has that feature. A feature is considered sufficient if something has all the parts required by the definition. For example, the classic example \"bachelor\" is said to be defined by \"unmarried\" and \"man\". An entity is a bachelor (by this definition) if and only if it is both unmarried and a man. To check whether something is a member of the class, you compare its qualities to the features in the definition. Another key part of this theory is that it obeys the \"law of the excluded middle\", which means that there are no partial members of a class, you are either in or out.\n\nThe classical theory persisted for so long unquestioned because it seemed intuitively correct and has great explanatory power. It can explain how concepts would be acquired, how we use them to categorize and how we use the structure of a concept to determine its referent class. In fact, for many years it was one of the major activities in philosophy – concept analysis. Concept analysis is the act of trying to articulate the necessary and sufficient conditions for the membership in the referent class of a concept. For example, Shoemaker's classic \"Time Without Change\" explored whether the concept of the flow of time can include flows where no changes take place, though change is usually taken as a definition of time.\n\nGiven that most later theories of concepts were born out of the rejection of some or all of the classical theory, it seems appropriate to give an account of what might be wrong with this theory. In the 20th century, philosophers such as Wittgenstein and Rosch argued against the classical theory. There are six primary arguments summarized as follows:\n\nPrototype theory came out of problems with the classical view of conceptual structure. Prototype theory says that concepts specify properties that members of a class tend to possess, rather than must possess. Wittgenstein, Rosch, Mervis, Berlin, Anglin, and Posner are a few of the key proponents and creators of this theory. Wittgenstein describes the relationship between members of a class as \"family resemblances\". There are not necessarily any necessary conditions for membership, a dog can still be a dog with only three legs. This view is particularly supported by psychological experimental evidence for prototypicality effects. Participants willingly and consistently rate objects in categories like 'vegetable' or 'furniture' as more or less typical of that class. It seems that our categories are fuzzy psychologically, and so this structure has explanatory power. We can judge an item's membership to the referent class of a concept by comparing it to the typical member – the most central member of the concept. If it is similar enough in the relevant ways, it will be cognitively admitted as a member of the relevant class of entities. Rosch suggests that every category is represented by a central exemplar which embodies all or the maximum possible number of features of a given category. According to Lech, Gunturkun, and Suchan explain that categorization involves many areas of the brain, some of these are; visual association areas, prefrontal cortex, basal ganglia, and temporal lobe.\n\nTheory-theory is a reaction to the previous two theories and develops them further. This theory postulates that categorization by concepts is something like scientific theorizing. Concepts are not learned in isolation, but rather are learned as a part of our experiences with the world around us. In this sense, concepts' structure relies on their relationships to other concepts as mandated by a particular mental theory about the state of the world. How this is supposed to work is a little less clear than in the previous two theories, but is still a prominent and notable theory. This is supposed to explain some of the issues of ignorance and error that come up in prototype and classical theories as concepts that are structured around each other seem to account for errors such as whale as a fish (this misconception came from an incorrect theory about what a whale is like, combining with our theory of what a fish is). When we learn that a whale is not a fish, we are recognizing that whales don't in fact fit the theory we had about what makes something a fish. In this sense, the Theory–Theory of concepts is responding to some of the issues of prototype theory and classic theory.\n\nAccording to the theory of ideasthesia (or \"sensing concepts\"), activation of a concept may be the main mechanism responsible for creation of phenomenal experiences. Therefore, understanding how the brain processes concepts may be central to solving the mystery of how conscious experiences (or qualia) emerge within a physical system e.g., the sourness of the sour taste of lemon. This question is also known as the hard problem of consciousness. Research on ideasthesia emerged from research on synesthesia where it was noted that a synesthetic experience requires first an activation of a concept of the inducer. Later research expanded these results into everyday perception.\n\nThere is a lot of discussion on the most effective theory in concepts. Another theory is semantic pointers, which use perceptual and motor representations and these representations are like symbols.\n\nThe term \"concept\" is traced back to 1554–60 (Latin \"\" – \"something conceived\").\n\n"}
{"id": "276872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276872", "title": "Critical thinking", "text": "Critical thinking\n\nCritical thinking is the objective analysis of facts to form a judgment. The subject is complex, and several different definitions exist, which generally include the rational, skeptical, unbiased analysis, or evaluation of factual evidence. Critical thinking is self-directed, self-disciplined, self-monitored, and self-corrective thinking. It presupposed assent to rigorous standards of excellence and mindful command to their use. It entails effective communication and problem-solving abilities, as well as a commitment to overcome our native egocentrism and sociocentrism.\n\nThe earliest documentation of critical thinking are the teachings of Socrates recorded by Plato. Socrates established the fact that one cannot depend upon those in \"authority\" to have sound knowledge and insight. He demonstrated that persons may have power and high position and yet be deeply confused and irrational. He established the importance of asking deep questions that probe profoundly into thinking before we accept ideas as worthy of belief.\n\nHe established the importance of seeking evidence, closely examining reasoning and assumptions, analyzing basic concepts, and tracing out implications not only of what is said but of what is done as well. His method of questioning is now known as \"Socratic Questioning\" and is the best known critical thinking teaching strategy. In his mode of questioning, Socrates highlighted the need for thinking for clarity and logical consistency. Socrates asked people questions to reveal their irrational thinking or lack of reliable knowledge. Socrates demonstrated that having authority does not ensure accurate knowledge. He established the method of questioning beliefs, closely inspecting assumptions and relying on evidence and sound rationale. Plato recorded Socrates' teachings and carried on the tradition of critical thinking. Aristotle and subsequent Greek skeptics refined Socrates' teachings, using systematic thinking and asking questions to ascertain the true nature of reality beyond the way things appear from a glance.\n\nSocrates set the agenda for the tradition of critical thinking, namely, to reflectively question common beliefs and explanations, carefully distinguishing beliefs that are reasonable and logical from those that—however appealing to our native egocentrism, however much they serve our vested interests, however comfortable or comforting they may be—lack adequate evidence or rational foundation to warrant belief.\n\nCritical thinking was described by Richard W. Paul as a movement in two waves (1994). The \"first wave\" of critical thinking is often referred to as \na 'critical analysis' that is clear, rational thinking involving critique. Its details vary amongst those who define it. According to Barry K. Beyer (1995), critical thinking means making clear, reasoned judgments. During the process of critical thinking, ideas should be reasoned, well thought out, and judged. The U.S. National Council for Excellence in Critical Thinking defines critical thinking as the \"<nowiki>intellectually disciplined process of actively and skillfully conceptualizing, applying, analyzing, synthesizing, or evaluating information gathered from, or generated by, observation, experience, reflection, reasoning, or communication, as a guide to belief and action.</nowiki>\"\n\nIn the term critical thinking, the word \"critical\", (Grk. κριτικός = \"kritikos\" = \"critic\") derives from the word critic and implies a critique; it identifies the intellectual capacity and the means \"of judging\", \"of judgement\", \"for judging\", and of being \"able to discern\". The intellectual roots of critical thinking are as \"ancient\" as its etymology, traceable, ultimately, to the teaching practice and vision of Socrates 2,500 years ago who discovered by a method of probing questioning that people could not rationally justify their confident claims to knowledge.\n\nTraditionally, critical thinking has been variously defined as follows:\n\nContemporary critical thinking scholars have expanded these traditional definitions to include qualities, concepts, and processes such as creativity, imagination, discovery, reflection, empathy, connecting knowing, feminist theory, subjectivity, ambiguity, and inconclusiveness. Some definitions of critical thinking exclude these subjective practices.\n\nThe ability to reason logically is a fundamental skill of rational agents, hence the study of the form of correct argumentation is relevant to the study of critical thinking.\n\n\"First wave\" logical thinking consisted of understanding the connections between two concepts or points in thought. It followed a philosophy where the thinker was removed from the train of thought and the connections and the analysis of the connect was devoid of any bias of the thinker. Kerry Walters describes this ideology in his essay Beyond Logicism in Critical Thinking, \"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective. This model of thinking has become so entrenched in conventional academic wisdom that many educators accept it as canon\". The adoption of these principals parallels themselves with the increasing reliance on a quantitative understanding of the world.\n\nIn the ‘second wave’ of critical thinking, as defined by Kerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994, p. 1), many authors moved away from the logocentric mode of critical thinking that the ‘first wave’ privileged, especially in institutions of higher learning. Walters summarizes logicism as \"the unwarranted assumption that good thinking is reducible to logical thinking\".\n\n\"A logistic approach to critical thinking conveys the message to students that thinking is legitimate only when it conforms to the procedures of informal (and, to a lesser extent, formal) logic and that the good thinker necessarily aims for styles of examination and appraisal that are analytical, abstract, universal, and objective.\"\nAs the ‘second wave’ took hold, scholars began to take a more inclusive view of what constituted as critical thinking. Rationality and logic are still widely accepted in many circles as the primary examples of critical thinking.\n\nThere are three types of logical reasoning Informally, two kinds of logical reasoning can be distinguished in addition to formal deduction: induction and abduction.\n e.g., X is human and all humans have a face so X has a face.\n e.g., The sum of even integers is even.\n e.g., I observe sheep in a field, and they appear white from my viewing angle, so sheep are white.\nKerry S. Walters (Re-thinking Reason, 1994) argues that rationality demands more than just logical or traditional methods of problem solving and analysis or what he calls the \"calculus of justification\" but also considers \"cognitive acts such as imagination, conceptual creativity, intuition and insight\" (p. 63). These \"functions\" are focused on discovery, on more abstract processes instead of linear, rules-based approaches to problem-solving. The linear and non-sequential mind must both be engaged in the rational mind.\n\nThe ability to critically analyze an argument – to dissect structure and components, thesis and reasons – is essential. But so is the ability to be flexible and consider non-traditional alternatives and perspectives. These complementary functions are what allow for critical thinking to be a practice encompassing imagination and intuition in cooperation with traditional modes of deductive inquiry.\n\nThe list of core critical thinking skills includes observation, interpretation, analysis, inference, evaluation, explanation, and metacognition. According to Reynolds (2011), an individual or group engaged in a strong way of critical thinking gives due consideration to establish for instance:\n\nIn addition to possessing strong critical-thinking skills, one must be disposed to engage problems and decisions using those skills. Critical thinking employs not only logic but broad intellectual criteria such as clarity, credibility, accuracy, precision, relevance, depth, breadth, significance, and fairness.\n\nCritical thinking calls for the ability to:\n\nIn sum:\n\n\"A persistent effort to examine any belief or supposed form of knowledge in the light of the evidence that supports or refutes it and the further conclusions to which it tends.\"\n\nThe habits of mind that characterize a person strongly disposed toward critical thinking include a desire to follow reason and evidence wherever they may lead, a systematic approach to problem solving, inquisitiveness, even-handedness, and confidence in reasoning.\n\nAccording to a definition analysis by Kompf & Bond (2001), critical thinking involves problem solving, decision making, metacognition, rationality, rational thinking, reasoning, knowledge, intelligence and also a moral component such as reflective thinking. Critical thinkers therefore need to have reached a level of maturity in their development, possess a certain attitude as well as a set of taught skills.\n\nEdward M. Glaser proposed that the ability to think critically involves three elements:\n\nEducational programs aimed at developing critical thinking in children and adult learners, individually or in group problem solving and decision making contexts, continue to address these same three central elements.\n\nThe Critical Thinking project at Human Science Lab, London, is involved in scientific study of all major educational system in prevalence today to assess how the systems are working to promote or impede critical thinking.\n\nContemporary cognitive psychology regards human reasoning as a complex process that is both reactive and reflective.\n\nThe relationship between critical thinking skills and critical thinking dispositions is an empirical question. Some people have both in abundance, some have skills but not the disposition to use them, some are disposed but lack strong skills, and some have neither. A measure of critical thinking dispositions is the California Measure of Mental Motivation and the California Critical Thinking Dispositions Inventory. The CriTT is an alternative measure that examines student beliefs and attitudes about critical thinking\n\nJohn Dewey is one of many educational leaders who recognized that a curriculum aimed at building thinking skills would benefit the individual learner, the community, and the entire democracy.\n\nCritical thinking is significant in academics due to being significant in learning. Critical thinking is significant in the learning process of internalization, in the construction of basic ideas, principles, and theories inherent in content. And critical thinking is significant in the learning process of application, whereby those ideas, principles, and theories are implemented effectively as they become relevant in learners' lives.\n\nEach discipline adapts its use of critical thinking concepts and principles. The core concepts are always there, but they are embedded in subject-specific content. For students to learn content, intellectual engagement is crucial. All students must do their own thinking, their own construction of knowledge. Good teachers recognize this and therefore focus on the questions, readings, activities that stimulate the mind to take ownership of key concepts and principles underlying the subject.\n\nHistorically, teaching of critical thinking focused only on logical procedures such as formal and informal logic. This emphasized to students that good thinking is equivalent to logical thinking. However, a second wave of critical thinking, urges educators to value conventional techniques, meanwhile expanding what it means to be a critical thinker. In 1994, Kerry Walters compiled a conglomeration of sources surpassing this logical restriction to include many different authors’ research regarding connected knowing, empathy, gender-sensitive ideals, collaboration, world views, intellectual autonomy, morality and enlightenment. These concepts invite students to incorporate their own perspectives and experiences into their thinking.\n\nIn the English and Welsh school systems, \"Critical Thinking\" is offered as a subject that 16- to 18-year-olds can take as an A-Level. Under the OCR exam board, students can sit two exam papers for the AS: \"Credibility of Evidence\" and \"Assessing and Developing Argument\". The full Advanced GCE is now available: in addition to the two AS units, candidates sit the two papers \"Resolution of Dilemmas\" and \"Critical Reasoning\". The A-level tests candidates on their ability to think critically about, and analyze, arguments on their deductive or inductive validity, as well as producing their own arguments. It also tests their ability to analyze certain related topics such as credibility and ethical decision-making. However, due to its comparative lack of subject content, many universities do not accept it as a main A-level for admissions. Nevertheless, the AS is often useful in developing reasoning skills, and the full Advanced GCE is useful for degree courses in politics, philosophy, history or theology, providing the skills required for critical analysis that are useful, for example, in biblical study.\n\nThere used to also be an Advanced Extension Award offered in Critical Thinking in the UK, open to any A-level student regardless of whether they have the Critical Thinking A-level. Cambridge International Examinations have an A-level in Thinking Skills.\n\nFrom 2008, Assessment and Qualifications Alliance has also been offering an A-level Critical Thinking specification.\n\nOCR exam board have also modified theirs for 2008. Many examinations for university entrance set by universities, on top of A-level examinations, also include a critical thinking component, such as the LNAT, the UKCAT, the BioMedical Admissions Test and the Thinking Skills Assessment.\n\nIn Qatar, critical thinking was offered by AL-Bairaq—an outreach, non-traditional educational program that targets high school students and focuses on a curriculum based on STEM fields. The idea behind AL-Bairaq is to offer high school students the opportunity to connect with the research environment in the Center for Advanced Materials (CAM) at Qatar University. Faculty members train and mentor the students and help develop and enhance their critical thinking, problem-solving, and teamwork skills.\n\nIn 1995, a meta-analysis of the literature on teaching effectiveness in higher education was undertaken.\nThe study noted concerns from higher education, politicians, and business that higher education was failing to meet society's requirements for well-educated citizens. It concluded that although faculty may aspire to develop students' thinking skills, in practice they have tended to aim at facts and concepts utilizing lowest levels of cognition, rather than developing intellect or values.\n\nIn a more recent meta-analysis, researchers reviewed 341 quasi- or true-experimental studies, all of which used some form of standardized critical thinking measure to assess the outcome variable. The authors describe the various methodological approaches and attempt to categorize the differing assessment tools, which include standardized tests (and second-source measures), tests developed by teachers, tests developed by researchers, and tests developed by teachers who also serve the role as the researcher. The results emphasized the need for exposing students to real-world problems and the importance in encouraging open dialogue within a supportive environment. Effective strategies for teaching critical thinking are thought to be possible in a wide variety of educational settings. One attempt to assess the humanities' role in teaching critical thinking and reducing belief in pseudoscientific claims was made at North Carolina State University. Some success was noted and the researchers emphasized the value of the humanities in providing the skills to evaluate current events and qualitative data in context.\n\nScott Lilienfeld notes that there is some evidence to suggest that basic critical thinking skills might be successfully taught to children at a younger age than previously thought.\n\nCritical thinking is an important element of all professional fields and academic disciplines (by referencing their respective sets of permissible questions, evidence sources, criteria, etc.). Within the framework of scientific skepticism, the process of critical thinking involves the careful acquisition and interpretation of information and use of it to reach a well-justified conclusion. The concepts and principles of critical thinking can be applied to any context or case but only by reflecting upon the nature of that application. Critical thinking forms, therefore, a system of related, and overlapping, modes of thought such as anthropological thinking, sociological thinking, historical thinking, political thinking, psychological thinking, philosophical thinking, mathematical thinking, chemical thinking, biological thinking, ecological thinking, legal thinking, ethical thinking, musical thinking, thinking like a painter, sculptor, engineer, business person, etc. In other words, though critical thinking principles are universal, their application to disciplines requires a process of reflective contextualization.\n\nCritical thinking is considered important in the academic fields because it enables one to analyze, evaluate, explain, and restructure their thinking, thereby decreasing the risk of adopting, acting on, or thinking with, a false belief. However, even with knowledge of the methods of logical inquiry and reasoning, mistakes can happen due to a thinker's inability to apply the methods or because of character traits such as egocentrism. Critical thinking includes identification of prejudice, bias, propaganda, self-deception, distortion, misinformation, etc. Given research in cognitive psychology, some educators believe that schools should focus on teaching their students critical thinking skills and cultivation of intellectual traits.\n\nCritical thinking skills can be used to help nurses during the assessment process. Through the use of critical thinking, nurses can question, evaluate, and reconstruct the nursing care process by challenging the established theory and practice. Critical thinking skills can help nurses problem solve, reflect, and make a conclusive decision about the current situation they face. Critical thinking creates \"new possibilities for the development of the nursing knowledge.\" Due to the sociocultural, environmental, and political issues that are affecting healthcare delivery, it would be helpful to embody new techniques in nursing. Nurses can also engage their critical thinking skills through the Socratic method of dialogue and reflection. This practice standard is even part of some regulatory organizations such as the College of Nurses of Ontario – Professional Standards for Continuing Competencies (2006).\nIt requires nurses to engage in Reflective Practice and keep records of this continued professional development for possible review by the College.\n\nCritical thinking is also considered important for human rights education for toleration. The Declaration of Principles on Tolerance adopted by UNESCO in 1995 affirms that \"education for tolerance could aim at countering factors that lead to fear and exclusion of others, and could help young people to develop capacities for independent judgement, \"critical thinking\" and ethical reasoning.\"\n\nCritical thinking is used as a way of deciding whether a claim is true, partially true, or false. It is a tool by which one can come about reasoned conclusions based on a reasoned process.\n\nThe advent and rising popularity of online courses has prompted some to ask if computer-mediated communication (CMC) promotes, hinders, or has no effect on the amount and quality of critical thinking in a course (relative to face-to-face communication). There is some evidence to suggest a fourth, more nuanced possibility: that CMC may promote some aspects of critical thinking but hinder others. For example, Guiller et al. (2008) found that, relative to face-to-face discourse, online discourse featured more justifications, while face-to-face discourse featured more instances of students expanding on what others had said. The increase in justifications may be due to the asynchronous nature of online discussions, while the increase in expanding comments may be due to the spontaneity of ‘real time’ discussion. Newman et al. (1995) showed similar differential effects. They found that while CMC boasted more important statements and linking of ideas, it lacked novelty. The authors suggest that this may be due to difficulties participating in a brainstorming-style activity in an asynchronous environment. Rather, the asynchrony may promote users to put forth “considered, thought out contributions.”\n\nResearchers assessing critical thinking in online discussion forums often employ a technique called Content Analysis, where the text of online discourse (or the transcription of face-to-face discourse) is systematically coded for different kinds of statements relating to critical thinking. For example, a statement might be coded as “Discuss ambiguities to clear them up” or “Welcoming outside knowledge” as positive indicators of critical thinking. Conversely, statements reflecting poor critical thinking may be labeled as “Sticking to prejudice or assumptions” or “Squashing attempts to bring in outside knowledge.” The frequency of these codes in CMC and face-to-face discourse can be compared to draw conclusions about the quality of critical thinking.\n\nSearching for evidence of critical thinking in discourse has roots in a definition of critical thinking put forth by Kuhn (1991), which emphasizes the social nature of discussion and knowledge construction. There is limited research on the role of social experience in critical thinking development, but there is some evidence to suggest it is an important factor. For example, research has shown that 3- to 4-year-old children can discern, to some extent, the differential creditability and expertise of individuals. Further evidence for the impact of social experience on the development of critical thinking skills comes from work that found that 6- to 7-year-olds from China have similar levels of skepticism to 10- and 11-year-olds in the United States. If the development of critical thinking skills was solely due to maturation, it is unlikely we would see such dramatic differences across cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "56121990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56121990", "title": "Dualism (cybernetics)", "text": "Dualism (cybernetics)\n\nDualism in cybernetics refers to systems or problems in which one or more intelligent adversaries attempt to exploit the weaknesses of the investigator. Examples could include a game-playing opponent, adversarial law, evolutionary systems of predator/parasite and prey/host, or politics/enslavement attempts. Norbert Wiener, the founder of cybernetics, contrasted \"Manichean devils\" (dualistic adversarial systems) with \"Augustinian devils\"—systems or problems that, though very complex and difficult to figure out, did not feature an adversary with contrary intent.\n\nVictories or \"expansions of knowledge\" in the latter type of system were able to be built upon incrementally, through science (experimentation expanding empirical knowledge bases). Wiener noted that temporary weaknesses (such as errors to perceive all components of a system) were not fatal in attempts to defeat \"Augustinian devils\" because another experiment could simply be pursued (and he noted that he had personally defeated many \"Augustinian devils\" with his contributions to science and engineering). By contrast, Wiener observed that temporary lapses in judgment against \"Manichean devils\" were more often fatal or destructive, due to the desire of the opponent to \"win/survive at all costs\", even by introducing deception into the system. He said that he had been defeated by many \"Manichean devils\", such as on occasions when he was temporarily careless in chess.\n\nAlthough this duality between complexity (in the case of the Augustinian devils) and opposition (in the case of Manichean devils) may seem obvious, it holds deep implications for many areas of science, such as game theory, political science, computer science, network science, security science, military science, evolutionary biology, and cryptography.\n"}
{"id": "56221881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56221881", "title": "Fides quaerens intellectum", "text": "Fides quaerens intellectum\n\nFides quaerens intellectum means \"faith seeking understanding\" or \"faith seeking intelligence\". It is the theological method stressed by Augustine (354–430) and Anselm of Canterbury ( – 1109) in which one begins with belief in faith and on the basis of that faith moves on to further understanding of Christian truth. \nAnselm uses this expression for the first time in his Proslogion (II–IV). It articulates the close relationship between faith and human reason. This is the key to Anselm's theological thought and philosophical thinking. He would understand all things in faith. It means to understand intellectually what we already believe. Chronologically, faith precedes understanding, like when small children first trust their parents and believe what they state, and just later on, when they grow up, they want to examine and understand the reality by themselves. But, logically, intellect precedes faith, because we trust other people, at least in principle, only provisionally, but our aim is a direct personal knowledge. In the words of Anselm of Canterbury : \"Neque enim quaero intelligere ut credam, sed credo ut intelligam\" (\"I do not seek to understand in order that I may believe, but rather, I believe in order that I may understand\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52794051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52794051", "title": "Novasophy", "text": "Novasophy\n\nNovasophy (from 19th century Latin, feminine of \"novus\" ‘new’ and Greek φιλοσοφία, \"philosophia\", \"love of wisdom\") Knowledge of the nature of new wisdom\n"}
{"id": "24390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24390", "title": "Paradox", "text": "Paradox\n\nA paradox is a statement that, despite apparently valid reasoning from true premises, leads to an apparently-self-contradictory or logically unacceptable conclusion. A paradox involves contradictory-yet-interrelated elements that exist simultaneously and persist over time.\n\nSome logical paradoxes are known to be invalid arguments but are still valuable in promoting critical thinking.\n\nSome paradoxes have revealed errors in definitions assumed to be rigorous, and have caused axioms of mathematics and logic to be re-examined. One example is Russell's paradox, which questions whether a \"list of all lists that do not contain themselves\" would include itself, and showed that attempts to found set theory on the identification of sets with properties or predicates were flawed. Others, such as Curry's paradox, are not yet resolved.\n\nExamples outside logic include the ship of Theseus from philosophy (questioning whether a ship repaired over time by replacing each and all of its wooden parts, one at a time, would remain the same ship). Paradoxes can also take the form of images or other media. For example, M.C. Escher featured perspective-based paradoxes in many of his drawings, with walls that are regarded as floors from other points of view, and staircases that appear to climb endlessly.\n\nIn common usage, the word \"paradox\" often refers to statements that may be both true and false i.e. ironic or unexpected, such as \"the paradox that standing is more tiring than walking\".\n\nCommon themes in paradoxes include self-reference, infinite regress, circular definitions, and confusion between different levels of abstraction.\n\nPatrick Hughes outlines three laws of the paradox:\n\nOther paradoxes involve false statements (\"'impossible' is not a word in my vocabulary\", a simple paradox) or half-truths and the resulting biased assumptions. This form is common in howlers.\n\nFor example, consider a situation in which a father and his son are driving down the road. The car crashes into a tree and the father is killed. The boy is rushed to the nearest hospital where he is prepared for emergency surgery. Upon entering the surgery-suite, the surgeon says, \"I can't operate on this boy. He's my son.\"\n\nThe apparent paradox is caused by a hasty generalization, for if the surgeon is the boy's father, the statement cannot be true. The paradox is resolved if it is revealed that the surgeon is a woman — the boy's mother.\n\nParadoxes which are not based on a hidden error generally occur at the fringes of context or language, and require extending the context or language in order to lose their paradoxical quality. Paradoxes that arise from apparently intelligible uses of language are often of interest to logicians and philosophers. \"This sentence is false\" is an example of the well-known liar paradox: it is a sentence which cannot be consistently interpreted as either true or false, because if it is known to be false, then it is known that it must be true, and if it is known to be true, then it is known that it must be false. Russell's paradox, which shows that the notion of \"the set of all those sets that do not contain themselves\" leads to a contradiction, was instrumental in the development of modern logic and set theory.\n\nThought-experiments can also yield interesting paradoxes. The grandfather paradox, for example, would arise if a time-traveler were to kill his own grandfather before his mother or father had been conceived, thereby preventing his own birth. This is a specific example of the more general observation of the butterfly effect, or that a time-traveller's interaction with the past — however slight — would entail making changes that would, in turn, change the future in which the time-travel was yet to occur, and would thus change the circumstances of the time-travel itself.\n\nOften a seemingly paradoxical conclusion arises from an inconsistent or inherently contradictory definition of the initial premise. In the case of that apparent paradox of a time-traveler killing his own grandfather, it is the inconsistency of defining the past to which he returns as being somehow different from the one which leads up to the future from which he begins his trip, but also insisting that he must have come to that past from the same future as the one that it leads up to.\n\nW. V. Quine (1962) distinguished between three classes of paradoxes:\n\nA fourth kind has sometimes been described since Quine's work.\n\nA taste for paradox is central to the philosophies of Laozi, Zhuangzi, Heraclitus, Bhartrhari, Meister Eckhart, Hegel, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, and G.K. Chesterton, among many others. Søren Kierkegaard, for example, writes in the \"Philosophical Fragments\" that\nBut one must not think ill of the paradox, for the paradox is the passion of thought, and the thinker without the paradox is like the lover without passion: a mediocre fellow. But the ultimate potentiation of every passion is always to will its own downfall, and so it is also the ultimate passion of the understanding to will the collision, although in one way or another the collision must become its downfall. This, then, is the ultimate paradox of thought: to want to discover something that thought itself cannot think.\n\nA paradoxical reaction to a drug is the opposite of what one would expect, such as becoming agitated by a sedative or sedated by a stimulant. Some are common and are used regularly in medicine, such as the use of stimulants such as Adderall and Ritalin in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (also known as ADHD) while others are rare and can be dangerous as they are not expected, such as severe agitation from a benzodiazepine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55234353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55234353", "title": "Philosophical ethology", "text": "Philosophical ethology\n\nPhilosophical ethology is a rather young multidisciplinary research field gathering natural sciences, social science, human studies and dedicates to the issue of animal subjectivity. It is about an ontological concept needing a philosophical place other than a descriptive issue, just as it was in the 19th century.\n\nPhilosophical ethology develops from the thought of continental philosophers, which researches involve ethology, philosophy and anthropology. Those authors had taken up the challenges coming from biology, phenomenology, critical theory, the Animal Studies and post-human philosophy. These are all disciplines dealing, each in its own way, with non-human animals and the interactions among living beings, in order to propose a new paradigm able to go beyond the tricks of the anthropocentrism, still alive and kicking underneath the traditional theories.\n\nThe mean critics by those authors is the Cartesian heiress of automata: whereas the classical ethology and behaviourism have described how the animal machine would work and which were the mechanisms regulating processes, nevertheless these authors did not challenge the mean idea, that is an animal is not a machine. Hence the need to elaborate a new multidisciplinary approach able to interpret the animal subjectivity ontologically speaking, and the different ontology correlated issues, such as the cultural dimensions, symbolicity and materiality in non-human animals and their intra and interspecific relationship.\n\nThree recent issues of magazine \"Angelaki. Journal of the Theoretical Humanities\" have explored the thought of three scholars considered among the most influential voices in the field of philosophical ethology by di editors of the magazine, Brett Buchanan, Jeffrey Bussolini and Matthew Chrulew: the three authos are Vinciane Despret, Dominique Lestel and Roberto Marchesini.\n\nBelgian philosopher and professo at the university of liege, Vinciane Despret has written many essays and articles about the history of ethology, psicology and human-animal relationship. All along her career, Despert has worked together with few authors from different disciplines (ethology, arts, literature) and with many non-human animals (elephants, mice, rats, monkeys). These encounters allowed her to build a unique research path.\n\nIn Despret’s writings, what is peculiar is the methodological approach and her anecdotal and idiosyncratic style: the author chooses to tell stories about animals (or, better, stories of relationship among animals, humans included) rather than to write about animals.\nFocal point to the authors is \"making the right questions\" to non-human animals. This means that animals are not texts to hermeneutically interpret, not object to quest via scientific experiments, but they are subjects able to provide their own answers to the questions interesting to them.\n\nWithin philosophical ethology, Despret has stressed the repetitivity of any interspecific dialogue: non-human animals are being transformed by the encounter with the human beings, and, in the same way, human beings result transformed by the dialogue with the non-human. Despret’s stories are full of examples got by researchers, farmers, trainers – along with likewise important autobiographical reports – proving the enrichment coming from the encounter with the non-human animals.\n\nA French philosopher and ethologist, Lestel is \"Maître de conférences\" at École Normale Supérieure of Paris and director of a research team about eco-anthropology and etnonlogy at the Muséum national d’histoire naturelle.\n\nHis credit is stressing how a cultural phenomenon is not a human peculiarity. To Lestel, it necessary to see at anthropo-poiesis with an evolutionary and pluralist lens and at culture as a domain no longer apart from nature. It is necessary to become aware that we live in a multi-species society where each species produces their own kind of culture. This proximity of space and time among beings from different species allows the emergence of few sincere friendship and relationship, that have a historical, ethical and political importance, to Lestel.\n\nIn 2016, during the International days of study GIS about human-animal held in Bologna, Lestel has rolled out his zoo-futurism, a philosophical artistic trend aiming to \"re-animalise\" the human being.\n\nAn Italian philosopher, ethologist and zooanthopologist, Marchesini is director of Siua (School of Human-Animal interaction), of Study Centre of post-human philosophy and professor at few Italian universities. For over 20 years, he is leading a multidisciplinary project research about Zooanthropology, posts-human philosophy and bioethics to demonstrate that non-human animals have a referent role during the identity structuring (anthropo-poiesis) and the philosophical consequences coming from this kind of relationship.\n\nMain concepts in Marchesini’s thought are Zootropy and animal epiphany. With the term zootropy, Marchesini underlines the natural human tendency to turn to non-humans, like a kind of \"biophilia\" rooted in our species that see in ethero-specifics some social counterparts able to contribute to anthropo-poiesis processes.\n\nOn the other side, with the concept of \"animal epiphany\", Marchesini points out the characteristic of enunciation and revelation coming from humans-non humans relationship. Animal diversity let human being imagine new existential paths – in the flight of a bird, human being cannot see just the phenomenon per se, but perceive a new dimension of the thinking \"it is possible to fly\" – and experiment an hybridational tension leading to identity slidings.\n\nWith the essay \"Philosophical ethology\", Marchesini focus on subjectivity. To him, subjectivity is foundation to conscience, not the opposite. Animals get constantly engaged from the external world through new occurrences asking for creativity and initiative not explicable with any automatism. From this point of view, to Marchesini, desire connects animals and the world, desire make them acting in their present.\n"}
{"id": "13692155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13692155", "title": "Philosophy", "text": "Philosophy\n\nPhilosophy (from Greek , \"philosophia\", literally \"love of wisdom\") is the study of general and fundamental problems concerning matters such as existence, knowledge, values, reason, mind, and language. The term was probably coined by Pythagoras (c. 570–495 BCE). Philosophical methods include questioning, critical discussion, rational argument, and systematic presentation. Classic philosophical questions include: Is it possible to know anything and to prove it? What is most real? Philosophers also pose more practical and concrete questions such as: Is there a best way to live? Is it better to be just or unjust (if one can get away with it)? Do humans have free will?\n\nHistorically, \"philosophy\" encompassed any body of knowledge. From the time of Ancient Greek philosopher Aristotle to the 19th century, \"natural philosophy\" encompassed astronomy, medicine, and physics. For example, Newton's 1687 \"Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy\" later became classified as a book of physics. In the 19th century, the growth of modern research universities led academic philosophy and other disciplines to professionalize and specialize. In the modern era, some investigations that were traditionally part of philosophy became separate academic disciplines, including psychology, sociology, linguistics, and economics.\n\nOther investigations closely related to art, science, politics, or other pursuits remained part of philosophy. For example, is beauty objective or subjective? Are there many scientific methods or just one? Is political utopia a hopeful dream or hopeless fantasy? Major sub-fields of academic philosophy include metaphysics (\"concerned with the fundamental nature of reality and being\"), epistemology (about the \"nature and grounds of knowledge [and]...its limits and validity\" ), ethics, aesthetics, political philosophy, logic and philosophy of science.\n\nSince the 20th century, professional philosophers contribute to society primarily as academics. However, many of those who study philosophy in undergraduate or graduate programs contribute in the fields of law, journalism, politics, religion, science, business and various art and entertainment activities.\n\nTraditionally, the term \"philosophy\" referred to any body of knowledge. In this sense, philosophy is closely related to religion, mathematics, natural science, education and politics. Newton's 1687 \"Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy\" is classified in the 2000s as a book of physics; he used the term \"natural philosophy\" because it used to encompass disciplines that later became associated with sciences such as astronomy, medicine and physics.\n\nIn the first part of the first book of his \"Academics\", Cicero introduced the division of philosophy into logic, physics, and ethics; in section thirteen of the first book of his \"Lives and Opinions of the Eminent Philosophers\", the 3rd-century Diogenes Laërtius, the first historian of philosophy, established the traditional division of philosophical inquiry into three parts: \n\nThis division is not obsolete but has changed. Natural philosophy has split into the various natural sciences, especially astronomy, physics, chemistry, biology, and cosmology. Moral philosophy has birthed the social sciences, but still includes value theory (including aesthetics, ethics, political philosophy, etc.). Metaphysical philosophy has birthed formal sciences such as logic, mathematics and philosophy of science, but still includes epistemology, cosmology and others.\n\nMany philosophical debates that began in ancient times are still debated today. Colin McGinn and others claim that no philosophical progress has occurred during that interval. Chalmers and others, by contrast, see progress in philosophy similar to that in science, while Talbot Brewer argued that \"progress\" is the wrong standard by which to judge philosophical activity.\n\nIn one general sense, philosophy is associated with wisdom, intellectual culture and a search for knowledge. In that sense, all cultures and literate societies ask philosophical questions such as \"how are we to live\" and \"what is the nature of reality\". A broad and impartial conception of philosophy then, finds a reasoned inquiry into such matters as reality, morality and life in all world civilizations.\n\nWestern philosophy is the philosophical tradition of the Western world and dates to Pre-Socratic thinkers who were active in Ancient Greece in the 6th century BCE such as Thales (c. 624–546 BCE) and Pythagoras (c. 570–495 BCE) who practiced a \"love of wisdom\" (\"philosophia\") and were also termed \"physiologoi\" (students of \"physis\", or nature). Socrates was a very influential philosopher, who insisted that he possessed no \"wisdom\" but was a \"pursuer of\" wisdom. Western philosophy can be divided into three eras: Ancient (Greco-Roman), Medieval philosophy (Christian European), and Modern philosophy.\n\nThe Ancient era was dominated by Greek philosophical schools which arose out of the various pupils of Socrates, such as Plato, who founded the Platonic Academy and his student Aristotle, founding the Peripatetic school, who were both extremely influential in Western tradition. Other traditions include Cynicism, Stoicism, Greek Skepticism and Epicureanism. Important topics covered by the Greeks included metaphysics (with competing theories such as atomism and monism), cosmology, the nature of the well-lived life (eudaimonia), the possibility of knowledge and the nature of reason (logos). With the rise of the Roman empire, Greek philosophy was also increasingly discussed in Latin by Romans such as Cicero and Seneca.\n\nMedieval philosophy (5th – 16th century) is the period following the fall of the Western Roman Empire and was dominated by the rise of Christianity and hence reflects Judeo-Christian theological concerns as well as retaining a continuity with Greco-Roman thought. Problems such as the existence and nature of God, the nature of faith and reason, metaphysics, the problem of evil were discussed in this period. Some key Medieval thinkers include St. Augustine, Thomas Aquinas, Boethius, Anselm and Roger Bacon. Philosophy for these thinkers was viewed as an aid to Theology (\"ancilla theologiae\") and hence they sought to align their philosophy with their interpretation of sacred scripture. This period saw the development of Scholasticism, a text critical method developed in medieval universities based on close reading and disputation on key texts. The Renaissance period saw increasing focus on classic Greco-Roman thought and on a robust Humanism.\nEarly modern philosophy in the Western world begins with thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and René Descartes (1596–1650). Following the rise of natural science, Modern philosophy was concerned with developing a secular and rational foundation for knowledge and moved away from traditional structures of authority such as religion, scholastic thought and the Church. Major modern philosophers include Spinoza, Leibniz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, and Kant. 19th-century philosophy is influenced by the wider movement termed the Enlightenment, and includes figures such as Hegel a key figure in German idealism, Kierkegaard who developed the foundations for existentialism, Nietzsche a famed anti-Christian, J.S. Mill who promoted Utilitarianism, Karl Marx who developed the foundations for Communism and the American William James. The 20th century saw the split between Analytic philosophy and Continental philosophy, as well as philosophical trends such as Phenomenology, Existentialism, Logical Positivism, Pragmatism and the Linguistic turn.\n\nThe regions of the fertile Crescent, Iran and Arabia are home to the earliest known philosophical Wisdom literature and is today mostly dominated by Islamic culture. Early wisdom literature from the fertile crescent was a genre which sought to instruct people on ethical action, practical living and virtue through stories and proverbs. In Ancient Egypt, these texts were known as sebayt ('teachings') and they are central to our understandings of Ancient Egyptian philosophy. Babylonian astronomy also included much philosophical speculations about cosmology which may have influenced the Ancient Greeks. Jewish philosophy and Christian philosophy are religio-philosophical traditions that developed both in the Middle East and in Europe, which both share certain early Judaic texts (mainly the Tanakh) and monotheistic beliefs. Jewish thinkers such as the Geonim of the Talmudic Academies in Babylonia and Maimonides engaged with Greek and Islamic philosophy. Later Jewish philosophy came under strong Western intellectual influences and includes the works of Moses Mendelssohn who ushered in the Haskalah (the Jewish Enlightenment), Jewish existentialism and Reform Judaism.\n\nPre-Islamic Iranian philosophy begins with the work of Zoroaster, one of the first promoters of monotheism and of the dualism between good and evil. This dualistic cosmogony influenced later Iranian developments such as Manichaeism, Mazdakism, and Zurvanism.\n\nAfter the Muslim conquests, Early Islamic philosophy developed the Greek philosophical traditions in new innovative directions. This Islamic Golden Age influenced European intellectual developments. The two main currents of early Islamic thought are Kalam which focuses on Islamic theology and Falsafa which was based on Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism. The work of Aristotle was very influential among the falsafa such as al-Kindi (9th century), Avicenna (980 – June 1037) and Averroes (12th century). Others such as Al-Ghazali were highly critical of the methods of the Aristotelian falsafa. Islamic thinkers also developed a scientific method, experimental medicine, a theory of optics and a legal philosophy. Ibn Khaldun was an influential thinker in philosophy of history.\n\nIn Iran several schools of Islamic philosophy continued to flourish after the Golden Age and include currents such as Illuminationist philosophy, Sufi philosophy, and Transcendent theosophy. The 19th- and 20th-century Arab world saw the Nahda (awakening or renaissance) movement which influenced contemporary Islamic philosophy.\n\nIndian philosophy (; 'world views', 'teachings') refers to the diverse philosophical traditions that emerged since the ancient times on the Indian subcontinent. Jainism and Buddhism originated at the end of the Vedic period, while Hinduism emerged as a fusion of diverse traditons, starting after the end of the Vedic period.\n\nHindus generally classify these traditions as either orthodox or heterodox – āstika or nāstika – depending on whether they accept the authority of the Vedas and the theories of Brahman and Atman (soul, self) therein. The orthodox schools include the Hindu traditions of thought, while the heterodox schools include the Buddhist and the Jain traditions. Other schools include the Ajñana, Ajivika and Cārvāka which became extinct over their history. \n\nImportant Indian philosophical concepts shared by the Indian philosophies include dharma, karma, artha, kama, dukkha (suffering), anitya (anicca, impermanence), dhyana (jhana, meditation), renunciation (with or without monasticism or asceticism), various samsara with cycles of rebirth, moksha (nirvana, kaivalya, liberation from rebirth), and virtues such as ahimsa.\n\nJain philosophy accepts the concept of a permanent soul (jiva) as one of the five \"astikayas\", or eternal infinite categories that make up the substance of existence. The other four being \"dharma\", \"adharma\", \"akasha\" (space) and \"pudgala\" (matter). The Jain thought separates matter from the soul completely. It has two major subtraditions: Digambara (sky dressed, naked) and Svetambara (white dressed), along with several more minor traditions such as Terapanthis. Asceticism is a major monastic virtue in Jainism. Jain texts such as the \"Tattvartha Sutra\" state that right faith, right knowledge and right conduct is the path to liberation. It has two major subtraditions: Digambara and Svetambara, along with several more minor traditions such as Terapanthis. The Jain thought holds that all existence is cyclic, eternal and uncreated. The \"Tattvartha Sutra\" is the earliest known, most comprehensive and authoritative compilation of Jain philosophy.\n\nBuddhist philosophy begins with the thought of Gautama Buddha (fl. between sixth and fourth centuries BCE) and is preserved in the early Buddhist texts. It originated in India and later spread to East Asia, Tibet, Central Asia, and Southeast Asia, developing syncretic traditions in these regions. The Buddhist philosophy is traditionally classified into four schools, states Karl Potter – the editor of \"The Encyclopedia of Indian Philosophies\". These are the Vaibhasika, Sautrantika, Yogacara (or Vijnanavada), and Madhyamika schools. They contributed to the two major surviving traditions of Buddhism, the Mahayana and the Theravada.\n\nThe Mahayana form of Buddhist thought is the dominant philosophical tradition in East Asian regions such as China, Korea and Japan. The Theravada form is dominant in Southeast Asian countries such as Sri Lanka, Burma and Thailand. Buddhist philosophy incorporates epistemology, metaphysics, ethics and psychology to end rebirth and associated dukkha. Key innovative concepts include the Four Noble Truths, Anatta (not-self), Anicca (impermanence).\n\nLater Buddhist philosophical traditions developed complex phenomenological psychologies termed 'Abhidharma'. Mahayana philosophers such as Nagarjuna and Vasubandhu developed the theories of Shunyata (emptiness of all phenomena) and Vijnapti-matra (appearance only), a form of phenomenology or transcendental idealism. The Dignāga school of Pramāṇa promoted a complex form of epistemology and Buddhist logic. After the disappearance of Buddhism from India, these philosophical traditions continued to develop in the Tibetan Buddhist, East Asian Buddhist and Theravada Buddhist traditions.\n\nThe Vedas-based orthodox schools are a part of the Hinduism traditions and they are traditionally classified into six \"darsanas\": Nyaya, Vaisheshika, Samkhya, Yoga, Mīmāṃsā and Vedanta. The Vedas as a knowledge source were interpreted differently by these six schools of Hindu philosophy, with varying degrees of overlap. They represent a \"collection of philosophical views that share a textual connection\", according to Chadha. They also reflect a tolerance for a diversity of philosophical interpretations within Hinduism while sharing the same foundation.\n\nSome of the earliest surviving Hindu mystical and philosophical texts are the Upanishads of the later Vedic period (1000–500 BCE). Hindu philosophers of the six schools developed systems of epistemology (pramana) and investigated topics such as metaphysics, ethics, psychology (\"guna\"), hermeneutics and soteriology within the framework of the Vedic knowledge, while presenting a diverse collection of interpretations. These schools of philosophy accepted the Vedas and the Vedic concept of \"Atman\" and \"Brahman\", differed from the following Indian religions that rejected the authority of the Vedas:\n\nThe commonly named six orthodox schools over time led to what has been called the \"Hindu synthesis\" as exempliied by its scripture the \"Bhagavad Gita\".\n\nEast Asian philosophical thought began in Ancient China, and Chinese philosophy begins during the Western Zhou Dynasty and the following periods after its fall when the \"Hundred Schools of Thought\" flourished (6th century to 221 BCE). This period was characterized by significant intellectual and cultural developments and saw the rise of the major philosophical schools of China, Confucianism, Legalism, and Daoism as well as numerous other less influential schools. These philosophical traditions developed metaphysical, political and ethical theories such Tao, Yin and yang, Ren and Li which, along with Chinese Buddhism, directly influenced Korean philosophy, Vietnamese philosophy and Japanese philosophy (which also includes the native Shinto tradition). Buddhism began arriving in China during the Han Dynasty (206 BCE–220 CE), through a gradual Silk road transmission and through native influences developed distinct Chinese forms (such as Chan/Zen) which spread throughout the East Asian cultural sphere. During later Chinese dynasties like the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) as well as in the Korean Joseon dynasty (1392–1897) a resurgent Neo-Confucianism led by thinkers such as Wang Yangming (1472–1529) became the dominant school of thought, and was promoted by the imperial state.\n\nIn the Modern era, Chinese thinkers incorporated ideas from Western philosophy. Chinese Marxist philosophy developed under the influence of Mao Zedong, while a Chinese pragmatism under Hu Shih and New Confucianism's rise was influenced by Xiong Shili. Modern Japanese thought meanwhile developed under strong Western influences such as the study of Western Sciences (Rangaku) and the modernist Meirokusha intellectual society which drew from European enlightenment thought. The 20th century saw the rise of State Shinto and also Japanese nationalism. The Kyoto School, an influential and unique Japanese philosophical school developed from Western phenomenology and Medieval Japanese Buddhist philosophy such as that of Dogen.\n\nAfrican philosophy is philosophy produced by African people, philosophy that presents African worldviews, ideas and themes, or philosophy that uses distinct African philosophical methods. Modern African thought has been occupied with Ethnophilosophy, with defining the very meaning of African philosophy and its unique characteristics and what it means to be African. During the 17th century, Ethiopian philosophy developed a robust literary tradition as exemplified by Zera Yacob. Another early African philosopher was Anton Wilhelm Amo (c. 1703–1759) who became a respected philosopher in Germany. Distinct African philosophical ideas include Ujamaa, the Bantu idea of 'Force', Négritude, Pan-Africanism and Ubuntu. Contemporary African thought has also seen the development of Professional philosophy and of Africana philosophy, the philosophical literature of the African diaspora which includes currents such as black existentialism by African-Americans. Modern African thinkers have been influenced by Marxism, African-American literature, Critical theory, Critical race theory, Postcolonialism and Feminism.\n\nIndigenous American philosophy is the philosophy of the Indigenous people of the Americas. There is a wide variety of beliefs and traditions among these different American cultures. Among some of the Native Americans in the United States there is a belief in a metaphysical principle called the \"Great Mystery\" (Siouan: Wakan Tanka, Algonquian: Gitche Manitou). Another widely shared concept was that of Orenda or \"spiritual power\". According to Peter M. Whiteley, for the Native Americans, \"Mind is critically informed by transcendental experience (dreams, visions and so on) as well as by reason.\" The practices to access these transcendental experiences are termed Shamanism. Another feature of the indigenous American worldviews was their extension of ethics to non-human animals and plants.\n\nIn Mesoamerica, Aztec philosophy was an intellectual tradition developed by individuals called Tlamatini ('those who know something') and its ideas are preserved in various Aztec codices. The Aztec worldview posited the concept of an ultimate universal energy or force called Ometeotl which can be translated as \"Dual Cosmic Energy\" and sought a way to live in balance with a constantly changing, \"slippery\" world. The theory of Teotl can be seen as a form of Pantheism. Aztec philosophers developed theories of metaphysics, epistemology, values, and aesthetics. Aztec ethics was focused on seeking \"tlamatiliztli\" (knowledge, wisdom) which was based on moderation and balance in all actions as in the Nahua proverb \"the middle good is necessary\".\n\nThe Inca civilization also had an elite class of philosopher-scholars termed the Amawtakuna who were important in the Inca education system as teachers of religion, tradition, history and ethics. Key concepts of Andean thought are Yanantin and Masintin which involve a theory of “complementary opposites” that sees polarities (such as male/female, dark/light) as interdependent parts of a harmonious whole.\n\nPhilosophical questions can be grouped into categories. These groupings allow philosophers to focus on a set of similar topics and interact with other thinkers who are interested in the same questions. The groupings also make philosophy easier for students to approach. Students can learn the basic principles involved in one aspect of the field without being overwhelmed with the entire set of philosophical theories.\n\nVarious sources present different categorical schemes. The categories adopted in this article aim for breadth and simplicity.\n\nThese five major branches can be separated into sub-branches and each sub-branch contains many specific fields of study.\n\nThese divisions are neither exhaustive, nor mutually exclusive. (A philosopher might specialize in Kantian epistemology, or Platonic aesthetics, or modern political philosophy.) Furthermore, these philosophical inquiries sometimes overlap with each other and with other inquiries such as science, religion or mathematics.\n\nMetaphysics is the study of the most general features of reality, such as existence, time, objects and their properties, wholes and their parts, events, processes and causation and the relationship between mind and body. Metaphysics includes cosmology, the study of the world in its entirety and ontology, the study of being.\n\nA major point of debate is between realism, which holds that there are entities that exist independently of their mental perception and idealism, which holds that reality is mentally constructed or otherwise immaterial. Metaphysics deals with the topic of identity. Essence is the set of attributes that make an object what it fundamentally is and without which it loses its identity while accident is a property that the object has, without which the object can still retain its identity. Particulars are objects that are said to exist in space and time, as opposed to abstract objects, such as numbers, and universals, which are properties held by multiple particulars, such as redness or a gender. The type of existence, if any, of universals and abstract objects is an issue of debate.\n\nEpistemology is the study of knowledge (Greek episteme). Epistemologists study the putative sources of knowledge, including intuition, a priori reason, memory, perceptual knowledge, self-knowledge and testimony. They also ask: What is truth? Is knowledge justified true belief? Are any beliefs justified? Putative knowledge includes propositional knowledge (knowledge that something is the case), know-how (knowledge of how to do something) and acquaintance (familiarity with someone or something). Epistemologists examine these and ask whether knowledge is really possible.\n\nSkepticism is the position which doubts claims to knowledge. The regress argument, a fundamental problem in epistemology, occurs when, in order to completely prove any statement, its justification itself needs to be supported by another justification. This chain can go on forever, called infinitism, it can eventually rely on basic beliefs that are left unproven, called foundationalism, or it can go in a circle so that a statement is included in its own chain of justification, called coherentism.\n\nRationalism is the emphasis on reasoning as a source of knowledge. It is associated with a priori knowledge, which is independent of experience, such as math and logical deduction. Empiricism is the emphasis on observational evidence via sensory experience as the source of knowledge.\n\nAmong the numerous topics within metaphysics and epistemology, broadly construed are:\n\nValue theory (or axiology) is the major branch of philosophy that addresses topics such as goodness, beauty and justice. Value theory includes ethics, aesthetics, political philosophy, feminist philosophy, philosophy of law and more.\n\nEthics, or \"moral philosophy\", studies and considers what is good and bad conduct, right and wrong values, and good and evil. Its primary investigations include how to live a good life and identifying standards of morality. It also includes meta-investigations about whether a best way to live or related standards exists. The main branches of ethics are normative ethics, meta-ethics and applied ethics.\n\nA major area of debate involves consequentialism, in which actions are judged by the potential results of the act, such as to maximize happiness, called utilitarianism, and deontology, in which actions are judged by how they adhere to principles, irrespective of negative ends.\n\nAesthetics is the \"critical reflection on art, culture and nature.\" It addresses the nature of art, beauty and taste, enjoyment, emotional values, perception and with the creation and appreciation of beauty. It is more precisely defined as the study of sensory or sensori-emotional values, sometimes called judgments of sentiment and taste. Its major divisions are art theory, literary theory, film theory and music theory. An example from art theory is to discern the set of principles underlying the work of a particular artist or artistic movement such as the Cubist aesthetic. The philosophy of film analyzes films and filmmakers for their philosophical content and explores film (images, cinema, etc.) as a medium for philosophical reflection and expression.\n\nPolitical philosophy is the study of government and the relationship of individuals (or families and clans) to communities including the state. It includes questions about justice, law, property and the rights and obligations of the citizen. Politics and ethics are traditionally linked subjects, as both discuss the question of how people should live together.\n\nOther branches of value theory:\n\nMany academic disciplines generated philosophical inquiry. The relationship between \"X\" and the \"philosophy of X\" is debated. Richard Feynman argued that the philosophy of a topic is irrelevant to its primary study, saying that \"philosophy of science is as useful to scientists as ornithology is to birds.\" Curtis White, by contrast, argued that philosophical tools are essential to humanities, sciences and social sciences.\n\nThe topics of philosophy of science are numbers, symbols and the formal methods of reasoning as employed in the social sciences and natural sciences.\n\nLogic is the study of reasoning and argument. An argument is \"\"a\" \"connected series of statements intended to establish a proposition\".\" The connected series of statements are \"premises\" and the proposition is the conclusion. For example:\nDeductive reasoning is when, given certain premises, conclusions are unavoidably implied. Rules of inference are used to infer conclusions such as, modus ponens, where given “A” and “If A then B”, then “B” must be concluded.\n\nBecause sound reasoning is an essential element of all sciences, social sciences and humanities disciplines, logic became a formal science. Sub-fields include mathematical logic, philosophical logic, Modal logic, computational logic and non-classical logics. A major question in the philosophy of mathematics is whether mathematical entities are objective and discovered, called mathematical realism, or invented, called mathematical antirealism.\n\nThis branch explores the foundations, methods, history, implications and purpose of science. Many of its sub-divisions correspond to a specific branch of science. For example, philosophy of biology deals specifically with the metaphysical, epistemological and ethical issues in the biomedical and life sciences. The philosophy of mathematics studies the philosophical assumptions, foundations and implications of mathematics.\n\nSome philosophers specialize in one or more historical periods. The history of philosophy (study of a specific period, individual or school) is related to but not the same as the philosophy of history (the theoretical aspect of history, which deals with questions such as the nature of historical evidence and the possibility of objectivity).\n\nHegel's \"Lectures on the Philosophy of History\" influenced many philosophers to interpret truth in light of history, a view called historicism.\n\nPhilosophy of religion deals with questions that involve religion and religious ideas from a philosophically neutral perspective (as opposed to theology which begins from religious convinctions). Traditionally, religious questions were not seen as a separate field from philosophy proper, the idea of a separate field only arose in the 19th century.\n\nIssues include the existence of God, the relationship between reason and faith, questions of religious epistemology, the relationship between religion and science, how to interpret religious experiences, questions about the possibility of an afterlife, the problem of religious language and the existence of souls and responses to religious pluralism and diversity.\n\nSome philosophers specialize in one or more of the major philosophical schools, such as Continental philosophy, Analytical philosophy, Thomism, Asian philosophy or African philosophy.\n\nA variety of other academic and non-academic approaches have been explored.\n\nThe ideas conceived by a society have profound repercussions on what actions the society performs. Weaver argued that ideas have consequences. Philosophy yields applications such as those in ethics – applied ethics in particular – and political philosophy. The political and economic philosophies of Confucius, Sun Tzu, Chanakya, Ibn Khaldun, Ibn Rushd, Ibn Taymiyyah, Machiavelli, Leibniz, Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, Adam Smith, John Stuart Mill, Marx, Tolstoy, Gandhi and Martin Luther King Jr. have been used to shape and justify governments and their actions. Progressive education as championed by Dewey had a profound impact on 20th-century US educational practices. Descendants of this movement include efforts in philosophy for children, which are part of philosophy education. Clausewitz's political philosophy of war has had a profound effect on statecraft, international politics and military strategy in the 20th century, especially around World War II. Logic is important in mathematics, linguistics, psychology, computer science and computer engineering.\n\nOther important applications can be found in epistemology, which aid in understanding the requisites for knowledge, sound evidence and justified belief (important in law, economics, decision theory and a number of other disciplines). The philosophy of science discusses the underpinnings of the scientific method and has affected the nature of scientific investigation and argumentation. Philosophy thus has fundamental implications for science as a whole. For example, the strictly empirical approach of B.F. Skinner's behaviorism affected for decades the approach of the American psychological establishment. Deep ecology and animal rights examine the moral situation of humans as occupants of a world that has non-human occupants to consider also. Aesthetics can help to interpret discussions of music, literature, the plastic arts and the whole artistic dimension of life. In general, the various philosophies strive to provide practical activities with a deeper understanding of the theoretical or conceptual underpinnings of their fields.\n\nSome of those who study philosophy become professional philosophers, typically by working as professors who teach, research and write in academic institutions. However, most students of academic philosophy later contribute to law, journalism, religion, sciences, politics, business, or various arts. For example, public figures who have degrees in philosophy include comedians Steve Martin and Ricky Gervais, filmmaker Terrence Malick, Pope John Paul II, Wikipedia co-founder Larry Sanger, technology entrepreneur Peter Thiel, Supreme Court Justice Stephen Bryer and vice presidential candidate Carly Fiorina.\n\nRecent efforts to avail the general public to the work and relevance of philosophers include the million-dollar Berggruen Prize, first awarded to Charles Taylor in 2016.\n\nGermany was the first country to professionalize philosophy. The doctorate of philosophy (PhD) developed in Germany as the terminal Teacher's credential in the mid 17th century. At the end of 1817, Hegel was the first philosopher to be appointed Professor by the State, namely by the Prussian Minister of Education, as an effect of Napoleonic reform in Prussia. In the United States, the professionalisation grew out of reforms to the American higher-education system largely based on the German model.\nWithin the last century, philosophy has increasingly become a professional discipline practiced within universities, like other academic disciplines. Accordingly, it has become less general and more specialized. In the view of one prominent recent historian: \"Philosophy has become a highly organized discipline, done by specialists primarily for other specialists. The number of philosophers has exploded, the volume of publication has swelled, and the subfields of serious philosophical investigation have multiplied. Not only is the broad field of philosophy today far too vast to be embraced by one mind, something similar is true even of many highly specialized subfields.\" Some philosophers argue that this professionalization has negatively affected the discipline.\n\nThe end result of professionalization for philosophy has meant that work being done in the field is now almost exclusively done by university professors holding a doctorate in the field publishing in highly technical, peer-reviewed journals. While it remains common among the population at large for a person to have a set of religious, political or philosophical views that they consider their \"philosophy\", these views are rarely informed by or connected to the work being done in professional philosophy today. Furthermore, unlike many of the sciences for which there has come to be a healthy industry of books, magazines, and television shows meant to popularize science and communicate the technical results of a scientific field to the general populace, works by professional philosophers directed at an audience outside the profession remain rare. Philosopher Michael Sandel's book \"Justice: What's the Right Thing to Do?\" and Harry Frankfurt's \"On Bullshit\" are examples of works that hold the uncommon distinction of having been written by professional philosophers but directed at and ultimately popular among a broader audience of non-philosophers. Both works became \"'New York Times\" best sellers.\n\nMany inquiries outside of academia are philosophical in the broad sense. Novelists, playwrights, filmmakers, and musicians, as well as scientists and others engage in recognizably philosophical activity.\n\nAyn Rand is the foremost example of an intellectual working contemporaneously with contemporary philosophy but whose contributions were not made within the professional discipline of \"philosophy\": \"For all her [Ayn Rand's] popularity, however, only a few professional philosophers have taken her work seriously. As a result, most of the serious philosophical work on Rand has appeared in non-academic, non-peer-reviewed journals, or in books, and the bibliography reflects this fact.\"[15]\n\nAlso working from outside the profession were philosophers such as Gerd B. Achenbach (\"Die reine und die praktische Philosophie. Drei Vorträge zur philosophischen\" Praxis, 1983) and Michel Weber (see his \"Épreuve de la philosophie\", 2008) who have proposed since the 1980s various forms of philosophical counseling claiming to bring Socratic dialogues back to life in a quasi-psychotherapeutic framework.\n\nPierre Hadot is famous for his analysis on the conception of philosophy during Greco-Roman antiquity. Hadot identified and analyzed the \"spiritual exercises\" used in ancient philosophy (influencing Michel Foucault's interest in such practices in the second and third volumes of his History of Sexuality). By \"spiritual exercises\" Hadot means \"practices ... intended to effect a modification and a transformation in the subjects who practice them.[6] The philosophy teacher's discourse could be presented in such a way that the disciple, as auditor, reader, or interlocutor, could make spiritual progress and transform himself within.\"[7] Hadot shows that the key to understanding the original philosophical impulse is to be found in Socrates. What characterizes Socratic therapy above all is the importance given to living contact between human beings. Hadot's recurring theme is that philosophy in antiquity was characterized by a series of spiritual exercises intended to transform the perception, and therefore the being, of those who practice it; that philosophy is best pursued in real conversation and not through written texts and lectures; and that philosophy, as it is taught in universities today, is for the most part a distortion of its original, therapeutic impulse. He brings these concerns together in \"What Is Ancient Philosophy?\",[7] which has been critically reviewed.[8]\n\nAlthough men have generally dominated philosophical discourse, women have engaged in philosophy throughout history. Women philosophers have contributed since ancient times–notably Hipparchia of Maroneia (active c. 325 BCE) and Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th century BCE). More were accepted during the ancient, medieval and modern eras, but no women philosophers became part the Western canon until the 20th and 21st century, when some sources indicate that Susanne Langer, Hannah Arendt and Simone de Beauvoir entered the canon.\n\nIn the early 1800s, some colleges and universities in the UK and US began admitting women, producing more female academics. Nevertheless, U.S. Department of Education reports from the 1990s indicate that few women ended up in philosophy, and that philosophy is one of the least gender-proportionate fields in the humanities. In 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" described the philosophy \"...discipline's own long history of misogyny and sexual harassment\" of women students and professors. University of Sheffield philosophy professor Jennifer Saul stated in 2015 that women are \"...leaving philosophy after being harassed, assaulted, or retaliated against.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Canadian Philosophical Association noted a gender imbalance and gender bias in the academic field of philosophy. In June 2013, a US sociology professor stated that \"out of all recent citations in four prestigious philosophy journals, female authors comprise just 3.6 percent of the total.\" Susan Price argues that the philosophical \"...canon remains dominated by white males – the discipline that...still hews to the myth that genius is tied to gender.\" Morgan Thompson suggests that discrimination, differences in abilities, grade differences and the lack of role models in philosophy could be potential factors for the gender gap. According to Saul, \"[p]hilosophy, the oldest of the humanities, is also the malest (and the whitest). While other areas of the humanities are at or near gender parity, philosophy is actually more overwhelmingly male than even mathematics.\"\n\nIn 2000, the Open Court Publishing Company began publishing a series of books on philosophy and popular culture. Each book consists of essays written by philosophers for general readers. The books \"explore the meanings, concepts and puzzles within television shows, movies, music and other icons of popular culture\" analyzing topics such as the TV shows \"Seinfeld\" and \"The Simpsons\", \"The Matrix\" and \"Star Wars\" movies and related media and new technological developments such as the iPod and Facebook. Their most recent publication () is titled \"Louis C.K. and Philosophy\"; its subject is the comedian Louis C.K..\n\n\"The Matrix\" makes numerous references to philosophy including Buddhism, Vedanta, Advaita Hinduism, Christianity, Messianism, Judaism, Gnosticism, existentialism and nihilism. The film's premise resembles Plato's Allegory of the cave, Descartes's evil demon, Kant's reflections on the Phenomenon versus the Ding an sich, Zhuangzi's \"Zhuangzi dreamed he was a butterfly\", Marxist social theory and the brain in a vat thought experiment. Many references to Baudrillard's \"Simulacra and Simulation\" appear in the film, although Baudrillard himself considered this a misrepresentation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39681327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39681327", "title": "Philosophy of architecture", "text": "Philosophy of architecture\n\nPhilosophy of Architecture is a branch of philosophy of art, dealing with aesthetic value of architecture, its semantics and relations with development of culture.\n\nPlato, whose influence on architecture is widely documented (e.g., 'idealism', 'neo-Platonic' architecture), may be counted as part of a classical geometric model of cosmology, the popularity of which could be attributed to earlier thinkers such as Pythagoras. In early history, philosophers distinguished architecture ('technion') from building ('demiorgos'), attributing the former to mental traits, and the latter to the divine or natural. It was only with Socratic irony that the name craftsman could become representative of a religious deity. The presence of some degree of formalism ala Platonism continues to be an important trait in distinguishing one architectural style from another, and thus in distinguishing the philosophy of a style.\n\nDue to the nature of critique, the philosophy of architecture is an outgrowth of the philosophy of art, which began to be expressed in books on architecture and history of architecture during the latter half of the twentieth century. Prior to that, largely because of its reliance on technology and engineering, architecture was seen as incompatible, or beneath, the proper subject areas of classical aesthetics as delimited by, notably, Immanuel Kant and Alexander Gottlieb Baumgarten, with their ideal of \"pure art.\"\n\nAs it was noted by Michel Foucault, the architecture is able to set the life of society, and therefore it is particularly important for understanding of the person's values and culture. In \"Discipline and Punish\" Foucault analized contemporary culture through architecture project of principally new prison Panopticon. The point of this project by Jeremy Bentham was to create a special transparent environment for prisoners, where everyone would be under constant surveillance. Although the project was not realized, Bentham's thought deeply influenced ideology of prisons, changing social practices of punishment. Simultaneously with its main conclusions Foucault reached other goal - his instrumental use of architecture in cultural studies showed the potential of this philosophical theme.\n\nHowever, philosophy of architecture as a full-fledged part of the Philosophy of Art, would not have been possible without the Avant-garde`s shift of the aesthetic paradigm. Art, set in the conditions of mechanical reproduction of the image, was forced to look for new ways. Around the same time architectural styles of Constructivism and Functionalism find way to justify new, totally engineering aesthetics. Side of the architecture, which had been considered a shame (as a sign of its connection with the pragmatic needs of man and society), became a major advantage, central part of new system of aesthetic values. Cubism and Futurism set aesthetic, full of mechanized, slaughtered, brutal forms, what was very close to the same engineering ideal. All this created more than favorable environment to change status of architecture in our system of art, as well as our understanding of art by itself.\n\nArchitecture assumed much more significant role after establishing of the phenomenon of Postmodernism. According to R. Martin \"it remains surprising how many influential accounts of cultural postmodernism make reference to architecture.\"\nSome scholars go so far as to claim that the entire post-modernism comes from the practice of architecture, and the rejection of \"style of Modern\" as an architectural style, and by so architects terminologically formulated postmodernism. Thus, F. Jameson writes that \"it is in the realm of architecture, however, that modifications in aesthetic production are most dramatically visible, and that their theoretical problems have been most centrally raised and articulated (...) it was indeed from architectural debates that my own conception of post-modernism (...) initially began to emerge.\" As it was noted by researchers, \"Barthes and Eco, taking their cue from Russian Formalism, see norm breaking as the mark of the aesthetic (sc., the aesthetic code). Art is characteristically inventive in its capacity to have signs do duty as signifier of further meanings in a potentially endless play upon convention as well as within it or on its margin.\" So important to postmodern writers like R. Bart and U. Eco, saw architecture as a source of revolutionary innovations in art.\nF. Jameson believes that there is a special relationship between postmodernism and American architecture, in which the birth of a national architecture coincided, in his opinion, with the emergence of the terminology or even the reality of postmodernism. However, not all researchers agree with his post-modern \"architectural origins,\" so Andreas Huyssen, suggests that the conceptual frame of postmodernism has been defined within certain movements of literature. However, this researcher also notes the special role of architecture in the development of post-modernism. Martin describes, that \"Huyssen credits architecture with helping to disseminate the term postmodernism, originally from literature, into the expanded aesthetic sphere during the 1970s.\" Lyotard contends that postmodern architects have nothing in common with true Postmodernism and, as Lyotard states it in his article, \"Answering the Question: What Is Postmodernism?\": \"under the name of postmodernism, architects are getting rid of the Bauhaus project, throwing out the baby of experimentation with the bathwater of functionalism.\"\n\nA special figure for the philosophy of architecture can be considered the architect Robert Venturi, whose books may have played a no lesser role in the development of postmodernism, than his stylistic experiments in architecture. R. Venturi first lead attention of architects to pop-art. In his rejection of architectural modernism Venturi gave rise to the new cultural setting. By this Venturi showed a deep connection between civilization and architectural forms.\n\nThe Wittgenstein House is considered one of the most important examples of interactions between philosophy and architecture. Built by renowned Austrian philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein, the house has been the subject of extensive research about the relationship between its stylistic features, Wittgenstein's personality, and his philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1018141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018141", "title": "Philosophy of business", "text": "Philosophy of business\n\nThe philosophy of business considers the fundamental principles that underlie the formation and operation of a business enterprise; the nature and purpose of a business, and the moral obligations that pertain to it.\n\nPhilipp Blom summarises the development and impact of business-centric ideas in society prior to the global financial crisis of 2008:\n[...] Friedrich von Hayek and Ludwig von Mises [...] were Europeans who had passed their formative years in the chaotic interwar years and whose conclusion was that state intervention and planned economies were hallmarks of dictatorship [...]. They believed that it was healthier to take ideology out of politics and base the workings of society on the objective, nonideological laws of the free market. [...] The Enlightenment cult of reason and of the common good was replaced by the concepts of rationalization and the maximization of profits, which were applied to a reevaluation of social institutions - infrastructure, schools, universities, prisons, health care, and so on - according to business-driven criteria of profitability and cost-effectiveness. Especially in the United States but also increasingly in Europe, we began to run our societies as businesses. Beginning in the late 1970s and gaining speed in the 1980s, this gospel changed and polarized our societies - but it also provided an umbrella of meaning and necessity under which we could hide from challenges from without as well as doubts from within. For many in the West, the idea of the market became their ideological home. Living in accordance with its guiding providence and iron laws created a sense of stability, of virtue even. But 2008 shattered this collective piety and made millions understand that they had been lied to [...].\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935456", "title": "Philosophy of copyright", "text": "Philosophy of copyright\n\nThe philosophy of copyright considers philosophical issues linked to copyright policy, and other jurisprudential problems that arise in legal systems' interpretation and application of copyright law.\n\nOne debate concerns the purpose of copyright. Some take the approach of looking for coherent \"justifications\" of established copyright systems, while others start with general ethical theories, such as utilitarianism and try to analyse policy through that lens. Another approach denies the meaningfulness of any ethical justification for existing copyright law, viewing it simply as a result (and perhaps an undesirable result) of political processes.\n\nAnother widely debated issue is the relationship between copyrights and other forms of \"intellectual property\", and material property. Most scholars of copyright agree that it can be called a kind of property, because it involves the exclusion of others from something. But there is disagreement about the extent to which that fact should allow the transportation of other beliefs and intuitions about material possessions.\n\nThere are many other philosophical questions which arise in the jurisprudence of copyright. They include such problems as determining when one work is \"derived\" from another, or deciding when information has been placed in a \"tangible\" or \"material\" form.\n\nLegal scholars often approach copyright in search of a coherent ethical justification for its existence and character. This approach may seem to be backwards—it might make more sense to start with an objective and then examine the law against it—but it is widely practised. Thus, the normative or ethical theories that might naively be regarded as tests for copyright law to pass are often called \"justifications\" of it. Justifications for copyright can generally be approximated into two groups: deontological or consequentialist. Deontological justifications for copyright seek to justify copyright as a matter of rights or duty; they seek to assert a justification for copyright (or intellectual property more generally) on the basis that it is morally correct to do so. Contrariwise, consequentialist theories of copyright seek to justify or criticise copyright protection based on the consequences of that protection, by asserting or providing evidence that the protection of copyright produces some desirable effect. Examples of such theories include incentives theories that view intellectual property as a necessary way of incentivising the creation of new creative works.\n\nNatural rights are linked to the logic of property. John Locke is often cited as an authority, although it is not clear that Locke actually viewed copyright as a natural right. \n\nProponents of copyright and patent laws believe that morality supports their stance.\n\nMany economists believe that, From this perspective, the objective of copyright law is primarily to balance the public benefits that can arise from the widespread circulation, use and reuse of a copyright work with the need to provide protection, incentive and reward to the creator or owner of the copyright by granting a limited monopoly to exploit the copyright to that body or individual.\n\nConsequentialist theories of copyright hold that we should have the laws that will produce the 'best' results for society. The most common consequentialist position is utilitarianism, which defines the 'best' situations to be those in which people are in total as happy or fulfilled as possible. Economists' analyses of copyright tend to follow this philosophical approach.\n\nA related class of theories is called instrumentalism; it holds that copyright law must exist for clear, coherent and necessary purposes, without being so strict as to require that it maximise some kind of 'goodness' in its outcome.\n\nSome copyright scholars believe that, regardless of contemporary advances in technology, copyright remains the fundamental way by which authors, sculptors, artists, musicians and others can fund the creation of new works, and that without a significant period of legal protection of their future income, many valuable books and artworks would not be created. They argue that the public interest is best served by repeated extension of copyright terms to encompass multiple generations beyond the copyright holder's life, as this increases the present value of the copyright, encouraging the creation for new works and making additional investments in older works (for example, the restoration of old movies) economically viable.\nAuthors' heirs continue to profit if copyrights are enforced post-death and this provides a substantial incentive for continued fresh work even as authors age.\n\nThe modern, market-driven copyright system provides authors with independent financing (through royalties). Without a feasible way to recoup investments of creative time through copyright, there would be little economic incentive to produce and works would need to be motivated by a desire for fame from already affluent authors or those able to obtain patronage (with associated constraints on independence). Proponents of copyright dispute that copyright erodes precepts for creators to be able to build on published expression pointing to concepts such as Scènes à faire and Idea-expression divide. Copyright only protects the artist's expression of his/her work and not the ideas, systems, or factual information conveyed in it and thus artists are free to get ideas from copyrighted works.\n\nDefenders of the present system of strong copyrights argue that it has been largely successful in financing the creation and distribution of a wide variety of works, especially those requiring significant labor and capital. Moderate scholars seem to support that view while recognizing the need for exceptions and limitations, such as the fair use doctrine. Notably, a substantial portion of the current U.S. Copyright Act (sections 107–120) is devoted to such exceptions and limitations.\n\nArticle One of the United States Constitution authorizes Congress to \"promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries\".\n\nMany authors thought that this wording would actually require U.S. copyright laws to serve the purpose of \"promoting the progress of science and useful arts\". \n\nIn the US in 2003 controversial changes implemented by the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act extending the length of copyright under U.S. copyright law by 20 years were challenged in the United States Supreme Court. However, the Court, in the case called Eldred v. Ashcroft, held, \"inter alia\", that in placing existing and future copyrights in parity in the CTEA, Congress acted within its authority and did not transgress constitutional limitations. Other jurisdictions have enacted legislation to provide for similar extensions of the copyright term.\n\nCritics of copyright as a whole fall broadly into two categories: Those who assert that the very concept of copyright has never benefited society, and has always served simply to enrich a few at the expense of creativity; and those who assert that the existing copyright regime must be reformed to maintain its relevance in the new Information society. The French \"droit d'auteur\" (\"Rights of the Author\"), which influenced the 1886 Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, must also be noted as a significant alternative to the usual Anglo-Saxon concept of copyright.\n\nAmong the latter group, there are also some who continue to agree with copyright as a way to grant authors rights, but feel that it \"outlives its welcome\" by granting copyright for too long (e.g., far beyond the lifetime of the author), and is therefore of little direct benefit to him or her. The prolongation of copyright term is commonly attributed to effective corporate lobbying, based on a desire for the continuance of a profitable monopoly. In the US, this is often phrased as a conspiracy to 'control the Mouse' (meaning Mickey Mouse, a trademarked character controlled by the Disney Company whose early works would have moved into the public domain save for such an extension).\n\nTo many critics, the general problem is that the current (international) copyright system undermines its own goal. The concepts of the public domain and the intrinsic freedom of information are necessary precepts for creators to be able to build on published expression. But these are gradually being eroded, as copyright terms are repeatedly extended to last beyond the lifetime of the audience which experienced and knows of the original work.\n\nAnother effect of the repeated extension of copyright term is that current authors are shielded from competition from a wide public domain: by the time current works enter the public domain, they will almost always have become obsolete. This reduces the risk of commoditization of topical non-fiction. Out-of-copyright publishing, such as classic literature where margins are very low, generally offers only the best of each genre.\n\nOpposition to current copyright practice also relates to the non-observance of the principal requirement of the original Queen Anne Act, which specified that for a work to obtain copyright a copy had to be deposited in a library of record, so that unlimited copies could be made when the copyright expired. This was observed for many years but was later successfully opposed by the motion picture industry, which refused to provide copies of their films, resulting in the loss of many early films. Civilization experiences a similar loss of ancient documents from being held in private collections until they rot.\n\nThe recent success of free software projects such as GNU/Linux, Mozilla Firefox, and the Apache web server has demonstrated that quality works can be created even in the absence of a copyright-enforced monopoly rent. These products use copyright to enforce their license terms, which are designed to ensure the free nature of the work, rather than securing exclusive rights for the holder for monetary gain. Such licenses include copyleft, free software, and open source licenses.\n\nEven in more traditional forms such as prose, some authors, such as Cory Doctorow, retain the copyright to their work but license it for free distribution (for example under a Creative Commons license). This has the benefit of providing a structured scheme under which authors can loosen some of the barriers that copyright imposes on others, allowing them to partially contribute the work to the community (in the form of giving a general grant on copying, reproduction, use or adaptation subject to certain conditions) while retaining other exclusive rights they hold in it.\n\nCopyright can also be used to stifle political criticism. For example, in the US the contents of talk shows and similar programs are covered by copyright. Robert Greenwald, a director of \"Uncovered: The Whole Truth About the Iraq War\" documentary was refused the right to use a clip of a George W. Bush interview from NBC's \"Meet the Press\". Although the fair use provisions of statute and common law may apply in such cases, the risks of loss in court should there be a lawsuit and pressure from insurance companies, who regard use of almost anything (e.g., three words forming the opening of a song,) without permission as too risky, usually precludes use of materials without explicit permission, and so without a license fee.\n\nCopyright is also conceived by some to be an artificial barrier in that \"expressions\" could be freely exchanged between individuals and groups if there were no copyright or other legal restrictions preventing. Such people believe that as the state does not necessarily possess the moral authority to enact copyright laws, individuals may vary in their observation of such laws. Others disagree, believing that copyright (which in the United States system, for instance, arises from provisions in the U.S. Constitution), has made and continues to make a valuable even essential contribution to the creation and dissemination of works. They also point out the social dangers inherent in the view that each individual is entitled to judge the \"moral authority\" of laws and to observe them or not according to individual judgments.\n\nCopyright concepts are under challenge in the modern era, primarily from the increasing use of peer-to-peer file sharing. Major copyright holders, such as the major record labels and the movie industry, blame the ease of copying for their decreasing profits. Alternative explanations have been put forward, such as poor product content and excessive license charges.\n\nIn the United States public interest groups, major corporations and the like, are entering the public education system to teach the curriculum from their perspectives. The lobbying group for the MPAA provide a curriculum entitled \"What's the Diff?\" taught by a group of volunteers called Junior Achievement. The Business Software Alliance also has their own curriculum program called \"Play it Cybersafe\", which is distributed to school children through a magazine called \"The Weekly Reader\". The American Librarian Association released their own curriculum for librarians that was distributed in the winter of 2004.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58397336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58397336", "title": "Polanyi’s paradox", "text": "Polanyi’s paradox\n\nPolanyi’s paradox, named in honour of the British-Hungarian philosopher Michael Polanyi, is the theory that human knowledge of how the world functions and capability are, to a large extent, beyond our explicit understanding. The theory was articulated by Michael Polanyi in his book \"The Tacit Dimension\" in 1966, but it was economist David Autor that named it as Polanyi’s paradox in his 2014 research paper on “Polanyi’s Paradox and the Shape of Employment Growth”.\n\nSummarised in the slogan ‘We can know more than we can tell’, Polanyi’s paradox is mainly to explain the cognitive phenomenon that there exist many tasks which we, human beings, understand intuitively how to perform but cannot verbalize the rules or procedures behind it. This \"self-ignorance\" is common to many human activities, from driving a car in traffic to face recognition. As Polanyi argues, humans are relying on their tacit knowledge, which is difficult to adequately express by verbal means, when engaging these tasks. Polanyi's paradox has been widely considered a major obstacle in the fields of AI and automation, since the absence of consciously accessible knowledge creates tremendous difficulty in programming.\n\nBritish-Hungarian philosopher Michael Polanyi regularly studied the causes behind human ability to acquire knowledge that they cannot explain through logical deduction. In his work \"The Tacit Dimension\" (1966)\",\" Polanyi explored the 'tacit' dimension to human knowledge and developed the concept of \"tacit knowledge\", as opposed to the term \"explicit knowledge\".\n\nTacit knowledge can be defined as knowledge people learn from experiences and internalize unconsciously, which is therefore difficult to articulate and codify it in a tangible form. Explicit knowledge, the opposite of tacit knowledge, is knowledge that can be readily verbalized and formalized. Tacit knowledge is largely acquired through implicit learning, the process by which information is learned independently of the subjects' awareness. For example, native speakers tacitly acquire their language in early childhood without consciously studying specific grammar rules (explicit knowledge), but with extensive exposure to television and day-to-day communication. Besides, people can only limitedly transfer their tacit knowledge through close interactions (sharing experiences with one another or observing others' behaviors). A certain level of trust needs to be established between individuals to capture tacit knowledge.\n\nTacit knowledge comprises a range of conceptual and sensory information that is featured with strong personal subjectivity. It is implicitly reflected in human actions; as argued by Polanyi, \"tacit knowledge dwells in our awareness\". People's skills, experiences, insight, creativity and judgement all fall into this dimension. Tacit knowledge can also be described as \"know-how,\" distinguishing from \"know-that\" or \"facts.\" Before Polanyi, Gilbert Ryle published a paper in 1945 drawing the distinction between \"knowing-that (knowledge of proposition)\" and \"knowing-how.\" According to Ryle, this \"know-how\" knowledge is the instinctive and intrinsic knowledge ingrained in the individual's human capability.\n\nSince tacit knowledge cannot be stated in propositional or formal form, Polanyi concludes such inability in articulation in the slogan ‘We can know more than we can tell’. Daily activities based on tacit knowledge include recognizing a face, driving a car, riding a bike, writing a persuasive paragraph, developing a hypothesis to explain a poorly understood phenomenon. Take facial recognition as an illustration: we can recognize our acquaintance's face out of a million others while we are not conscious about the knowledge of his face. It would be difficult for us to describe the precise arrangement of his eyes, nose and mouth, since we memorize the face unconsciously.\n\nAs a prelude to \"The Tacit Dimension\", in his book \"Personal Knowledge\" (1958), Polanyi claims that all knowing is personal, emphasizing the profound effects of personal feelings and commitments on the practice of science and knowledge. Arguing against the then dominant Empiricists view that minds and experiences are reducible to sense data and collections of rules, he advocates a post-positivist approach that recognizes human knowledge is often beyond their explicit expression. Any attempt to specify tacit knowing only leads to self-evident axioms that cannot tell us why we should accept them.\n\nPolanyi's observation has deep implications in the AI field since the paradox he identified that \"our tacit knowledge of how the world works often exceeds our explicit understanding\" accounts for many of the challenges for computerization and automation over the past five decades. Automation requires high levels of exactness to inform the computer what is supposed to be done while tacit knowledge cannot be conveyed in a propositional form. Therefore, machines cannot provide successful outcomes in many cases: they have explicit knowledge (raw data) but nevertheless, do not know how to use such knowledge to understand the task as whole. This discrepancy between human reasoning and AI learning algorithms makes it difficult to automate tasks that demand common sense, flexibility, adaptability and judgment — human intuitive knowledge.\n\nMIT economist David Autor is one of the leading sceptics who doubt the prospects for machine intelligence. Despite the exponential growth in computational resources and the relentless pace of automation since the 1990s, Autor argues, Polanyi's paradox impedes modern algorithms to replace human labor in a range of skilled jobs. The extent of machine substitution of human labor, therefore, has been overestimated by journalists and expert commentators. Although contemporary computer science strives for prevailing over Polanyi's paradox, the ever-changing, unstructured nature of some activities currently presents intimidating challenges for automation. Despite years of time and billions of investment spent on the development of self-driving cars and cleaning robots, these machine learning systems continue to struggle with their low adaptability and interpretability, from self-driving cars' inability to make an unexpected detour to cleaning robots' vulnerability to unmonitored pets or kids. Instead, to let self-driving cars function optimally, we have to change current road infrastructure significantly, minimizing the need for human capabilities in the whole driving process.\n\nThe increasing occupational polarisation in the past few decades —the growth of both high-paid, high-skill abstract jobs and lower-paid, low-skill manual jobs — has been a manifestation of Polanyi's paradox. According to Autor, there are two types of tasks proven stubbornly challenging for artificial intelligence (AI): abstract tasks that require problem-solving capabilities, intuition, creativity and persuasion on the one hand, and manual tasks demanding situational adaptability, visual recognition, language understanding, and in-person interactions on the other. Abstract tasks are characteristic of professional, managerial, and technical occupations, while service and laborer occupations involve many manual tasks (e.g. cleaning, lifting and throwing). These jobs tend to be complemented by machines rather than substituted.\n\nBy contrast, as the price of computing power declines, computers extensively substitute for routine tasks that can be codified into clear sets of instructions, resulting in a dramatical decline in employment of routine task-­intensive jobs. This polarization has resulted in a shrinking middle class across industrialized economies since many middle-income occupations in sales, office and administrative work and repetitive production work are task-­intensive. Moreover, the subsequent growth in income inequality and wealth disparity has recently emerged as a major socio-economic issue in developed countries.\n\nSome technological optimists argue that recent advances in machine learning have overcome Polanyi's paradox. Instead of relaying on programmer’s algorithms to instruct them in human knowledge, computer systems are now able to learn tacit rules from context, abundant data, and applied statistics on their own. Since machines can infer the tacit knowledge that human beings draw upon from examples without human assistance, they are no longer limited by those rules tacitly applied but not explicitly understood by humans.\n\nAlphaGo program built by the Google subsidiary DeepMind is a great example of how advances in AI have allowed mindless machines to perform tasks based on tacit knowledge outstandingly. In the 2016 tournament of the strategy game Go, DeepMind’s AlphaGo program successfully defeated one of the world’s top GO players, Lee Se-dol, four games to one. DeepMind team employed an approach known as deep learning to build human-type judgment into AI systems; therefore, they can figure out complex winning strategies by seeing vast examples of Go matches.\n\nOn the other hand, as Carr argues, the assumption that computers need to be able to reproduce tacit knowledge applied by humans to perform complicated tasks is essentially doubtable. When performing demanding tasks, it is not necessary for systems and machines to reflect the rules that human beings follow at all. The requirement is to replicate our outcomes for practical purposes, rather than our means.\n\nJerry Kaplan, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur and AI expert, also illustrates this point in his book \"Humans Need Not Apply\" by discussing four resources and capabilities required to accomplish any given task: awareness, energy, reasoning and means. Humans' biological system (the brain-body complex) naturally integrates all these four properties, while in the electronic domain machines nowadays are given these abilities by accelerating developments in robotics, machine learning, and perception powering systems. For example, sensory data provided by a wide network of sensors enable AI to perceive various aspects of the environment and respond instantly in chaotic and complex real-world situations (awareness); orders and signals for actuating devices can be centralised and managed in server clusters or on the 'cloud' (reasoning). Kaplan's argument directly supports the proposition that Polanyi's paradox can no longer impede further levels of automation, whether in performing routine jobs or manual jobs. As Kaplan puts it, \"Automation is blind to the colour of your collar.\"\n\nOne example confirms Kaplan's argument is the introduction of Cloud AutoML, an automated system that could help every business design AI software, by Google Brain AI research group in 2017. The learning algorithms of AutoML automates the process of building machine-learning models that can take on a particular task, aiming to democratize AI to the largest possible community of developers and businesses. According to Google’s CEO, Cloud AutoML has taken over some of the work of programmers (which is, in the words of Autor, \"abstract task\") and thereby offered one solution to the shortage in machine-learning experts.\n\nMoravec’s paradox is very closed related to Polanyi's paradox, which claims that compared with sophisticated tasks demanding high-level reasoning, it is harder for computers to master low-level physical and cognitive skills that are natural and easy for humans to perform. Examples include natural language processing and dextrous physical movements (e.g. running over rough terrain).\n\nRobotics experts have, therefore, discovered that machines are difficult to master the skills of even the least-trained manual worker, since these jobs require perception and mobility (tacit knowledge). In the words of the cognitive scientist Steven Pinker from his book \"The Language Instinct,\" \"The main lesson of thirty-five years of AI research is that the hard problems are easy and the easy problems are hard.\"\n\nCorresponding to David Autor's discussion on jobs polarization, Pinker maintains that the appearance of the new generation's intelligent machines would place stock analysts, petrochemical engineers and parole board members in danger of being replaced. Gardeners, receptionists, and cooks are, by contrast, currently secure.\n\nMoore's Law is the observation articulated by Gordon Moore in 1965 that the number of transistors that could be fitted onto an integrated circuit doubles every two years. Moore's law has significantly contributed to the advancement of machine learning and AI. The larger and larger capacity of a chip allows for the advent of extremely small data-collecting devices, which could be placed on any intelligent machine. Innovations resulted from the exponentially growing power of computer chips include mobile apps, video games, spreadsheets, and accurate weather forecasts.\n\nMoore’s Law changes the way people are valued. As machines can do more and more tasks for free, people become correspondingly expensive. On the other hand, Moore's Law to some extents erases the line between an ordinary person and a skilled person.\n\nAlthough Moore’s prediction had been realized until around 2012, Intel announced in 2015 that the pace was slowing to a halt. Thomas Wenisch, an assistant professor at the University of Michigan, thinks the stagnant development of chips with denser transistors would create a problem for areas like mobile devices, data centers, and self-driving cars on different timescales. Without Moore's Law as the feedstock of innovation in computing, technology companies have to work harder to achieve new development levels (e.g. to get a new breakthrough on Polanyi's paradox).\n"}
{"id": "28737250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737250", "title": "Preference", "text": "Preference\n\nA preference is a technical term in psychology, economics and philosophy usually used in relation to choosing between alternatives; someone has a preference for A over B if they would choose A rather than B.\n\nPreference can also be used in insolvency terms.\n\nIn psychology, preferences refer to an individual’s attitude towards a set of objects, typically reflected in an explicit decision-making process (Lichtenstein & Slovic, 2006). The term is also used to mean evaluative judgment in the sense of liking or disliking an object (e.g., Scherer, 2005) which is the most typical definition employed in psychology. However, it does not mean that a preference is necessarily stable over time. Preference can be notably modified by decision-making processes, such as choices (Brehm, 1956; Sharot, De Martino, & Dolan, 2009), even unconsciously (see Coppin, Delplanque, Cayeux, Porcherot, & Sander, 2010). Consequently, preference can be affected by a person's surroundings and upbringing in terms of geographical location, cultural background, religious beliefs, and education. These factors are found to affect preference as repeated exposure to a certain idea or concept correlates with a positive preference.\n\nIn economics and other social sciences, \"preference\" refers to the set of assumptions related to ordering some alternatives, based on the degree of happiness, satisfaction, gratification, enjoyment, or utility they provide, a process which results in an optimal \"choice\" (whether real or imagined). Although economists are usually not interested in choices or preferences in themselves, they are interested in the theory of choice because it serves as a background for empirical demand analysis.\n\nBrand preference is strongly linked to brand choice that can influence the consumer decision making and activate brand purchase. \"Brand preferences can be defined as the subjective, conscious and behavioral tendencies which influence consumer's predisposition toward a brand.\" Understanding the brand preferences of consumers will dictate the most suitable and successful Marketing Strategies.\n\n\"Preference\" may also refer to non-choices, such as genetic and biological explanations for one's preference. Sexual orientation, for example, is no longer considered a sexual preference by most individuals, but is debatable based on philosophical and/or scientific ideas.\n\nIn Insolvency, the term can be used to describe when a company pays a specific creditor or group of creditors. From doing this, that creditor(s) is made better off, than other creditors. After paying the 'preferred creditor', the company seeks to go into a formal insolvency like an administration or liquidation. There must be a desire to make the creditor better off, for them to be a preference. \nIf the preference is proven, legal action can occur. It is a wrongful act of trading. Disqualification is a risk. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52997369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52997369", "title": "Projet de communauté philosophe", "text": "Projet de communauté philosophe\n\nProjet de communauté philosophe (translated as Project for a Philosophical Community) is a book written by the French philosopher Victor d'Hupay, published in 1777.\n\nThis book can be seen as a cornerstone in the history of communism, as it describes for the first time how \"communists\" (people living in a \"commune\") should understand this philosophy. \nIn this work, the author advises to 'share all economic and material products between inhabitants of the \"commune\", so that all may benefit from everybody's work'.\n\nRestif de la Bretonne, a contemporary and friend of d'Hupay, thus describes him as a \"communist\" in a 1785 publication.\n\nThe book was partly written in d'Hupay's own bastide in Meyreuil, near Aix-en-Provence, where he was determined to set his own commune and live by the communist philosophy, with neighbours and friends.\n\nThere is currently only one known public copy of this original edition, which is kept at the Diderot Library in Lyon.\n\n"}
{"id": "229661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229661", "title": "Pseudophilosophy", "text": "Pseudophilosophy\n\nPseudophilosophy is a term, often considered derogatory, applied to criticize philosophical ideas or systems which are claimed not to meet an expected set of standards. The etymology of the term is based on appending the prefix pseudo- (\"false\") to the word philosophy (\"love of wisdom\"); another term to describe false philosophy is \"cod philosophy\".\n\nThe term has been used against many different targets, including:\n\nAccording to Christopher Heumann, an 18th-century scholar, pseudo-philosophy has six characteristics:\n\nAccording to Michael Oakeshott, pseudo-philosophy \"is theorizing that proceeds partly within and partly outside a given mode of inquiry.\"\n\nPieper notes that there cannot be a closed system of philosophy, and that any philosophy that claims to have discovered a \"cosmic formula\" is a pseudo-philosophy. In this he follows Kant, who rejected the postulation of a \"highest principle\" from which to develop Transcendental idealism, calling this pseudo-philosophy and mysticism.\n\nNicholas Rescher, in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", describes \"pseudo-philosophy\" as \"deliberations that masquerade as philosophical but are inept, incompetent, deficient in intellectual seriousness, and reflective of an insufficient commitment to the pursuit of truth.\" Rescher adds that the term is particularly appropriate when applied to \"those who use the resources of reason to substantiate the claim that rationality is unachievable in matters of inquiry.\"\n\nAccording to Pieper, for Pythagoras, Plato and Aristotle philosophy is the human search \"oriented toward wisdom such as God possesses\". It suggests that philosophy includes, in its essence, an orientation toward theology. Pieper notes:\nThe term \"pseudo-philosophy\" appears to have been coined by Jane Austen.\n\nErnest Newman (30 November 1868 – 7 July 1959), an English music critic and musicologist, who aimed at intellectual objectivity in his style of criticism, in contrast to the more subjective approach of other critics, published in 1897 \"Pseudo-Philosophy at the End of the Nineteenth Century\", a critique of imprecise and subjective writing.\n\nThe term is almost always used pejoratively and is often contentious.\n\nAccording to Bunge,\nFor Kant, intellectual knowledge is discursive knowledge, not intuitive knowledge. According to Kant, intuition is limited to the realm of senses, while knowledge is \"essentially realised in the acts of researching, relating, comparing, differentiating, inferring, proving\". Kant criticised Romantic philosophy, which is based on feeling and intuition, and not on \"philosophical work\":\nKant called Romantic philosophy pseudo-philosophy, \"in which one is entitled not to work, but only to heed and enjoy the oracle in oneself in order to take complete possession of that wisdom toward which philosophy aims\".\n\nMysticism has a long history. In the Age of Enlightenment mysticism had fallen into disrepute. Kant called mysticism pseudophilosophy. In the 19th century, with the rise of Romanticism, interest in mysticism was renewed. Rationalists and Lutherans wrote histories of mysticism to reject its claims, but there was a widespread interest in spiritualism and related phenomena.\n\nInterest in Eckhart's works was revived in the early nineteenth century, especially by German Romantics and Idealist philosophers. Since the 1960s debate has been going on in Germany whether Eckhart should be called a \"mystic\". The philosopher Karl Albert had already argued that Eckhart had to be placed in the tradition of philosophical mysticism of Parmenides, Plato, Plotinus, Porphyry, Proclus and other neo-Platonistic thinkers. Heribert Fischer argued in the 1960s that Eckhart was a mediaeval theologian.\n\nArthur Schopenhauer wrote the following about Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel:\nHowever his opinion is not widely held of Hegelianism or German Idealism.\n\nSoccio notes that analytical inclined philosophers tend to dismiss Heidegger's philosophy as pseudophilosophy. According to Christensen, Heidegger himself called the philosophy of Husserl \"scheinphilosophy\".\n\nDietrich von Hildebrand used the term to critique the central place modern science is occupying in western society:\n\nJonathan Chait used the term in the title \"Ayn Rand's Pseudo-Philosophy\" of an article in \"New Republic\", in which he wrote, \"She was a true amateur who insisted on seeing herself as the greatest human being who ever lived because she was almost completely unfamiliar with the entire philosophical canon.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57991231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57991231", "title": "Rebecca Roache", "text": "Rebecca Roache\n\nRebecca Roache is a British philosopher and Senior Lecturer at Royal Holloway, University of London, known for her work on the philosophy of language, practical ethics and philosophy of mind. She is particularly noted for her work on swearing, which has featured in various media, such as the BBC.\n\nRoache received her BA in philosophy at the University of Leeds in 1996, and her MA in philosophy at the same university in 1997, where she worked among others closely with Robin Le Poidevin. She then took an MPhil (1999) and a DPhil (2002) at the University of Cambridge, St. John’s College, with Jane Heal and D.H. Mellor as dissertation advisers. After completing her DPhil, she worked in various projects at the University of Oxford from 2006 onwards. She is currently Senior Lecturer at Royal Holloway, University of London. From 2013 to 2018, she was Associate Editor for the Journal of Medical Ethics. \n\nRoache’s theory of swearing examines why swearwords (including non-slurs and non-religious swearwords) are so powerful. She proposes that swearwords have a unique linguistic role, coupled to a unique emotional role. According to Roache, swearing obtains its power because of speaker inferences: when someone swears, she knows her audience will find it offensive, and the swearer knows the audience knows she knows that the audience will find it offensive, and so on, a process termed \"offence escalation\". Speakers and listeners who belong to the same cultural and linguistic community will likely find similar things offensive, which explains why some expressions (disrespecting social hierarchy, sexual taboos, mention of bodily fluids etc) tend to cross-culturally recur as swearwords .\nRoache is also noted for a blogpost where she said she unfriended people who voted for the Conservatives at the 2015 General Election. She argued that “Openly supporting a political party “that – in the name of austerity – withdraws support from the poor, the sick, the foreign, and the unemployed while rewarding those in society who are least in need of reward” was “as objectionable as expressing racist, sexist, or homophobic views.”. \n\nIn addition to her work in the philosophy of language, Roache has published on a variety of topics in practical ethics and metaphysics, such as which biomedical modifications to humans could be used to fight climate change. \n\nShe has an active twitter feed. On 25 July 2018, she was listed among the top 100 philosophers on Twitter. \n\nA selection: \n\n"}
{"id": "49901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49901", "title": "Virtue", "text": "Virtue\n\nVirtue (, \"arete\") is moral excellence. A virtue is a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being. Personal virtues are characteristics valued as promoting collective and individual greatness. In other words, it is a behavior that shows high moral standards. Doing what is right and avoiding what is wrong. The opposite of virtue is vice. \n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are temperance, prudence, courage, and justice. Christianity derives the three theological virtues of faith, hope and love (charity) from 1 Corinthians. Together these make up the seven virtues. Buddhism's four brahmavihara (\"Divine States\") can be regarded as virtues in the European sense. The Japanese Bushidō code is characterized by up to ten virtues, including rectitude, courage, and benevolence.\n\nThe ancient Romans used the Latin word \"virtus\" (derived from \"vir\", their word for \"man\") to refer to all of the \"excellent qualities of men, including physical strength, valorous conduct, and moral rectitude.\" The French words \"vertu\" and \"virtu\" came from this Latin root. In the 13th century, the word \"virtue\" was \"borrowed into English\".\n\nDuring Egyptian civilization, Maat or Ma'at (thought to have been pronounced *[muʔ.ʕat]), also spelled māt or mayet, was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. Maat was also personified as a goddess regulating the stars, seasons, and the actions of both mortals and the deities. The deities set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation. Her (ideological) counterpart was Isfet, who symbolized chaos, lies, and injustice.\n\nThe four classic cardinal virtues are:\n\nThis enumeration is traced to Greek philosophy and was listed by Plato in addition to piety: (hosiotēs), with the exception that wisdom replaced prudence as virtue. Some scholars consider either of the above four virtue combinations as mutually reducible and therefore not cardinal.\n\nIt is unclear whether multiple virtues were of later construct, and whether Plato subscribed to a unified view of virtues. In \"Protagoras\" and \"Meno\", for example, he states that the separate virtues cannot exist independently and offers as evidence the contradictions of acting with wisdom, yet in an unjust way; or acting with bravery (fortitude), yet without wisdom.\n\nIn his work \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle defined a virtue as a point between a deficiency and an excess of a trait. The point of greatest virtue lies not in the exact middle, but at a golden mean sometimes closer to one extreme than the other. However, the virtuous action is not simply the \"mean\" (mathematically speaking) between two opposite extremes. As Aristotle says in the Nicomachean Ethics: \"at the right times, about the right things, towards the right people, for the right end, and in the right way, is the intermediate and best condition, and this is proper to virtue.\" This is not simply splitting the difference between two extremes. For example, generosity is a virtue between the two extremes of miserliness and being profligate. Further examples include: courage between cowardice and foolhardiness, and confidence between self-deprecation and vanity. In Aristotle's sense, virtue is excellence at being human.\n\nSeneca, the Roman Stoic, said that perfect prudence is indistinguishable from perfect virtue. Thus, in considering all consequences, a prudent person would act in the same way as a virtuous person. The same rationale was expressed by Plato in Meno, when he wrote that people only act in ways that they perceive will bring them maximum good. It is the lack of wisdom that results in the making of a bad choice instead of a prudent one. In this way, wisdom is the central part of virtue. Plato realized that because virtue was synonymous with wisdom it could be taught, a possibility he had earlier discounted. He then added \"correct belief\" as an alternative to knowledge, proposing that knowledge is merely correct belief that has been thought through and \"tethered\".\n\nThe term \"virtue\" itself is derived from the Latin \"virtus\" (the personification of which was the deity Virtus), and had connotations of \"manliness\", \"honour\", worthiness of deferential respect, and civic duty as both citizen and soldier. This virtue was but one of many virtues which Romans of good character were expected to exemplify and pass on through the generations, as part of the Mos Maiorum; ancestral traditions which defined \"Roman-ness\". Romans distinguished between the spheres of private and public life, and thus, virtues were also divided between those considered to be in the realm of private family life (as lived and taught by the paterfamilias), and those expected of an upstanding Roman citizen.\n\nMost Roman concepts of virtue were also personified as a numinous deity. The primary Roman virtues, both public and private, were:\n\nIn 410 CE, Aurelius Prudentius Clemens listed seven \"heavenly virtues\" in his book Psychomachia (Battle of Souls) which is an allegorical story of conflict between vices and virtues. The virtues depicted were:\n\nIn the 8th Century, upon the occasion of his coronation as Holy Roman Emperor Charlemagne published a list of knightly virtues:\n\nLove God\nLove your neighbour\nGive alms to the poor\nEntertain strangers\nVisit the sick\nBe merciful to prisoners\nDo ill to no man, nor consent unto such\nForgive as ye hope to be forgiven\nRedeem the captive\nHelp the oppressed\nDefend the cause of the widow and orphan\nRender righteous judgement\nDo not consent to any wrong\nPersevere not in wrath\nShun excess in eating and drinking\nBe humble and kind\nServe your liege lord faithfully\nDo not steal\nDo not perjure yourself, nor let others do so\nEnvy, hatred and violence separate men from the Kingdom of God\nDefend the Church and promote her cause.\n\nLoving God and obeying his laws, in particular the Ten Commandments, are central to Jewish conceptions of virtue. Wisdom is personified in the first eight chapters of the Book of Proverbs and is not only the source of virtue but is depicted as the first and best creation of God (Proverbs 8:12-31). Wisdom is also celebrated in the Book of Wisdom.\n\nA classic articulation of the Golden Rule came from the first century Rabbi Hillel the Elder. Renowned in the Jewish tradition as a sage and a scholar, he is associated with the development of the Mishnah and the Talmud and, as such, one of the most important figures in Jewish history. Asked for a summary of the Jewish religion in the most concise terms, Hillel replied (reputedly while standing on one leg): \"That which is hateful to you, do not do to your fellow. That is the whole Torah. The rest is commentary; go and learn.\"\n\nIn Christianity, the three theological virtues are faith, hope and love, a list which comes from 1 Corinthians 13:13 ( \"pistis\" (faith), \"elpis\" (hope), \"agape\" (love), ). The same chapter describes love as the greatest of the three, and further defines love as \"patient, kind, not envious, boastful, arrogant, or rude.\" (The Christian virtue of love is sometimes called charity and at other times a Greek word agape is used to contrast the love of God and the love of humankind from other types of love such as friendship or physical affection.)\n\nChristian scholars frequently add the four Greek cardinal virtues (prudence, justice, temperance, and courage) to the theological virtues to give the seven virtues; for example, these seven are the ones described in the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\", sections 1803–1829.\n\nThe Bible mentions additional virtues, such as in the \"Fruit of the Holy Spirit,\" found in Galatians 5:22-23: \"By contrast, the fruit of the Spirit it is benevolent-love: joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, benevolence, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. There is absolutely no law against such a thing.\"\n\nThe medieval and renaissance periods saw a number of models of sin listing the seven deadly sins and the virtues opposed to each.\n\nIn Islam, the Qur'an is believed to be the literal word of God, and the definitive description of virtue. Muhammad is considered an ideal example of virtue in human form. The hadiths, his reported sayings, are central to the Islamic understanding of virtue.\n\nVirtue is defined in hadith. It is reported by An-Nawwas bin Sam'an:\nWabisah bin Ma’bad reported:\nFor Muslims fulfilling the human rights are valued as an important building block of Islam, According to Muslim beliefs Allah will forgive individual sins but the bad treatment of humans and injustice with others will only be pardoned by the humans and not by Allah.\n\nVirtue is a much debated and an evolving concept in ancient scriptures of Hinduism. The essence, need and value of virtue is explained in Hindu philosophy as something that cannot be imposed, but something that is realized and voluntarily lived up to by each individual. For example, Apastamba explained it thus: \"virtue and vice do not go about saying - here we are!; neither the Gods, Gandharvas, nor ancestors can convince us - this is right, this is wrong; virtue is an elusive concept, it demands careful and sustained reflection by every man and woman before it can become part of one's life.\n\nVirtues lead to \"punya\" (Sanskrit: पुण्य, holy living) in Hindu literature; while vices lead to \"pap\" (Sanskrit: पाप, sin). Sometimes, the word \"punya\" is used interchangeably with virtue.\n\nThe virtues that constitute a dharmic life - that is a moral, ethical, virtuous life - evolve in vedas and upanishads. Over time, new virtues were conceptualized and added by ancient Hindu scholars, some replaced, others merged. For example, Manusamhita initially listed ten virtues necessary for a human being to live a \"dharmic\" life: \"Dhriti\" (courage), \"Kshama\" (forgiveness), \"Dama\" (temperance), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Indriyani-graha\" (control of senses), \"dhi\" (reflective prudence), \"vidya\" (wisdom), \"satyam\" (truthfulness), \"akrodha\" (freedom from anger). In later verses, this list was reduced to five virtues by the same scholar, by merging and creating a more broader concept. The shorter list of virtues became: \"Ahimsa\" (Non-violence), \"Dama\" (self restraint), \"Asteya\" (Non-covetousness/Non-stealing), \"Saucha\" (inner purity), \"Satyam\" (truthfulness).\n\nThe Bhagavad Gita - considered one of the epitomes of historic Hindu discussion of virtues and an allegorical debate on what is right and what is wrong - argues some virtues are not necessarily always absolute, but sometimes relational; for example, it explains a virtue such as Ahimsa must be re-examined when one is faced with war or violence from the aggressiveness, immaturity or ignorance of others.\n\nBuddhist practice as outlined in the Noble Eightfold Path can be regarded as a progressive list of virtues.\n\nBuddhism's four \"brahmavihara\" (\"Divine States\") can be more properly regarded as virtues in the European sense. They are:\n\nThere are also the Paramitas (\"perfections\"), which are the culmination of having acquired certain virtues. In Theravada Buddhism's canonical Buddhavamsa there are Ten Perfections (\"dasa pāramiyo\"). In Mahayana Buddhism, the Lotus Sutra (\"Saddharmapundarika\"), there are Six Perfections; while in the Ten Stages (\"Dasabhumika\") Sutra, four more \"Paramitas\" are listed.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, virtues are direct spiritual qualities that the human soul possesses, inherited from the world of God. The development and manifestation of these virtues is the theme of the \"Hidden Words\" of Bahá'u'lláh and are discussed in great detail as the underpinnings of a divinely-inspired society by `Abdu'l-Bahá in such texts as \"The Secret of Divine Civilization\".\n\n\"Virtue\", translated from Chinese \"de\" (), is also an important concept in Chinese philosophy, particularly Daoism. \"De\" () originally meant normative \"virtue\" in the sense of \"personal character; inner strength; integrity\", but semantically changed to moral \"virtue; kindness; morality\". Note the semantic parallel for English \"\", with an archaic meaning of \"inner potency; divine power\" (as in \"by virtue of\") and a modern one of \"moral excellence; goodness\".\n\nIn early periods of Confucianism, moral manifestations of \"virtue\" include \"ren\" (\"humanity\"), \"xiao\" (\"filial piety\"), and \"li\" (\"proper behavior, performance of rituals\"). The notion of ren - according to Simon Leys - means \"humanity\" and \"goodness\". Ren originally had the archaic meaning in the Confucian Book of Poems of \"virility\", but progressively took on shades of ethical meaning. Some scholars consider the virtues identified in early Confucianism as non-theistic philosophy.\n\nThe Daoist concept of \"De\", compared to Confucianism, is more subtle, pertaining to the \"virtue\" or ability that an individual realizes by following the Dao (\"the Way\"). One important normative value in much of Chinese thinking is that one's social status should result from the amount of virtue that one demonstrates, rather than from one's birth. In the \"Analects\", Confucius explains \"de\" as follows: \"He who exercises government by means of his virtue may be compared to the north polar star, which keeps its place and all the stars turn towards it.\" In later periods, particularly from the Tang dynasty period, Confucianism as practiced, absorbed and melded its own concepts of virtues with those from Daoism and Buddhism.\n\nIn Hagakure, Yamamoto Tsunetomo encapsulates his views on 'virtue' in the four vows he makes daily:\n\nYamamoto goes on to say:\nIf one dedicates these four vows to the gods and Buddhas every morning, he will have the strength of two men and never slip backward. One must edge forward like the inchworm, bit by bit. The gods and Buddhas, too, first started with a vow.\n\nThe Bushidō code is typified by seven virtues:\n\nOthers that are sometimes added to these:\n\nWhile religious scriptures generally consider \"dharma\" or \"aṟam\" (the Tamil term for virtue) as a divine virtue, Valluvar describes it as a way of life rather than any spiritual observance, a way of harmonious living that leads to universal happiness. For this reason, Valluvar keeps \"aṟam\" as the cornerstone throughout the writing of the Kural literature. Valluvar considered justice as a facet of \"aram.\" While ancient Greek philosophers such as Plato, Aristotle, and their descendants opined that justice cannot be defined and that it was a divine mystery, Valluvar positively suggested that a divine origin is not required to define the concept of justice. In the words of V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, justice according to Valluvar \"dwells in the minds of those who have knowledge of the standard of right and wrong; so too deceit dwells in the minds which breed fraud.\"\n\nFor the Rationalist philosopher René Descartes, virtue consists in the correct reasoning that should guide our actions. Men should seek the sovereign good that Descartes, following Zeno, identifies with virtue, as this produces a solid blessedness or pleasure. For Epicurus the sovereign good was pleasure, and Descartes says that in fact this is not in contradiction with Zeno's teaching, because virtue produces a spiritual pleasure, that is better than bodily pleasure. Regarding Aristotle's opinion that happiness depends on the goods of fortune, Descartes does not deny that these goods contribute to happiness, but remarks that they are in great proportion outside one's own control, whereas one's mind is under one's complete control.\n\nImmanuel Kant, in his \"Observations on the Feeling of the Beautiful and Sublime\", expresses true virtue as different from what commonly is known about this moral trait. In Kant's view, to be goodhearted, benevolent and sympathetic is not regarded as true virtue. The only aspect that makes a human truly virtuous is to behave in accordance with moral principles. Kant presents an example for more clarification; suppose that you come across a needy person in the street; if your sympathy leads you to help that person, your response does not illustrate your virtue. In this example, since you do not afford helping all needy ones, you have behaved unjustly, and it is out of the domain of principles and true virtue. Kant applies the approach of four temperaments to distinguish truly virtuous people. According to Kant, among all people with diverse temperaments, a person with melancholy frame of mind is the most virtuous whose thoughts, words and deeds are one of principles.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche's view of virtue is based on the idea of an order of rank among people. For Nietzsche, the virtues of the strong are seen as vices by the weak and slavish, thus Nietzsche's virtue ethics is based on his distinction between master morality and slave morality. Nietzsche promotes the virtues of those he calls \"higher men\", people like Goethe and Beethoven. The virtues he praises in them are their creative powers (“the men of great creativity” - “the really great men according to my understanding” (WP 957)).\nAccording to Nietzsche these higher types are solitary, pursue a \"unifying project\", revere themselves and are healthy and life-affirming. Because mixing with the herd makes one base, the higher type “strives instinctively for a citadel and a secrecy where he is saved from the crowd, the many, the great majority…” (BGE 26). The 'Higher type' also \"instinctively seeks heavy responsibilities\" (WP 944) in the form of an \"organizing idea\" for their life, which drives them to artistic and creative work and gives them psychological health and strength. The fact that the higher types are \"healthy\" for Nietzsche does not refer to physical health as much as a psychological resilience and fortitude. Finally, a Higher type affirms life because he is willing to accept the eternal return of his life and affirm this forever and unconditionally.\n\nIn the last section of \"Beyond Good and Evil\", Nietzsche outlines his thoughts on the noble virtues and places solitude as one of the highest virtues:\n\nAnd to keep control over your four virtues: courage, insight, sympathy, solitude. Because solitude is a virtue for us, since it is a sublime inclination and impulse to cleanliness which shows that contact between people (“society”) inevitably makes things unclean. Somewhere, sometime, every\ncommunity makes people – “base.” (BGE §284)\n\nNietzsche also sees truthfulness as a virtue:\n\nGenuine honesty, assuming that this is our virtue and we cannot get rid of it, we free spirits – well then, we will want to work on it with all the love and malice at our disposal and not get tired of ‘perfecting’ ourselves in our virtue, the only one we have left: may its glory come to rest like a gilded, blue evening glow of mockery over this aging culture and its dull and dismal seriousness! (Beyond Good and Evil, §227)\n\nThese are the virtues that Benjamin Franklin used to develop what he called 'moral perfection'. He had a checklist in a notebook to measure each day how he lived up to his virtues.\n\nThey became known through Benjamin Franklin's autobiography.\n\n\nMarc Jackson in his book \"Emotion and Psyche\" puts forward a new development of the virtues. He identifies the virtues as what he calls the good emotions \"The first group consisting of love, kindness, joy, faith, awe and pity is good\" These virtues differ from older accounts of the virtues because they are not character traits expressed by action, but emotions that are to be felt and developed by feeling not acting.\nAyn Rand held that her morality, the , contained a single axiom: existence exists, and a single choice: to live. All values and virtues proceed from these. To live, man must hold three fundamental values that one develops and achieves in life: Reason, Purpose, and Self-Esteem. A value is \"that which one acts to gain and/or keep ... and the virtue[s] [are] the act[ions] by which one gains and/or keeps it.\" The primary virtue in Objectivist ethics is rationality, which as Rand meant it is \"the recognition and acceptance of reason as one's only source of knowledge, one's only judge of values and one's only guide to action.\" These values are achieved by passionate and consistent action and the virtues are the policies for achieving those fundamental values. Ayn Rand describes seven virtues: rationality, productiveness, pride, independence, integrity, honesty and justice. The first three represent the three primary virtues that correspond to the three fundamental values, whereas the final four are derived from the virtue of rationality. She claims that virtue is not an end in itself, that virtue is not its own reward nor sacrificial fodder for the reward of evil, that life is the reward of virtue and happiness is the goal and the reward of life. Man has a single basic choice: to think or not, and that is the gauge of his virtue. Moral perfection is an unbreached rationality, not the degree of your intelligence but the full and relentless use of your mind, not the extent of your knowledge but the acceptance of reason as an absolute.\n\nChristopher Peterson and Martin Seligman, two leading researchers in positive psychology, recognizing the deficiency inherent in psychology's tendency to focus on dysfunction rather than on what makes a healthy and stable personality, set out to develop a list of \"Character Strengths and Virtues\". After three years of study, 24 traits (classified into six broad areas of virtue) were identified, having \"a surprising amount of similarity across cultures and strongly indicat[ing] a historical and cross-cultural convergence.\" These six categories of virtue are courage, justice, humanity, temperance, transcendence, and wisdom. Some psychologists suggest that these virtues are adequately grouped into fewer categories; for example, the same 24 traits have been grouped into simply: Cognitive Strengths, Temperance Strengths, and Social Strengths.\n\nThe opposite of a virtue is a vice. Vice is a habitual, repeated practice of wrongdoing. One way of organizing the vices is as the corruption of the virtues.\n\nAs Aristotle noted, however, the virtues can have several opposites. Virtues can be considered the mean between two extremes, as the Latin maxim dictates \"in medio stat virtus\" - in the centre lies virtue. For instance, both cowardice and rashness are opposites of courage; contrary to prudence are both over-caution and insufficient caution; the opposites of pride (a virtue) are undue humility and excessive vanity. A more \"modern\" virtue, tolerance, can be considered the mean between the two extremes of narrow-mindedness on the one hand and over-acceptance on the other. Vices can therefore be identified as the opposites of virtues - but with the caveat that each virtue could have many different opposites, all distinct from each other.\n\n\n"}
