{"id": "5376630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5376630", "title": "Battle Dome", "text": "Battle Dome\n\nBattle Dome was a syndicated American television series that aired from September 1999 to April 2001. It combined elements of \"American Gladiators\" – inspired athletic competition with scripted antics more reminiscent of professional wrestling. Recurring character-athletes known as \"Warriors\" competed against weekly contestants in a variety of physically demanding (and sometimes dangerous) events. The series was filmed at the Los Angeles Sports Arena and produced by Columbia TriStar Television.\n\nThe entire first and second season of \"Battle Dome\" is available for purchase on iTunes and Amazon Video.\n\nA Warrior typically entered the show's arena accompanied by his own bombastic theme music and-in several cases-a comely female sidekick; in later episodes, weekly contestants were also allotted female companions, courtesy of \"Perfect 10\" magazine.\n\nThe announcer for the show was Steve Albert (brother of Marv and the uncle of Kenny); Scott Ferrall provided color commentary. Seth Stockton served as referee for the entire run. Downtown Julie Brown appeared in early episodes, as a sideline correspondent but was replaced by Kathleen McClellan for the run of the show. The \"Chairman\", whose face remained off camera, oversaw the proceedings. Halfway through the show's run, Ferrall and Brown were replaced by Ed Lover and Brien Blakely, respectively, and \"The chairman\" was dropped from the show.\n\n\"Battle Dome\" was also broadcast in the UK, on the Challenge and Bravo networks, as well as on Channel 5, now \"Five.\" It was also broadcast in Ireland on TV3.\n\nThree male contestants competed in a series of four or five events, which varied in intensity and danger factor. After the fourth or fifth event, the two highest scoring competitors advanced to the Battle Dome final. In addition to facing the contestants, the Battle Dome Warriors were in a show-long competition against each other for the Battle Dome Warriors Championship belt. The Warriors were ranked before the competition started and could move up or down the list depending on either how well they performed during the show or how well they politicked with the chairman or his on-camera assistant, Bobbie Haven (played by model Bobbie Brown, who prior to this was best known for her appearance in the video for Warrant's \"Cherry Pie\").\n\nIf the second and third place players were tied, the tie was broken in a rather novel way. Both players would stand on platforms on two separate metal discs, with the discs being pulled back and rammed together at high rates of speed. The intensity of the hit grew until one player fell off, at which point they would be going home. This also would help determine the Warriors champion if the championship was in question at the end of a show.\n\nAfter all ties and championships between the Warriors and contestants were settled, the two remaining players moved into the Battle Dome for the final round, in which the two competitors wrestled each other in an attempt to throw the opponent off an elevated platform. Doing so won the match, a cash prize, and a Battle Dome championship ring. The winner would also advance in the Battle Dome tournament, with the winner getting a large cash prize, a motorcycle, and a Battle Dome Championship belt at the end of the season.\n\n\nIn fall of 2000, the stars of \"Battle Dome\" and World Championship Wrestling (WCW) began a brief cross-promotional feud. It kicked off when WCW wrestlers disrupted a \"Battle Dome\" taping. In retaliation, on the November 6 edition of \"Monday Nitro\", T-Money, Cuda, Mike O'Dell (husband of WCW star Midajah), D.O.A., and Bubba King began heckling in the audience as Diamond Dallas Page spoke to the Chicago crowd. Rick Steiner, Ernest Miller, and Buff Bagwell came to Page's aid before security ended the physical dispute. The feud between these men continued as far as November 20, mere months before the buyout of WCW by the World Wrestling Federation (WWF).\n\nAll events were overseen by Referee Seth Stockton. His actual level of authority is unclear although he did ban a few warriors from competing for bad behaviour.\n\nBattle Wheel\n\nTwo warriors competed. The event took place on a large, rotating platform which resembled a right circular cone with its outside edge and apex flattened. The contenders had 60 seconds to force both warriors to touch the bottom ring of the wheel with any part of their body. The warriors were allowed to do essentially anything necessary to keep this from occurring. The contenders had to dispatch of the first warrior on the lower portion of the wheel (usually Jake Fury) before taking on the warrior at the top of the wheel (usually Cuda). 25 points were earned for removing the lower warrior from the wheel, and an additional 25 points were earned for getting the 2nd warrior off the wheel.\n\n\nTake Down\n\nA football type event. The contender was placed in the center of an enclosed area with 2 warriors on each end (Michael O'Dell participated in this event most often). Behind each warrior were 4 different lights with actuators beneath them. In the 1st season, a light was lit up behind the warrior (Steve and Scott typically noted that the warriors did not know which light was lit). On the referee's whistle, the contender tried to hit the actuator to turn the light off. Each light turned off was worth 25 points. The contender was only allowed one attempt per light; no \"second effort\" was allowed. After each attempt, the contender returned to the center and repeated against the other warrior. This would continue for 60 seconds. In the 2nd season, all 8 lights (4 at each end) were lit up. The contender chose which light to go after and the warrior would have to stop them. Otherwise, the rules remained the same from season 1.\n\nRollercage of Fire (1st Season), Rollercage (2nd Season)\n\nContenders were raised up into a revolving cylindrical cage with holes built into it. In the 1st season, a ring of fire was set outside the cage at each end, mainly to set the atmosphere. The fire ring was removed in season two, as well as the reference to it in the event's title. Contenders had 60 seconds to force the warrior (Almost always T-Money, with 1 or 2 appearances by DOA in the later part of the 1st season) through one of the holes while avoiding the same fate. Forcing the warrior out earned 25 points (later 50). Draws originally scored nothing, but were later increased to a 25-point score.\n\nAerial Kickboxing\n\nContenders and opposing warriors hung from an undulating metal grid roughly 10 feet off the ground. The contender attempted to kick the warrior (most often Bubba King) off the grid within 60 seconds without being removed from the grid themselves. Kicks to the head were technically against the rules and would result in DQ's. At least 1 contender was DQ'd because of head shots. If the contender kicked the warrior off the grid, the contender scored 50 points. Draws scored 25 points. Most contenders were lucky to score short of a DQ of the warrior. Bubba King and Sleepwalker were almost impossible to beat, but O'Dell actually was impossible to defeat, as he never lost a match and rarely surrendered a draw.\n\nAfter the match, the \"reporter\" had Bubba talk about the match. Bubba was angry, and complained about the contestant breaking the rules (by kicking him in the head), and Bubba said half his body went numb from the head kick.\n\nG-Force\n\nA central rotating tower had three arms extending from the top of the central tower. Each of the contenders hung onto a handle at the end of each arm. A warrior stood on a platform above this tower, throwing balls at the contenders as the tower spun. The tower's speed increased steadily as the event progressed. The last contender/s standing earned 25 points, and a bonus 25 points was earned for lasting 60 seconds.\n\nBattle Bridge\n\nA large bridge spun quickly in mid-air. The contender and the warrior were each given a large padded club to use to knock the other off the bridge as it spun. Contenders scored 50 points for successfully knocking the warrior off the bridge, or 25 points for lasting 60 seconds.\n\nBattle Field\n\nThis event was similar to Powerball on American Gladiators. Unlike Powerball, contenders competed one-on-one against a single warrior, who defended a single scoring bin. The scoring bin was located in the center of the playing field atop an approximately pyramid. The warrior wore boxing gloves and could freely attack the contender as much as they wanted to keep them from scoring. Each ball scored was worth 25 points.\n\nBattle Hoop\n\nContenders began in the center of a circular field. A large hanging hoop moved around the outside perimeter of the field, with its opening always facing the center of the field. A warrior stood on the outside perimeter of the field to block the contender from jumping through the hoop. Contenders had 60 seconds to try to jump through the hoop as many times as they could, returning to the center after each attempt. Each successful pass through the hoop earned 25 points.\n\nBattle Wall\n\nContenders had to get over three walls defended by the Battle Dome warriors. A warrior stood on the opposite side of each wall. Each wall was around 3 feet in height. The walls became narrower as the event went on making it harder to get by the warriors. Each wall that a contender was successful in climbing was worth 25 points.\n\nEvader\n\nA contender had to light targets while avoiding medicine balls being launched by two warriors. Contenders had 60 seconds to light up all the targets on the two towers (one at a time). Originally, the warriors only had to hit the contenders 3 times to end the match, but it was later increased to 5 times. Lighting up all the targets on a tower (this may not have ever been done) was worth 25 points and lighting up all the targets was worth 50. This event was considered to be Jake Fury's signature event.\n\nAnti-Gravity\n\nThis event, along with Interceptor, was always played last because of the point opportunities. Contenders had to light strips by hitting buttons on a grid while moving along handles placed on the grid. Every strip lit was worth 25 points, for a possible 150. The contenders were also chased by a Battle Dome Warrior, which was almost always The Commander, and could lose the game in one of two ways: either losing their grip, which would result in the contender floating away, or having the Warrior rip their harness off and send them to the floor.\n\nInterceptor\n\nCalled a game of cat and mouse, a contender had to fly around the Interceptor grid lighting targets worth 25 points each until caught by the warrior (again, almost always The Commander) or time ran out. Each target was worth 25 points. There was a maximum of 175 points available to the contenders.\n\nUltimate Body Slam\n\nThis was a tiebreaker, usually between the warriors for the right to hold the warrior belt. If the top warrior had been less than stellar and a fellow warrior close in the rankings had performed well, but not well enough to win the belt outright, the two warriors would compete in Ultimate Body Slam. This game was simply a test of endurance; each player stood on a platform behind a metal disk. The disks were then pulled back and slammed into each other at increasing speed until one of the two fell off and lost.\n\nDuring the first season, the warriors maintained distinct personalities, similar to professional wrestling characters. The warriors competed for the Battledome Belt. After each event the warriors were \"ranked\", according to how well they did in the competition. At the end of that days competition the top ranked warrior received the Battledome Belt. The \"ranking\" was done by the mysterious chairman. The chairman supposedly owned the Battledome. He was only seen in silhouette wearing a large cowboy hat. What little else was known about him is that he was supposedly an older man. Karen Ko was supposed to be his trophy wife, and Bobbie Haven his secretary. It was Bobbie he would deliver the messages from The chairman to the other warriors and the fans. At the start of the second season The chairman, standings board and the Battledome Belt were dropped from the competition.\n\nFirst season warriors\n\nThe original series had 9 warriors. Some competed every week with some making only a few appearances.\n\nThe \"king\" of aerial kickboxing. Had very few defeats and proved almost invincible with most challengers lasting a maximum of 30 seconds. Did not play any other event during the shows run.\n\nSpeciality event appeared to be Anti-Gravity with Interceptor a close second. One of the smaller warriors proved very speedy and powerful against challengers.\n\nThe largest warrior during season 1. Dominated Battle Wheel. Always appeared in the top position on this event. Did make fleeting appearances on other events.\n\nMade few appearances in Season one but became much more prolific in Season 2. Speciality event appeared to be Rollercage.\n\nThe wild and unpredictable Fury appeared in several games. Particularly able at games G- force and Evader. Suffered a severe ankle injury during season one while participating in Battle Wheel. Thankfully he recovered and did return for season 2.\n\nThe poster boy of Battledome. Handsome, toned and tanned. One of the most all round warriors. Played most games with Aerial Kickboxing and Takedown proving specialities.\n\nAppeared fleeting during season 1. Mainly as cover for injured warriors. Entered arena wearing a straitjacket and howling. Difficult to tell what he was good at as he didn't participate in many events.\n\nAnother warrior who seemed to be cover for fellow injured warriors. Did participate in Anti-Gravity and aerial kickboxing but suffered a shoulder injury in the event. Seemed very capable in events he participated in.\n\nSmug, arrogant and always accompanied by \"The Posse\". Blinged up with jewellery and a dollar sign chain around his neck. Very good at several games but Rollercage was his speciality. Did not take losing very well!\n\nSecond season warriors\n\nSeason 2 saw the departure of Payne and Sleepalker for unknown reasons. The remaining 7 warriors returned and were accompanied by 6 new warriors to bring the total up to 13.\n\n'Returning Warriors:\n\nNew Warriors \nSeemed to act as an alternate for injured warriors. Very impressive during his appearances. Virtually unbeatable in Takedown.\n\nDid not appear until later in the season then became a regular. Played several games. Takedown and Battle Hoop clearly his best.\n\nAn all-rounder who participated in lots of games. No real stand out performances but very capable on events he played in.\n\nDominated his early appearances and Participated in many games. Got injured later in the season and did not appear again.\n\nAppeared only fleetingly during the series. Mainly as cover for injured warriors. The biggest of all warriors weighing over 300 lbs.\n\nAnother warrior who made on and off appearances throughout the season. Played a few games with Battle Wheel proving his speciality.\n\nA partial list of female companions:\n\nhttp://www.tv.com/shows/battle-dome/cast/\n\n"}
{"id": "7566837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7566837", "title": "Bioscope show", "text": "Bioscope show\n\nA Bioscope show was a music hall and fairground attraction consisting of a travelling cinema. The heyday of the Bioscope was from the late 1890s until World War I.\n\nBioscope shows were fronted by the largest fairground organs, and these formed the entire public face of the show. A stage was usually in front of the organ, and dancing girls would entertain the crowds between film shows. \n\nFilms shown in the Bioscope were primitive, and the earliest of these were made by the showmen themselves. Later, films were commercially produced.\n\nBioscope shows were integrated, in Britain at least, into the Variety shows in the huge Music Halls which were built at the end of the nineteenth century.\n\nAfter the Music Hall Strike of 1907 in London, bioscope operators set up a trade union to represent them. There were about seventy operators in London at this point.\n\nIn South Africa \"Bioscope\" or in Afrikaans \"bioskoop\" is an archaic word for the cinema and some people (especially older generations) still use it regularly.\n\nIn modern day Dutch, \"bioscoop\" is a wide-spread term, and the equivalent of the English \"movie theater\" or \"cinema\".\n"}
{"id": "580496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=580496", "title": "Buffyverse", "text": "Buffyverse\n\nThe Buffyverse or Slayerverse is the shared fictional universe in which the TV series \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Angel\" are set. This term, originally coined by fans of the TV series, has since been used in the titles of published works, and adopted by Joss Whedon, the creator of the fictional universe. The Buffyverse is a place in which supernatural phenomena exist, and supernatural evil can be challenged by people willing to fight against such forces.\n\nThe Buffyverse is a fictional construct created by hundreds of individual stories told through TV, novels, comics and other media. It began with the first episodes of the \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" television series in 1997 and expanded with the spinoff TV series \"Angel\" in 1999. The popularity of these series led to licensed fiction carrying the \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\" labels.\n\nOutside of the TV series, the Buffyverse has been expanded and elaborated by various authors and artists in the so-called \"Buffyverse Expanded Universe\". The Buffyverse novels, Buffy video games and the vast majority of Buffyverse comics, are licensed by 20th Century Fox. The works sometimes flesh out background information on characters. For example, \"Go Ask Malice\" provides information about the origins of the character, Faith Lehane.\n\nThe Buffyverse comics were first published by Dark Horse who have retained the right to produce Buffy comics. IDW now hold the license to produce Angel comics. Joss Whedon wrote an eight-issue miniseries for Dark Horse Comics entitled \"Fray\", about a futuristic vampire slayer. Its final issue was published in August 2003. Pocket Books holds the license to produce Buffy novels, but their license to produce Angel novels expired in 2004.\n\nThe Buffyverse is distinguished from the real world in that it contains supernatural elements, though only a small proportion of the human population is aware of this. In regards to the presentation of morality, many aspects of the Buffyverse are introduced as good or evil and are usually treated as such, though certain instances are often forced into more ambiguous grey areas. A few of the main aspects of the Buffyverse follow.\n\nThe world was originally ruled by powerful pure-breed demons, the Old Ones. The Old Ones were eventually driven out of this dimension. Any who remained were vanquished or imprisoned in the \"Deeper Well\", which is essentially a hole in the Earth with one end opening in England. The entrance within England is in a tree (\"Hole in the World\" Angel Season 5). These demons are revered and worshiped by lesser demon species, and await chances to return and reclaim Earth.\n\nAccording to legend in the Buffyverse, the last Old One to leave this dimension fed off a human and their blood mixed. A demon was trapped in the human body in the place of the soul. Rupert Giles describes how the being \"bit another, and another, and so they walk the Earth\". Some elements of traditional vampire mythology are used while others are abandoned. These said elements (listed below) are essentially the rules of a vampire's life.\n\nCan be killed by:\n\nVulnerable to:\n\nOther vampire features:\n\nAs in historical werewolf mythology, werewolves are people who suffer from lycanthropy. In the Buffyverse, werewolf characters are shown to have an animal side which either complements or clashes with their human side. They transform not only on the full moon of each month, but the day before and the day after as well. Prominent werewolf characters include Oz, Veruca, and Nina Ash. Some werewolves have shown the ability to gain control/achieve harmony between their human and bestial sides (Oz and his teacher in the comics).\n\nIn the Buffyverse, the term \"demon\" is inexact; it has been applied to just about every creature that isn't a god, robot, unmodified human, or standard terrestrial animal. Some classes of creature, such as Vampires and Old Ones, are known to be demons but not always referred to as such.\n\nThere are many kinds of demons portrayed in the Buffyverse, of many different natures and origins. Some demons are shown to live and reproduce on Earth (the Bezoar in \"Bad Eggs\"), but some are extraterrestrial (the Queller demon in \"Listening to Fear\"), extradimensional (Lorne on \"Angel\"), ex-humans (Anya Jenkins was a peasant who became a vengeance demon), and hybrids (Cordelia Chase had aspects of demon fused in her). Some species of demon are capable of breeding with humans (Doyle has a human mother and a demon father). Anya Jenkins states in the episode \"Graduation Day\" that the demons that walk the earth are not pure demons, they are half-breeds. She states that true demons are \"bigger\", in reference to Mayor Richard Wilkins' Ascension into a true demon.\n\nSome demons in \"Buffy\" are shown to be inherently evil and interested in causing suffering, death, and harm. Other characters challenge this notion however, with demons such as Clem and Lorne who appear basically good.\n\nA group of shamans used the essence of a demon to produce the First Slayer. She was banished from her own village and forced to fight the forces of darkness alone. When she died another girl was \"chosen\" in her place. The line of Slayers is maintained until Buffy's two deaths and revivals cause a disturbance in the Slayer line that ultimately leads to the awakening of the First Evil. The Slayer is given great strength, lightning reflexes, fast healing powers and is highly skilled with many weapons and martial arts.\n\nThe Watchers' Council historically offers guidance to the Slayer, assisting them by supervising their training and by researching existing and possible demonic or supernatural threats. Notable Watchers include Rupert Giles, Watcher of series protagonist Buffy, and Wesley Wyndam-Pryce, who temporarily takes over in season 3.\n\nWhile most of humanity in the Buffyverse seems oblivious to the existence of demons, other groups and organizations that are waging their own battles against evil come to light over the course of \"Buffy\" and \"Angel\" and in related media. For example, a group of socially disadvantaged youth in L.A. organized themselves to battle the vampires destroying their community. (See Charles Gunn.) And, although some of their methods and goals proved questionable, a government-funded group known as The Initiative was also aware of the existence of demons and was fighting a secret war against them. Other large scale groups appear in both Buffy and Angel, often as antagonists to the heroes due to differing views on how to fight the good fight.\n\nMagic in the Buffyverse can be used for all manner of control. Spells can be performed by anyone by use of magical items while saying particular words. Witches and warlocks however have more knowledge and power for using it for their purposes.\n\nA witch can inherit their lineage from their parents or develop their craft over many years, and neither a witch nor warlock must necessarily be human, such as Cyvus Vail.\n\nWhile not prominent in the Buffyverse, there are individuals who gain special powers through means other than the ones mentioned above. Gwen Raiden and Bethany (from the \"Angel\" episode \"Untouched\") seem to be born with their powers. Drusilla had psychic powers as a human before becoming a vampire though their origins are never explained. Others, like Marcie Ross from the episode \"Out of Mind, Out of Sight\" or the trio of Nerds gain their powers by other magical, non-magical, or \"scientific\" means. Connor (Angel) is also a human with supernatural powers, similar to those of vampires, because he was born as a product of two vampire parents.\n\nTechnology in the Buffyverse is more advanced than in the real world at the time it was produced, although the applications of it do not seem to be common knowledge. Examples of advanced technology include:\n\n\nAdditionally, there is much technology specifically geared towards the supernatural, used by the government organization known as \"The Initiative\" and the demonic law firm Wolfram and Hart.\n\nBands and artists who were featured in either \"Buffy\" or \"Angel\" (on- and offscreen), or were featured on the Buffy soundtrack albums.\n\n"}
{"id": "18083223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18083223", "title": "Children's magic", "text": "Children's magic\n\nChildren's magic is a specialized aspect of parlor magic and is meant to entertain children. It is typically performed at birthday parties, churches, preschools, elementary schools, Sunday Schools or libraries. It is often the only type of magic most Westerners experience other than that seen on television. This type of magic is usually comedic in nature.\n\nA distinction should be made between Children's magic and \"young magicians.\" The former is meant for audiences made up of mostly children while the latter refers to performers who are under-aged. The later has organizations dedicated to them including Society of Young Magicians, Magic Youth International and Young Magicians' Club.\n\nNot every magician is interested in performing for children both artistically and in terms of patience. When Br. John Hamman, sm, was honored in 1995 during the first St. Louis Magical Heritage Awards, he explained in his acceptance speech the key to a successful magic performance:\n\nSince children do not have the social filters adults have in such situations, they have no compunction against pointing out every error or inconsistency a magician makes during his performance. This makes performing for children exceedingly difficult.\n\nChildren's magicians often use certain gambits while performing for children. Some performers use their knowledge to intentionally misdirect the children in a given audience. One form of this type of misdirection is referred to as \"Magician-in-Trouble\" wherein a performer pretends to have made a mistake.\n\nThe style used for children's magic is often comical and frequently uses props that are large and colorful.\nIt is not uncommon for magicians to dress as clowns or in wild and outlandish costumes while performing.\n\nGenerally, children's magicians are reluctant to use tricks that focus on the use of playing cards, however magic with coins (see Coin magic) or paper money are frequently popular with children. Movement and action are preferable to patter. Buffoonery is a better vehicle than \"mystery\" for children.[1] These performers commonly use as many audience members as impromptu assistants as possible.[1] Common Children's Magic Props include: Run Rabbit Run, Hip Hop Rabbits, Change Bag Routines, Breakaway Wand, Tipsy Turvy Bottles, and Spongeballs. Older children (from 7 upwards) tend to have a far greater logic and less traditional and more innovative magic effects can be performed.\n"}
{"id": "195718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195718", "title": "Cinematography", "text": "Cinematography\n\nCinematography (from ancient greek κίνημα, \"kìnema\" \"movement\" and γράφειν, \"gràphein\" \"to write\") is the science or art of motion-picture photography by recording light or other electromagnetic radiation, either electronically by means of an image sensor, or chemically by means of a light-sensitive material such as film stock.\n\nCinematographers use a lens to focus reflected light from objects into a real image that is transferred to some image sensor or light-sensitive material inside a movie camera. These exposures are created sequentially and preserved for later processing and viewing as a motion picture. Capturing images with an electronic image sensor produces an electrical charge for each pixel in the image, which is electronically processed and stored in a video file for subsequent processing or display. Images captured with photographic emulsion result in a series of invisible latent images on the film stock, which are chemically \"developed\" into a visible image. The images on the film stock are projected for viewing the motion picture.\n\nCinematography finds uses in many fields of science and business as well as for entertainment purposes and mass communication.\n\nThe word \"cinematography\" is based on the Greek words (\"kinema\"), meaning \"movement, motion\" and (\"graphein\") meaning \"to record\", together meaning \"recording motion\". The word used to refer to the art, process, or job of filming movies, but later its meaning became restricted to \"motion picture photography\".\n\nIn the 1830s, moving images were produced on revolving drums and disks, with independent invention by Simon von Stampfer (stroboscope) in Austria, Joseph Plateau (phenakistoscope) in Belgium, and William Horner (zoetrope) in Britain.\n\nIn 1845, Francis Ronalds invented the first successful camera able to make continuous recordings of the varying indications of meteorological and geomagnetic instruments over time. The cameras were supplied to numerous observatories around the world and some remained in use until well into the 20th century.\n\nWilliam Lincoln patented a device, in 1867, that showed animated pictures called the \"wheel of life\" or \"zoopraxiscope\". In it, moving drawings or photographs were watched through a slit.\n\nOn 19 June 1873, Eadweard Muybridge successfully photographed a horse named \"Sallie Gardner\" in fast motion using a series of 24 stereoscopic cameras. The cameras were arranged along a track parallel to the horse's, and each camera shutter was controlled by a trip wire triggered by the horse's hooves. They were 21 inches apart to cover the 20 feet taken by the horse stride, taking pictures at one thousandth of a second. At the end of the decade, Muybridge had adapted sequences of his photographs to a zoopraxiscope for short, primitive projected \"movies,\" which were sensations on his lecture tours by 1879 or 1880.\n\nNine years later, in 1882, French scientist Étienne-Jules Marey invented a chronophotographic gun, which was capable of taking 12 consecutive frames a second, recording all the frames of the same picture.\n\nThe late nineteenth to the early twentieth century brought rise to the use of film not only for entertainment purposes but for scientific exploration as well. French biologist and filmmaker Jean Painleve lobbied heavily for the use of film in the scientific field, as the new medium was more efficient in capturing and documenting the behavior, movement, and environment of microorganisms, cells, and bacteria, than the naked eye. The introduction of film into scientific fields allowed for not only the viewing \"new images and objects, such as cells and natural objects, but also the viewing of them in real time\", whereas prior to the invention of moving pictures, scientists and doctors alike had to rely on hand drawn sketches of human anatomy and its microorganisms. This posed a great inconvenience in the science and medical worlds. The development of film and increased usage of cameras allowed doctors and scientists to grasp a better understanding and knowledge of their projects.\n\nThe experimental film \"Roundhay Garden Scene\", filmed by Louis Le Prince on 14 October 1888, in Roundhay, Leeds, England, is the earliest surviving motion picture. This movie was shot on paper film.\n\nW. K. L. Dickson, working under the direction of Thomas Alva Edison, was the first to design a successful apparatus, the Kinetograph, patented in 1891. This camera took a series of instantaneous photographs on standard Eastman Kodak photographic emulsion coated onto a transparent celluloid strip 35 mm wide. The results of this work were first shown in public in 1893, using the viewing apparatus also designed by Dickson, the Kinetoscope. Contained within a large box, only one person at a time looking into it through a peephole could view the movie.\n\nIn the following year, Charles Francis Jenkins and his projector, the Phantoscope, made a successful audience viewing while Louis and Auguste Lumière perfected the Cinématographe, an apparatus that took, printed, and projected film, in Paris in December 1895. The Lumière brothers were the first to present projected, moving, photographic, pictures to a paying audience of more than one person.\n\nIn 1896, movie theaters were open in France (Paris, Lyon, Bordeaux, Nice, Marseille); Italy (Rome, Milan, Naples, Genoa, Venice, Bologna, Forlì); Brussels; and London.\n\nIn 1896, Edison showed his improved Vitascope projector, the first commercially successful projector in the U.S.\n\nCooper Hewitt invented mercury lamps which made it practical to shoot films indoors without sunlight in 1905.\n\nThe first animated cartoon was produced in 1906.\n\nCredits began to appear at the beginning of motion pictures in 1911.\n\nThe Bell and Howell 2709 movie camera invented in 1915 allowed directors to make close-ups without physically moving the camera.\n\nBy the late 1920s, most of the movies produced were sound films.\n\nWide screen formats were first experimented with in the 1950s.\n\nBy the 1970s, most movies were color films. IMAX and other 70mm formats gained popularity. Wide distribution of films became commonplace, setting the ground for \"blockbusters.\"\n\nFilm cinematography dominated the motion picture industry from its inception until the 2010s when digital cinematography became dominant. Film cinematography is still used by some directors, especially in specific applications or out of fondness of the format.\n\nFrom its birth in the 1880s, movies were predominantly monochrome. Contrary to popular belief, monochrome doesn't always mean black and white; it means a movie shot in a single tone or color. Since the cost of tinted film bases was substantially higher, most movies were produced in black and white monochrome. Even with the advent of early color experiments, the greater expense of color meant films were mostly made in black and white until the 1950s, when cheaper color processes were introduced, and in some years the percentage of films shot on color film surpassed 51%. By the 1960s, color became by far the dominant film stock. In the coming decades, the usage of color film greatly increased while monochrome films became scarce.\n\nAfter the advent of motion pictures, a tremendous amount of energy was invested in the production of photography in natural color. The invention of the talking picture further increased the demand for the use of color photography. However, in comparison to other technological advances of the time, the arrival of color photography was a relatively slow process.\n\nEarly movies were not actually color movies since they were shot monochrome and hand-colored or machine-colored afterwards. (Such movies are referred to as \"colored\" and not \"color\".) The earliest such example is the hand-tinted Annabelle Serpentine Dance in 1895 by Edison Manufacturing Company. Machine-based tinting later became popular. Tinting continued until the advent of natural color cinematography in the 1910s. Many black and white movies have been colorized recently using digital tinting. This includes footage shot from both world wars, sporting events and political propaganda.\n\nIn 1902, Edward Raymond Turner produced the first films with a natural color process rather than using colorization techniques. In 1908, kinemacolor was introduced. In the same year, the short film \"A Visit to the Seaside\" became the first natural color movie to be publicly presented.\n\nIn 1917, the earliest version of Technicolor was introduced. Kodachrome was introduced in 1935. Eastmancolor was introduced in 1950 and became the color standard for the rest of the century.\n\nIn the 2010s, color films were largely superseded by color digital cinematography.\n\nIn digital cinematography, the movie is shot on digital medium such as flash storage, as well as distributed through a digital medium such as a hard drive.\n\nBeginning in the late 1980s, Sony began marketing the concept of \"electronic cinematography,\" utilizing its analog Sony HDVS professional video cameras. The effort met with very little success. However, this led to one of the earliest digitally shot feature movies, \"Julia and Julia\", being produced in 1987. In 1998, with the introduction of HDCAM recorders and 1920 × 1080 pixel digital professional video cameras based on CCD technology, the idea, now re-branded as \"digital cinematography,\" began to gain traction in the market.\n\nShot and released in 1998, \"The Last Broadcast\" is believed by some to be the first feature-length video shot and edited entirely on consumer-level digital equipment. In May 1999, George Lucas challenged the supremacy of the movie-making medium of film for the first time by including footage filmed with high-definition digital cameras in \"\". In late 2013, Paramount became the first major studio to distribute movies to theaters in digital format, eliminating 35mm film entirely. Since then the demand of movies to be developed onto digital format rather than 35mm has increased drastically.\n\nAs digital technology improved, movie studios began increasingly shifting towards digital cinematography. Since the 2010s, digital cinematography has become the dominant form of cinematography after largely superseding film cinematography.\n\nNumerous aspects contribute to the art of cinematography, including:\n\nThe first film cameras were fastened directly to the head of a tripod or other support, with only the crudest kind of leveling devices provided, in the manner of the still-camera tripod heads of the period. The earliest film cameras were thus effectively fixed during the shot, and hence the first camera movements were the result of mounting a camera on a moving vehicle. The first known of these was a film shot by a Lumière cameraman from the back platform of a train leaving Jerusalem in 1896, and by 1898, there were a number of films shot from moving trains. Although listed under the general heading of \"panoramas\" in the sales catalogues of the time, those films shot straight forward from in front of a railway engine were usually specifically referred to as \"phantom rides\".\n\nIn 1897, Robert W. Paul had the first real rotating camera head made to put on a tripod, so that he could follow the passing processions of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee in one uninterrupted shot. This device had the camera mounted on a vertical axis that could be rotated by a worm gear driven by turning a crank handle, and Paul put it on general sale the next year. Shots taken using such a \"panning\" head were also referred to as \"panoramas\" in the film catalogues of the first decade of the cinema. This eventually led to the creation of a panoramic photo as well.\n\nThe standard pattern for early film studios was provided by the studio which Georges Méliès had built in 1897. This had a glass roof and three glass walls constructed after the model of large studios for still photography, and it was fitted with thin cotton cloths that could be stretched below the roof to diffuse the direct ray of the sun on sunny days. The soft overall light without real shadows that this arrangement produced, and which also exists naturally on lightly overcast days, was to become the basis for film lighting in film studios for the next decade.\n\nCinematography can begin with digital image sensor or rolls of film. Advancements in film emulsion and grain structure provided a wide range of available film stocks. The selection of a film stock is one of the first decisions made in preparing a typical film production.\n\nAside from the film gauge selection – 8 mm (amateur), 16 mm (semi-professional), 35 mm (professional) and 65 mm (epic photography, rarely used except in special event venues) – the cinematographer has a selection of stocks in reversal (which, when developed, create a positive image) and negative formats along with a wide range of film speeds (varying sensitivity to light) from ISO 50 (slow, least sensitive to light) to 800 (very fast, extremely sensitive to light) and differing response to color (low saturation, high saturation) and contrast (varying levels between pure black (no exposure) and pure white (complete overexposure).\nAdvancements and adjustments to nearly all gauges of film create the \"super\" formats wherein the area of the film used to capture a single frame of an image is expanded, although the physical gauge of the film remains the same. Super 8 mm, Super 16 mm, and Super 35 mm all utilize more of the overall film area for the image than their \"regular\" non-super counterparts. The larger the film gauge, the higher the overall image resolution clarity and technical quality. The techniques used by the film laboratory to process the film stock can also offer a considerable variance in the image produced. By controlling the temperature and varying the duration in which the film is soaked in the development chemicals, and by skipping certain chemical processes (or partially skipping all of them), cinematographers can achieve very different looks from a single film stock in the laboratory. Some techniques that can be used are push processing, bleach bypass, and cross processing.\n\nMost of modern cinema uses digital cinematography and has no film stocks , but the cameras themselves can be adjusted in ways that go far beyond the abilities of one particular film stock. They can provide varying degrees of color sensitivity, image contrast, light sensitivity and so on. One camera can achieve all the various looks of different emulsions. Digital image adjustments such as ISO and contrast are executed by estimating the same adjustments that would take place if actual film were in use, and are thus vulnerable to the camera's sensor designers perceptions of various film stocks and image adjustment parameters.\n\nFilters, such as diffusion filters or color effect filters, are also widely used to enhance mood or dramatic effects. Most photographic filters are made up of two pieces of optical glass glued together with some form of image or light manipulation material between the glass. In the case of color filters, there is often a translucent color medium pressed between two planes of optical glass. Color filters work by blocking out certain color wavelengths of light from reaching the film. With color film, this works very intuitively wherein a blue filter will cut down on the passage of red, orange, and yellow light and create a blue tint on the film. In black-and-white photography, color filters are used somewhat counter intuitively; for instance a yellow filter, which cuts down on blue wavelengths of light, can be used to darken a daylight sky (by eliminating blue light from hitting the film, thus greatly underexposing the mostly blue sky) while not biasing most human flesh tone. Certain cinematographers, such as Christopher Doyle, are well known for their innovative use of filters. Filters can be used in front of the lens or, in some cases, behind the lens for different effects. Christopher Doyle was a pioneer for increased usage of filters in movies. He was highly respected throughout the cinema world.\n\nLenses can be attached to the camera to give a certain look, feel, or effect by focus, color, etc.\n\nAs does the human eye, the camera creates perspective and spatial relations with the rest of the world. However, unlike one's eye, a cinematographer can select different lenses for different purposes. Variation in focal length is one of the chief benefits. The focal length of the lens determines the angle of view and, therefore, the field of view. Cinematographers can choose from a range of wide-angle lenses, \"normal\" lenses and long focus lenses, as well as macro lenses and other special effect lens systems such as borescope lenses. Wide-angle lenses have short focal lengths and make spatial distances more obvious. A person in the distance is shown as much smaller while someone in the front will loom large. On the other hand, long focus lenses reduce such exaggerations, depicting far-off objects as seemingly close together and flattening perspective. The differences between the perspective rendering is actually not due to the focal length by itself, but by the distance between the subjects and the camera. Therefore, the use of different focal lengths in combination with different camera to subject distances creates these different rendering. Changing the focal length only while keeping the same camera position doesn't affect perspective but the camera angle of view only.\n\nA zoom lens allows a camera operator to change his focal length within a shot or quickly between setups for shots. As prime lenses offer greater optical quality and are \"faster\" (larger aperture openings, usable in less light) than zoom lenses, they are often employed in professional cinematography over zoom lenses. Certain scenes or even types of filmmaking, however, may require the use of zooms for speed or ease of use, as well as shots involving a zoom move.\n\nAs in other photography, the control of the exposed image is done in the lens with the control of the diaphragm aperture. For proper selection, the cinematographer needs that all lenses be engraved with T-stop, not f-stop so that the eventual light loss due to the glass doesn't affect the exposure control when setting it using the usual meters. The choice of the aperture also affects image quality (aberrations) and depth of field.\n\nFocal length and diaphragm aperture affect the depth of field of a scene – that is, how much the background, mid-ground and foreground will be rendered in \"acceptable focus\" (only one exact plane of the image is in precise focus) on the film or video target. Depth of field (not to be confused with depth of focus) is determined by the aperture size and the focal distance. A large or deep depth of field is generated with a very small iris aperture and focusing on a point in the distance, whereas a shallow depth of field will be achieved with a large (open) iris aperture and focusing closer to the lens. Depth of field is also governed by the format size. If one considers the field of view and angle of view, the smaller the image is, the shorter the focal length should be, as to keep the same field of view. Then, the smaller the image is, the more depth of field is obtained, for the same field of view. Therefore, 70mm has less depth of field than 35mm for a given field of view, 16mm more than 35mm, and early video cameras, as well as most modern consumer level video cameras, even more depth of field than 16mm. \n\nIn \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), cinematographer Gregg Toland and director Orson Welles used tighter apertures to create every detail of the foreground and background of the sets in sharp focus. This practice is known as deep focus. Deep focus became a popular cinematographic device from the 1940s onwards in Hollywood. Today, the trend is for more shallow focus. To change the plane of focus from one object or character to another within a shot is commonly known as a \"rack focus\".\n\nEarly in the transition to digital cinematography, the inability of digital video cameras to easily achieve shallow depth of field, due to their small image sensors, was initially an issue of frustration for film makers trying to emulate the look of 35mm film. Optical adapters were devised which accomplished this by mounting a larger format lens which projected its image, at the size of the larger format, on a ground glass screen preserving the depth of field. The adapter and lens then mounted on the small format video camera which in turn focused on the ground glass screen. \n\nDigital SLR still cameras have sensor sizes similar to that of the 35mm film frame, and thus are able to produce images with similar depth of field. The advent of video functions in these cameras sparked a revolution in digital cinematography, with more and more film makers adopting still cameras for the purpose because of the film-like qualities of their images. More recently, more and more dedicated video cameras are being equipped with larger sensors capable of 35mm film-like depth of field.\n\nThe aspect ratio of an image is the ratio of its width to its height. This can be expressed either as a ratio of 2 integers, such as 4:3, or in a decimal format, such as 1.33:1 or simply 1.33.\n\nDifferent ratios provide different aesthetic effects. Standards for aspect ratio have varied significantly over time.\n\nDuring the silent era, aspect ratios varied widely, from square 1:1, all the way up to the extreme widescreen 4:1 Polyvision. However, from the 1910s, silent motion pictures generally settled on the ratio of 4:3 (1.33). The introduction of sound-on-film briefly narrowed the aspect ratio, to allow room for a sound stripe. In 1932, a new standard was introduced, the Academy ratio of 1.37, by means of thickening the frame line.\n\nFor years, mainstream cinematographers were limited to using the Academy ratio, but in the 1950s, thanks to the popularity of Cinerama, widescreen ratios were introduced in an effort to pull audiences back into the theater and away from their home television sets. These new widescreen formats provided cinematographers a wider frame within which to compose their images.\n\nMany different proprietary photographic systems were invented and utilized in the 1950s to create widescreen movies, but one dominated film: the anamorphic process, which optically squeezes the image to photograph twice the horizontal area to the same size vertical as standard \"spherical\" lenses. The first commonly used anamorphic format was CinemaScope, which used a 2.35 aspect ratio, although it was originally 2.55. CinemaScope was used from 1953 to 1967, but due to technical flaws in the design and its ownership by Fox, several third-party companies, led by Panavision's technical improvements in the 1950s, dominated the anamorphic cine lens market. Changes to SMPTE projection standards altered the projected ratio from 2.35 to 2.39 in 1970, although this did not change anything regarding the photographic anamorphic standards; all changes in respect to the aspect ratio of anamorphic 35 mm photography are specific to camera or projector gate sizes, not the optical system. After the \"widescreen wars\" of the 1950s, the motion-picture industry settled into 1.85 as a standard for theatrical projection in the United States and the United Kingdom. This is a cropped version of 1.37. Europe and Asia opted for 1.66 at first, although 1.85 has largely permeated these markets in recent decades. Certain \"epic\" or adventure movies utilized the anamorphic 2.39.\n\nIn the 1990s, with the advent of high-definition video, television engineers created the 1.78 (16:9) ratio as a mathematical compromise between the theatrical standard of 1.85 and television's 1.33, as it was not practical to produce a traditional CRT television tube with a width of 1.85. Until that point, nothing had ever been originated in 1.78. Today, this is a standard for high-definition video and for widescreen television.\n\nLight is necessary to create an image exposure on a frame of film or on a digital target (CCD, etc.). The art of lighting for cinematography goes far beyond basic exposure, however, into the essence of visual storytelling. Lighting contributes considerably to the emotional response an audience has watching a motion picture. The increased usage of filters can greatly impact the final image and affect the lighting.\n\nCinematography can not only depict a moving subject but can use a camera, which represents the audience's viewpoint or perspective, that moves during the course of filming. This movement plays a considerable role in the emotional language of film images and the audience's emotional reaction to the action. Techniques range from the most basic movements of panning (horizontal shift in viewpoint from a fixed position; like turning your head side-to-side) and tilting (vertical shift in viewpoint from a fixed position; like tipping your head back to look at the sky or down to look at the ground) to dollying (placing the camera on a moving platform to move it closer or farther from the subject), tracking (placing the camera on a moving platform to move it to the left or right), craning (moving the camera in a vertical position; being able to lift it off the ground as well as swing it side-to-side from a fixed base position), and combinations of the above. Early cinematographers often faced problems that were not common to other graphic artists because of the element of motion.\nCameras have been mounted to nearly every imaginable form of transportation.\n\nMost cameras can also be handheld, that is held in the hands of the camera operator who moves from one position to another while filming the action. Personal stabilizing platforms came into being in the late 1970s through the invention of Garrett Brown, which became known as the Steadicam. The Steadicam is a body harness and stabilization arm that connects to the camera, supporting the camera while isolating it from the operator's body movements. After the Steadicam patent expired in the early 1990s, many other companies began manufacturing their concept of the personal camera stabilizer. This invention is much more common throughout the cinematic world today. From feature-length films to the evening news, more and more networks have begun to use a personal camera stabilizer.\n\nThe first special effects in the cinema were created while the film was being shot. These came to be known as \"in-camera\" effects. Later, optical and digital effects were developed so that editors and visual effects artists could more tightly control the process by manipulating the film in post-production.\n\nThe 1896 movie The Execution of Mary Stuart shows an actor dressed as the queen placing her head on the execution block in front of a small group of bystanders in Elizabethan dress. The executioner brings his axe down, and the queen's severed head drops onto the ground. This trick was worked by stopping the camera and replacing the actor with a dummy, then restarting the camera before the axe falls. The two pieces of film were then trimmed and cemented together so that the action appeared continuous when the film was shown, thus creating an overall illusion and successfully laying the foundation for special effects.\n\nThis film was among those exported to Europe with the first Kinetoscope machines in 1895 and was seen by Georges Méliès, who was putting on magic shows in his Theatre Robert-Houdin in Paris at the time. He took up filmmaking in 1896, and after making imitations of other films from Edison, Lumière, and Robert Paul, he made \"Escamotage d'un dame chez Robert-Houdin (The Vanishing Lady)\". This film shows a woman being made to vanish by using the same stop motion technique as the earlier Edison film. After this, Georges Méliès made many single shot films using this trick over the next couple of years.\n\nThe other basic technique for trick cinematography involves double exposure of the film in the camera, which was first done by George Albert Smith in July 1898 in the UK. Smith's \"The Corsican Brothers\" (1898) was described in the catalogue of the Warwick Trading Company, which took up the distribution of Smith's films in 1900, thus:\n\"One of the twin brothers returns home from shooting in the Corsican mountains, and is visited by the ghost of the other twin. By extremely careful photography the ghost appears *quite transparent*. After indicating that he has been killed by a sword-thrust, and appealing for vengeance, he disappears. A 'vision' then appears showing the fatal duel in the snow. To the Corsican's amazement, the duel and death of his brother are vividly depicted in the vision, and overcome by his feelings, he falls to the floor just as his mother enters the room.\"\nThe ghost effect was done by draping the set in black velvet after the main action had been shot, and then re-exposing the negative with the actor playing the ghost going through the actions at the appropriate point. Likewise, the vision, which appeared within a circular vignette or matte, was similarly superimposed over a black area in the backdrop to the scene, rather than over a part of the set with detail in it, so that nothing appeared through the image, which seemed quite solid. Smith used this technique again in \"Santa Claus\" (1898).\n\nGeorges Méliès first used superimposition on a dark background in \"La Caverne maudite (The Cave of the Demons)\" made a couple of months later in 1898, and elaborated it with multiple superimpositions in the one shot in \"Un Homme de têtes (The Four Troublesome Heads)\". He created further variations in subsequent films.\n\nMotion picture images are presented to an audience at a constant speed. In the theater it is 24 frames per second, in NTSC (US) Television it is 30 frames per second (29.97 to be exact), in PAL (Europe) television it is 25 frames per second. This speed of presentation does not vary.\n\nHowever, by varying the speed at which the image is captured, various effects can be created knowing that the faster or slower recorded image will be played at a constant speed. Giving the cinematographer even more freedom for creativity and expression to be made.\n\nFor instance, time-lapse photography is created by exposing an image at an extremely slow rate. If a cinematographer sets a camera to expose one frame every minute for four hours, and then that footage is projected at 24 frames per second, a four-hour event will take 10 seconds to present, and one can present the events of a whole day (24 hours) in just one minute.\n\nThe inverse of this, if an image is captured at speeds above that at which they will be presented, the effect is to greatly slow down (slow motion) the image. If a cinematographer shoots a person diving into a pool at 96 frames per second, and that image is played back at 24 frames per second, the presentation will take 4 times as long as the actual event. Extreme slow motion, capturing many thousands of frames per second can present things normally invisible to the human eye, such as bullets in flight and shockwaves travelling through media, a potentially powerful cinematographical technique.\n\nIn motion pictures, the manipulation of time and space is a considerable contributing factor to the narrative storytelling tools. Film editing plays a much stronger role in this manipulation, but frame rate selection in the photography of the original action is also a contributing factor to altering time. For example, Charlie Chaplin's \"Modern Times\" was shot at \"silent speed\" (18 fps) but projected at \"sound speed\" (24 fps), which makes the slapstick action appear even more frenetic.\n\nSpeed ramping, or simply \"ramping\", is a process whereby the capture frame rate of the camera changes over time. For example, if in the course of 10 seconds of capture, the capture frame rate is adjusted from 60 frames per second to 24 frames per second, when played back at the standard movie rate of 24 frames per second, a unique time-manipulation effect is achieved. For example, someone pushing a door open and walking out into the street would appear to start off in slow-motion, but in a few seconds later within the same shot, the person would appear to walk in \"realtime\" (normal speed). The opposite speed-ramping is done in \"The Matrix\" when Neo re-enters the Matrix for the first time to see the Oracle. As he comes out of the warehouse \"load-point\", the camera zooms into Neo at normal speed but as it gets closer to Neo's face, time seems to slow down, foreshadowing the manipulation of time itself within the Matrix later in the movie.\n\nG. A. Smith initiated the technique of reverse motion and also improved the quality of self-motivating images. This he did by repeating the action a second time while filming it with an inverted camera and then joining the tail of the second negative to that of the first. The first films using this were \"Tipsy, Topsy, Turvy\" and \"The Awkward Sign Painter\", the latter which showed a sign painter lettering a sign, and then the painting on the sign vanishing under the painter's brush. The earliest surviving example of this technique is Smith's \"The House That Jack Built\", made before September 1901. Here, a small boy is shown knocking down a castle just constructed by a little girl out of children's building blocks. A title then appears, saying \"Reversed\", and the action is repeated in reverse so that the castle re-erects itself under his blows.\n\nCecil Hepworth improved upon this technique by printing the negative of the forwards motion backwards frame by frame, so that in the production of the print the original action was exactly reversed. Hepworth made \"The Bathers\" in 1900, in which bathers who have undressed and jumped into the water appear to spring backwards out of it, and have their clothes magically fly back onto their bodies.\n\nThe use of different camera speeds also appeared around 1900. Robert Paul's \"On a Runaway Motor Car through Piccadilly Circus\" (1899), had the camera turn so slowly that when the film was projected at the usual 16 frames per second, the scenery appeared to be passing at great speed. Cecil Hepworth used the opposite effect in \"The Indian Chief and the Seidlitz powder\" (1901), in which a naïve Red Indian eats a lot of the fizzy stomach medicine, causing his stomach to expand and then he then leaps around balloon-like. This was done by cranking the camera faster than the normal 16 frames per second giving the first \"slow motion\" effect.\n\nIn descending order of seniority, the following staff is involved:\n\n\nIn the film industry, the cinematographer is responsible for the technical aspects of the images (lighting, lens choices, composition, exposure, filtration, film selection), but works closely with the director to ensure that the artistic aesthetics are supporting the director's vision of the story being told. The cinematographers are the heads of the camera, grip and lighting crew on a set, and for this reason, they are often called directors of photography or DPs. The ASC defines cinematography as a creative and interpretive process that culminates in the authorship of an original work of art rather than the simple recording of a physical event. Cinematography is not a subcategory of photography. Rather, photography is but one craft that the cinematographer uses in addition to other physical, organizational, managerial, interpretive. and image-manipulating techniques to effect one coherent process.\nIn British tradition, if the DOP actually operates the camera him/herself they are called the \"cinematographer\". On smaller productions, it is common for one person to perform all these functions alone. The career progression usually involves climbing up the ladder from seconding, firsting, eventually to operating the camera.\n\nDirectors of photography make many creative and interpretive decisions during the course of their work, from pre-production to post-production, all of which affect the overall feel and look of the motion picture. Many of these decisions are similar to what a photographer needs to note when taking a picture: the cinematographer controls the film choice itself (from a range of available stocks with varying sensitivities to light and color), the selection of lens focal lengths, aperture exposure and focus. Cinematography, however, has a temporal aspect (see persistence of vision), unlike still photography, which is purely a single still image. It is also bulkier and more strenuous to deal with movie cameras, and it involves a more complex array of choices. As such a cinematographer often needs to work co-operatively with more people than does a photographer, who could frequently function as a single person. As a result, the cinematographer's job also includes personnel management and logistical organization. Given the in-depth knowledge. a cinematographer requires not only of his or her own craft but also that of other personnel, formal tuition in analogue or digital filmmaking can be advantageous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30740", "title": "Classical unities", "text": "Classical unities\n\nThe classical unities, Aristotelian unities, or three unities are rules for drama derived from a passage in Aristotle's \"Poetics\". In their neoclassical form they are as follows:\n\n\nAristotle dealt with the unity of action in some detail, under the general subject of \"definition of tragedy\", where he wrote: \"serious, complete in itself and of a certain magnitude\". \n\nNow, according to our definition, Tragedy is an imitation of an action that is complete, and whole, and of a certain magnitude … As therefore, in the other imitative arts, the imitation is one when the object imitated is one, so the plot, being an imitation of an action, must imitate one action and that a whole, the structural union of the parts being such that, if any one of them is displaced or removed, the whole will be disjointed and disturbed. For a thing whose presence or absence makes no visible difference, is not an organic part of the whole.\n\nHis only reference to the time in the fictive world is in a distinction between the epic and tragic forms:\n\nEpic poetry agrees with Tragedy in so far as it is an imitation in verse of characters of a higher type. They differ, in that Epic poetry admits but one kind of metre, and is narrative in form. They differ, again, in their length: for Tragedy endeavours, as far as possible, to confine itself to a single revolution of the sun, or but slightly to exceed this limit; whereas the Epic action has no limits of time.\n\nUnlike his prescriptive attitude regarding the plot (unity of action), Aristotle here merely remarks on the typical duration of a tragedy's action, and does not suggest any kind of imperative that it always ought to be so. He was writing after the golden age of Greek drama, and many Greek playwrights wrote plays that do not fit within these conventions.\n\nAristotle does not actually mention the neoclassical unity of place at all. However, the prevalent interpretation of his \"Poetics\" during the Middle Ages inclined toward interpreting his comment on time as another \"unity\".\n\nItalian critics of the 16th century, from Lodovico Castelvetro onwards, and then 17th-century French critics, proponents of the neoclassical movement, both expanded Aristotle's descriptions. The result was to make them into prescriptions for structuring plays. French drama of the 17th century, particularly that of Molière and Racine, was highly regular, and Corneille incurred harsh criticism for departing from the unities in \"Le Cid\". The English dramatists writing for the Elizabethan and Jacobean stage were largely unaware of these structures.\n\nBy the later 17th century, however, English dramatists (under the influence of French criticism picked up by those in exile during the English Interregnum) did begin to assess their own plays according to these rules. Thus, John Dryden, among many others, compares the \"irregular\" Shakespeare (only two of Shakespeare's plays conform to the unities – \"The Comedy of Errors\" and \"The Tempest\") with the \"regular\" Dryden in his \"Essay of Dramatick Poesie\" (1668), and makes use of the unity of time in this passage criticizing Shakespeare's history plays.\n\n... if you consider the Historical Playes of Shakespeare, they are rather so many Chronicles of Kings, or the business many times of thirty or forty years, crampt into a representation of two hours and a half, which is not to imitate or paint Nature, but rather to draw her in miniature, to take her in little; to look upon her through the wrong end of a Perspective, and receive her Images not onely much less, but infinitely more imperfect then the life: this instead of making a Play delightful, renders it ridiculous.\n\nHowever, Dryden declared Shakespeare \"incomparable\" because of his disregard for convention:\n\n... in most of the irregular Playes of Shakespeare or Fletcher (for Ben Johnson's are for the most part regular) there is a more masculine fancy and greater spirit in all the writing, then[sic] there is in any of the French.\n\nAlexander Pope criticizes the violation of the unities in his \"Dunciad\". In the 1728 version of the poem, the goddess Dulness notes that \"Time himself stands still at her command,/ Realms shift their place, and Ocean turns to land\" (\"Dunciad\" 1728, i, 69–70). Additionally, he notes a violation of unity of action, as tragedy and comedy were mixed.\n\nSamuel Johnson, too, applied the unities to drama in his \"Prefaces to Shakespeare\". He was well aware that Aristotle had only recommended the unity of action, and knew that rules must serve drama, not vice versa:\n\nWhether Shakespeare knew the unities, and rejected them by design, or deviated from them by happy ignorance, it is, I think, impossible to decide, and useless to inquire. We may reasonably suppose, that, when he rose to notice, he did not want the counsels and admonitions of scholars and critics, and that he at last deliberately persisted in a practice, which he might have begun by chance. As nothing is essential to the fable, but unity of action, and as the unities of time and place arise evidently from false assumptions, and, by circumscribing the extent of the drama, lessen its variety, I cannot think it much to be lamented, that they were not known by him, or not observed: Nor, if such another poet could arise, should I very vehemently reproach him, that his first act passed at Venice, and his next in Cyprus. Such violations of rules merely positive, become the comprehensive genius of Shakespeare…\n\nJohn Pitcher, in his Arden Shakespeare Third Series edition of \"The Winter's Tale\" (2010), argues that Shakespeare was familiar with the unities due to an English translation of \"Poetics\" that became popular around 1608, and that The Winter's Tale is intentionally breaking all the rules.\n\nThe classical unities were influential in dramatic criticism until Victor Hugo's \"Hernani\" (1830); one of the things that made that play controversial at its debut was its violation of these rules of classicism. In the Spanish theatrical tradition, there is Lope de Vega's \"Arte nuevo de hacer comedias\" of 1609, which is a defense of the new form for writing and representation of Golden Age Spanish theatre. Lope's \"Arte nuevo\" is a 389 verse poem which explicitly defends his and other dramaturges, distancing from Aristotelian unities of theatre.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5928", "title": "Clown", "text": "Clown\n\nA clown is a comic performer who employs slapstick or similar types of physical comedy, often in a mime style.\n\nClowns have a varied tradition with significant variations in costume and performance. The most recognisable modern clown character is the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" type, with outlandish costumes featuring distinctive makeup, colourful wigs, exaggerated footwear, and colourful clothing. Their entertainment style is generally designed to entertain large audiences. \n\nModern clowns are strongly associated with the tradition of the circus clown, which developed out of earlier comedic roles in theatre or \"Varieté\" shows during the 19th to mid 20th centuries.\n\nMany circus clowns have become well known and are a key circus act in their own right. The first mainstream clown role was portrayed by Joseph Grimaldi (who also created the traditional whiteface make-up design). In the early 1800s, he expanded the role of Clown in the harlequinade that formed part of British pantomimes, notably at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane and the Sadler's Wells and Covent Garden theatres. He became so dominant on the London comic stage that harlequinade Clowns became known as \"Joey\", and both the nickname and Grimaldi's whiteface make-up design were, and still are, used by other types of clowns.\n\nThe comedy that clowns perform is usually in the role of a fool whose everyday actions and tasks become extraordinary—and for whom the ridiculous, for a short while, becomes ordinary. This style of comedy has a long history in many countries and cultures across the world. Some writers have argued that due to the widespread use of such comedy and its long history it is a need that is part of the human condition. \n\nThe \"fear of clowns,\" circus clowns in particular as a psychiatric condition has become known by the term coulrophobia.\n\nThe \"\"clown\" character developed out of the zanni \"rustic fool\" characters of the early modern commedia dell'arte, which were themselves directly based on the \"rustic fool\"\" characters of ancient Greek and Roman theatre.\nRustic buffoon characters in Classical Greek theater were known as \" sklêro-paiktês\" (from \"paizein\" \"to play (like a child)\") or \"deikeliktas\", besides other generic terms for \"rustic\" or \"peasant\". In Roman theater, a term for clown was \"fossor\", literally \"digger; labourer\".\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was first recorded c. 1560 (as \"clowne, cloyne\") in the generic meaning \"rustic, boor, peasant\". \nThe origin of the word is uncertain, perhaps from a Scandinavian word cognate with \"clumsy\".\nIt is in this sense that \"Clown\" is used as the name of fool characters in Shakespeare's \"Othello\" and \"The Winter's Tale\".\nThe sense of \"clown\" as referring to a professional or habitual fool or jester developed soon after 1600, based on Elizabethan \"rustic fool\" characters such as Shakespeare's.\n\nThe harlequinade developed in England in the 17th century, inspired by the commedia dell'arte. It was here that \"Clown\" came into use as the given name of a stock character. Originally a foil for Harlequin's slyness and adroit nature, Clown was a buffoon or bumpkin fool who resembled less a jester than a comical idiot. He was a lower class character dressed in tattered servants' garb.\n\nThe now-classical features of the clown character were developed in the early 1800s by Joseph Grimaldi, who played Clown in Charles Dibdin's 1800 pantomime \"Peter Wilkins: or Harlequin in the Flying World\" at Sadler's Wells Theatre, where Grimaldi built the character up into the central figure of the harlequinade.\n\nThe circus clown developed in the 19th century. The modern circus derives from Philip Astley's London riding school, which opened in 1768. Astley added a clown to his shows to amuse the spectators between equestrian sequences. American comedian George L. Fox became known for his clown role, directly inspired by Grimaldi, in the 1860s.\nTom Belling senior (1843–1900) developed the \"red clown\" or \"Auguste\" (\"Dummer August\") character c. 1870, acting as a foil for the more sophisticated \"white clown\". Belling worked for Circus Renz in Vienna. Belling's costume became the template for the modern stock character of circus or children's clown, based on a lower class or \"hobo\" character, with red nose, white makeup around the eyes and mouth, and oversized clothes and shoes. The clown character as developed by the late 19th century is reflected in Ruggero Leoncavallo's 1892 opera \"Pagliacci\" (\"Clowns\").\nBelling's \"Auguste\" character was further popularized by Nicolai Poliakoff's \"Coco\" in the 1920s to 1930s.\n\nThe English word \"clown\" was borrowed, along with the circus clown act, into many other languages, such as French \"clown\", Russian (and other Slavic languages) кло́ун, Greek κλόουν, Danish/Norwegian \"klovn\", Romanian \"clovn\" etc.\n\nItalian retains \"Pagliaccio\", a Commedia dell'arte zanni character, and derivations of the Italian term are found in other Romance languages, such as French \"Paillasse\", Spanish \"payaso\", Catalan/Galician \"pallasso\", Portuguese \"palhaço\", Greek παλιάτσος, Turkish \"palyaço\", German \"Pajass\" (via French), Yiddish פּאַיאַץ (\"payats\"), Russian пая́ц.\n\nIn the early 20th century, with the disappearance of the rustic simpleton or village idiot character of everyday experience, North American circuses developed characters such as the tramp or hobo. Examples include Marceline Orbes, who performed at the Hippodrome Theater(1905), Charlie Chaplin's \"The Tramp\" (1914), and Emmett Kelly's \"Weary Willie\" based on hobos of the Depression era. Another influential tramp character was played by Otto Griebling during the 1930s to 1950s. Red Skelton's Dodo the Clown in \"The Clown\" (1953), depicts the circus clown as a tragicomic stock character, \"a funny man with a drinking problem\".\n\nIn the United States, Bozo the Clown was an influential \"Auguste\" character since the late 1950s. \"The Bozo Show\" premiered in 1960 and appeared nationally on cable television in 1978. McDonald's derived its mascot clown, Ronald McDonald, from the \"Bozo\" character in the 1960s. Willard Scott, who had played \"Bozo\" during 1959–1962, performed as the mascot in 1963 television spots. The McDonald's trademark application for the character dates to 1967.\n\nBased on the \"Bozo\" template, the US custom of birthday clown, private contractors who offer to perform as clowns at children's parties, developed in the 1960s to 1970s. The strong association of the (\"Bozo\"-derived) clown character with children's entertainment as it has developed since the 1960s also gave rise to \"Clown Care\" or \"hospital clowning\" in children's hospitals by the mid 1980s. Clowns of America International (established 1984) and World Clown Association (established 1987) are associations of semi-professionals and professional performers.\n\nThe shift of the \"Auguste\" or \"red clown\" character from his role as a foil for the white in circus or pantomime shows to a \"Bozo\"-derived standalone character in children's entertainment by the 1980s also gave rise to the evil clown character, the attraction of clowns for small children being based in their fundamentally threatening or frightening nature.\n\nThere are different types of clowns portrayed around the world. They include\n\nThe classical pairing of the White Clown with Auguste in modern tradition\nhas a precedent in the pairing of Pierrot and Harlequin in the Commedia dell'arte.\nOriginally, Harlequin's role was that of a light-hearted, nimble and astute servant, paired with the sterner and melancholic Pierrot.\n\nIn the 18th-century English Harlequinade, Harlequin was now paired with Clown.\nAs developed by Joseph Grimaldi around 1800, Clown became the mischievous and brutish foil for the more sophisticated Harlequin, who became more of a romantic character. The most influential such pair in Victorian England were the Payne Brothers, active during the 1860s and 1870s.\n\nThe \"white clown\", or \"clown blanc\" from the original French, is a sophisticated character, as opposed to the clumsy auguste. They are also distinguished as the \"sad clown\" (blanc) and \"happy clown\" (auguste).\n\nThe Auguste face base makeup color is a variation of pink, red, or tan rather than white. Features are exaggerated in size, and are typically red and black in color. The mouth is thickly outlined with white (called the muzzle) as are the eyes. Appropriate to the character, the auguste can be dressed in either well-fitted garb or in a costume that does not fit — either oversize or too small is appropriate. Bold colors, large prints or patterns, and suspenders often characterize Auguste costumes.\n\nThe auguste character-type is often an anarchist, a joker, or a fool. He is clever and has much lower status than the whiteface. Classically the whiteface character instructs the auguste character to perform his bidding. The auguste has a hard time performing a given task, which leads to funny situations. Sometimes the auguste plays the role of an anarchist and purposefully has trouble following the whiteface's directions. Sometimes the auguste is confused or is foolish and makes errors less deliberately.\n\nThe \"contra-auguste\" plays the role of the mediator between the white clown and the auguste character. He has a lower status than the white clown but a higher status than the auguste. He aspires to be more like the white clown and often mimics everything the white clown does to try to gain approval. If there is a contra-auguste character, he often is instructed by the whiteface to correct the auguste when he is doing something wrong.\n\nThere are two major types of clowns with \"whiteface\" makeup:\nThe classic \"white clown\" is derived from the Pierrot character. His makeup is white, usually with facial features such as eyebrows emphasized in black. He is the more intelligent and sophisticated clown, contrasting with the rude or grotesque \"Auguste\" types. Francesco Caroli and Glenn \"Frosty\" Little are examples of this type. The second type of whiteface is the buffoonish clown of the \"Bozo\" type, known as \"Comedy\" or \"Grotesque Whiteface\". This type has grotesquely emphasized features, especially a red nose and red mouth, often with partial (mostly red) hair. \nIn the comedic partnership of Abbott and Costello, Bud Abbot would have been the classic whiteface and Lou Costello the comedy whiteface or Auguste.\n\nTraditionally, the whiteface clown uses \"clown white\" makeup to cover the entire face and neck, leaving none of the underlying natural skin visible. In the European whiteface makeup, the ears are painted red.\n\nWhiteface makeup was originally designed by Joseph Grimaldi in 1801. He began by painting a white base over his face, neck and chest before adding red triangles on the cheeks, thick eyebrows and large red lips set in a mischievous grin. Grimaldi's design is used by many modern clowns. According to Grimaldi's biographer Andrew McConnell Stott, it was one of the most important theatrical designs of the 1800s.\n\nAmerica's first great whiteface clown was stage star George \"G.L.\" Fox. Following English Joseph Grimaldi, Fox popularised the Humpty Dumpty stories throughout the land in the first half of the 19th century in America.\n\nThe character clown adopts an eccentric character of some type, such as a butcher, a baker, a policeman, a housewife or hobo. Prime examples of this type of clown are the circus tramps Otto Griebling and Emmett Kelly. Red Skelton, Harold Lloyd, Buster Keaton, Charlie Chaplin and Sacha Baron Cohen would all fit the definition of a character clown.\n\nThe character clown makeup is a comic slant on the standard human face. Their makeup starts with a flesh tone base and may make use of anything from glasses, mustaches and beards to freckles, warts, big ears or strange haircuts.\n\nThe most prevalent character clown in the American circus is the \"hobo\", \"tramp\" or \"bum\" clown. There are subtle differences in the American character clown types. The primary differences among these clown types is attitude. According to American circus expert Hovey Burgess, they are :\n\nClowns International claims to be the oldest clown society in the world. It was set up in 1946. Apart from being a membership organisation, Clowns International has set up a museum of clown memorabilia and a register of clown make-up. The latter also has a collection of full eggshells decorated as replicas of the specific clown's head.\n\nThe World Clown Association (WCA) is a worldwide organization for clowns, jugglers, magicians, and face painters. It holds an annual convention, mainly in the United States.\n\nClowns of America International, Inc. (COAI) is a Minnesota-based nonprofit clown arts membership organization which aims \"to share, educate, and act as a gathering place for serious minded amateurs, semiprofessionals, and professional clowns\".\n\nIn the circus, a clown might perform other circus roles or skills. Clowns may perform such skills as tightrope, juggling, unicycling, Master of Ceremonies, or ride an animal. Clowns may also \"sit in\" with the orchestra. Other circus performers may also temporarily stand in for a clown and perform their skills in clown costume.\n\nFrameworks are the general outline of an act that clowns use to help them build out an act. Frameworks can be loose, including only a general beginning and ending to the act, leaving it up to the clown's creativity to fill in the rest, or at the other extreme a fully developed script that allows very little room for creativity.\n\nShows are the overall production that a clown is a part of, it may or may not include elements other than clowning, such as in a circus show. In a circus context, clown shows are typically made up of some combination of Entrées, Side dishes, Clown Stops, Track Gags, Gags and bits.\n\n\n\n\"Clown Stops\" or \"interludes\" are the brief appearances of clowns in a circus while the props and rigging are changed. These are typically made up of a few \"gags\" or several \"bits\". Clown stops will always have a beginning, a middle, and an end to them, invariably culminating in a blow-off. These are also called \"reprises\" or \"run-ins\" by many, and in today's circus they are an art form in themselves. Originally they were bits of \"business\" usually parodying the act that had preceded it. If for instance there had been a tightrope walker the reprise would involve two chairs with a piece of rope between and the clown trying to imitate the \"artiste\" by trying to walk between them, with the resulting falls and cascades bringing laughter from the audience. Today, interludes are far more complex, and in many modern shows the clowning is a thread that links the whole show together.\n\nAmong the more well-known clown stunts are: squirting flower; the \"too-many-clowns-coming-out-of-a-tiny-car\" stunt; doing just about anything with a rubber chicken, tripping over one's own feet (or an air pocket or imaginary blemish in the floor), or riding any number of ridiculous vehicles or \"clown bikes\". Individual prop stunts are generally considered individual bits.\n\nIn anthropology, the term \"clown\" has been extended to comparable jester or fool characters in non-Western cultures. A society in which such \"clowns\" have an important position are termed \"clown societies\", and a \"clown\" character involved in a religious or ritual capacity is known as a \"ritual clown\".\n\nThe most ancient \"clowns\" have been found in the Fifth dynasty of Egypt, around 2400 BC. Unlike court jesters, clowns have traditionally served a socio-religious and psychological role, and traditionally the roles of priest and clown have been held by the same persons.\nPeter Berger writes that \"It seems plausible that folly and fools, like religion and magic, meet some deeply rooted needs in human society\". For this reason, clowning is often considered an important part of training as a physical performance discipline, partly because tricky subject matter can be dealt with, but also because it requires a high level of risk and play in the performer.\n\nIn Native American mythology, the Trickster channels the spirit of the Coyote and becomes a sacred Clown character. A Heyoka is an individual in Native cultures who lives outside the constraints of normal cultural roles. The Heyoka plays the role of a backwards clown, doing everything in reverse. The Heyoka role is sometimes best filled by a Winkte.\n\nMany native tribes have a history of clowning.\nThe Canadian Clowning method developed by Richard Pochinko and furthered by his former apprentice, Sue Morrison, combines European and Native American clowning techniques.\n\nIn this tradition, masks are made of clay while the creator's eyes are closed. A mask is made for each direction of the medicine wheel. During this process, the clown creates a personal mythology that explores their personal experiences.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "16663203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16663203", "title": "Comedy (drama)", "text": "Comedy (drama)\n\nA comedy is entertainment consisting of jokes intended to make an audience laugh. For ancient Greeks and Romans a comedy was a stage-play with a happy ending. In the Middle Ages, the term expanded to include narrative poems with happy endings and a lighter tone. In this sense Dante used the term in the title of his poem, the \"Divine Comedy\" (Italian: \"Divina Commedia\").\n\nThe phenomena connected with laughter and that which provokes it has been carefully investigated by psychologists and agreed upon the predominating characteristics are incongruity or contrast in the object, and shock or emotional seizure on the part of the subject. It has also been held that the feeling of superiority is an essential factor: thus Thomas Hobbes speaks of laughter as a \"sudden glory.\" Modern investigators have paid much attention to the origin both of laughter and of smiling, as well as the development of the \"play instinct\" and its emotional expression.\n\nMuch comedy contains variations on the elements of surprise, incongruity, conflict, repetitiveness, and the effect of opposite expectations, but there are many recognized genres of comedy. Satire and political satire use ironic comedy used to portray persons or social institutions as ridiculous or corrupt, thus alienating their audience from the object of humor.\n\nParody borrows the form of some popular genre, artwork, or text but uses certain ironic changes to critique that form from within (though not necessarily in a condemning way). Screwball comedy derives its humor largely from bizarre, surprising (and improbable) situations or characters. Black comedy is defined by dark humor that makes light of so-called dark or evil elements in human nature. Similarly scatological humor, sexual humor, and race humor create comedy by violating social conventions or taboos in comedic ways.\n\nA comedy of manners typically takes as its subject a particular part of society (usually upper class society) and uses humor to parody or satirize the behavior and mannerisms of its members. Romantic comedy is a popular genre that depicts burgeoning romance in humorous terms, and focuses on the foibles of those who are falling in love.\n\nThe word \"comedy\" is derived from the Classical Greek κωμῳδία, which is a compound either of \"κῶμος\" (revel) or \"κώμη\" (village) and \"ᾠδή\" (singing): it is possible that \"κῶμος\" itself is derived from \"κώμη\", and originally meant a village revel. The adjective \"comic\" (Greek κωμικός), which strictly means that which relates to comedy is, in modern usage, generally confined to the sense of \"laughter-provoking\". The word came into modern usage through the Latin \"comoedia \"and Italian \"commedia\" and has, over time, passed through various shades of meaning.\n\nIn ancient Greece, comedy seems to have originated in songs or recitations apropos of fertility festivals or gatherings, or also in making fun at other people or stereotypes. In the \"Poetics\", Aristotle states that comedy originated in phallic rituals and festivals of mirth. It is basically an imitation of 'the ridiculous, which is a species of the ugly.' However, Aristotle taught that comedy is a good thing. It brings forth happiness, which for Aristotle is the ideal state, the final goal in any activity. He does believe that we humans feel pleasure oftentimes by doing the wrong thing, but he does not necessarily believe that comedy and humor is the wrong thing. It is also not true for Aristotle that a comedy must involve sexual humor to qualify as a comedy. A comedy is about the fortunate arise of a sympathetic character. A happy ending is all that is required in his opinion. \n\nOn the contrary, the Greek Philosopher Plato taught that comedy is a destruction to the self. He believed it produces an emotion that overrides rational self-control and learning. In The Republic (Plato), he says that the Guardians of the state should avoid laughter, \"for ordinarily when one abandons himself to violent laughter, his condition provokes a violent reaction.\" Plato says comedy should be tightly controlled if one wants to achieve the ideal state.\n\nNorthrop Frye described the comic genre as a drama that pits two societies against each other in an amusing agon or conflict. He depicted these two opposing sides as a \"Society of Youth\" and a \"Society of the Old\", \"The Anatomy of Criticism\". 1957, but this dichotomy is seldom described as an entirely satisfactory explanation. A later view characterizes the essential agon of comedy as a struggle between a powerless youth and the societal conventions that pose obstacles to his hopes; in this sense, the youth is understood to be constrained by his lack of social authority, and is left with little choice but to take recourse to ruses which engender very dramatic.\n\n\nfrom what has been discussed\n\n"}
{"id": "4637600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637600", "title": "Dialect coach", "text": "Dialect coach\n\nA dialect coach is an acting coach who helps an actor design the voice and speech of a character in the context of an on-camera (film, television or commercial), stage (theatre, musical theatre, opera, etc.), radio or animation voiceover production. The dialect coach often does original research on dialects and speech patterns, prepares training materials, provides instruction and works on lines with the actor. A dialect coach will give the actor feedback focusing on issues of credibility, consistency, and clarity. A dialect coach may also be employed to help comedians hone impressions of celebrities, to train non-actor public speakers in vocal character and delivery, or to help singers improve in diction and attain a balance between tone and articulation, especially when singing in a second language.\n\nThe term \"dialect coach\" persists as the primary designation for an accent or language coach in the US and Canadian entertainment businesses. However, other designations may also be used. Some dialect coaches will refer to themselves as \"dialogue coaches\" (or, occasionally, by the historical designation, \"dialogue directors\"), especially when working on a second language or when offering acting coaching on straight dialogue in the performer's own language or dialect.\n\nIn the opera world, coaches who help opera singers with articulation of lyrics (often in an unfamiliar language, such as Russian, German or Czech) are called \"diction coaches.\" In the United Kingdom, dialect coaches are generally called \"accent coaches\" and are not acting coaches.\n\nThe term \"voice coach\" is applied to those who work with breathing, voice and text in the theatre in the UK, though this usage is not common in the US film and television businesses where the term \"voice coach\" would generally be understood to refer to a singing coach (a.k.a., a \"vocal coach\").\n\nLikewise, on US stage productions the term \"voice coach\" is also avoided to prevent confusion with either a vocal (singing) coach or someone who coaches actors in techniques for inducing a state of heightened relaxation prior to a rehearsal or performance, and who may offer guidance on breath support or vocal practices intended to promote effective placement of resonances in the upper body, the actor's availability of expression and appropriate projection.\n\nIn some cases, voice warm-up coaching integrates full-body work in yoga, movement or balance. Many actors believe that such warm-ups and exercises reduce the likelihood of vocal damage, most especially during expression of high intensity emotion outdoors or in a large performing venue in the absence of electronic amplification (e.g., microphones and a PA system). A dialect coach may also be engaged to coach voice issues in this latter sense in conjunction with theatrical dialect coaching. Not every dialect coach has the training and knowledge to also do vocal coaching in a singing sense.\n\nOn a film or television production, dialect coaches are typically hired by the line producer during pre-production to begin preparing cast far in advance of the first day of principal photography. If engaged during principal photography, it is the unit production manager, production manager, production supervisor, production coordinator or, in some cases, executive producer who is likely to interview prospective coaches in behalf of the production. If engaged only during post-production, the coach may even be hired directly by the post producer. In advance of being hired, coaches may be interviewed by the showrunner or a staff writer in the case of episodic television or by the film director in the case of a feature film. Dialect coaches may work with any members of the cast, but are brought in especially often to work with celebrity actors who have been cast in roles which require accents other than their own or even the performance of dialogue in languages unknown to the actors. Therefore, frequently, the actors themselves will ask Production to hire a particular coach. \n\nHowever the coach comes to be hired, the creatives will often consult with the dialect coach early in the process in order to acquaint the dialect coach with the overall creative vision and to start the actor as early as possible to allow time for the character's voice to become fully integrated by the actor prior to the actor's first shoot day. Once hired, the coach will typically prepare actors over a number of sessions either remotely, on set, at the Production Office or in the actor's own home. Coaches who work in serialized television are expected to be especially flexible as there may be no opportunity for a meeting between the episode director and coach, as shooting scripts may not be finalized until very close to the day of the shoot and as last-minute casting decisions and limitations on actor-availability may make it difficult to schedule advance coaching.\n\nDuring production, the key second assistant director typically schedules coaching sessions. Many creatives will ask that the coach be present at read-throughs or story conferences, at production meetings (if serving as key coach) and during at least some first-team rehearsals. While a shot is set-up, the coach will be kept in close proximity to the actors to be coached. Often, the coach will be assigned a dressing room, or, on location, a room in the honeywagon, double-banger or triple-banger near the actors' trailers. On set, the dialect coach will be issued a wireless headset and given a chair (exclusive, if on set regularly) in video village in order to facilitate access to the director and to the script supervisor who may be asked by the coach to relay notes on pronunciation and clarity, particularly if the dialogue is in dialect or language unfamiliar to the post-production team. An on-set coach may also work with an actor between takes if needed, especially on last minute changes to the script. Later, the coach may be brought back for dubbing or to pick up new lines during the post-production process, sometimes via a feed from a remote studio when the actors are no-longer available in person.\n\nOn a stage production, dialect coaches are typically brought in by a director or artistic director with contractual terms negotiated by a producer or general manager. Coaches work closely with the production stage manager who coordinates meetings with the director and coaching sessions for the cast collectively or individually. The coach will often also be present to give notes to the actors at some rehearsals, partial runs and full runs. Coaching typically takes place throughout the rehearsal process, but especially before the actors begin memorizing their lines and again after the show is loaded into the performance space. Understudies may be coached alongside the principal performers or after the show goes into previews. Coaching may continue in a limited way during a run.\n\nIn the film and television businesses, dialect coaches are very well paid. Coaches are customarily given on-screen credits for their work on films and for substantial contributions to serialized television. The wording of the credit may vary with the specific requirements of the production. On some shows, dialect coaches may be asked to contribute intellectual property to the production in the form of, for instance, dialogue polishing in English or other languages. They may serve as technical consultants in the areas of culture and written language. They often guide, or engage with, the cast's process of creating a character and consult on the overall vocal design for the production. Consequently, the deal memos for coaches may include compensation terms that are not typical for crew positions, leading to the adage that dialect coaches are neither above-the-line nor below-the-line, but on-the-line.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, South Africa, the UK and the US, dialect coaches remain among a very small minority of production staff who are not unionized; their deals may differ in substance from production to production in these jurisdictions. In Australia and New Zealand, dialect coaches who are employed on a film or theatre set are covered under the Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance. On English-language Canadian film and television productions, dialect coaches are unionized under the Alliance of Canadian Cinema, Television and Radio Artists. Coaches are not unionized under the Union des artistes for French-language productions in Canada.\n\nIn the theater, coaches who help actors hone dialects or character voices typically seek compensation on a par with designers and may be credited as dialect coaches, dialect designers or voice and speech directors. Dialect coaches are not unionized for live performances in Canada, the Republic of Ireland, South Africa, the UK or the US. \n\nThere is no membership branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences that incorporates dialect coaching, nor is there a peer group of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences that accords active membership status to coaches.\n\nDue to budget constraints, producers of student films and stage plays, showcase theater and slimly financed independent films and web series may avoid hiring a dialect coach, and instead substitute the services of a low-paid or volunteer native speaker model in hopes that the actors will be able to learn mimetically, retain the accent and act in it without expert guidance or monitoring. In some such cases, cast members may themselves pay a coach, sometimes in consultation with the director, though employing crew is not normally regarded as a cast member’s responsibility. In other cases, actors may attempt to self-study the dialect using commercially available training materials or web-based voice archives which host native-speaker recordings of oral histories or interviews or other scripted speech. The majority of such archives also provide native-speaker recordings of phonemically balanced narrative passages, especially \"Comma Gets a Cure,\" which is structured around the lexical sets of English and other phonological patterns of potential interest to the student of dialect.\n\nWhile there are many hundreds of voice and speech trainers connected with drama courses throughout the English-speaking world who may control a stock of \"stage dialects\" for general use, far fewer specialize in dialect coaching. A web search of dialect coaches with Internet Movie Database listings produces fewer than 100 living film and TV coaches worldwide, the majority showing few recent jobs, credited or uncredited. Most of these dialect coaches work on an ad hoc basis on individual productions. However, in some cases, a coach may become attached to a theatre company as a resident voice and speech director, especially if the coach has a second specialization (esp. Shakespeare or voice). As with many aspects of the entertainment business, entry into the field of dialect coaching is very competitive. Because dialect coaches are not always called for every day of a shoot, many coaches find a way to supplement income while maintaining their availability for coaching, often by acting, directing (including animation voice directing), teaching in related areas (public speaking, etc.) or taking on private students, especially for auditions. Outside of the entertainment businesses based in English-speaking countries, dialect coaching is less common, and opportunities rarer.\n\nDialect coaches, especially those who teach in theater education programs, may become active in such professional societies as the Australian Voice Association, the British Voice Association, the International Centre for Voice and the Voice and Speech Trainers Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "43726531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43726531", "title": "Entertainment Express", "text": "Entertainment Express\n\nEntertainment Express is a Nigerian newspaper founded in July 2011, centered on movies, music, and sports.\n"}
{"id": "795780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795780", "title": "Ethos", "text": "Ethos\n\nEthos ( or ) is a Greek word meaning \"character\" that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence emotions, behaviours, and even morals. Early Greek stories of Orpheus exhibit this idea in a compelling way. The word's use in rhetoric is closely based on the Greek terminology used by Aristotle in his concept of the three artistic proofs or modes of persuasion.\n\n\"Ethos\" (, ; \"plurals:\" \"ethe\", ; \"ethea\", ) is a Greek word originally meaning \"accustomed place\" (as in \"the habitats of horses\", \"Iliad\" 6.511, 15.268), \"custom, habit\", equivalent to Latin \"mores\".\n\n\"Ethos\" forms the root of \"ethikos\" (), meaning \"moral, showing moral character\". As an adjective in the neuter plural form \"ta ethika\" (), used for the study of morals, it is the origin of the modern English word \"ethics\".\n\nIn modern usage, ethos denotes the disposition, character, or fundamental values particular to a specific person, people, corporation, culture, or movement. For example, the poet and critic T. S. Eliot wrote in 1940 that \"the general ethos of the people they have to govern determines the behaviour of politicians\". Similarly the historian Orlando Figes wrote in 1996 that in Soviet Russia of the 1920s \"the ethos of the Communist party dominated every aspect of public life\".\nEthos may change in response to new ideas or forces. For example, according to the Jewish historian Afrie Krampf, ideas of economic modernization which were imported into Palestine in the 1930s brought about \"the abandonment of the agrarian ethos and the reception of...the ethos of rapid development\".\n\nIn rhetoric, ethos is one of the three artistic proofs (\"pistis\", πίστις) or modes of persuasion (other principles being \"logos\" and \"pathos\") discussed by Aristotle in 'Rhetoric' as a component of argument. Speakers must establish ethos from the start. This can involve \"moral competence\" only; Aristotle however broadens the concept to include expertise and knowledge. Ethos is limited, in his view, by what the speaker says. Others however contend that a speaker's ethos extends to and is shaped by the overall moral character and history of the speaker—that is, what people think of his or her character before the speech has even begun (cf Isocrates).\n\nAccording to Aristotle, there are three categories of ethos:\n\n\nIn a sense, ethos does not belong to the speaker but to the audience. Thus, it is the audience that determines whether a speaker is a high- or a low-ethos speaker. Violations of ethos include:\n\n\nCompletely dismissing an argument based on any of the above violations of ethos is an informal fallacy (Appeal to motive). The argument may indeed be suspect; but is not, in itself, invalid.\n\nFor Aristotle, a speaker's ethos was a rhetorical strategy employed by an orator whose purpose was to \"inspire trust in his audience\" (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). \"Ethos\" was therefore achieved through the orator's \"good sense, good moral character, and goodwill\", and central to Aristotelian virtue ethics was the notion that this \"good moral character\" was increased in virtuous degree by habit (\"Rhetorica\" 1380). Aristotle links virtue, habituation, and \"ethos\" most succinctly in Book II of \"Nichomachean Ethics\": \"Virtue, then, being of two kinds, intellectual and moral, intellectual virtue in the main owes both its birth and its growth to teaching [...] while moral virtue comes about as a result of habit, whence also its name \"ethike\" is one that is formed by a slight variation from the word \"ethos\" (habit)\" (952). Discussing women and rhetoric, scholar Karlyn Kohrs Campbell notes that entering the public sphere was considered an act of moral transgression for females of the nineteenth century: \"Women who formed moral reform and abolitionist societies, and who made speeches, held conventions, and published newspapers, entered the public sphere and thereby lost their claims to purity and piety\" (13). Crafting an ethos within such restrictive moral codes, therefore, meant adhering to membership of what Nancy Fraser and Michael Warner have theorized as counterpublics. While Warner contends that members of counterpublics are afforded little opportunity to join the dominant public and therefore exert true agency, Nancy Fraser has problematized Habermas's conception of the public sphere as a dominant \"social totality\" by theorizing \"subaltern counterpublics\", which function as alternative publics that represent \"parallel discursive arenas where members of subordinated social groups invent and circulate counterdiscourses, which in turn permit them to formulate oppositional interpretations of their identities, interests, and needs\" (67).\n\nThough feminist rhetorical theorists have begun to offer more nuanced ways to conceive of ethos, they remain cognizant of how these classical associations have shaped and still do shape women's use of the rhetorical tool. Johanna Schmertz draws on Aristotelian ethos to reinterpret the term alongside feminist theories of subjectivity, writing that, \"Instead of following a tradition that, it seems to me, reads ethos somewhat in the manner of an Aristotelian quality proper to the speaker's identity, a quality capable of being deployed as needed to fit a rhetorical situation, I will ask how ethos may be dislodged from identity and read in such a way as to multiply the positions from which women may speak\" (83). Rhetorical scholar and professor Kate Ronald's claim that \"ethos is the appeal residing in the tension between the speaker's private and public self\", (39) also presents a more postmodern view of ethos that links credibility and identity. Similarly, Nedra Reynolds and Susan Jarratt echo this view of ethos as a fluid and dynamic set of identifications, arguing that \"these split selves are guises, but they are not distortions or lies in the philosopher's sense. Rather they are 'deceptions' in the sophistic sense: recognitions of the ways one is positioned multiply differently\" (56).\n\nRhetorical scholar Michael Halloran has argued that the classical understanding of ethos \"emphasizes the conventional rather than the idiosyncratic, the public rather than the private\" (60). Commenting further on the classical etymology and understanding of \"ethos\", Halloran illuminates the interdependence between \"ethos\" and cultural context by arguing that \"To have ethos is to manifest the virtues most valued by the culture to and for which one speaks\" (60). While scholars do not all agree on the dominant sphere in which ethos may be crafted, some agree that ethos is formed through the negotiation between private experience and the public, rhetorical act of self-expression. Karen Burke LeFevre's argument in \"Invention as Social Act\" situates this negotiation between the private and the public, writing that ethos \"appears in that socially created space, in the 'between', the point of intersection between speaker or writer and listener or reader\" (45-46).\n\nAccording to Nedra Reynolds, \"ethos, like postmodern subjectivity, shifts and changes over time, across texts, and around competing spaces\" (336). However, Reynolds additionally discusses how one might clarify the meaning of ethos within rhetoric as expressing inherently communal roots. This stands in direct opposition to what she describes as the claim \"that ethos can be faked or 'manipulated'\" because individuals would be formed by the values of their culture and not the other way around (336). Rhetorical scholar John Oddo also suggests that ethos is negotiated across a community, and not simply a manifestation of the self (47). In the era of mass-mediated communication, Oddo contends, one's ethos is often created by journalists and dispersed over multiple news texts. With this in mind, Oddo coins the term intertextual ethos, the notion that a public figure's \"ethos is constituted within and across a range of mass media voices\" (48).\n\nIn \"Black Women Writers and the Trouble with Ethos\", scholar Coretta Pittman notes that race has been generally absent from theories of ethos construction, and that this concept is troubling for black women. Pittman writes, \"Unfortunately, in the history of race relations in America, black Americans' ethos ranks low among other racial and ethnic groups in the United States. More often than not, their moral characters have been associated with a criminalized and sexualized ethos in visual and print culture\" (43).\n\nThe ways in which characters were constructed is important when considering ethos, or character, in Greek tragedy. Augustus Taber Murray explains that the depiction of a character was limited by the circumstances under which Greek tragedies were presented. These include the single unchanging scene, necessary use of the chorus, small number of characters limiting interaction, large outdoor theatres, and the use of masks, which all influenced characters to be more formal and simple. Murray also declares that the inherent characteristics of Greek tragedies are important in the makeup of the characters. One of these is the fact that tragedy characters were nearly always mythical characters. This limited the character, as well as the plot, to the already well-known myth from which the material of the play was taken. The other characteristic is the relatively short length of most Greek plays. This limited the scope of the play and characterization, so that the characters were defined by one overriding motivation toward a certain objective from the beginning of the play.\n\nHowever, Murray clarifies that strict constancy is not always the rule in Greek tragedy characters. To support this, he points out the example of Antigone who, even though she strongly defies Creon in the beginning of the play, begins to doubt her cause and plead for mercy as she is led to her execution.\n\nSeveral other aspects of the character element in ancient Greek tragedy are worth noting. One of these, which C. Garton discusses, is the fact that either because of contradictory action or incomplete description, the character cannot be viewed as an individual, or the reader is left confused about the character. One method of reconciling this would be to consider these characters to be flat, or type-caste, instead of round. This would mean that most of the information about the character centers around one main quality or viewpoint. Comparable to the flat character option, the reader could also view the character as a symbol. Examples of this might be the Eumenides as vengeance, or Clytemnestra as symbolizing ancestral curse. Yet another means of looking at character, according to Tycho von Wilamowitz and Howald, is the idea that characterisation is not important. This idea is maintained by the theory that the play is meant to affect the viewer or reader scene by scene, with attention being only focused on the section at hand. This point of view also holds that the different figures in a play are only characterised by the situation surrounding them, and only enough so that their actions can be understood.\n\nGaret makes three more observations about character in Greek tragedy. The first is an abundant variety of types of characters in Greek tragedy. His second observation is that the reader or viewer's need for characters to display a unified identity that is similar to human nature is usually fulfilled. Thirdly, characters in tragedies include incongruities and idiosyncrasies.\n\nAnother aspect stated by Garet is that tragedy plays are composed of language, character, and action, and the interactions of these three components; these are fused together throughout the play. He explains that action normally determines the major means of characterisation. Another principle he states is the importance of these three components' effect on each other; the important repercussion of this being character's impact on action.\n\nAugustus Taber Murray also examines the importance and degree of interaction between plot and character. He does this by discussing Aristotle's statements about plot and character in his Poetics: that plot can exist without character, but character cannot exist without plot, and so character is secondary to plot. Murray maintains that Aristotle did not mean that complicated plot should hold the highest place in a tragedy play. This is because the plot was, more often than not, simple and therefore not a major point of tragic interest. Murray conjectures that people today do not accept Aristotle's statement about character and plot because to modern people, the most memorable things about tragedy plays are often the characters. However, Murray does concede that Aristotle is correct in that \"[t]here can be no portrayal of character [...] without at least a skeleton outline of plot\".\n\nEthos, or character, also appears in the visual art of famous or mythological ancient Greek events in murals, on pottery, and sculpture, referred to generally as pictorial narrative. Aristotle even praised the ancient Greek painter Polygnotos because his paintings included characterization. The way in which the subject and his actions are portrayed in visual art can convey the subject's ethical character and through this the work's overall theme, just as effectively as poetry or drama can. This characterisation portrayed men as they ought to be, which is the same as Aristotle's idea of what ethos or character should be in tragedy. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 178) Professor Mark D. Stansbury-O'Donnell states that pictorial narratives often had ethos as its focus, and was therefore concerned with showing the character's moral choices. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 175) David Castriota, agreeing with Stansbury-O'Donnell's statement, says that the main way Aristotle considered poetry and visual arts to be on equal levels was in character representation and its effect on action. However, Castriota also maintains about Aristotle's opinion that \"his interest has to do with the influence that such ethical representation may exert upon the public\". Castriota also explains that according to Aristotle, \"[t]he activity of these artists is to be judged worthy and useful above all because exposure of their work is beneficial to the polis\". Accordingly, this was the reason for the representation of character, or ethos, in public paintings and sculptures. In order to portray the character's choice, the pictorial narrative often shows an earlier scene than when the action was committed. Stansbury-O'Donnell gives an example of this in the form of a picture by the ancient Greek artist Exekia which shows the Greek hero Ajax planting his sword in the ground in preparation to commit suicide, instead of the actual suicide scene. (Stansbury-O'Donnell, p. 177.) Additionally, Castriota explains that ancient Greek art expresses the idea that character was the major factor influencing the outcome of the Greeks' conflicts against their enemies. Because of this, \"ethos was the essential variable in the equation or analogy between myth and actuality\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44605927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44605927", "title": "Evrydiki BA 2O37", "text": "Evrydiki BA 2O37\n\nEvrydiki BA 2O37 () is a 1975 Greek-West German co-production black and white dramatic experimental independent surrealist underground art film directed by Nikos Nikolaidis, his debut feature film.\n\nDespite a lukewarm reaction by viewers, critics appreciated the innovative perspective on the classic Greek tragedy of Orpheus and Eurydice and noted the originality of Nikolaidis' artistic techniques. It is characteristic that Nikolaidis himself believed \"Evrydiki BA 2O37\" to be his best film.\n\nAndré Z. Labarrére and Olivier Labarrére, authors of \"Atlas du cinéma\", wrote that the film was one of the \"New Greek Cinema\" films that \"radically transformed the panorama.\"\n\nFor this film, Nikolaidis won the Best Director Award, the Greek National Ministry of Culture Award, as well as the Athens Film Critics Association Best Picture Award at the Thessaloniki Festival of Greek Cinema in September 1975, where Marie-Louise Bartholomew, who was involved in the production of the film, also won the Best Set Designer Award, and Andreas Andreadakis, who was involved in the editing of the film, also won the Best Editor Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6002033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6002033", "title": "Extreme cinema", "text": "Extreme cinema\n\nExtreme cinema is a genre of film distinguished by its use of excessive violence, torture, and sex of extreme nature. The rising popularity of Asian films in the 21st century has contributed to the growth of extreme cinema, although extreme cinema is still considered to be a cult-based genre. Being a relatively new genre, extreme cinema is controversial and widely unaccepted by the mainstream media. Extreme cinema films target a specific and small audience group.\n\nThe prehistory of extreme cinema can be traced back to censorship of art films and advertising tactics for classical exploitation films to Anglophone markets alongside later liberal representations of sex in the first half of the 20th Century onwards.\n\nThe name \"extreme cinema\" originated from a “line of Asian films that share a combination of sensational features, such as extreme violence, horror and shocking plots”.\n\nExtreme cinema is highly criticized and debated by film critics and the general public. There have been debates over the hypersexualization that makes these films a threat to the ‘mainstream’ community standards.\n\nThere has also been criticism over the increasing use of violence in modern-day films. Ever since the emergence of slasher-gore films in the ’70s, the rising popularity of extreme cinema has contributed to the casual violence in popular media. Some criticize the easy exposure and unintended targeting of adolescence by extreme cinema films.\n\nThe British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) classifies extreme cinema films into an \"R18\" rating, which is defined as “special and legally restricted classification primarily for explicit works of consenting sex or strong fetish material involving adults.”\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53476847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53476847", "title": "Fabula togata", "text": "Fabula togata\n\nA fabula togata is a Latin comedy in a Roman setting, in existence since at least the second century B.C. Lucius Afranius and Titus Quinctius Atta are known to have written \"fabulae togatae\". No \"fabula togata\" has survived.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11429", "title": "False document", "text": "False document\n\nA false document is often promoted in conjunction with a criminal enterprise, such as fraud or a confidence game. \n\nHowever, a \"false document\" is also a technique employed to create verisimilitude in a work of fiction. By inventing and inserting documents that appear to be factual, an author tries to create a sense of authenticity beyond the normal and expected suspension of disbelief for a work of art. The goal of a false document is to convince an audience that what is being presented is factual.\n\nForged documents in business are typically for financial gain.\n\nA material's certification, essentially a report of its composition and properties, may be forged. A low-property material, produced for lower cost, may be passed as a higher-property material, which has a higher price. The difference becomes illicit profit. Counterfeit fasteners have low-strength alloys or inferior production processes, but are sold as high-strength fasteners.\n\nSimilarly, parts, systems, and processes for high-valued operations may have their quality-assurance documents forged. Substandard items may be cheaper or simply more readily available. Nuclear power plants in Japan and Korea have found components with forged safety documents.\n\"See also\": Information Assurance\n\nAcademic degrees often qualify for recruitment, promotions and additional pay. There are many methods to get false degree certificates. First, university officials have been bribed to issue a certificate without study. Second, false universities called diploma mills issue certificates that have no legal standing and are usually purchased outright without study, but they may still be legal. Finally, degree certificates have been directly forged, which is a felony in most jurisdictions. Besides the degree certificate itself, final theses and essays have been falsified by e.g. plagiarism, ghost writing or inclusion of fake references. Thus, the degree certificate itself is genuine but it may be revoked.\n\nA forged document, the Zinoviev Letter, helped bring the downfall of the first Labour Government in Britain. Conspiracies within secret intelligence services have occurred more recently, leading Harold Wilson to put in place rules to prevent in the 1960s phone tapping of members of Parliament, for example.\n\n\"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", purporting to describe a Jewish plan for global domination, was first published in Russia in 1903, translated into multiple languages, and disseminated internationally in the early part of the 20th century.\n\nArtist JSG Boggs's life and work have been extensively explored by author and journalist Lawrence Weschler. Boggs draws currency with exceptional care and accuracy, but he only ever draws one side. He then attempts to buy things with the piece of paper upon which he has drawn the currency. His goal is to pass each bill for its face value in common transactions. He buys lunch, clothes, and lodging in this manner, and after the transactions are complete, his bills fetch many times their face value on the art market. Boggs does not make any money from the much larger art market value of his work, only from reselling the goods bought, the change and receipts and other such materials. He has been arrested in many countries, and there is much controversy surrounding his work.\n\nOrson Welles' \"F for Fake\" is a prime example of a film which is both about falsification (art forgery and the journalism surrounding art forgery) as well as having falsified moments within the film. The movie follows the exploits of a famous art forger, his biographer Clifford Irving, and the subsequent fake autobiography of Howard Hughes that Irving tries to publish. The issues of veracity and forgery are explored in the film, while at the same time, Welles tricks the audience by incorporating fake bits of narrative alongside the documentary footage.\n\nThere is a long history of producers creating tie-in material to promote and merchandise movies and television shows. Tie-in materials as far-ranging as toys, games, lunch boxes, clothing and so on have all been created and in some cases generate as much or more revenue as the original programming. One big merchandising arena is publishing. In most cases such material is not considered canon within the show's mythology; however, in some instances the books, magazines, etc. are specifically designed by the creators to be canonical. With the rise of the Internet, in-canon online material has become more prominent.\n\nThe following is a list of \"false document\" in-canon supplemental material:\nAdditionally, a set of trading cards was produced which are also canon.\n\nA number of hoaxes have involved false documents:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "658833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=658833", "title": "Form-versus-content humour", "text": "Form-versus-content humour\n\nForm-versus-content humour is a type of humour in an incongruity between a statement's content and the way it is communicated makes it humorous. It is one of the basic techniques of tragicomic humour. Form-versus-content humour can be delivered, for example, by presenting a message in a form that inherently defeats the ostensible purpose of the message, or in a form that is fundamentally incapable of carrying the important part of the message. The \"Jargon File\" gives an example of this type of humor: a red index card with GREEN written on it.\n\n"}
{"id": "48648089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48648089", "title": "Game development kit", "text": "Game development kit\n\nGame development kits (GDK) are specialized hardware used to create commercial videogames. They may be partnered with game development tools, special game engine licenses, and other middleware to aid video game development. GDKs are typically not available to the public, and require game developers to enter an agreement, partnership, or program with the hardware manufacturer to gain access to the hardware. As game console generations pass, development kits often get sold through websites like eBay without repercussions. This is often because the console manufacturers discontinue certain development programs as time passes.\n\nIn the 1980s, computing did not involve 3D modelling or any complex programming due to the limitations of hardware. This, combined with the hobbyist nature of early computer game programming, meant that not many individuals or smaller companies would develop for consoles. Even when consoles became mainstream (such as the Nintendo Entertainment System), there was no official or publicly available GDK since most console manufacturers would develop their games in-house. For example, Nintendo had internal development teams for both hardware and software.\n\nBy the fifth generation of consoles, game development kits were developed to encourage more developers to make console games and grow the videogame industry. Game development kits began as a simple way for developers to connect their computers to console hardware, allowing them to compile software on their PC and see it play directly on a console. Once most GDKs started becoming bundled with hardware-specific software, hobbyists or anyone not directly affiliated with a console manufacturer would have to write their games without the specialized software to access unique features such as the Xbox One's Kinect or the Wii U GamePad.\n\nModern game development kits often come bundled with the specialized software, and are much more formalized compared to previous-generation GDKs. In older generations of console gaming, developers had to make their own hardware and write games at various levels of programming (such as assembly). Today, programs such as Unity 3D provide a complete software environment and console manufacturers such as Nintendo provide polished & powerful development hardware through their developer programs. Other console manufacturers even allow the retail consoles to be used as development kits, provided that the development software is being used by the developer.\n\nFor a significant portion of the NES lifespan, there was no official development kit. Video game developers creating games for the NES would have to make their own development kits, such as Rocket Science Production with their \"NES Mission Control\" development system. At least two programs were used in conjunction with the NES Mission Control hardware; NESTEST.EXE which would be used to test and debug the development hardware, and HST.EXE which would be used for communication between a computer and the NES development hardware.\n\nThe Super Nintendo Entertainment System used specialized EPROM cartridges for development, as well as various software. Similar to the NES, developers often made their own development software or relied on middleware made by other developers.\n\nThe are several variations of the PlayStation development kit used for game creation. One variation of the development kit had only three components, while the PlayStation Ultimate Development Kit included up to 26 components, including the complete Net Yaroze development kit.\n\nThe Net Yaroze version of the development kit was unique in that it had some features removed and added compared to the official (complete) PlayStation development kit. The Net Yaroze hardware was designed for hobbyists, while official developers would have access to the official PlayStation development kits. There was also a blue version of the PlayStation made for developers that would read burned discs to allow quick testing of imaged builds of their videogames. While there were official PlayStation-branded CD-Rs that could be used with the blue PlayStation, regular CD-Rs were also compatible with the system.\n\nThe Nintendo 64 development kit consisted of multiple components, both for the N64 and its add-on, the N64DD. The main hardware used in N64 game development was the Partner-N64 Development Kit, and used tall cartridges for game development/testing rather than the short cartridges that were sold with retail games. Another hardware component in N64 development was the NU64 Flash Gang Writer, which allowed developers to copy data from one cartridge to multiple cartridges simultaneously. This device was primarily used to create press and test copies of games, and also relied on tall cartridges instead of short retail cartridges.\n\nOther versions of the Nintendo 64 GDK are the SN Systems development suite, as well as the SN Maestro 64 Music development system. The development suite allowed developers to run code from a computer directly to the console, and included a software package. The Maestro 64 Music system allowed developers to load music software on to the console, and play music through the Nintendo 64's hardware.\n\nSega Dreamcast units were unique in that they used \"GD-ROM\" discs; giga discs that held 1GB of data. This was slightly more than a typical CD, but less than a DVD. While GD-ROM burners were used by some developers, since the Dreamcast was compatible with CDs and since most games didn't take up 1GB of data at the time, GD-ROMs remained uncommon as developers opted to use the more-easily accessible CDs for their disc media.\n\nWhen developers were creating software for the original Xbox, a prototype of the controller was used in the early development kits. This controller was slimmer, had elongated sides, and used a USB cable instead of an Xbox port-compatible cable.\n\nMicrosoft manages the Xbox 360 Tools and Middleware Program, which licenses development kits (hardware and software) to professional software developers working on tools and technologies for games. Access to this program requires good industry references, prior experience in games tools and middleware development, and signing a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nThe PlayStation developer program allows registered developers to publish their games across the PlayStation Network, making their games accessible on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and PlayStation TV all through one program.\n\nThe Wii development kit was a bundle of the \"NDEV\" hardware - a big black box full of debugging/testing hardware that looks nothing like the slim white Wii consoles sold to consumers - and a disc containing the developer software tools.\n\nMicrosoft maintains multiple developer programs for people wanting to develop games for their platforms; ID@Xbox for Xbox One game development, and the Windows Dev Center for Windows 8, Windows 8.1, Windows 10, and Xbox One game and application development. \n\nThe PlayStation developer program allows registered developers to publish their games across the PlayStation Network, making their games accessible on the PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, and PlayStation TV all through one program. The PlayStation 4 development kits were known as \"Orbis\", though this was just a codename. Academic institutions can register to receive PS4 development kits for educational use, and are not region-restricted unlike regular PlayStation Developer Program members.\n\nNintendo maintains a unified developer program for both its Wii U and Nintendo 3DS families of platforms. This developer program provides software and middleware to developers, and allows developers to self-publish their games to the Nintendo eShop. Games and applications published through this program are considered \"third-party\" and do not belong to Nintendo, allowing independent developers to publish their games on multiple different platforms.\n\nThe Wii U development hardware consists of a system called \"CAT-DEV\", with its accompanying peripherals such as the Display Remote Controller (presumably the Wii U GamePad) and sensor bar.\n\nNintendo's developer program allows developers to use Nintendo 3DS development kits, and allows developers to self-publish their games to the Nintendo eShop. As mentioned in the Nintendo Wii U section above, games and applications published through this program are considered \"third-party\" and do not belong to Nintendo, allowing independent developers to publish their games on multiple different platforms.\n\nStrangely, some 3DS development kits cannot play retail games.\n\n"}
{"id": "630966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=630966", "title": "Heckler", "text": "Heckler\n\nA heckler is a person who harasses and tries to disconcert others with questions, challenges, or gibes.\nHecklers are often known to shout disparaging comments at a performance or event, or to interrupt set-piece speeches, with the intent of disturbing performers and/or participants.\n\nAlthough the word \"heckler\", which originated from the textile trade, was first attested in the mid-15th century, the sense \"person who harasses\" was from 1885. To \"heckle\" was to tease or comb out flax or hemp fibres. The additional meaning, to interrupt speakers with awkward or embarrassing questions, was added in Scotland, and specifically perhaps in early nineteenth century Dundee, a famously radical town where the hecklers who combed the flax had established a reputation as the most radical and belligerent element in the workforce. In the heckling factory, one heckler would read out the day's news while the others worked, to the accompaniment of interruptions and furious debate.\n\nHeckling was a major part of the vaudeville theater. Sometimes it was incorporated into the play. Milton Berle's weekly TV variety series in the 1960s featured a heckler named Sidney Spritzer (German/Yiddish for 'squirter') played by Borscht Belt comic Irving Benson. In the 1970s and 1980s, \"The Muppet Show\", which was also built around a vaudeville theme, featured two hecklers, Statler & Waldorf (two old men named after famous hotels). Heckles are now particularly likely to be heard at comedy performances, to unsettle or compete with the performer.\n\nPoliticians speaking before live audiences have less latitude to deal with hecklers. Legally, such conduct may constitute protected free speech. Strategically, coarse or belittling retorts to hecklers entail personal risk disproportionate to any gain. Some politicians, however, have been known to improvise a relevant and witty response despite these pitfalls. One acknowledged expert at this was Harold Wilson, British Prime Minister in the 1960s:\n\nMartin Luther King's I Have a Dream speech was largely a response to supporter Mahalia Jackson interrupting his prepared speech to shout \"Tell them about the dream, Martin\". At that point, King stopped reading from his previously prepared speech and improvised the remainder of the speech - this improvised portion of the speech is the best-known part of the speech and frequently rated as one of the best of all time.\n\nDuring a campaign stop just before winning the Presidency in 1980, Ronald Reagan was heckled by an audience member who kept interrupting him during a speech. Reagan tried to go on with his speech three times, but after being interrupted yet again glared at the heckler and snapped \"Aw, shut up!\" The audience immediately gave him a standing ovation.\n\nIn 1992, then-Presidential candidate Bill Clinton was interrupted by Bob Rafsky, a member of the AIDS activism group ACT UP, who accused him of \"dying of ambition to be president\" during a rally. After becoming visibly agitated, Clinton took the microphone off the stand, pointed to the heckler and directly responded to him by saying, \"[...] I have treated you and all of the other people who have interrupted my rallies with a hell of a lot more respect than you treated me. And it's time to start thinking about that!\" Clinton was then met with raucous applause.\n\nOne modern political approach to discourage heckling is to ensure that major events are given before a \"tame\" audience of sympathizers, or conducted to allow restrictions on who may remain on the premises (see also, \"astroturfing\"). The downside is this may make heckling incidents even more newsworthy. This happened to Tony Blair during a photo op visit to a hospital during the 2001 general election campaign, and again in 2003 during a speech.\n\nIn 2004, American Vice President Dick Cheney was interrupted mid-speech by Perry Patterson, a middle-aged mother in a pre-screened rally audience. After various supportive outbursts that were permitted (\"Four more years\", \"Go Bush!\"), Patterson uttered \"No, no, no, no\" and was removed from the speech area and told to leave. She refused, and was arrested for criminal trespass.\n\nLater, in 2005, Cheney received some heckling that was broadcast during his trip to New Orleans, after Hurricane Katrina ravaged the area. The heckling occurred during a press conference in Gulfport, Mississippi, in an area that was cordoned off for public safety reasons, and then further secured for the press conference. Nevertheless, emergency room physician Ben Marble got close enough to the proceedings and could be heard yelling, \"Go fuck yourself, Mr. Cheney.\" Cheney laughed it off and continued speaking. The heckle was a reference to Cheney's use of the phrase the previous year, when during a heated exchange with Senator Patrick Joseph Leahy, Vermont, he said \"fuck yourself\" on the floor of the senate.\n\nOn 15 October 2005, \"The Scotsman\" reported \"Iranian ambassador Dr Seyed Mohammed Hossein Adeli... speaking at the annual Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament conference... During his speech to the CND several people were told to leave the room following protests at Iran's human rights record. Several protesters shouted \"Fascists\" at the ambassador and the organisers of the conference. Walter Wolfgang, the 82-year-old peace campaigner who was forced out of the Labour Party conference last month, was in the audience.\"\n\nSince 2005 heckling of performing artists has become more commonplace in Switzerland. Musicians of Basel and Zurich have become an increasing focus of hecklers. This shift is primarily perpetrated by foreigners and is often met with a positive response by the non-Swiss performers who welcome the audience interaction. \n\nOn Thursday, 20 April 2006, a heckler from the Falun Gong spiritual movement entered the US White House grounds as a reporter and interrupted a formal arrival ceremony for Chinese President Hu Jintao. Moments into Mr Hu's speech at the event, Wang Wenyi, perched on the top tier of the stands reserved for the press, began screaming in English and Chinese: \"President Bush stop him. Stop this visit. Stop the killing and torture.\" President Bush later apologised to his guest.\n\nOn 9 September 2009, Representative Joe Wilson (R-SC) shouted \"You lie!\" at President Barack Obama after President Obama stated that his health care plan would not subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants during a speech he was making to a joint session of Congress. Wilson later apologized for his outburst.\n\nOn 25 November 2013, Ju Hong, a 24-year-old South Korean immigrant without legal documentation, shouted at Obama to use his executive power to stop deportation of illegal immigrants. Obama said \"If, in fact, I could solve all these problems without passing laws in Congress, then I would do so.\" \"But we're also a nation of laws, that's part of our tradition,\" he continued. \"And so the easy way out is to try to yell and pretend like I can do something by violating our laws. And what I'm proposing is the harder path, which is to use our democratic processes to achieve the same goal.\"\n\nHecklers can also appear at sporting events, and usually (but not always) direct their taunts at a visiting team. Fans of the Philadelphia Eagles American football team are notorious for heckling; among the most infamous incidents were booing and subsequently throwing snowballs at a performer dressed as Santa Claus in a halftime show in 1968, and cheering at the career-ending injury of visiting team player Michael Irvin in 1999. Often, sports heckling will also involve throwing objects onto the field; this has led most sports stadiums to ban glass containers and bottlecaps. Another famous heckler is Robert Szasz, who regularly attends Tampa Bay Rays baseball games and is known for loudly heckling one opposing player per game or series. Former Yugoslav football star Dejan Savićević is involved in an infamous incident with a heckler in which during an interview, a man on the street is heard shouting off-camera: \"You're a piece of shit!\" Dejan berated the man, and went on to finish the interview, without missing a beat.\n\nIn English and Scottish football, heckling and swearing from the stands, and football chants such as who ate all the pies? are common.\n\nAustralian sporting audiences are known for creative heckling. Perhaps the most famous is Yabba who had a grandstand at the Sydney Cricket Ground named after him, and now a statue.\n\nThe sport of cricket is particularly notorious for heckling between the teams themselves, which is known as sledging.\n\nAt the NBA Drafts of recent years, many fans have gone with heckling ESPN NBA analyst and host of, Quite Frankly with Stephen A. Smith, Stephen A. Smith. Most notably, The Stephen A. Smith Heckling Society of Gentlemen heckles him with a sock puppet dubbed as Stephen A. himself.\n\nTennis fans are also fairly noted for heckling. Some may call out during a service point to distract either player. Another common heckle from tennis fans is cheering after a service fault, which is considered to be rude and unsporting.\n\nIn 2009, then Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Alex Ríos was a victim of a heckling incident outside after a fund-raising event. The incident occurred after Rios declined to sign an autograph for a young fan, the same day he went 0 for 5 with 5 strikeouts in a game against the Los Angeles Angels. An older man yelled \"The way you played today Alex, you should be lucky someone wants your autograph.\" Rios then replied with \"Who gives a fuck\", repeating it until being ushered into a vehicle. Rios did apologize the next day, but was eventually placed on waivers and claimed by the Chicago White Sox later that year.\n\nOne of the most famous heckles in music history occurred at a Bob Dylan concert at the Manchester Free Trade Hall in 1966. During a quiet moment in between songs, an audience member shouts very loudly and clearly, \"Judas!\" referencing Dylan's so-called betrayal of folk music by \"going electric\". Dylan replied: \"I don't believe you, you're a liar!\" before telling his band to \"Play it fucking loud!\" They play an acidic version of \"Like a Rolling Stone\". This incident was captured on tape and the full concert was released as volume four of Dylan's \"Live Bootleg Series\".\n\nHeckling often occurs during stand up comedy performances, particularly at open stage performances, and/or where alcoholic beverages are being consumed. It is regarded as a sign of audience members becoming impatient with what they regard as a low quality performance. Some comedians ignore the heckling and dislike the practice. In an interview for a 2011 BBC documentary, Billy Connolly said that \"I loathe hecklers. I haven't one good syllable to say about hecklers. When you've come out of the club circuit and all that and you're in the concert hall...they should be gone.\" Other stand-up comedians devise a strategy for quashing such outbursts, usually by having a store of retorts (known as \"squelches\") on hand. The idea is to get the audience laughing at the heckler for being outwitted.\n\nIn addition, live comedy venues tend to discourage heckling via signage and admissions policy, but tend to tolerate it as it creates customer loyalty. The etiquette of exactly how much heckling is tolerated differs immensely from venue to venue, however, but is generally more likely to be tolerated in blue collar or working class venues. Some cities feature 'heckle nights' where heckling is actively encouraged.\n\nThe comedy TV series \"The Muppet Show\" featured a pair of hecklers named Statler and Waldorf. These characters created a kind of meta-comedy act in which the show's official comedian, Fozzie Bear, acted as their usual foil, although they occasionally made jokes at other characters as well.\n\nAnother notable use of heckling in comedy is in the cult favorite series \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". The series involves a man (either Joel Robinson or Mike Nelson) and two robots (Tom Servo and Crow T. Robot) sitting in a theater mocking bad B-movies. This style of comedy, coined as riffing, is continued with commentary-based series such as Rifftrax and Cinematic Titanic.\n\nIn one of Rowan Atkinson's plays \"The School Master\", a heckler interrupted his play by shouting \"Here!\" after Atkinson had read out an amusing name on his register. Atkinson incorporated it into his act by saying \"I have a detention book...\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1786165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786165", "title": "Helen (unit)", "text": "Helen (unit)\n\nA helen is a humorous unit of measurement based on the concept that Helen of Troy, from the \"Iliad\", had a \"face that launched a thousand ships\". The helen is thus used to measure quantities of beauty in terms of the theoretical action that could be accomplished by the wielder of such beauty.\n\nThe classic reference to Helen's beauty is Marlowe's lines from the 1592 play \"The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus\", \"Was this the face that launched a thousand ships / And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?\" In the tradition of humorous pseudounits, then, 1 millihelen is the amount of beauty needed to launch a single ship.\n\nAccording to \"The Rebel Angels\", a 1981 novel by Robertson Davies, this system was invented by Cambridge mathematician W.A.H. Rushton. Isaac Asimov claimed to have invented the term in the 1940s as a graduate student in his 1992 collection of jokes and limericks. In a 1958 letter to the \"New Scientist\", R.C. Winton proposes the milli-Helen as the amount of beauty required to launch one ship. In response, P. Lockwood noted that the unit had been independently proposed by Edgar J. Westbury and extended by the pair to negative values, where −1 milli-Helen was the amount of ugliness required to sink a battleship.\n\nThe Catalogue of Ships from Book II of \"The Iliad\", which describes in detail the commanders who came to fight for Helen and the ships they brought with them, details a total of 1,186 ships which came to fight the Trojan War. As such, Helen herself has a beauty rating of 1.186 helens, capable of launching \"more\" than one thousand ships.\n\nThe \"system\" has been expanded by some writers, such as conceiving of negative values as measures of the ugliness required to \"beach\" a thousand ships. Writing a humorous article about the concept, David Goines considered a range of metric prefixes to the unit, ranging from the atto<nowiki>helen</nowiki> (ah) which could merely \"light up a Lucky while strolling past a shipyard\", to the tera<nowiki>helen</nowiki> (Th) able to \"launch the equivalent of one quadrillion Greek warships and make serious inroads on the welfare of the galaxy\".\n\nTheoretical physicist Thomas Fink defines beauty in \"The Man's Book\" both in terms of ships launched and in terms of the number of women, on average, than whom one woman will be more beautiful. He defines one \"helen\" (H) as the quantity of beauty to be more beautiful than 50 million women, the number of women estimated to have been alive in the 12th century BCE.\nFink also defines a related, but smaller unit called a “\"helena\"” (Ha), based on a logarithmic scale, like the Richter scale, or decibels (dB). Ten helena (Ha) is the beauty sufficient for one oarsman (of which 50 are on a ship) to risk his life, or to be the most beautiful of a thousand women. Since the unit is logarithmic on a base of 2, for beauty to increase by 1 Ha, a woman must be the most beautiful of twice as many women, so one \"helen\" is equivalent to 25.6 Ha. The most beautiful woman who ever lived would score 34.2 Ha, the equivalent of 1.34 helen, the pick of a dozen women would be 3.6 Ha, or 0.14 helen.\n\n"}
{"id": "105776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105776", "title": "Hollywood Walk of Fame", "text": "Hollywood Walk of Fame\n\nThe Hollywood Walk of Fame comprises more than 2,600 five-pointed terrazzo and brass stars embedded in the sidewalks along 15 blocks of Hollywood Boulevard and three blocks of Vine Street in Hollywood, California. The stars are permanent public monuments to achievement in the entertainment industry, bearing the names of a mix of musician, actors, directors, producers, musical and theatrical groups, fictional characters, and others. The Walk of Fame is administered by the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce and maintained by the self-financing Hollywood Historic Trust. It is a popular tourist destination, with a reported 10 million visitors in 2003.\n\nThe Walk of Fame runs east to west on Hollywood Boulevard from Gower Street to La Brea Avenue, plus a short segment of Marshfield Way that runs diagonally between Hollywood and La Brea; and north to south on Vine Street between Yucca Street and Sunset Boulevard. According to a 2003 report by the market research firm NPO Plog Research, the Walk attracts about 10 million visitors annually—more than Sunset Strip, TCL Chinese Theatre (formerly Grauman's), the \"Queen Mary\", and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art—and has played an important role in making tourism the largest industry in Los Angeles County.\n\n, the Walk of Fame comprises over 2,600 stars, spaced at intervals. The monuments are coral-pink terrazzo five-point stars rimmed with brass (not bronze, an oft-repeated inaccuracy) inlaid into a charcoal-colored terrazzo background. In the upper portion of each star field the name of the honoree is inlaid in brass block letters. Below the inscription, in the lower half of the star field, a round inlaid brass emblem indicates the category of the honoree's contributions. The emblems symbolize five categories within the entertainment industry:\n\nOf all the stars on the Walk to date, 47% have been awarded in the motion pictures category, 24% in television, 17% in audio recording, 10% in radio, and fewer than 2% in the live performance category. Approximately 20 new stars are added to the Walk each year.\n\nSpecial category stars recognize various contributions by corporate entities, service organizations, and special honorees, and display emblems unique to those honorees. For example, former Los Angeles mayor Tom Bradley's star displays the Seal of the City of Los Angeles; the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) star emblem is a replica of a Hollywood Division badge; and stars representing corporations, such as Victoria's Secret and the Los Angeles Dodgers, display the honoree's corporate logo. The \"Friends of the Walk of Fame\" monuments are charcoal terrazzo squares rimmed by miniature pink terrazzo stars displaying the five standard category emblems, along with the sponsor's corporate logo, with the sponsor's name and contribution in inlaid brass block lettering. Special stars and Friends monuments are granted by the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce or the Hollywood Historic Trust, but are not part of the Walk of Fame proper and are located nearby on private property.\n\nThe monuments for the Apollo 11 mission to the Moon are uniquely shaped: Four identical circular moons, bearing the names of the three astronauts (Neil A. Armstrong, Edwin E. Aldrin Jr., Michael Collins) the date of the first Moon landing (\"7/20/69\"), and the words \"Apollo XI\", are set on each of the four corners of the intersection of Hollywood and Vine. The moons are silver and grey terrazzo circles rimmed in brass on a square pink terrazzo background, with the television emblem inlaid at the top of each circle.\n\nThe Hollywood Chamber of Commerce credits E.M. Stuart, its volunteer president in 1953, with the original idea for creating a Walk of Fame. Stuart reportedly proposed the Walk as a means to \"maintain the glory of a community whose name means glamour and excitement in the four corners of the world.\" Harry Sugarman, another Chamber member and president of the Hollywood Improvement Association, receives credit in an independent account. A committee was formed to flesh out the idea, and an architectural firm was retained to develop specific proposals. By 1955 the basic concept and general design had been agreed upon, and plans were submitted to the Los Angeles City Council.\n\nMultiple accounts exist for the origin of the star concept. According to one, the historic Hollywood Hotel—which stood for more than 50 years on Hollywood Boulevard at the site now occupied by the Hollywood and Highland complex and the Dolby (formerly Kodak) Theatre—displayed stars on its dining room ceiling above the tables favored by its most famous celebrity patrons, and that may have served as an early inspiration. By another account, the stars were \"inspired ... by Sugarman's [Tropics Restaurant] drinks menu, which featured celebrity photos framed in gold stars.\"\n\nIn February 1956 a prototype was unveiled featuring a caricature of an example honoree (John Wayne, by some accounts) inside a blue star on a brown background. However, caricatures proved too expensive and difficult to execute in brass with the technology available at the time; and the brown and blue motif was vetoed by Charles E. Toberman, the legendary real estate developer known as \"Mr. Hollywood\", because the colors clashed with a new building he was erecting on Hollywood Boulevard.\n\nBy March 1956 the final design and coral-and-charcoal color scheme had been approved, and between the spring of 1956 and the fall of 1957, 1,558 honorees were selected by committees representing the four major branches of the entertainment industry at that time: motion pictures, television, audio recording, and radio. The committees met at the Brown Derby restaurant, and included such prominent names as Cecil B. DeMille, Samuel Goldwyn, Jesse L. Lasky, Walt Disney, Hal Roach, Mack Sennett, and Walter Lantz.\nA requirement stipulated by the original audio recording committee (and later rescinded) specified minimum sales of one million records or 250,000 albums for all music category nominees. The committee soon realized that many important recording artists would be excluded from the Walk by that requirement. As a result, the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences was formed for the purpose of creating a separate award system for the music business. The first Grammy Awards were presented in Beverly Hills in 1959.\n\nConstruction of the Walk began in 1958 but two lawsuits delayed completion. The first was filed by local property owners challenging the legality of the $1.25 million tax assessment levied upon them to pay for the Walk, along with new street lighting and trees. In October 1959 the assessment was ruled legal. The second lawsuit, filed by Charles Chaplin Jr., sought damages for the exclusion of his father, whose nomination had been withdrawn due to pressure from multiple quarters (see Controversial additions). Chaplin's suit was dismissed in 1960, paving the way for completion of the project.\n\nWhile Joanne Woodward is often singled out as the first to receive a star on the Walk of Fame, in fact there was no \"first\" recipient; the original stars were installed as a continuous project, with no individual ceremonies. Woodward's name was one of eight drawn at random from the original 1,558 and inscribed on eight prototype stars that were built while litigation was still holding up permanent construction. The eight prototypes were installed temporarily on the northwest corner of Hollywood Boulevard and Highland Avenue in August 1958 to generate publicity and to demonstrate how the Walk would eventually look. The other seven names were Olive Borden, Ronald Colman, Louise Fazenda, Preston Foster, Burt Lancaster, Edward Sedgwick, and Ernest Torrence. Official groundbreaking took place on February 8, 1960. On March 28, 1960, the first permanent star, director Stanley Kramer's, was completed on the easternmost end of the new Walk near the intersection of Hollywood and Gower. The Joanne Woodward legend may have originated, according to one source, because she was the first to pose with her star for photographers.\n\nThough the Walk was originally conceived in part to encourage redevelopment of Hollywood Boulevard, the 1960s and 1970s were periods of protracted urban decay in the Hollywood area as residents moved to suburbs.\nAfter the initial installation of approximately 1,500 stars in 1960 and 1961, eight years passed without the addition of a new star. In 1962 the Los Angeles City Council passed an ordinance naming the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce \"the agent to advise the City\" about adding names to the Walk, and the Chamber, over the following six years, devised rules, procedures, and financing methods to do so.\nIn December 1968, Richard D. Zanuck was awarded the first star in eight years in a presentation ceremony hosted by Danny Thomas. In July 1978 the City of Los Angeles designated the Hollywood Walk of Fame a Los Angeles Historic-Cultural Monument.\n\nRadio personality, television producer and Chamber member Johnny Grant is generally credited with implementing the changes that resuscitated the Walk and established it as a significant tourist attraction. Beginning in 1968, he stimulated publicity and encouraged international press coverage by requiring that each recipient personally attend his or her star's unveiling ceremony. Grant later recalled that \"it was tough to get people to come accept a star\" until the neighborhood finally began its recovery in the 1980s. In 1980 he instituted a fee of $2,500, payable by the person or entity nominating the recipient, to fund the Walk of Fame's upkeep and minimize further taxpayer burden. The fee has increased incrementally over time; by 2002 it had reached $15,000, and stood at $30,000 in 2012. The current (2017) fee is $40,000.\n\nGrant was awarded a star in 1980 for his television work. In 2002, he received a second star in the \"special\" category to acknowledge his pivotal role in improving and popularizing the Walk. He was also named chairman of the Selection Committee and Honorary Mayor of Hollywood (a ceremonial position previously held by Art Linkletter and Monty Hall, among others). He remained in both offices from 1980 until his death in 2008 and hosted the great majority of unveiling ceremonies during that period. His unique special-category star, with its emblem depicting a stylized \"Great Seal of the City of Hollywood\", is located at the entrance to the Dolby Theatre adjacent to Johnny Grant Way.\n\nIn 1984 a fifth category, Live Theatre, was added to permit acknowledgment of contributions from the live performance branch of the entertainment industry, and a second row of stars was created on each sidewalk to alternate with the existing stars.\nIn 1994 the Walk of Fame was extended one block to the west on Hollywood Boulevard, from Sycamore Avenue to North LaBrea Avenue (plus the short segment of Marshfield Way that connects Hollywood and La Brea), where it now ends at the silver \"Four Ladies of Hollywood\" gazebo and the special \"Walk of Fame\" star. At the same time, Sophia Loren was honored with the 2,000th star on the Walk.\n\nDuring construction of tunnels for the Los Angeles subway system in 1996, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority removed and stored more than 300 stars. Controversy arose when the MTA proposed a money-saving measure of jackhammering the 3-by-3-foot terrazzo pads, preserving only the brass lettering, surrounds, and medallions, then pouring new terrazzo after the tunnels were completed; but the Cultural Heritage Commission ruled that the star pads were to be removed intact.\n\nIn 2008 a long-term restoration project began with an evaluation of all 2,365 stars on the Walk at the time, each receiving a letter grade of A, B, C, D, or F. Honorees whose stars received F grades, indicating the most severe damage, were Joan Collins, Peter Frampton, Dick Van Patten, Paul Douglas, Andrew L. Stone, Willard Waterman, Richard Boleslavsky, Ellen Drew, Frank Crumit, and Bobby Sherwood. Fifty celebrities' stars received \"D\" grades. The damage ranged from minor cosmetic flaws caused by normal weathering to holes and fissures severe enough to constitute a walking hazard. At least 778 stars will eventually be repaired or replaced during the ongoing project at an estimated cost of $4 million to $4.2 million.\n\nThe restoration is a collaboration among the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce and various Los Angeles city and county governmental offices, along with the MTA, which operates the Metro Red Line that runs beneath the Walk, since earth movement due to the presence of the subway line is thought to be partly responsible for the damage.\n\nTo encourage supplemental funding for the project by corporate sponsors, the \"Friends of Walk of Fame\" program was inaugurated. Absolut Vodka became the first Friend with a donation of $1 million, followed by L'Oréal. Friends are recognized with honorary plaques adjacent to the Walk of Fame in front of the Dolby Theatre. The program received some criticism. Alana Semuels of the \"Los Angeles Times\" described it as \"just the latest corporate attempt to buy some good buzz,\" and, quoting an area brand strategist, \"I think Johnny Grant would roll over in his grave.\" Karen Fondu, President of L'Oréal Paris, countered that the association was \"a natural affinity.\"\n\nThe original selection committees chose to recognize some entertainers' contributions in multiple categories with multiple stars. Gene Autry is the only honoree with stars in all five categories. Bob Hope, Mickey Rooney, Roy Rogers, and Tony Martin each have stars in four categories—Rooney has three of his own and a fourth with his eighth and final wife, Jan, while Rogers also has three of his own, and a fourth with his band, Sons of the Pioneers. Thirty-three people, including Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Jo Stafford, Dean Martin, Dinah Shore, Gale Storm, Danny Kaye, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and Jack Benny, have stars in three categories.\n\nSeven recording artists have two stars in the same category for distinct achievements: Michael Jackson, as a soloist and as a member of The Jackson 5; Diana Ross, as a member of The Supremes and for her solo work; Smokey Robinson, as a solo artist and as a member of The Miracles; and John Lennon, Ringo Starr, George Harrison, and Paul McCartney as individuals and as members of The Beatles. Cher forfeited her opportunity by declining to schedule the mandatory personal appearance when she was selected in 1983. She did attend the unveiling of the Sonny & Cher star in 1998 as a tribute to her recently deceased ex-husband, Sonny Bono.\n\nGeorge Eastman is the only honoree with two stars in the same category for the same achievement, the invention of roll film.\n\nIn 1977, country singer Loretta Lynn was the first of her genre to receive a star on the Walk of Fame.\n\nCharlie Chaplin is the only honoree to be selected twice for the same star on the Walk. He was unanimously voted into the initial group of 500 in 1956 but the Selection Committee ultimately excluded him, ostensibly due to questions regarding his morals (he had been charged with violating the Mann Act—and exonerated—during the White Slavery hysteria of the 1940s), but more likely due to his left-leaning political views. The rebuke prompted an unsuccessful lawsuit by his son, Charles Chaplin Jr. His star was finally added to the Walk in 1972, the same year he received his Academy Award; but even then, 16 years later, the Chamber of Commerce received angry letters from across the country protesting its decision to include him.\n\nThe committee's Chaplin difficulties reportedly contributed to its decision in 1978 against awarding a star to Paul Robeson, a controversial opera singer, actor, athlete, writer, lawyer, and social activist. The resulting outcry from the entertainment industry, civic circles, local and national politicians, and many other quarters was so intense that the decision was reversed and Robeson was awarded a star in 1979.\n\nFollowing sexual assault allegations involving comedian Bill Cosby, actor Kevin Spacey, reality television host and U.S. President Donald Trump, and producer-director Brett Ratner, the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce released a statement regarding inquiries as to the removal of stars:\n\nThe Hollywood Chamber of Commerce has received inquiries asking whether we are planning to remove the stars of Walk of Famers because of alleged misconduct. The answer is no ... The Hollywood Walk of Fame is a registered historic landmark. Once a star has been added to the Walk, it is considered a part of the historic fabric of the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Because of this, we have never removed a star from the Walk.\n\nOn August 6, 2018, the West Hollywood City Council passed a resolution asking for the removal of the star for Donald Trump, after repeated vandalism to the site. The Mayor of West Hollywood, John Duran, stated that \"the council unanimously passes the resolution to remove his star\"; however, the West Hollywood City Council has no jurisdiction over the Walk of Fame.\n\nTwo pairs of stars share identical names representing different people. There are two Harrison Ford stars, honoring the silent film actor (at 6665 Hollywood Boulevard), and the present-day actor (in front of the Dolby Theatre at 6801 Hollywood Boulevard). Two Michael Jackson stars represent the singer/dancer/songwriter (at 6927 Hollywood Boulevard), and the radio personality (at 1597 Vine Street). When the recording artist Jackson died in 2009, fans mistakenly began leaving flowers, candles, and other tributes at the Vine Street star. Upon learning of this, the radio host wrote on his website, \"I am willingly loan[ing] it to him and, if it would bring him back, he can have it.\"\n\nThe most common surname, with seventeen stars, is Williams: Andy Williams, Bill Williams, Billy Dee Williams, Cindy Williams, Earle Williams, Esther Williams, Guy Williams, Hank Williams, Joe Williams, Kathlyn Williams, Paul Williams, Pharrell Williams, Robin Williams, Roger Williams, Tex Williams and Vanessa Williams. There are fourteen stars with the surname Moore, twelve with Jones, and seven with Smith.\n\nThe largest collection of stars honoring one group of blood relatives is the widely scattered set of seven representing the Barrymore family: John Barrymore, his brother Lionel (who has two), and sister Ethel, their uncle Sidney Drew, John's son John Drew Barrymore, and John Drew's daughter Drew Barrymore.\n\nWalk of Fame rules prohibit consideration of nominees whose contributions fall outside the five major entertainment categories, but the selection committee has been known to conjure some interesting rule interpretations to justify a selection. The Walk's four round Moon landing monuments at the corners of Hollywood and Vine, for example, officially recognize the Apollo 11 astronauts for \"contributions to the television industry\". Johnny Grant acknowledged, in 2005, that classifying the first Moon landing as a television entertainment event was \"a bit of a stretch\". Magic Johnson's considerable basketball skills had no direct connection to movies, music, TV, radio, or theater, but the committee added him to the motion picture category, based on his ownership of the Magic Johnson Theatre chain, citing as precedent Sid Grauman, builder of Grauman's (now TCL) Chinese Theatre. \"[Now] people want Orville Redenbacher,\" Grant quipped in the 2005 interview, \"because his popcorn is in all the theaters.\"\n\nMuhammad Ali's star was granted after the committee decided that boxing could be considered a form of \"live performance\". Its placement, on a wall of the Dolby Theatre, makes it the only star mounted on a vertical surface, acceding to Ali's request that his name (and by extension his namesake, the Islamic prophet Muhammad) not be walked upon.\n\nAll living honorees have been required since 1968 to personally attend their star's unveiling, and approximately 40 have declined the honor due to this condition. The only recipient to date who failed to appear after agreeing to do so was Barbra Streisand, in 1976. Her star was unveiled anyway, near the intersection of Hollywood and Highland. Streisand did attend when her husband, James Brolin, unveiled his star in 1998 two blocks to the east.\n\nFifteen stars are identified with a one-word stage name: Cantinflas, Houdini, Liberace, Mako, Meiklejohn, Paderewski, Parkyakarkus, Roseanne, RuPaul, Sabu, Shakira, Slash, Sting, Thalía, and Usher.\n\nThe largest group of individuals represented by a single star is the estimated 122 adults and 12 children collectively known as the Munchkins, from the landmark 1939 film \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nClayton Moore is so inextricably linked with his Lone Ranger character, even though he played other roles during his career, that he is one of only two actors to have his character's name alongside his own on his star. The other is Tommy Riggs, whose star reads, \"Tommy Riggs & Betty Lou.\"\n\nFor more than 40 years, singer Jimmy Boyd was the youngest star recipient at age 20, but he lost that distinction in 2004 to 18-year-old twins Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen. Their joint star (the only one shared by twins) is outside the Dolby Theatre, near the Hollywood and Highland Center.\n\nThe Westmores received the first star honoring contributions in theatrical make-up. Other make-up artists on the walk are Max Factor, John Chambers and Rick Baker. Three stars recognize experts in special effects: Ray Harryhausen, Dennis Muren, and Stan Winston. Only one costume designer has received a star, eight-time Academy Award winner Edith Head.\n\nSidney Sheldon is one of two novelists with a star, which he earned for writing screenplays such as \"The Bachelor and the Bobby-Soxer\" before turning to novels. The other is Ray Bradbury, whose books and stories have formed the basis of dozens of movies and television programs over a nearly 60-year period.\n\nTen inventors have stars on the Walk: George Eastman (as mentioned); Thomas Edison, inventor of the first true film projector and holder of numerous patents related to motion-picture technology; Lee de Forest, inventor of the vacuum tube, which made radio and TV possible, and Phonofilm, which made sound movies possible; Merian C. Cooper, co-inventor of the Cinerama process; Herbert Kalmus, inventor of Technicolor; Auguste and Louis Lumière, inventors of important components of the motion picture camera; Mark Serrurier, inventor of the technology used for film editing; Hedy Lamarr, co-inventor of a frequency-hopping radio guidance system that was a precursor to Wi-Fi networks and cellular telephone systems; and Ray Dolby, co-developer of the video tape recorder and inventor of the Dolby noise reduction system.\n\nA few star recipients moved on after their entertainment careers to political notability. Two Presidents of the United States, Ronald Reagan (40th President) and Donald Trump (45th President) have stars on the Walk. Reagan is also one of two Governors of California with a star; the other is Arnold Schwarzenegger. One U.S. senator (George Murphy) and two members of the U.S. House of Representatives (Helen Gahagan and Sonny Bono) have stars. Ignacy Paderewski, who served as Prime Minister of Poland between the World Wars, is the only European head of government represented. Film and stage actor Albert Dekker served one term in the California State Assembly during the 1940s, which was notable for his outspoken public criticism of Senator Joseph McCarthy's anti-communism demagoguery, leading to his blacklisting.\n\nOn its 50th anniversary in 2005, Disneyland received a star adjacent to the Walk of Fame near Disney's Soda Fountain on Hollywood Boulevard. While not technically part of the Hollywood Walk of Fame (a city ordinance prohibits putting corporate names on sidewalks), the star was installed adjacent to the Walk of Fame, and was thought of by Johnny Grant, the proverbial \"Mayor of Hollywood.\" Roger Ebert said of the star \"If you stop to think about what Disneyland has achieved and what a revolutionary idea it was to begin with, of course it deserve[s] a star.\" In lieu of the traditional icon indicating the specific achievement(s) of the honoree, Disneyland's star has an icon of Sleeping Beauty Castle, and a plaque beneath the star reading: \"Award of Excellence Special achievement for 50 years of magical entertainment Hollywood Historic Trust July 14, 2005. Johnny Grant, Chairman.\"\n\nIn 1978, in honor of his 50th anniversary, Mickey Mouse became the first animated character to receive a star. Other animated recipients are Bugs Bunny, Donald Duck, Minnie Mouse, Woody Woodpecker, Snow White, Tinker Bell, Winnie the Pooh, Shrek, The Simpsons, the Rugrats, and Snoopy. The star inscribed Charlie Tuna honors not the animated advertising mascot, but Art Ferguson, the long-time radio personality and game show announcer.\n\nOther fictional characters on the Walk include the Munchkins (as mentioned), two individual Muppets (Kermit the Frog and Big Bird) and the Muppets as a group, one monster (Godzilla), and three non-animated canine characters (Strongheart, Lassie, and Rin Tin Tin).\n\nTen stars recognize cartoonists and animators: Walt Disney, Chuck Jones, Friz Freleng, Walter Lantz, Hanna–Barbera, Charles M. Schulz, Jay Ward, Dr. Seuss, Matt Groening and John Lasseter. Three puppeteers have stars: Edgar Bergen, Jim Henson and Shari Lewis, as does Fran Allison, who appeared with Burr Tillstrom's puppets on the TV show \"Kukla, Fran and Ollie\".\n\nLocations of individual stars are not necessarily random or arbitrary. Stars of most legendary and world-famous celebrities—the so-called \"show business royalty\"—are found in front of TCL (formerly Grauman's) Chinese Theatre. Oscar-winners' stars are usually placed near the Dolby Theatre, site of the annual Academy Awards presentations. Decisions are occasionally made with a dollop of whimsy: Mike Myers's star, for example, lies in front of an adult store called the International Love Boutique, an association with his Austin Powers roles; Roger Moore's star is located at 7007 Hollywood Boulevard in recognition of his seven James Bond 007 films; Ed O'Neill's star is located outside a shoe store in reference to his character's occupation on the TV show \"Married ... with Children\"; and the last star, at the very end of the westernmost portion of the Walk, belongs to The Dead End Kids.\n\nHonorees may request a specific location for their star, although final decisions remain with the Chamber. Jay Leno, for example, requested a spot near the corner of Hollywood Blvd. and Highland Ave. because he was twice picked up at that location by police for vagrancy (though never actually charged) shortly after his arrival in Hollywood. George Carlin chose to have his star placed in front of the KDAY radio station near the corner of Sunset Blvd. and Vine St., where he first gained national recognition. Carol Burnett explained her choice in her 1986 memoir: While working as an usherette at the historic Warner Brothers Theatre (now the Hollywood Pacific Theatre) during the 1951 run of Alfred Hitchcock's film \"Strangers on a Train\", she took it upon herself to advise a couple arriving during the final few minutes of a showing to wait for the next showing, to avoid seeing (and spoiling) the ending. The theater manager fired her on the spot for \"insubordination\" and humiliated her by stripping the epaulets from her uniform in the theater lobby. Twenty-six years later, at her request, Burnett's star was placed at the corner of Hollywood and Wilcox—in front of the theater.\n\nIn 2010, Julia Louis-Dreyfus's star was constructed with the name \"Julia Luis Dreyfus\". The actress was reportedly amused, and the error was corrected. A similar mistake was made on Dick Van Dyke's star in 1993 (\"Vandyke\"), and rectified.\n\nFilm and television actor Don Haggerty's star originally displayed the first name \"Dan\". The mistake was fixed, but years later the television actor Dan Haggerty (of \"Grizzly Adams\" fame, no relation to Don) also received a star. The confusion eventually sprouted an urban legend that Dan Haggerty was the only honoree to have a star removed from the Walk of Fame.\n\nFor 28 years, the star intended to honor Mauritz Stiller, the Helsinki-born pioneer of Swedish film who brought Greta Garbo to the United States, read \"Maurice Diller\", possibly due to mistranscription of verbal dictation. The star was finally remade with the correct name in 1988. \n\nThree stars remain misspelled: opera diva Lotte Lehmann's first name is spelled \"Lottie\"; Cinerama co-inventor and \"King Kong\" creator, director, and producer Merian C. Cooper's first name is spelled \"Meriam\"; and cinematography pioneer Auguste Lumière's first name is listed as \"August\".\n\nMonty Woolley, the veteran film and stage actor best known for \"The Man Who Came to Dinner\" (1942) and the classic line \"Time flies when you're having fun\", is officially listed in the motion picture category, but his star on the Walk of Fame bears the television emblem. Woolley did appear on the small screen late in his career, but his TV contributions were eclipsed by his extensive stage, film, and radio work. Similarly, the star of film actress Carmen Miranda bears the TV emblem, although her official category is motion pictures. Radio and television talk show host Larry King is officially a television honoree, but his star displays a film camera.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\", which documented and photographed the Walk as part of its Hollywood Star Walk project, reported that it could not find two stars, honoring Richard Crooks and the film career of Geraldine Farrar. (Farrar's music star is located on the 1700 block of Vine Street.)\n\nActs of vandalism occur on the Walk on a regular basis, ranging from profanity and political statements written on stars with markers to attempted removal of brass emblems with chisels. Closed circuit surveillance cameras have been installed on the stretch of Hollywood Boulevard between La Brea Avenue and Vine Street in an effort to discourage mischievous activities.\n\nFour of the stars, which weigh about each, have been stolen from the Walk of Fame. In 2000, James Stewart's and Kirk Douglas' stars disappeared from their locations near the intersection of Hollywood and Vine, where they had been temporarily removed for a construction project. Police recovered them in the suburban community of South Gate when they arrested a man involved in an incident there and searched his house. The suspect was a construction worker employed on the Hollywood and Vine project. The stars had been badly damaged, and had to be remade. One of Gene Autry's five stars (it is not clear which one) was also stolen from a construction area. Johnny Grant later received an anonymous phone tip that the missing star was in Iowa, but it was never found. \"Someday, it will end up on eBay,\" Grant once joked. The most brazen and ambitious theft occurred in 2005 when thieves used a concrete saw to remove Gregory Peck's star from its Hollywood Boulevard site at the intersection of North El Centro Avenue, near North Gower. The star was replaced almost immediately, but the original was never recovered and the perpetrators never caught.\n\nIn late 2009, rumors circulated widely on media outlets and the Internet that John Lennon's star had been stolen, but it was merely being relocated farther south on Vine Street to an area near the circular Capitol Records Building, adjacent to the stars of bandmates George Harrison and Ringo Starr. Paul McCartney's star was installed in the same location in 2012.\nDonald Trump's star—received as host of \"The Apprentice\" television series—was repeatedly defaced during the 2016 presidential campaign. In late October, near the end of the race, a man named Jamie Otis (who claimed to be an heir to the Otis Elevator fortune) used a sledge hammer and a pickaxe to destroy all of the star's brass inlays. He readily admitted to the vandalism, which he described as \"civil disobedience\" and \"freedom of expression\", and told reporters that he originally planned to remove the entire star and auction it to raise money for the women who accused Trump of sexually assaulting them. Otis was arrested three weeks after the incident, charged with one count of felony vandalism, and sentenced to three years' probation plus $3,400 in restitution payments. The star itself was repaired, serving as the site of pro-Trump demonstrations until it was destroyed a second time in July 2018 by a man named Austin Clay. Clay later surrendered himself to the police and was bailed out by Jamie Otis.\n\nThe Four Ladies of Hollywood gazebo—known officially as the Hollywood and La Brea Gateway—stands upon a small triangular island formed by the confluence of Hollywood Boulevard, Marshfield Way, and North La Brea Avenue at the westernmost extension of the Walk of Fame. It was commissioned in 1993 by the Los Angeles Community Redevelopment Agency Art Program and created by the architect, production designer, and film director Catherine Hardwicke as a tribute to the multi-ethnic women of Hollywood. The gazebo is a stainless steel stylized Art Deco lattice structure. The roof is an arched square supporting a circular dome, which is topped by a central obelisk with descending neon block letters spelling \"Hollywood\" on each of its four sides. Atop the obelisk is a small gilded weathervane-style sculpture of Marilyn Monroe in her iconic billowing skirt pose from \"The Seven Year Itch\". The domed structure is held aloft by four caryatids sculpted by Harl West to represent the African-American actress Dorothy Dandridge, Asian-American actress Anna May Wong, Mexican actress Dolores del Río, and the multi-ethnic, Brooklyn-born actress Mae West.\n\nThe gazebo was dedicated on February 1, 1994, to a mixed reception. \"Los Angeles Times\" art critic Christopher Knight called it \"the most depressingly awful work of public art in recent years\", representing the opposite of Hardwicke's intended tribute to women. \"Sex, as a woman's historic gateway to Hollywood\", he wrote, \"couldn't be more explicitly described\". Independent writer and film producer Gail Choice called it a fitting tribute to a group of pioneering and courageous women who \"carried a tremendous burden on their feminine shoulders. Never in my wildest dreams did I believe I'd ever see women of color immortalized in such a creative and wonderful fashion.\" Hardwicke contended that critics had missed the \"humor and symbolism\" of the structure, which \"embraces and pokes fun at the glamour, the polished metallic male form of the Oscar, and the pastiche of styles and dreams that pervades Tinseltown.\"\n\nEach year an average of 200 nominations are submitted to the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce Walk of Fame selection committee. Anyone, including fans, can nominate anyone active in the field of entertainment as long as the nominee or his or her management approves the nomination (a letter of agreement from the nominated celebrity or representative must accompany the application). Nominees must have a minimum of five years' experience in the category for which they are nominated and a history of \"charitable contributions.\" Posthumous nominees must have been deceased at least five years. At a meeting each June, the committee selects approximately 20 to 24 celebrities to receive stars on the Walk of Fame. One posthumous award is given each year as well. The nominations of those not selected are rolled over to the following year for reconsideration; those not selected two years in a row are dropped, and must be renominated to receive further consideration. Living recipients must agree to personally attend a presentation ceremony within two years of selection. If the ceremony is not scheduled within two years, a new application must be submitted. A relative of deceased recipients must attend posthumous presentations. Presentation ceremonies are open to the public.\n\nA fee of $40,000 (), payable at time of selection, is collected to pay for the creation and installation of the star, as well as general maintenance of the Walk of Fame. The fee is usually paid by the nominating organization, which may be a fan club, or a film studio, record company, broadcaster, or other sponsor involved with the prospective honoree. The Starz cable network, for example, paid for Dennis Hopper's star as part of the promotion for its series \"Crash\". The star was unveiled in March 2010 shortly before Hopper's death.\nNumerous major entertainment figures and legendary show business acts are not included on the Walk of Fame for a variety of reasons. Some, such as Julia Roberts and Clint Eastwood, have declined to participate; nominations cannot proceed without the nominee's consent. Others, such as George Clooney and John Denver, were nominated, but would not agree to the mandatory personal appearance at the unveiling ceremony; however, Denver received a posthumous star in late 2014. Others have simply never been nominated, or do not have a nominator willing or able to pay the selection fee, or have less than the required five years' minimum involvement in their designated field. Probability also plays a role as only about 10% of nominees are selected each year.\n\nTraditionally, the identities of selection committee members, other than its chairman, have not been made public in order to minimize conflicts of interest and to discourage lobbying by celebrities and their representatives (a significant problem during the original selections in the late 1950s). However, in 1999, in response to intensifying charges of secrecy in the selection process, the chamber disclosed the members' names: Johnny Grant, the longtime chair and representative of the television category; Earl Lestz, president of Paramount Studio Group (motion pictures); Stan Spero, retired manager with broadcast stations KMPC and KABC (radio); Kate Nelson, owner of the Palace Theatre (live performance); and Mary Lou Dudas, vice president of A&M Records (recording industry). Since that 1999 announcement the chamber has revealed only that Lestz (who received his own star in 2004) became chairman after Grant died in 2008. Their current official position is that \"each of the five categories is represented by someone with expertise in that field.\"\n\nIn 2010, Lestz was replaced as chairman by John Pavlik, former Director of Communications for the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. While no public announcement was made to that effect, he was identified as chairman in the chamber's press release announcing the 2011 star recipients. The current chair, according to the chamber's 2016 selection announcement, is film producer Maureen Schultz.\n\nSome fans show respect for star recipients both living and dead by laying flowers or other symbolic tributes at their stars. Others show their support in other ways; the star awarded to Julio Iglesias, for example, is kept in \"pristine condition [by] a devoted band of elderly women [who] scrub and polish it once a month\".\n\nThe Hollywood Chamber of Commerce has adopted the tradition of placing flower wreaths at the stars of newly deceased awardees; for example Bette Davis in 1989, Katharine Hepburn in 2003, and Jackie Cooper in 2011. The stars of other deceased celebrities, such as Michael Jackson, Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Pryor, Ricardo Montalbán, James Doohan, Frank Sinatra, Robin Williams, Joan Rivers, George Harrison, Aretha Franklin, and Stan Lee have become impromptu memorial and vigil sites as well, and some continue to receive anniversary remembrances.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11728939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11728939", "title": "Inflatable pigs on Roger Waters' tours", "text": "Inflatable pigs on Roger Waters' tours\n\nA giant inflatable pig has been one of the staple props of Pink Floyd live performances since 1977 when the album \"Animals\" was released. After Roger Waters departed Pink Floyd in 1985, he continued to use the pig as a show element during his solo live performances.\n\nRoger Waters used inflatable pigs at many shows on his 2006–2007 tour \"The Dark Side of the Moon Live\", specifically, when he performed the song \"Sheep\", concluding the first part of the show. The pigs used on tour were decorated with slogans and pieces of song lyrics, and with various drawings. During select performances at open-air venues the pig was released to \"fly\" away, a reference to the idiom \"Pigs might fly\".\n\nThe pig was released again at the Shoreline Amphitheatre show in Mountain View the following week, on 10 October.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n7 July 2007: Roger Waters played in the New York leg of Live Earth. When he began singing \"The Happiest Days of Our Lives\" / \"Another Brick in the Wall Part 2\" the pig came out again. It had a more cartoonish look, and part of its body appeared as that of the wall. It had the words \"Together we stand, divided we fall\" (the last lines of \"Hey You\") on one side and \"SOS\" on the other. Unlike the SOS logo for Live Earth (which stood for \"Save Our Selves\"), the one on the pig said \"Save Our Sausages\" instead.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInflatable pigs were special decorations which have been used by Roger Waters in his concert when the singer took part in Desert Trip show on Sunday, October, 9 2016. They were decorated by images and phrases. \nSpectators of the concert could see pigs floating above Empire Polo Field where the event took place. Totally the singer used 3 different pigs in his performance which was watched live by over 75 thousand viewers. In order to control oversized animals the remote control was used. \n\nInflatable pigs appeared when Roger Waters performed his song “Pigs (Three Different Ones)”. At this time there was a message for spectators on the huge screen behind the artist. It displayed a number of anti-Trump pictures. And the pig became floating up in the air. It was possible to see a phrase “F…k Trump and his wall”. Roger Waters condemned a candidate from Republican party for presidential elections in the USA Donald Trump for his statements about other nations, his racist and sexist comments. On the other side of inflatable pig it could see the phrase “Arrogant, lying, racist, sexist”. On other pig it was written “Together We Stand / Divided We Fall”. Viewers saw on a screen Trump wore Ku Klux Klan hood and there could be possible to read word Charade. If someone didn’t understand meaning for the first time, it was enough to watch at the screen once again and to see the phrase “Trump is a pig”.\n\n"}
{"id": "28885249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28885249", "title": "Involuntary narrative", "text": "Involuntary narrative\n\nAn involuntary narrative occurs as a personal reading of symbolic content transmitted by media-saturated environments. Exposure to postmodern nonlinear narratives, performative and mediated audiovisual arts, predisposes the individual to originate layers of symbolic meaning that overlap with socially codified environments.\nThe involuntary narrative has neither been constructed by an author of media content, nor read as such by a reader/spectator.\n\nIllusion and displacement are some of the effects resulting in an individual, when connections are drawn between a trigger in one sensory channel and a result in another, virtual and physical states and conditions of one and the same object, media or technology are perceived as a continuum. \nWhen a purposeful overlap of the physical and the virtual takes place, it could be called vireal (Gramelsberger, Klein).\n\nThe involuntary narrative, hypnagogia and the Dreamachine, trigger what is already in the individual by referring to his or her own past history. The involuntary narrative is accidental and in that differs from both the hypnagogic state and the state induced by the Dreamachine.\n\nAuditive and visual signals, as for example mobile phone ringtones, virtual identity thumbnails, alert sounds, signals and information screens in public transport, adverts displayed in LED screens, constitute stimuli to trigger the occurrence of an involuntary narrative.\nAnamnesis, as used by Pascal Broccolichi in his work \"Lexicon:\" ”when a sound, or a sound context, recalls a situation or an environment that has been taken out of its chronology”.\n\nAs the density of visible and audible mass communication in the urban environment increased in the 20th century, historical predecessors of involuntary narratives emerged. The attempt to create parallel levels of meaning in the perception of the physically real is an objective these predecessors have in common.\nApplying the cut-up technique, invented in the 1960s by Bryon Gysin, to text, William Burroughs achieved results of new narratives (whose order/sequence had not been put together willingly) which would often yield surprising results, even giving account of future events that were later verified. \nThe dérive (English: drift) developed in the 1950s by the Situationists is a technique to explore and navigate urban space without preformalized trajectories.\nMisreadings of common everyday objects, as used in Surrealism and Dada, some of no symbolic content, some of highly symbolic content produce results similar to the ones described here, but are always authored.\n\n- Cut-up technique\n\n- Dérive\n\n- Involuntary memory\n\n- Serendipity\n"}
{"id": "49968582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49968582", "title": "Jaime Duque Park", "text": "Jaime Duque Park\n\nJaime Duque Park is a family-oriented amusement park located in the Tocancipá municipality of the Metropolitan Area of Bogotá, Colombia. The park contains the Jaime Duque Zoo, the Museum of Mankind, as well as replicas of several major locations and buildings from around the world. A monorail runs through the park to help get guests from one area to another.\n\nThe park also has an outdoor stage for live performances. Here, the park has hosted performances by musicians such as Kylie Minogue, Guns N' Roses, Jamiroquai, The Killers, David Guetta, Paulina Rubio and Evanescence.\n\nThe park first opened on February 27, 1983 and was founded by Jaime Duque Grisales, a personality of Colombian civil aviation and the first head of the Avianca airline pilots. He wanted to create a cultural and recreational space for the whole family, with the aim of generating profits to help institutions serving families.\n\nARC \"Córdoba\", a ship that was used during World War II, and an Avianca DC6 aircraft are on display.\n\nThe park contains replicas of the Taj Mahal in India, as well as replicas of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World, including the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, the Lighthouse of Alexandria, the Temple of Artemis, and the Pyramids. It also has giant figures, including a large hand holding a globe, which is meant to represent the hand of God.\n\nThere is a relief map of Colombia on a scale of 1:25000, located near the aviary. There is also a map of the Caribbean Sea.\n\nThe park's zoo contains several birds and monkeys as well as species native to South America, such as the capybara.\n\nThis park was inaugurated in 1991. It is managed by Jaime Duque Park under technical and professional supervision from La Salle University. Wakatá is a unit dedicated to conservation activities and environmental education. It trains students from different professions in the study and management of wild species and serves to support environment by providing a foster home for animals that have been confiscated authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "632582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632582", "title": "List of puzzle topics", "text": "List of puzzle topics\n\nThis is a list of puzzle topics, by Wikipedia page.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55013970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55013970", "title": "Media Diversity Institute", "text": "Media Diversity Institute\n\nThe Media Diversity Institute (MDI) is a London based non-governmental organisation working with the media to improve reporting on ethnicity, religion, gender, sexuality and other diversity issues.\n\nThe mission of MDI is to promote \"responsible journalism as a means to improve inter-community relations, increase tolerance and encourage dialogue among individuals and groups coming from different backgrounds.\"\n\nMDI has worked with organizations such as Internews, the International Federation of Journalists, Article 19, and the European Federation of Journalists. MDI is also a member of the Ethical Journalism Network.\n\nMDI was founded in 1997 by journalist Milica Pesic, who was working at the time for NYU Center for War, Peace and the News Media. MDI works on an international scale, but has a European focus.\n\nMDI works to engage, educate and train the actors in society who have influence over media coverage of diversity. This includes media decision makers (owners, editors, managers), journalists, academics, students, Civil Society Organisations and governmental organisations. They also organize conferences on these topics.\n\nMDI's first large scale media diversity project, The Reporting Diversity Network (RDN), was launched at a conference in November 1998 with keynote speakers Michael Ignatieff and Jean-Paul Marthoz. RDN's work focused on Central and Eastern Europe as well as the newly independent former Soviet states. They have also been involved in addressing the deaths of Romani journalists and editors.\n\nOther projects that MDI have been involved in include Dune Voices, Get the Trolls Out, and Media Against Hate.\n\nThe collaboration between MDI and Twitter in developing a guide on countering hate speech was referred to in an article in the \"Financial Times\", October 17, 2016.\n\nA video broadcast produced by MDI's Dune Voices project was published on the BBC website on December 30, 2016.\n\nMDI contributed to the Journal for Applied Journalism and Media Studies in 2017. MDI’s founder Milica Pesic presented concrete and detailed examples of how MDI has worked to promote inclusive journalism and diversity in the media in many different countries and regions.\n"}
{"id": "20482741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20482741", "title": "Midnight Madness (basketball)", "text": "Midnight Madness (basketball)\n\nMidnight Madness is an annual event celebrating the upcoming college basketball season in which a team opens its first official practice to the public, often combining it with a pep rally and other fan-friendly activities. The tradition originated from teams holding public practices at midnight on the earliest day that the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) would allow a practice to be held. In 2013, a new NCAA rule established some flexibility around the opening of a team's practice sessions. As a result, the dates on which teams celebrate Midnight Madness can vary, but most stick with the traditional date of a Friday night closest to October 15.\n\nPrior to the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season men's and women's basketball teams were not permitted to practice prior to the Friday closest to October 15. Maryland Terrapins head coach Lefty Driesell began the Midnight Madness tradition at 12:03 a.m. on October 15, 1971 by inviting the public to a 1.5 mile team run. The early practice session was attended by 3,000 fans at the track surrounding Byrd Stadium on the University of Maryland campus. Driesell continued the annual midnight practice session throughout his tenure at Maryland, and brought the tradition with him when he became head coach at Georgia State University. In 2008, that school delayed the event until sunrise for the first time since Driesell established the tradition.\n\nIn 1982, coach Joe B. Hall and the Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball team began to officially promote a celebration dubbed \"Midnight Madness\" as a school event with formal entertainment acts and an invited student audience. This event was held in Memorial Coliseum and held 8,500 people in the then-12,500 seat gym. Big Blue Madness is now televised and hosts celebrities including Drake, who performed in 2014. Another of the more famous events is \"Late Night in the Phog\" at Kansas, which was started in 1985 by Larry Brown and is now broadcast in live streaming video via the Internet. The event has caught on on most campuses; various programs have given away T-shirts and allowed players do stunt dunks and half court shots. Some schools schedule intrasquad scrimmages, three-point shooting contests and/or slam dunk contests. The event is often a co-ed event, in which both the men's and women's teams participate in the celebration, especially at schools like the University of Connecticut, where the men's and women's teams have a combined 15 championships. \"Scout.com\" estimated that in 2007, approximately 160 of the top blue chip high school basketball recruits in the country were attending a Midnight Madness event during the weekend that opens the basketball season.\n\nIn 2013, the NCAA ruled that men's practices could begin two weeks earlier than the traditional date, so long as teams held no more than 30 days of practice in the six weeks prior to the first regular-season game. This change was made to provide more flexible scheduling that accommodated off days in the preseason practice schedule. However, the women's programs rejected moving the date forward so as not to conflict with recruiting. As a result of practices beginning so early, several teams opted to celebrate Midnight Madness later in the six-week practice window.\n\nIn the 21st century, most basketball programs from large Division I schools have planned a pep rally with MCs, music, dancing and other festivities to encourage support of the program. Celebrity guests and alumni participate in entertaining the students. Often, there is significant publicity surrounding the event, which may include televised broadcasts, published press releases and various new media exposure.\n\nSome of the more outlandish occurrences during such events included coach participation, such as Michigan State Spartans men's basketball coach Tom Izzo riding a Harley-Davidson motorcycle onto the court and Florida Gators men's basketball coach Billy Donovan rising out of a coffin. Although signing week, when top recruits sign letters of intent that commit them to specific schools, does not occur until November, blue chip high school recruits are sometimes welcomed at these events even in their junior years. Usually a prescribed number of fans (such as the first 1,000) receive a gifts such as t-shirts, posters, autographs, road game vacation packages, and other free paraphernalia. At many such events, a student is chosen for a half-court shot giveaway. Sometimes the events are televised live by sports networks such as the Big Ten Network, and other times highlights are shown on highlight shows such as ESPN's \"SportsCenter\". ESPNU has begun extensive yearly coverage of midnight madness events and in 2008 televised events at Davidson College, the University of Kansas, Georgetown University, Gonzaga University and Indiana University. The events have been reported for years in print media such as newspapers, magazines and the internet. Although Midnight Madness has become a prime time event for many premier basketball programs, some schools have continued the tradition of having their first practice at 12:00 on the first day regular practice is allowed.\n\nAs of 2006, the University of Kentucky held the record for attendance at this type of sports rally with an attendance of 23,312 at Rupp Arena. Kentucky has sold out Rupp Arena multiple times for what they call \"Big Blue Madness\" and in the 2008–09 Kentucky Wildcats men's basketball season fans had to camp out in lines for days in advance to obtain tickets.\n\nOne celebratory function of the evening is often to raise NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament or Final Four banners to the rafters in an official ceremony. In 2008, both 2008 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament finalists, the Kansas Jayhawks men's basketball and Memphis Tigers men's basketball teams, did so during their respective Midnight Madness event. The October 16, 2009 celebrations occurred on many campuses and a sampling were aired on the ESPN family of networks. Five Big Ten Conference schools celebrated Midnight Madness.\n\nIn 2008, some teams attempted to host Midnight Madness in association with special early restricted practices instead of the first day of regular practices. These universities felt that since their football teams had home games the week before the opening date of formal practices, which had become the traditional Midnight Madness date, they would be better off holding Midnight Madness on the weekend before. In 2008, teams were allowed to practice two hours per week between September 15 and October 17 under what is known as the \"Offseason Workout Rule,\" and at least four notable public \"practice\" sessions (by Illinois, Kentucky, Marshall and West Virginia) were held during these weekly practices before daily practices were permitted. At the University of Illinois, the Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball and women's basketball teams hosted scrimmages at Memorial Stadium after an October 11 game between the Illinois Fighting Illini football team and the Minnesota Golden Gophers football team. Since the attendance for the football game was 62,870, this event was described as the \"World's Largest Basketball Practice\". Charlie Zegers reports that the practice session events occurred both at halftime and after the game.\n\nKentucky was one of the schools that held their public practice event a week early in part because they could lure more recruiting prospects during a week when most other programs were not hosting similar events. The National Association of Basketball Coaches asked the Southeastern Conference to force Kentucky to adhere to the traditionally scheduled practice to no avail. They then belatedly petitioned the NCAA to legislate conformity unsuccessfully. Kentucky coach Billy Gillispie had contacted the Kentucky's compliance office, the SEC and the NCAA to ensure that no rules were being violated.\nIllinois head coach Bruce Weber had also received permission for the early practice festivities from the NCAA. He had proposed having a September 13 session in association with a home football game against Louisiana–Lafayette. The date with the Ragin' Cajuns would have in all likelihood been a more favorable day in terms of the climate, but this date preceded even the Offseason Workout Rule dates. It is anticipated that in the future, public basketball practices linked to the Offseason Workout Rule will be banned. Illinois claimed that their date change was not intended to give it a recruiting advantage in terms of scheduling conflicts.\n"}
{"id": "15315906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15315906", "title": "Museum theatre", "text": "Museum theatre\n\nMuseum theatre is the use of theatre and theatrical techniques by a museum for educational, informative, and entertainment purposes. It can also be used in a zoo, an aquarium, an art gallery, and at historic sites. It is generally performed by professional actors. Varieties of museum theatre include historical characters, puppetry, movement and music.\n\nActors portraying historical characters perform in first person, as if he or she were an actual person from the era or culture he or she is representing. With puppetry, actors can tell stories, create multiple characters, and portray a variety of cultures.\n\nTheatrical techniques can be used for third-person interpretation, where an actor or trained presenter uses costumes, props. lighting, or special effects to convey historical or scientific facts, without necessarily portraying a character.\n\nMuseum theatre pioneers include the Science Museum of Minnesota, the Museum of Science, Boston, the National Gallery of Art, and the Philadelphia Zoo.\n\nThe Theatre in Museums Workshop, begun in 1983 at the Science Museum of Minnesota, is an annual event now held at The Children's Museum of Indianapolis. It provides all the basic information needed to start a theatre program, and an opportunity to develop scripts under the guidance of experienced museum theatre practitioners.\n\nFirst-person interpretation is an increasingly popular way of creating a full-body experience for museum visitors by giving them the opportunity to interact with the past through actors and interpreters.\nHistorical character interpretation is increasingly becoming the way all first-person interpretation is performed because it adds a high degree of authenticity to a given museum performance or interpretation. This movement corresponds with the increase in focus on the educational benefit of the museum to the visitor as opposed to the previously held belief that the visitor is a secondary concern to the objects. While this has been a strong movement since about 1980, the concern for accuracy and consequent focus on portraying real people is a marker that can be interpreted as a new stage.\n\nOne of the main ways that museum theatre differs from museum interpretation is in the degree of disbelief involved in the performance; representing a historical figure requires less suspension of disbelief because the audience knows that the character being represented did exist. It is easier for an audience to believe that the performer is accurately representing a figure that they themselves can verify existed.\n\nThe portrayal of a historical character in a museum environment as opposed to a traditional theatrical space is hard to define. The main distinction is perhaps that the actor in the museum environment must be prepared to interact with the audience, while the stage actor is not expected to know much about his character beyond what is developed on-stage. While acting the characters are subject to similar acting conventions, the museum actor must be prepared to answer to his audience face-to-face. The final distinction to be made is that the portrayal of a historical character is a performance of living history, as opposed to museum theatre. In taking on the identity of a person who truly lived, you are expected to become that person, which involves answering to that person’s actions, ideologies, and life experiences.\n\nSecond-person interpretation is a newer form of interpretation in which visitors participate in programming and hands-on activities, as opposed to only engaging in dialogue with interpreters. It is employed most often in living history museums and can be used in conjunction with first- or third-person interpretation. Common hands-on activities include candle-dipping, butter churning, weaving on a loom, and musket loading. This form of second-person interpretation does not necessarily require the visitor to adopt a character or pretend to be part of the past. In another form, more similar to participatory theatre, visitors are invited to adopt a character and interact with interpreters as that character. One example is the \"Follow the North Star\" program at Conner Prairie Interactive History Park in Indiana, where visitors pretend to be fugitive slaves as a way of learning about the Underground Railroad. Often, such interactions are carefully facilitated so that a desired outcome is achieved, but sometimes visitors are allowed to make their own choices regardless of the historical record. Allowing visitors to portray prominent historical figures and make their own choices is done less frequently because of concerns over historical accuracy. Many educators support role-playing as a way for visitors to learn by doing, think critically about history, and make personal connections between history and their own lives.\n\nDemonstration is a form of museum interpretation that has been used in museums, historic sites, zoos, and aquaria for decades. Demonstration is a way to illustrate activities such as historical craft-making and concepts like scientific principles. It is also a way to contextualize a museum object or artifact. In a demonstration, the demonstrator generally explains the activity or concept using something \"real\" like an object or animal. In traditional demonstrations, the demonstrators generally do not assume to be anyone else (characterization might be involved in more theatrical demonstrations). One example of a demonstration is fish feeding at the New England Aquarium, in which visitors watch a diver feed fish while listening to a volunteer explain the process. Another example is the lightning presentation at the Museum of Science, Boston during which visitors watch lightning flashes produced by a Van de Graaff generator. There is a great deal of overlap between demonstration and theatre. Theatrical techniques such as characterization, costume, narrative, and special effects are often used to enliven demonstration and draw visitor attention. Some museums, such as The National Museum of Science and Industry in London, classify demonstration as a form of museum theatre, while other museums, such as the Science Museum of Minnesota, use actors to present demonstrations. Demonstration may also serve as a component of a museum play or theatre piece. However, differences remain between the conventions of demonstration and the conventions of theatre. In her book \"Exploring Museum Theatre\", Tessa Bridal warns museums against promoting a demonstration as a theatre performance, as it may cause visitor confusion or disappointment. Yet like museum theatre and other forms of live interpretation, demonstration aims to engage visitors, to create interest in a topic, to serve as an alternative to lists of facts and static exhibitions, and to provoke an emotional response that leads to learning.\n\nStorytelling is a discipline that has a history as long as the human race. Storytellers inhabit the characters of the tale, while still maintaining the status as narrator of the events, they are both first person and third person perspectives in one. Storytelling can help bring historical and cultural context to works of art, dinosaur bones, scientific and historical objects. For this reason some museums will hire a contract storyteller to add depth and experience to exhibitions or programs by spinning children's tales, appearing as a costume character to aid in an immersive environment and to aid in depicting different cultures by sharing traditions, histories, folklore and myths.\n\nMuseum theatre often adapts the archetypal storyteller to a character embodied by a trained and scripted actor. It is important to note that part of the art of storytelling is the development of the storyteller's persona and their unique style of performing, which is similar to the creation of a character intrinsic to the acting discipline and the Theatre genre. Some purists believe that creating a theatrical piece embodying the stories and myths of a culture without the native storyteller present, is a perversion and denigration of cultural patrimony. However, professionals in museum theatre believe that the most important part of creating meaningful experiences using others' stories is that the stories and the culture they represent are handled with respect and every effort is made to portray them accurately. \n\nDespite some detractors museums are beginning to integrate many aspects of museum theatre into their daily programming schedule. This is probably due to recently scholarly discourse in the field of museum education that links multi-sensory experiences like storytelling with effective learning in children and adults. Storytelling is a particularly effective type of museum theatre because children's cognitive and empathetic abilities are increased when they are asked to listen and follow the sequence of events presented by storytellers. To quote Catherine Hughes, \n\nDance and music performance within museum theatre take on many different forms. While they can be used separately, dance and music are also used in conjunction with other forms of museum theatre, including each other, to enhance the visitor’s experience. Music as either an instrumental or vocal performance should be performed by qualified performers. The same goes for a dance performance that is either choreographed or improvised. However, in other circumstances, such as after a performance or in a special program, music and dance can be explored by the visitor in a more participatory way. This helps to enhance their understanding and interpretation of the ideas and concepts the museum is trying to encourage. \n\nEven within a performance museums use music and dance in different ways. Music has been used as a cultural performance to show and explore different cultures through the use of music. In other cases music performance has been used to help visitors discover more about the music and instruments themselves, such as the Exploratorium, in San Francisco. They held a series of informal concerts at which, after the musician gave his or her performance, the audience were given the opportunity to converse with the musician and ask question. Dance performance, presented on its own is unusual. It is often used in addition to or as a part of another museum theatre piece. There are however a few sole dance performances in museums. The Weisman holds a performance entitled \"Eddy\" that uses the museum building itself as the stage. To help visitors look at the building differently, the dancers move through the space walking up walls, using the elevator as a dance floor, and other unusual ways. The museum wants the visitor to appreciate not only the exhibits in the museum, but the building itself. \n\nWhen used together dance and music provide another opportunity for museums to educate. A good example of this is \"The Ballad of Chico Mendes\". The Museum of Science, in Boston used choreographed dance and music, both as song and for background, to teach visitors about the battle for the rainforest through the life of Chico Mendes, a rubber tapper. Not only did they perform this in the museum, but latter took it “on the road” to schools in the area. \n\nUsing dance and music in museum theatre allows the museum to evoke greater emotion within a performance, connecting to the visitor on a different level. Music especially helps to set the stage of not only a musical or dance performance, but more traditional theatre and program pieces as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "7241043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7241043", "title": "Nuit Blanche", "text": "Nuit Blanche\n\nNuit Blanche () (White Night) is an annual all-night or night-time arts festival. A Nuit Blanche will typically have museums, private and public art galleries, and other cultural institutions open and free of charge, with the centre of the city itself being turned into a \"de facto\" art gallery, providing space for art installations, performances (music, film, dance, performance art), themed social gatherings, and other activities.\n\nIn 1989, the Helsinki Festival established its Night of the Arts, \"when every gallery, museum and bookshop is open until midnight or later and the whole city becomes one giant performance and carnival venue\". A year later, the mayor of Nantes, Jean-Marc Ayrault's program included renovating the central city and establishing a \"contemporary patrimony\", which led arts programmer Jean Blaise to create a late-night cultural festival, \"Les Allumées\" (\"Things Alight\"). His concept was to have an arts festival in Nantes, from 6 pm to 6 am, over six years with artists from six cities.\n\nThey were as follows:\n\nIn 1993, a year and a half after the St. Petersburg edition of Les Allumées, the annual White Nights Festival in that city began adding a specifically cultural component to a longstanding annual event that included street carnivals and the Scarlet Sails celebration. The expanded White Nights Festival has included pop culture (e.g. the Rolling Stones in the open air at Palace Square) in 2007 and high culture events (\"Stars of the White Nights Festival\" at the Mariinsky Theatre under Valery Gergiev) every year since 1993.\n\nIn 1997, the Long Night of Museums, took place in the newly re-united Berlin with a dozen participating schools and exhibitions; the number has risen to 125, with over 150,000 people taking part in the January 2005 night.\n\nIn 2001, when Bertrand Delanoë became Mayor of Paris, his deputy, Christophe Girard, invited Blaise to create an event there, and the Nuit Blanche was born. The concept of Les Allumées was scaled down to a single night and focused on the offerings of Paris. \"The first night-time trail through the streets of Paris and its contemporary-art scene took place on 5 October 2002, and the opportunity for anyone to explore artistic creation for a night has come back every year since.\"\n\nThe idea of a night-time festival of the arts has spread around the world, with events in over 120 cities, including Montreal, Ottawa, Toronto, Edmonton, Calgary, Halifax, Winnipeg and Saskatoon in Canada, and several European capitals (Paris, Brussels, Rome, Madrid, Riga, Bucharest and Valletta) which have chosen to pool their efforts as \"Nuits Blanches Europe\". The cities share their experiences and exchange projects and artists. Each year, new cities become candidates.\n\nIn 2013, Melbourne hosted Australia's first White Night event with the city's galleries, theatres, music venues, laneways, shops and major cultural institutions all showcasing the city's art and culture, food and wine, fashion and sport. This first Melbourne White Night saw an estimated 300,000 people attend, exceeding initial estimates and constituting the largest event of its kind in Australia.\n\nContinuing with its international success, Nuit Blanche was announced to be held in Santiago Chile during 2015, making this important South American capital part of the Nuit Blanche international community. In the capital of Colombia, Bogota, the \"Noche en Blanco\" was made between 2013 and 2015.\n"}
{"id": "25984459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25984459", "title": "Olli", "text": "Olli\n\nOlli is a cartoon character and a stuffed toy and a drink. The character Olli was original created in 2004 by Dutch designer and film director Hein Mevissen and writer Diederiekje Bok as a character for a bottled mineral water. Olli was one of many characters used on the packages and posters of the bottled water brand and John's Phone. Olli was launched on a party of MTV In Rotterdam in 2004. In 2013 Olli was again part of a campaign. This time to save the Rotterdam Zoo Diergaarde Blijdorp. Olli is part of the Ollimania family which is the company that created and owns all characters. Olli became a national hype in the Netherlands from the launch in 2004. After the launch Olli became the symbol of Rotterdam and professional football club Feyenoord.\nOn September 10, 2015, Ollimania and its creators Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok donated a huge Olli statue to the Sophia Children’s Hospital in Rotterdam. They did this to give a smile to the little patients and parents in the hospital. This original big Olli is there to stay.\n\nThe first two Ollimania books were launched in October 2014. 'Olli en het poepkanon' and 'Olli is een olifant'. Both books made it into the top 10 of best sold children books in the Netherlands. In June 2015 Ollimania published again two new books called 'Olli en de woestijndraak' and 'Olli op reis'.\n\n\nHein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok from design company John Doe designed Olli from the basic shape of a soccer ball. They believe the basic shape, size and character was part of Olli's success. This made Olli easily recognizable to audiences. Olli is drawn in a minimalist style, requiring only a few lines and one primary color. Olli was created in three sizes, one small size 4.7 in. one medium, size 11 in. and one big size 7.2 ft.\n\nThere are two big Olli's. They are the elder version of small Olli. The Big Olli's is a special creature model made for several charities. One is a permanent hard plastic polyester statue at the Sophia Children's Hospital and another one has a temporarily place at the Rotterdam Zoo. The big Olli that is used in the short film to save the Rotterdam ZOO is stored at a secret location according to the creators.\n\nOlli is toy elephant grown to the size of a real elephant. Olli is a lovable character with furry friends living in a Japanese fantasy world. Later in 2013 there was a story added that he was also the favorite toy of Famous Soccer player Giovanni van Bronckhorst. Together they are the main cast of a short film. In Rotterdam, Netherlands of 1980, Giovanni van Bronckhorst is a little boy (played in the short film by the son of Giovanni van Bronckhorst). One day, he discovers a stuffed Elephant at the Rotterdam Zoo and immediately grows attached to it. The name of the elephant is Olli. Giovanni takes him everywhere he goes, especially when he plays soccer. One day during a soccer game, he loses Olli in the canal of Rotterdam. 28 years later in 2013, Giovanni became a Famous Soccer Player and trainer of soccer club Feyenoord and Olli, also grew big, reunite again.\n\nHein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok have a history in creating things that help people. To give something back to society and convince big brands to do so too. Olli was a few times part of a strategy they developed in 2004 and created Olli as a separate brand to generate awareness and in one campaign to generate more traffic and money for a ZOO in Rotterdam.\n\nIn December 2013 Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok of John Doe got awarded with the highest Dutch advertising award the Golden Loeki for this campaign. The agency John Doe got the award in a Live television show from Arian Buurman, CEO of the Stichting Ether Reclame who hosts the Loeki awards.\n\nIn 2013 Olli was used to help and save the Rotterdam zoo to generate money after the zoo lost government funding. In one year over 200.000 Olli's were sold. Olli also generated 75.000 more visitors for the Rotterdam zoo. Ollimania is a licensing\n\nOllimania is always involved with giving back to the community. Ollimania works with local charity organizations as well as collaborating on common projects, fund‐raisings and social activities. In 2013 Ollimania saved a historic Zoo. In 2015 Ollimania brings its stuffed toy characters to children hospitals, where he interact with little patients by distributing Ollimania presents, reading out Ollimania stories, taking pictures and even organizing birthday celebrations for the most needing ones and their families. On September 10, 2015, Ollimania and its creators Hein Mevissen and Diederiekje Bok donated a huge Olli statue to the Sophia Children’s Hospital in Rotterdam. They did this to give a smile to the little patients and parents in the hospital. This original big Olli is there to stay.\n\nIn 2015 John Doe BV/Ollimania started a lawsuit against the Dutch insurance company ASR Nederland for copyright infringement. The Dutch Insurance company used illegally images and foto’s from Ollimania to sell insurances to their customers. The Dutch court ruled in favor of John Doe BV/ Ollimania and urged ASR Nederland to stop their copyright infringement.\nASR Nederland had a license for a year on one of the Olli toys that expired in August 2014. The insurance company also kept 30.000 toys that were meant for the Rotterdam zoo to earn money to keep the ZOO open. ASR Nederland was entitled to keep the toys and distribute them however they see fit as long they would not infringe the copyrights of John Doe BV and Olli again. ASR Nederland is the biggest insurance company of the Netherlands with almost 3000 employees. Hein Mevissen, the artist and creator of Olli urged the insurance company to look in their hearts and give the toys back to the ZOO where they belong.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31001", "title": "Outline of theatre", "text": "Outline of theatre\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to theatre:\n\nTheatre – is the generic term for the performing arts and a collaborative form of fine art involving live performers to present the experience of a real or imagined event (such as a story) through acting, singing, and/or dancing before a live audience in a specific place. The performers may communicate this experience to the audience through combinations of speech, gesture, mime, puppets, music, dance, sound and spectacle — indeed any one or more elements of the other performing arts. Elements of design and stagecraft are used to enhance the physicality, presence and immediacy of the experience.\n\nTheatre may be described as all of the following:\n\nHistory of theatre\n\nChronological movements of the Western tradition include:\n\nAfrican Theatre includes:\n\nAsian theatre\n\n\n\nThere are a variety of genres that writers, producers and directors can employ in theatre to suit a variety of tastes:\n\nThere are a variety of theatrical styles used in theatre and drama. These include\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149281", "title": "Performance art", "text": "Performance art\n\nPerformance art is a performance presented to an audience within a fine art context, traditionally interdisciplinary. Performance may be either scripted or unscripted, random or carefully orchestrated, spontaneous or otherwise carefully planned with or without audience participation. The performance can be live or via media; the performer can be present or absent. It can be any situation that involves four basic elements: time, space, the performer's body, or presence in a medium, and a relationship between performer and audience. Performance art can happen anywhere, in any type of venue or setting and for any length of time. The actions of an individual or a group at a particular place and in a particular time constitute the work.\n\nPerformance art is an essentially contested concept: any single definition of it implies the recognition of rival uses. As concepts like \"democracy\" or \"art\", it implies productive disagreement with itself.\n\nThe meaning of the term in the narrower sense is related to postmodernist traditions in Western culture. From about the mid-1960s into the 1970s, often derived from concepts of visual art, with respect to Antonin Artaud, Dada, the Situationists, Fluxus, installation art and conceptual art, performance art tended to be defined as an antithesis to theatre, challenging orthodox art forms and cultural norms. The ideal had been an ephemeral and authentic experience for performer and audience in an event that could not be repeated, captured or purchased. The widely discussed difference, how concepts of visual arts and concepts of performing arts are utilized, can determine the meanings of a performance art presentation.\n\nPerformance art is a term usually reserved to refer to a conceptual art which conveys a content-based meaning in a more drama-related sense, rather than being simple performance for its own sake for entertainment purposes. It largely refers to a performance presented to an audience, but which does not seek to present a conventional theatrical play or a formal linear narrative, or which alternately does not seek to depict a set of fictitious characters in formal scripted interactions. It therefore can include action or spoken word as a communication between the artist and audience, or even ignore expectations of an audience, rather than following a script written beforehand.\n\nSome kinds of performance art nevertheless can be close to performing arts. Such performance may utilize a script or create a fictitious dramatic setting, but still constitute performance art in that it does not seek to follow the usual dramatic norm of creating a fictitious setting with a linear script which follows conventional real-world dynamics; rather, it would intentionally seek to satirize or to transcend the usual real-world dynamics which are used in conventional theatrical plays.\n\nPerformance artists often challenge the audience to think in new and unconventional ways, break conventions of traditional arts, and break down conventional ideas about \"what art is\". As long as the performer does not become a player who repeats a role, performance art can include satirical elements; utilize robots and machines as performers, as in pieces of the Survival Research Laboratories; involve ritualised elements (e.g. Shaun Caton); or borrow elements of any performing arts such as dance, music, and circus.\n\nSome artists, e.g. the Viennese Actionists and neo-Dadaists, prefer to use the terms \"live art\", \"action art\", \"actions\", \"intervention\" (see art intervention) or \"manoeuvre\" to describe their performing activities. As genres of performance art appear body art, fluxus-performance, happening, action poetry, and intermedia.\n\nPerformance art activity is not confined to European or American art traditions; notable practitioners can be found in Asia and Latin America. Performance artists and theorists point to different traditions and histories, ranging from tribal to sporting and ritual or religious events. In an episode of \"In Our Time\" broadcast on Thu, 20 Oct 2005, 21:30 on BBC Radio 4, Angie Hobbs, Lecturer in Philosophy, University of Warwick; Miriam Griffin, Fellow of Somerville College, Oxford; and John Moles, Professor of Latin, University of Newcastle discussed with Melvyn Bragg the idea that Antisthenes and Diogenes in ancient Greece practiced a form of performance art and that they acquired the epithet of cynic which means \"dog\" due to Diogenes behaving repeatedly like a dog in his performances.\n\nWestern cultural theorists often trace performance art activity back to the beginning of the 20th century, to the Russian constructivists, Futurists and Dada. Dada provided a significant progenitor with the unconventional performances of poetry, often at the Cabaret Voltaire, by the likes of Richard Huelsenbeck and Tristan Tzara. Russian Futurist artists could be identified as precursors of performance, such as David Burliuk, who painted his face for his actions (1910–20) and Alexander Rodchenko and his wife Varvara Stepanova.\n\nAccording to the art critic Harold Rosenberg in the 1940s and 1950s Action Painting gave artists the freedom to perform—the canvas as \"an arena in which to act\", thereby rendering the paintings as traces of the artist's performance in his/her studio. Abstract expressionism and Action painting preceded the Fluxus movement, Happenings and the emergence of Performance Art.\n\nPerformance art was anticipated, if not explicitly formulated, by Japan's Gutai group of the 1950s, especially in such works as Atsuko Tanaka's \"Electric Dress\" (1956).\n\nYves Klein had been a precursor of performance art with the conceptual pieces of \"Zone de Sensibilité Picturale Immatérielle\" (\"Zones of Immaterial Pictorial Sensibility\") 1959–62, \"Anthropométries\" (1960), and works like the photomontage, Saut dans le vide (Leap into the Void). In the late 1960s Earth artists as diverse as Robert Smithson, Dennis Oppenheim, Michael Heizer and Carl Andre created environmental pieces that predict the performance art of the 1970s. Works of conceptual artists in the early 1980s, like Sol LeWitt, who converted mural-style drawing into an act of performance by others, were influenced by Yves Klein and the Earth artists as well.\n\nIn the 1960s a variety of new works, concepts and the increasing number of artists led to new kinds of performance art. Prototypic for the artform later explicitly labeled \"performance art\", were works of artists like Yoko Ono with her \"Wall piece for orchestra\" (1962), Carolee Schneemann with pieces like \"Meat Joy\" (1964) and \"Interior Scroll\" (1975); Wolf Vostell with his Happening \"YOU\" (1964 in New York); Joseph Beuys with \"How to Explain Pictures to a Dead Hare\" (1965); Yayoi Kusama, with actions such as a naked flag-burning on the Brooklyn Bridge (1968) and Allan Kaprow in his many \"Happenings\".\n\nKaprow had coined the term Happening describing a new artform, at the beginning of the 1960s. A \"Happening\" allows the artist to experiment with body motion, recorded sounds, written and spoken texts, and even smells. One of Kaprow's earliest was \"Happenings in the New York Scene,\" written in 1961 as the form was developing. Notably in the Happenings of Allan Kaprow, the audience members become performers. While the audiences in Happenings had been welcomed as the performers, it is only sometimes and often unwittingly that they become an active part in a Performance. Other artists who created Happenings besides Kaprow include Jim Dine, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Whitman, and Wolf Vostell: \"Theater is in the Street\" (Paris in 1958).\n\nHermann Nitsch in 1962 presented his \"Theatre of Orgies and Mysteries\" (Orgien- und Mysterien Theater), a precursor to performance art, close to the performing arts.\n\nAndy Warhol during the early 1960s beginning to create films and video, in the mid-60s sponsored the Velvet Underground and staged events and performances in New York, like the Exploding Plastic Inevitable (1966) that featured live Rock music, exploding lights, and film.\n\nIndirectly influential for art-world performance, particularly in the United States, were new forms of theatre, embodied by the San Francisco Mime Troupe and the Living Theatre and showcased in Off-Off Broadway theaters in SoHO and at La MaMa in New York City. The Living Theatre chiefly toured in Europe between 1963 and 1968, and in the U.S. in 1968. A work of this period, \"Paradise Now\" was notorious for its audience participation and a scene in which actors recited a list of social taboos that included nudity, while disrobing.\n\nThe work of performance artists after 1968 often showed influences of the cultural and political events of that year. Barbara T. Smith with \"Ritual Meal\" (1969) was at the forefront of the feminist body-, and performance art of the 1970s; among others including: Carolee Schneemann, and Joan Jonas. Schneemann and Jonas along with Yoko Ono, Joseph Beuys, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell, Allan Kaprow, Vito Acconci, Chris Burden and Dennis Oppenheim pioneered the relationship between \"Body art\" and performance art.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1970s, artists whose work already before tended to be a performance art, as well as new artists, began to present performance art in a stricter form.\n\nNew artists with radical performances were Chris Burden, with the 1971 performance piece \"Shoot\", in which he was shot in his left arm by an assistant from a distance of about five meters, and Vito Acconci in the same year with \"Seedbed\".\n\nThe book \"Expanded Cinema\", by Gene Youngblood, marked a shift in the use of media by performance artists. The first book considering video art as an art form, mentions Jud Yalkut as a pioneering video artist. Since 1965 he had collaborated in dozens of intermedia performances throughout the United States, also with Nam June Paik, who beginning of the 1960s already had been a fluxus performer on the way to become a media artist. As to the art of Paik, Youngblood refers to works of Carolee Schneemann and Robert Whitman from the 1960s, which had been pioneering for performance art, becoming an independent artform at the beginning of the 1970s.\n\nThe British-based pair Gilbert and George, already in 1970, had documented actions of themselves on video, and created their \"living sculpture\" performance, being painted in gold and singing \"Underneath The Arches\" for extended periods. Joan Jonas began to include video in her experimental performances in 1972.\n\nIn 1973, Laurie Anderson performed \"Duets on Ice\", on the streets of New York City. Marina Abramović, in the performance \"Rhythm 10\", conceptually included the violation of her body. Thirty years later, the theme of violation, shame, and sexual exploitation would be re-imagined in the contemporary performance works of artists such as Clifford Owens, Gillian Walsh, Pat Oleszko and Rebecca Patek, among others.\n\nSince 1973, the Feminist Studio Workshop at the Woman's Building in Los Angeles had a formative impact on the wave of performances with feminist background.\n\nCarolee Schneemann work in 1963, \"Eye Body\", already had been a prototype of performance art. Schneemann in 1975 drew on with innovative solo performances, like \"Interior Scroll\", showing the female body as an artistic medium.\n\nIn the mid seventies, behind the iron curtain, in the Eastern European capitals: Budapest, Kraków, Belgrade, Zagreb, Novi Sad and other cities, the performing art was flourishing. Against the political and social control, emerged Orshi Drozdik performance series, titled \"Individual Mythology\" 1975/77 and the \"NudeModel\" 1976/77. Critical of the patriarchal discourse of art and the equally patriarchal state forced \"emancipation program\", pioneering feminist point of view on both, made her forerunner in the 70s political and artistic environment.\n\nIn 1976, HA Schult filled St. Mark's Square in Venice with old newspapers in an overnight action he called \"Venezia vive.\" In his 1977 performance, \"Crash\", the same artist let a Cessna crash into the garbage dump on Staten Island, New York.\n\nPerformance art, because of its relative transience, by the 1970s, had a fairly robust presence in the avant-garde of Eastern Bloc countries, especially Poland and Yugoslavia.\n\nUntil the 1980s, performance art had been demystifying virtuosity. Now it began to embrace technical brilliance. In reference to \"Presence and Resistance\" by Philip Auslander, dance critic Sally Banes writes \"... by the end of the 1980s, performance art had become so widely known that it no longer needed to be defined; mass culture, especially television, had come to supply both structure and subject matter for much performance art; and several performance artists, including Laurie Anderson, Spalding Gray, Eric Bogosian, Willem Dafoe, and Ann Magnuson, had indeed become crossover artists in mainstream entertainment.\"\n\nDespite the fact that many performances are held within the circle of a small art-world group, RoseLee Goldberg notes in \"Performance Art: From Futurism to the Present\" that \"performance has been a way of appealing directly to a large public, as well as shocking audiences into reassessing their own notions of art and its relation to culture. Conversely, public interest in the medium, especially in the 1980s, stems from an apparent desire of that public to gain access to the art world, to be a spectator of its ritual and its distinct community, and to be surprised by the unexpected, always unorthodox presentations that the artists devise.\"\n\nAmong the performance art most discussed in the art-world of this decade were a performance by Linda Montano and Tehching Hsieh between July 1983 and July 1984, \"Art/Life: One Year Performance\" (Rope Piece), and Karen Finley's \"I'm an Ass Man\" 1987.\n\nUntil the decline of the European eastern block during the late 1980s, performance art had actively been rejected by most communist governments. With the exception of Poland and Yugoslavia, performance art was more or less banned in countries where any independent public event was feared. In the GDR, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Latvia it happened in apartments, at seemingly spontaneous gatherings in artist studios, in church-controlled settings, or covered as another activity, like a photo-shooting. Isolated of the western conceptual context, in different settings it could be like a playful protest or like a bitter comment, using subversive metaphors to express dissent with the political situation.\n\nPrior to 1982, Hedwig Gorski designated the term performance poetry, to distinguish her text-based vocal performances from performance art, especially the work of performance artists, such as Laurie Anderson, who worked with music at that time. Performance poets relied more on the rhetorical and philosophical expression in their poetics than performance artists, who arose from the visual art genres of painting and sculpture.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1994, the Dutch visual artist PINK de Thierry created what she came to call meta-performances: a conceptual mix of intervention art in public space, performance art—interacting with an audience, installation art—utilizing large structures to perform in or with, and media art—photography and film to register and exhibit.\n\nWhile the Soviet bloc disintegrated, formerly repressed activities of performance artists like György Galántai in Hungary, or the Collective Action Group in Russia, became better known. Young artists from all over the former Eastern bloc, including Russia, turned to performance. Performance art at about the same time appeared in Cuba, the Caribbean and China. Chinese performance artists like Zhang Huan had been performing underground since the late 1980s. In the early 1990s Chinese performance art already was acclaimed in the international art scene.\n\n\"In these contexts performance art became a critical new voice with a social force similar to that found in Western Europe, the United States and South America in the 1960s and early 1970s. It should be emphasized that the eruption of performance art in the 1990s in Eastern Europe, China, South Africa, Cuba, and elsewhere should never be considered either secondary to or imitative of the West.\"\n\nSince 1996, HA Schult has installed one thousand life sized \"Trash People\" made from garbage as \"silent witnesses to a consumer age that has created an ecological imbalance worldwide\". They travelled to Moscow's Red Square (1999), the Pyramids of Giza (2002) and the Great Wall of China (2001).\n\nIn the western world in the 1990s, even sophisticated performance art became part of the cultural mainstream: performance art as a complete artform gained admittance into art museums and became a museal topic.\n\nIn the second half of the decade, computer-aided forms of performance art began to take place.\n\nSince January 2003, Tate Modern in London has had a curated programme of live art and performance and in 2012 The Tanks at Tate Modern were opened: the first dedicated spaces for performance, film, and installation in a major modern and contemporary art museum.\n\nFrom March 14 to May 31, 2010, the Museum of Modern Art held a major retrospective and performance recreation of Marina Abramović's work, the biggest exhibition of performance art in MoMA's history. During the run of the exhibition, Abramović performed \"The Artist is Present\", a 736-hour and 30-minute static, silent piece, in which she sat immobile in the museum's atrium, while spectators were invited to take turns sitting opposite her. A support group for the \"sitters\", \"Sitting with Marina\", was established on Facebook. The performance attracted celebrities such as Björk and James Franco and received coverage on the internet. During Marina's performance, other artists performed for her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "461415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=461415", "title": "Peripeteia", "text": "Peripeteia\n\nPeripeteia () is a reversal of circumstances, or turning point. The term is primarily used with reference to works of literature. The Anglicized form of \"peripeteia\" is peripety.\n\nAristotle, in his Poetics, defines peripeteia as \"a change by which the action veers round to its opposite, subject always to our rule of probability or necessity.\" According to Aristotle, peripeteia, along with discovery, is the most effective when it comes to drama, particularly in a tragedy. He wrote that \"The finest form of Discovery is one attended by Peripeteia, like that which goes with the Discovery in Oedipus...\".\n\nAristotle says that peripeteia is the most powerful part of a plot in a tragedy along with discovery. A peripety is the change of the kind described from one state of things within the play to its opposite, and that too in the way we are saying, in the probable or necessary sequence of events. There is often no element like Peripeteia; it can bring forth or result in terror, mercy, or in comedies it can bring a smile or it can bring forth tears (Rizo). This is the best way to spark and maintain attention throughout the various form and genres of drama \"Tragedy imitates good actions and, thereby, measures and depicts the well-being of its protagonist. But in his formal definition, as well as throughout the Poetics, Aristotle emphasizes that\" ... Tragedy is an imitation not only of a complete action, but also of events inspiring fear or pity\" (1452a 1); in fact, at one point Aristotle isolates the imitation of \"actions that excite pity and fear\" as \"the distinctive mark of tragic imitation\" (1452b 30). Pity and fear are effected through reversal and recognition; and these \"most powerful elements of emotional interest in Tragedy-Peripeteia or Reversal of the Situation, and recognition scenes-are parts of the plot (1450a 32). has the shift of the tragic protagonist's fortune from good to bad, which is essential to the plot of a tragedy. It is often an ironic twist. Good uses of Peripeteia are those that especially are parts of a complex plot, so that they are defined by their changes of fortune being accompanied by reversal, recognition, or both\" (Smithson).\n\nPeripeteia includes changes of character, but also more external changes. A character who becomes rich and famous from poverty and obscurity has undergone peripeteia, even if his character remains the same.\n\nWhen a character learns something he had been previously ignorant of, this is normally distinguished from peripeteia as anagnorisis or discovery, a distinction derived from Aristotle's work.\n\nAristotle considered anagnorisis, leading to peripeteia, the mark of a superior tragedy. Two such plays are \"Oedipus Rex\", where the oracle's information that Oedipus had killed his father and married his mother brought about his mother's death and his own blindness and exile, and \"Iphigenia in Tauris\", where Iphigenia realizes that the strangers she is to sacrifice are her brother and his friend, resulting in all three of them escaping Tauris. These plots he considered complex and superior to simple plots without anagnorisis or peripeteia, such as when Medea resolves to kill her children, knowing they are her children, and does so. Aristotle identified \"Oedipus Rex\" as the principal work demonstrating peripety. (See Aristotle's \"Poetics\".)\n\nIn Sophocles' \"Oedipus Rex\", the peripeteia occurs towards the end of the play when the Messenger brings Oedipus news of his parentage. In the play, Oedipus is fated to murder his father and marry his mother. His parents, Laius and Jocasta, try to forestall the oracle by sending their son away to be killed, but he is actually raised by Polybus and his wife, Merope, the rulers of another kingdom. The irony of the Messenger’s information is that it was supposed to comfort Oedipus and assure him that he was the son of Polybus. Unfortunately for Oedipus, the Messenger says, \"Polybus was nothing to you, [Oedipus] that’s why, not in blood\" (Sophocles 1113). The Messenger received Oedipus from one of Laius’ servants and then gave him to Polybus. The plot comes together when Oedipus realizes that he is the son and murderer of Laius as well as the son and husband of Jocasta. Martin M. Winkler says that here, peripeteia and anagnôrisis occur at the same time \"for the greatest possible impact\" because Oedipus has been \"struck a blow from above, as if by fate or the gods. He is changing from the mighty and somewhat arrogant king of Thebes to a figure of woe\" (Winkler 57).\n\nThe instantaneous conversion of Paul on the road to Damascus is a classic example of \"peripeteia\", which Eusebius presented in his \"Life of Constantine\" as a pattern for the equally revelatory conversion of Constantine. Modern biographers of Constantine see his conversion less as a momentary phenomenon than as a step in a lifelong process.\n\nIn \"The Three Apples\", a medieval \"Arabian Nights\", after the murderer reveals himself near the middle of the story, he explains his reasons behind the murder in a flashback, which begins with him going on a journey to find three rare apples for his wife, but after returning finds out she cannot eat them due to her lingering illness. Later at work, he sees a slave passing by with one of those apples claiming that he received it from his girlfriend, a married woman with three such apples her husband gave her. He returns home and demands his wife to show him all three apples, but she only shows him two. This convinces him of her infidelity and he murders her as a result. After he disposes of her body, he returns home where his son confesses that he had stolen one of the apples and that a slave, to whom he had told about his father's journey, had fled with it. The murderer thus realizes his guilt and regrets what he has just done.\n\nThe second use of peripety occurs near the end. After finding out about the culprit behind the murder, the protagonist Ja'far ibn Yahya is ordered by Harun al-Rashid to find the tricky slave within three days, or else he will have Ja'far executed instead. After the deadline has passed, Ja'far prepares to be executed for his failure and bids his family farewell. As he hugs his youngest daughter, he feels a round object in her pocket, which is revealed to be the same apple that the culprit was holding. In the story's twist ending, the daughter reveals that she obtained it from their slave, Rayhan. Ja'far thus realizes that his own slave was the culprit all along. He then finds Rayhan and solves the case, preventing his own execution. That was a plot twist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "171435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171435", "title": "Plot device", "text": "Plot device\n\nA plot device, or plot mechanism, is any technique in a narrative used to move the plot forward. A contrived or arbitrary plot device may annoy or confuse the reader, causing a loss of the suspension of disbelief. However a well-crafted plot device, or one that emerges naturally from the setting or characters of the story, may be entirely accepted, or may even be unnoticed by the audience.\n\nMany stories, especially in the fantasy genre, feature an object or objects with some great power. Often what drives the plot is the hero's need to find the object and use it for good, before the villain can use it for evil, or if the object has been broken by the villains, to retrieve each piece that must be gathered from each antagonist to restore it, or, if the object itself is evil, to destroy it. In some cases destroying the object will lead to the destruction of the villain. In the Indiana Jones film series, Jones is always on the hunt for some mystical artifact. In \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", he is trying to retrieve the Ark of the Covenant; in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\", Jones is on a search for the Holy Grail. This plot device is also used in the \"Arabian Nights\" tale of \"The City of Brass,\" in which a group of travelers on an archaeological expedition journeys across the Sahara to find a brass vessel that Solomon once used to trap a jinn.\n\nSeveral books in the Harry Potter series orient around a certain object. In \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\", Harry believes there is a magical stone in Hogwarts with special powers. Lord Voldemort needs this stone to bring back his body, and Harry looks for the stone first to prevent Voldemort's return.\n\nThe One Ring from J. R. R. Tolkien's novel, \"The Lord of the Rings\" has been labeled a plot device, since the quest to destroy it drives the entire plot of the novel. However, as Nick Lowe puts it: \"Tolkien, on the whole, gets away with the trick by minimizing the arbitrariness of the ring's plot-power and putting more stress than his imitators on the way the ring's power moulds the character of its wielder and vice-versa.\"\n\nA MacGuffin is a term, popularized by film director Alfred Hitchcock, referring to a plot device wherein a character pursues an object, though the object's actual nature is not important to the story. Another object would work just as well if the characters treated it with the same importance. Regarding the MacGuffin, Alfred Hitchcock stated, \"In crook stories it is almost always the necklace and in spy stories it is most always the papers.\" This contrasts with, for example, the One Ring (from The Lord of the Rings), whose very nature is essential to the entire story.\n\nMacGuffins are sometimes referred to as \"plot coupons\" (especially if multiple ones are required) as the protagonist only needs to \"collect enough plot coupons and trade them in for a dénouement\". The term was coined by Nick Lowe.\n\nThe term \"deus ex machina\" is used to refer to a narrative ending in which an improbable event is used to resolve all problematic situations and bring the story to a (generally happy) conclusion.\n\nThe Latin phrase \"deus ex machina\" has its origins in the conventions of Greek tragedy, and refers to situations in which a mechane (crane) was used to lower actors playing a god or gods onto the stage at the end of a play.\n\nThe Greek tragedian Euripides is notorious for using this plot device as a means to resolve a hopeless situation. For example, in Euripides' play \"Alcestis\", the eponymous heroine agrees to give up her own life to Death in exchange for sparing the life of her husband, Admetus. In doing so, however, she imposes upon him a series of extreme promises. Admetus is torn between choosing death or choosing to obey these unreasonable restrictions. In the end, though, Heracles shows up and seizes Alcestis from Death, restoring her to life and freeing Admetus from the promises. Another example of a \"deus ex machina\" is Gandalf in \"The Hobbit\". With the help of seemingly limitless magical capabilities, he rescues the other main characters from all sorts of troubles. The first person known to have criticized the device was Aristotle in his \"Poetics\", where he argued that the resolution of a plot must arise internally, following from previous action of the play.\n\nA shoulder angel is a plot device used for either dramatic or humorous effect in animation and comic strips (and occasionally in live-action television). The angel represents conscience and is often accompanied by a shoulder devil representing temptation. They are handy for easily showing inner conflict of a character. Usually, the angel is depicted on (or hovering near) the right shoulder and the devil or demon on the left, as the left side traditionally represents dishonesty or impurity (see Negative associations of left-handedness in language). The Shoulder Angel and Shoulder Devil are both derived from the concept of the id, ego and super-ego in Psychoanalysis, with the person in the center of the dispute being the ego between the super-ego Angel and the id Devil.\n\nThe function of a red herring is to divert the audience's attention away from something significant. Red herrings are very common plot devices in mystery, horror, and crime stories. The typical example is in whodunits, in which facts are presented so that the audience is tricked into thinking that a given character is the murderer, when it is actually another character.\n\nA \"plot voucher\", as defined by Nick Lowe, is an object given to a character (especially to the protagonist) before they encounter an obstacle that requires the use of the object. An example of a plot voucher is a gift received by a character, which later impedes a deadly bullet.\n\n"}
{"id": "5268665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5268665", "title": "Poker dealer", "text": "Poker dealer\n\nA poker dealer distributes cards to players and manages the action at a poker table.\n\nAny casino with a poker room must hire a staff of dealers. Casinos generally pay dealers minimum wage. However, a dealer's primary source of income is not salary, but tips from players. Tip income may be substantial for dealers who can deal hands quickly and efficiently. (In some countries e.g., in Sweden, where all the casinos are owned by the state, Dealers and other casino personnel may not accept tips from players. This rule is complied with strictly.)\n\nTo become employable by a casino, applicants without prior experience are typically required to complete a 4-6 week training program at a dealing school. Dealing in a casino may require working late hours and remaining seated for long periods of time. Dealers also commonly work holidays, since these are especially busy days for casinos. Having to deal with difficult individuals may be another drawback to dealing at a casino—some players are abusive to dealers.\n\nMajor poker tournaments also hire dealers. For a given tournament stop, the tournament coordinator will hire dealers on contract for the duration of the tournament, which may be a few days to a few weeks. Room and board may or may not be provided by the tournament management; the dealer is typically responsible for his own travel expenses.\n\nDealers must be proficient in shuffling the deck, distributing the cards to the players, and, if required by the game being dealt, turning up the community cards in the center of the table. There are two methods of distributing the cards, \"American\"-style and \"European\"-style.\n\nTo shuffle the cards, the dealer follows a sequence defined by the casino. First all cards are spread out on the table and pushed around randomly. This is called \"scrambling\" or \"washing\" the cards. Then the cards are collected and squared into a deck. At this point a typical shuffling sequence might be: riffle, riffle, box, riffle. Professional dealers always keep both halves of the deck very low to the table while shuffling. Some casinos have automatic shufflers built into the table that shuffle a different deck of cards while the previous hand is being played, which speeds up the game. \n\nFinally, a cut card is placed on the table and the deck is cut onto the card. The cut card is held on the bottom of the deck for the entire hand, to keep the bottom card from being exposed.\n\nIn American-style dealing, the deck is held in one hand, and the dealer uses the thumb of their deck hand to slide the top card of the deck toward their pitching hand. The pitching hand clasps the card between the thumb and index finger while at the same time the mid-point of the card touches the face (nail) of the middle finger. It is the extension of the middle finger that 'pitches' the card off the top of the deck and a 'whoosh' should be heard as each card exits the top of the deck.\n\nThe ability to pitch cards accurately is critical, since the cards must be delivered in a way that players at the table can not see the undersides of the cards. \n\nEuropean-style dealers touch only the top of each card being dealt. The card is pushed off the top of the deck to the table surface in front of the dealer. The dealer then propels the card toward the recipient, usually imparting some spin to the card to encourage sliding.\n\nBefore dealing a community card, the top card off the deck is burned, or discarded. The rationale for burning is that the top card on the deck is visible to players during the previous betting round, so that a cheat might be able to spot a mark on the top card and therefore gain an advantage on his opponents.\n\nWhen burning, the deck must be held low and the burn card kept level with the table surface. Casinos watch carefully to make sure a dealer does not \"flash\", or inadvertently expose, the burn cards to players at the table.\n\nIn flop games, the three community cards comprising the flop are turned up simultaneously, never one at a time.\n\nDealers control the action during a hand. This may include prodding players to act, verbally announcing actions of players to the rest of the table, and correcting players who act out of turn.\n\nDealers also must manage the pot. The dealer must verify the amount of bets and raises by players, collect folded hands, maintain side pots, and read players' hands at showdown to identify the winner or winners. In games with a rake, the dealer also must keep track of the amount of money in the pot and remove the appropriate amount for the house.\n\nAt times the dealer needs to communicate with the floor, or other casino staff. Some casinos equip the dealers with a headset or walkie-talkie for this purpose, while in other casinos the dealer must shout over the ambient noise. The following table shows some common calls a dealer may make, and their meanings:\n\nOnline poker sites use Random number generation (RNGs) when dealing cards. A successful RNG distributes cards in an unpredictable and random way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6267826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6267826", "title": "Present day", "text": "Present day\n\nThe term \"present-day\" (as an adjective) or \"present day\" (as a noun) is used to describe the approximate period of time that surrounds the present. Depending on the context, this period may be as narrow as referring to the immediate moment, or as broad as referring to the current year or decade. In general the term is used to refer to the contemporary era at the time it is used.\n\nWhen used in fictional or non-fictional media such as books, film, or television, the term \"present-day\" is typically used to identify the time-period in which the depicted events are taking place, in one of the following ways:\n\nSetting a fictional work in the \"present-day\" can have many intended effects on viewers or readers. In many cases it is a plot device used to engage the audience more quickly as the events are happening in a context that they can understand. In some cases, the intention is that portrayed events are to be understood as \"genuinely happening\" \"right now\"; the audience is meant to deliberately play into this suspension of disbelief. Many popular soap operas are set in the present day, such as the English television series \"EastEnders\". Other more fanciful productions are also set in the present day to maintain intrigue in an audience, such as Stargate or X-Men.\n\nThe use of the term \"present-day\" can also detract from media as, in the case of movies and books, it directly reveals the age of the media. For example, the movie, The Terminator, has a title card near the beginning labelling it as taking place in the present day, even though the events are shown to occur in 1984 which was true to the initial release of the movie. This can have the effect of making the movie or book a lot less believable because it is labelled as the present day but the technologies and modern culture in the media effectively display the past and not the present, nullifying the effectiveness of the term 'present day'.\n\n"}
{"id": "899386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=899386", "title": "Prosumer", "text": "Prosumer\n\nA prosumer is a person who consumes and produces a product. It is derived from \"prosumption\", a dot-com era business term meaning \"production by consumers\". These terms were coined in 1980 by American futurist Alvin Toffler, and were widely used by many technology writers of the time. Today it generally refers to a person using commons-based peer production.\n\n\"Prosumer\" is also a trade term, used from a business perspective, for high-end electronic devices (such as digital cameras), meaning a price point between \"professional\" and \"consumer\" devices.\n\nThis blurring of the roles of consumers and producers has its origins in the cooperative self-help movements that sprang up during various economic crises e.g. the Great Depression in the 1930s.\n\n\nMarshall McLuhan and Barrington Nevitt suggested in their 1972 book \"Take Today\", (p. 4) that with electric technology, the consumer would become a producer. In the 1980 book, \"The Third Wave\", futurologist Alvin Toffler coined the term \"prosumer\" when he predicted that the role of producers and consumers would begin to blur and merge (even though he described it in his book \"Future Shock\" from 1970). Toffler envisioned a highly saturated marketplace as mass production of standardized products began to satisfy basic consumer demands. To continue growing profit, businesses would initiate a process of mass customization, that is the mass production of highly customized products.\n\nHowever, to reach a high degree of customization, consumers would have to take part in the production process especially in specifying design requirements. In a sense, this is merely an extension or broadening of the kind of relationship that many affluent clients have had with professionals like architects for many decades. However, in many cases architectural clients are not the only or even primary end-consumers, a distinction touched upon in the H+ Magazine essay 'Prosumption Architecture: The Decentralization of Architectural Agency as an Economic Imperative'.\n\nToffler has extended these and many other ideas well into the 21st-century. Along with more recently published works such as \"Revolutionary Wealth\" (2006), we can recognize and assess both the concept and fact of the \"prosumer\" as it is seen and felt on a worldwide scale. That these concepts are having global impact and reach, however, can be measured in part by noting in particular, Toffler's popularity in China. Discussing some of these issues with Newt Gingrich on C-SPAN's \"After Words\" program in June 2006, Toffler mentioned that \"The Third Wave\" is the second ranked bestseller of all time in China, just behind a work by Mao Zedong.\n\nDon Tapscott reintroduced the concept in his 1995 book \"The Digital Economy.\"\n\nDespite several decades of usage, the term only recently began to receive full theoretical elaboration. George Ritzer and Nathan Jurgenson, in a widely cited article, claim that prosumption has become a salient characteristic of Web 2.0. Prosumers create value for companies without receiving wages.\n\nMass customization has not taken place in most areas of the economy. Mass customization has ruled the food & beverage industry for years. Look at how many choices we are faced with in the grocery stores and supermarkets. Brand extension and dilution are ways companies have sold more under various names, giving us thousands of choices. Most consumption continues to be passive as critics of television, recorded music, and fast food would argue. Indeed, people are generally uninterested in going to the effort of customizing the myriad products that comprise modern consumer culture. In \"The Paradox of Choice: Why More is Less\", Barry Schwartz argues that diminishing returns from a confusing abundance of consumer choice is producing stress and dissatisfaction. Still, one key area of high-customization \"is\" taking place: highly involved hobbyists.\n\nIn the digital and online world, Prosumer is used to describe today's online buyers because not only are they consumers of products, but they are able to produce their own products such as, customised handbags, jewellery with initials, jumpers with team logos etc.\n\nIn the field of renewable energy, prosumers are households or organisations which at times produce surplus fuel or energy and feed it into a national (or local) distribution network; whilst at other times (when their fuel or energy requirements outstrip their own production of it) they consume that same fuel or energy from that grid. This is widely done by households by means of PV panels on their roofs generating electricity. Such households may additionally make use of battery storage to increase their share of self-consumed PV electricity, referred to as prosumage in the literature. It is also done by businesses which produce biogas and feed it into a gas network while using gas from the same network at other times or in other places. The European Union’s Nobel Grid project, which is part of their Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, uses the term in this way for example.\n\nWith customization focused on leisure pursuits, Toffler's initial combination has been largely supplanted by a second pair of blurring roles: that of the professional and consumer. In particular, hobbyists have become ever-more demanding in the pursuits of their hobbies, often rising above the level of dilettante (an amateur, someone who dabbles in a field out of casual interest rather than as a profession or serious interest) to the point of commanding skills equal to that of professionals. Key examples of such hobbies are:\n\nThis \"professional\" slant of the prosumer term is most common in photography which is a field that highlights prosumer trends. Access to professional-level equipment and skills is made possible by combination of factors such as:\nToffler’s Prosumption was well described and expanded in economic terms by Philip Kotler, he saw Prosumer/Prosumption as a new challenge for marketers. Philip Kotler anticipated that people will also want to play larger role in designing certain goods and services they consume, furthermore modern computers will permit them to do it. He also described several forces that would lead to more prosumption like activities, and to more sustainable lifestyles, that topic was further developed by Tomasz Szymusiak in 2013 and 2015 in two marketing books.\n\nYet a third meaning or usage of prosumer is springing up, especially among some activist groups. That is, the producer and consumer roles are being combined so as to \"exclude\" (or at least diminish) the role of the corporate producer; thus, rather than generating higher corporate profits from value-added products, producers would, at best, be reduced to supplying lower-profit commodity inputs. Indeed, the more consumer-oriented prosumer spin is irrelevant to many people with diminished disposable income caused by various economic trends such as globalization, automation, and wealth concentration.\n\nA fourth view of the Prosumer is from the companies' perspective; that is, companies that open up their processes to the end-user, integrating them as prosumers for shared benefits. Such motivated enthusiasts can be, for instance, brought into a company's R&D. Other benefits might include strengthened customer relations and faster feedback cycles.\nCompanies and individuals are increasingly utilizing and involving the end-users to develop final products and services. In some instances, end-users are creating products on their own, without the interference from (or assistance of) third parties (i.e. companies, organizations, etc.). For example, Lego Mindstorms allows users to download software from Lego's website so that the users can edit and update software as they wish.\n\nIn their 2006 book \"Wikinomics: How Mass Collaboration Changes Everything\", Don Tapscott and Anthony D. Williams use the related term of prosumption (production/consumption; also coined by Toffler) to refer to the creation of products and services by the same people who will ultimately use them.\n\nIdentifiable trends and movements outside of the mainstream economy that have adopted prosumer terminology and techniques include:\n\nA fourth view of the \"prosumer\" is as one who is aware:\nFor example, a manufacturer of widgets has a customer who changes their requirements, asking that all their widgets sing. This customer is important enough that losing them would seriously hurt the company's bottom line. Based on this customer's request, the company direct a portion of its R&D budget to address this requirement. While the customer didn’t make the changes directly, they did influence the company's design requirements. This arrangement has positive effects for both parties;\n\nfor the customer\nfor the company\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7288221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7288221", "title": "Sasuke (TV series)", "text": "Sasuke (TV series)\n\nSasuke (サスケ; stylized in Japan as SASUKE) is a Japanese sports entertainment television special in which 100 competitors attempt to complete a four-stage obstacle course. An edited version, named Ninja Warrior, is screened in at least 18 other countries.\n\nRecorded on location at Midoriyama studio in Yokohama, it airs on Tokyo Broadcasting System between Japanese television drama seasons. The show's name \"Sasuke\" is named after Sarutobi Sasuke, a fictitious character in Japanese storytelling. Each three-hour special (with the exception of \"Sasuke\" 24 which lasted 5 hours) covers an entire competition; there are normally 100 participants. There have been 35 specials produced, approximately one new special per year (twice per year before Monster9's bankruptcy, now reduced to once per year since 2012, except in 2017). The show is produced by TBS and is one of the spin-offs of , another sports entertainment competition, which aired on G4 under the name \"Unbeatable Banzuke\". Until the 10th competition, \"Sasuke\" was broadcast as a special part of \"Muscle Ranking\", but it became an independent program when \"Muscle Ranking\" was discontinued. The first competition was held indoors, marking the only time \"Sasuke\" did not take place outside. Competitions generally start in the daytime and continue until completed regardless of weather or darkness. After Monster9's bankruptcy in November 2011, all rights to the show fell completely into the hands of its broadcaster, Tokyo Broadcasting System. Following their acquisition of all rights to \"Sasuke\", TBS renamed the show Sasuke Rising for the 28th, 29th and 30th editions, but have since reverted to the original name. TBS renamed the show once again Sasuke Ninja Warrior since the 35th edition.\n\nApplicants are interviewed or auditioned and trial rounds are held to test their physical ability until the field is narrowed to 100 competitors. \"Sasuke\" consists of four stages of increasing difficulty; competitors must complete a stage to advance. Before the 18th tournament, a 1,200-meter run was held in order to determine the competitors' starting positions. Each competition is taped prior to the air date, edited for time, and broadcast as a three-hour show. Exceptions may be made as in \"Sasuke\" 24's case should TBS decide the broadcast should go over three hours, but this is a rare exception.\n\nIn its 35 seasons, all four stages of the course were only completed a total of five times, by four different competitors. These were in the 4th competition (1999), Makoto Nagano in the 17th competition (2006), Yuuji Urushihara in the 24th (2010) and 27th (2011) competitions, and Yusuke Morimoto in the 31st competition (2015).\n\nThe popularity of \"Sasuke\" has led to the creation of a number of spin-off shows and international versions of the show. \"Kunoichi\", perhaps the most well-known spin-off, is a version of \"Sasuke\" restricted to female competitors with an emphasis on speed, balance, and stability.\n\n\"American Ninja Warrior\" is the United States version of the show. Originally integrated with \"Sasuke\" (with American finalists participating on the \"Sasuke\" course in Japan), it was at one point the G4 network's highest rated show. As of season 4, \"American Ninja Warrior\"'s popularity has allowed it to move to the NBC network and expand as a stand-alone spin-off with a full replica course in Las Vegas, although Americans have continued to enter \"Sasuke\" even after the inception of \"ANW\".\n\nOther international versions of the format have aired in India, Singapore, Malaysia, Turkey, Sweden, Denmark, United Kingdom, Bahrain, China, Indonesia, Russia and Vietnam, with versions also launching in France (TF1), Germany (RTL), Italy (NOVE of Discovery Networks) in 2016, and Israel (Keshet Media Group) . An Australian version launched on Nine Network in July 2017. Netflix also started airing \"Ultimate Beastmaster\", broadcast in six different languages in 2017, a \"Sasuke\" inspired show.\n\nThe show hosts a broad spectrum of participants. While most are from Japan, national television personalities and Olympians from other countries, including the US, Bulgaria, China and Korea, have taken part in the competition. Some of the more enthusiastic competitors dress up in costumes, bring props to the starting stage, or show off some of their talents.\n\nThe Sasuke All-Stars were a group of six favored competitors, established by the TBS network, originally thought to be the most likely to clear all four stages. It included two of the men to complete the \"Sasuke\" course, Kazuhiko Akiyama (1999, 4th tournament) and Makoto Nagano (2006, 17th tournament). The membership of the All-Stars has remained unchanged despite other successful competitors in later tournaments, notably, Yuuji Urushihara who completed the course in the 24th and 27th tournaments. The All-Stars were officially 'retired' in the 28th tournament. Two of them continue to compete independently, and are now referred to as 'former All-Stars'.\n\nThe six consisted of:\n\n\n† – Nagano touched the top of the Shin-Cliffhanger after swinging from the second to the third ledge. He disqualified himself, admitting his error and bowing out after he reached the next platform.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> – Nagano was allowed a second attempt at the First Stage due to a malfunction of the Slider Jump.\n\n\n† – Takeda had no number in the 18th tournament. He was around the 86th person to run the course.\n\n† – Yamamoto was hurt in the 7th competition when he dislocated his shoulder and in the 23rd he re-injured his shoulder.\n\n\n\n† – In the 12th competition, Yamada was disqualified on the Spider Walk for failing to remove his gloves used on the Chain Reaction obstacle. \nAlthough he was disqualified, he did manage to clear the 2nd Stage with 3.4 seconds remaining.\n\nThe Sasuke New Stars (in contrast to the All stars) are new younger competitors who have made a name for themselves on the recent editions of the course. \"Shin Sedai\" or New Stars became famous since \"Sasuke\" 17, after Shunsuke Nagasaki made it to the Final Stage. There was a brief hiatus before the term was re-popularized in \"Sasuke\" 22 when Yuuji and Kanno made it to the Third Stage. Membership in the New Stars has included the following:\n\n\n\n\n† – Kanno touched part of the frame with his foot and climbed along the side of the platform, thereby going off the course.\n‡ – Kanno withdrew before Double Salmon Ladder because of a shoulder injury.\n†† – Kanno dislocated his shoulder immediately after clearing the Warped Wall, and timed out on top of the wall.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n† – Kishimoto did not run the course because of his back injury.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWorld-class athletes, including Olympians, have attempted \"Sasuke\":\n\nSeveral Japanese athletes have competed in \"Sasuke\" over the years, including professional team handball player Daisuke Miyazaki, who was featured in the 20th, 21st, 22nd and 26th competitions. In his debut, the 20th competition, he failed on the Halfpipe Attack. His best performance was in \"Sasuke\" 21, where he made it all the way to the Third Stage Devil Steps. In \"Sasuke\" 22, he timed out on the Net Climb in Stage 1, and in \"Sasuke\" 26, he failed the First Stage Rolling Escargot.\n\nAfter the 27th competition, three Japanese Olympians competed: Tomoko Hagiwara, Koki Sakamoto, and Daisuke Nakano. Hagiwara competed in the 28th competition, but she failed the Quintuple Step. She also competed in the 29th competition, but she failed the Hedgehog. Sakamoto competed in the 28th competition, wearing #95 (the highest number for non all-stars that tournament), but he timed out on the second Warped Wall. Nakano competed in the 29th competition, but he failed the Jump Hang Kai, while trying to grab both nets.\n\nVarious American athletes, including Olympic gymnasts (and twin brothers) Paul and Morgan Hamm, have competed in \"Sasuke\". Paul made it to the Second Stage in the 14th and 16th competitions but failed to make it further – in the 14th, he cleared Wall Lifting but forgot to hit the button at the end before time ran out, and in the 16th, he was eliminated by the Metal Spin. He competed in the 15th competition as well, but he failed to make it past the First Stage's Warped Wall. Morgan timed out in the First Stage before he could attempt the Rope Climb in the 14th competition, but he made it to the Third Stage in the 15th, failing on the Curtain Cling. In the 16th competition, he failed the First Stage's Warped Wall.\n\nDecathlete Paul Terek competed four times in total. He first appeared in the 17th competition, making it to the Third Stage before failing the Cliffhanger. The announcer pointed to his immense size (6 foot 3 and 215 pounds) as a barrier to his advancement. After earning the title of \"Pro Sportsman No. 1\" in 2007, Terek appeared in the 19th competition but failed the First Stage's Jumping Spider. He helped G4 oversee the 2nd \"American Ninja Challenge\" competition in early 2008, but he did not compete in \"Sasuke\" 20th competition due to his training for the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing (though he eventually had to drop out of the running for the Olympics after suffering a torn meniscus in his left knee). He made his return to \"Sasuke\" in the 22nd competition but failed on a new obstacle in the First Stage, the Slider Jump. He failed the same obstacle in \"Sasuke\" 24. In 2010, Paul Terek announced his retirement from international competition, so it is likely he will never compete again.\n\nHenry Cejudo, gold medal-winning wrestler at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, competed in the 21st competition, but failed the First Stage's Halfpipe Attack.\n\nLevi Meeuwenberg, a free runner from G4's \"American Ninja Challenge 2\", first competed in \"Sasuke\" 20, where he was one of only three people to clear the First Stage and the only person to clear the Second Stage. He cleared Stage 2 with a record time of 38.5 seconds left. He failed the Third Stage's Shin-Cliffhanger. In the 21st competition, he failed the Salmon Ladder in the Second Stage; in the 22nd, he failed the new Slider Jump; in the 23rd, he made it back to the Third Stage but failed the Shin-Cliffhanger again. He missed the 24th competition but returned for the 25th, where he failed the first obstacle of the Second Stage, the Slider Drop. However, he couldn't compete in the 26th competition after breaking his wrist while participating in \"\", a televised professional parkour tournament.\n\nLevi did not compete in \"American Ninja Warrior\" 3 to try to earn a spot for \"Sasuke\" 27 because of a big movie scene that came up for him during the time of the tryouts.\n\nLevi however did compete \"American Ninja Warrior\" 4, however he failed the Quad Steps (Godantobi in Japanese), the very first obstacle. It was clear he was very tired as he had flown in from the Philippines hours beforehand and tried to rush.\n\nHe has not competed in \"American Ninja Warrior\" ever since. It is known that he stopped free running altogether, and became a farmer instead.\nIn the four times he completed the First Stage, he had the fastest time out of everyone who finished Stage 1.\n\n\n\n† - Hamm cleared the Second Stage with 0.1 seconds left, but walked through the gates without hitting the buzzer and as a result, was disqualified.\n\n\n\n† - Levi was supposed to compete in the 26th tournament, having earned a spot in the \"American Ninja Warrior\" preliminaries, but was ultimately unable to do so after breaking his wrist on \"\", which occurred prior to the 26th tournament. His spot in the tournament went to ANW alternate, Adam LaPlante (who failed on the Halfpipe Attack in Stage 1).\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBulgarian gymnast and six-time Olympian (1992, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008, 2012) Yordan Yovchev (spelled on G4 as Jordan Jovtchev) first competed in the 8th competition. During that competition he reached the Final Stage but became the first competitor to suffer a 15-second timeout on the initial Spider Climb portion, falling when it spread apart. Rain and a two-second late start also hurt his performance. He made it to the Third Stage three more times in competitions 12, 14, and 16, failing the Cliffhanger each time. He competed in the 15th competition but failed the Warped Wall in the First Stage. He later came back to compete in \"Sasuke\" 20, where he failed the Warped Wall again. He also competed in \"Sasuke\" 23, where he managed to pass all of the other obstacles but sadly timed out on the final rope ladder.\n\n\nSouth Korean gymnast Yeo Hong-chul, silver medalist in the men's vault at the 1996 Olympic Games in Atlanta. He competed four times but has never gotten past the First Stage. In the 7th competition, he was unable to beat the Rolling Log; In the 8th, he failed the Quintuple Step; In the 11th, he timed out on the Warped Wall. And in the 12th, he timed out on the Rope Climb.\n\nSpanish gymnast Gervasio Deferr, 2000 and 2004 Olympic Champion in the vault and 2008 silver medalist in the floor exercise, competed in the 10th competition but timed out a few feet from the buzzer on the First Stage's Rope Climb.\n\n\n\nK-1 mixed martial artist Genki Sudo has competed in five tournaments, failing at the Jump Hang (6th, 12th), the Rolling Log (13th), Duodectuple Step (23rd), and the Log Grip (24th). Another mixed martial artist, Sanae Kikuta competed in the 8th and 10th tournaments, where he fell off of the Rolling Log in the First Stage; in the 12th tournament, he fell on the Plank Bridge in the First Stage. Other K-1 fighters who have competed include Tatsuji (19th competition, failed the Jumping Spider), Yudai (20th competition, failed the Rokudantobi), Andy Ologun (18th competition, failed the Rope Glider; 20th competition, failed the Log Grip), Bobby Ologun (22nd competition, failed the Log Grip), Bernard Ackah (19th competition, failed the Jumping Spider), and Takeru has competed in four tournaments, failing the Hedgehog (30th), Warped Wall (31st), Tarzan Rope (32nd) when his foot touched the water, cleared the First Stage (33rd) but failed the Salmon Ladder Nobori, and Backstream (34th). He had a surprising fail on the modified Fish Bone (35th).\n\nFormer Pride Fighting Championships and Pancrase Japanese mixed martial artist and pro wrestler Ikuhisa Minowa, competing in DREAM known as \"Minowaman\", was featured in the 26th competition wearing red wrestling tights, pads, and boots. He failed the second obstacle, \"Hazard Swing\" after jumping from the swing, and missing the rope on the platform, falling into the water below. He also competed in the 29th competition, but failed the first obstacle, the \"Long Jump\", where he landed feet first onto the sandbox and jumped backwards into the water. Japanese featherweight mixed martial artist from DREAM Hideo Tokoro (announced as a \"freelance fighter\") was featured right after Minowaman in the 26th competition where he failed to grab the rope to swing himself to the other side in the first obstacle \"Step Slider\".\n\nSeveral professional wrestlers have also competed, including Tiger Mask, The Great Sasuke (referred to as \"Great Ninja Warrior\" in the US and UK versions), Minoru Suzuki, Hiroshi Tanahashi, Kota Ibushi and Naohiro Hoshikawa. Suzuki and Tanahashi were the Triple Crown Heavyweight and IWGP Heavyweight Champion, respectively, during their runs in the course.\n\nSeveral Japanese or Japan-based entertainers have taken part in \"Sasuke\", including action movie star Kane Kosugi and his brother Shane. Kane made the Third Stage in the 1st, 4th and 6th competitions, failing on the Pole Bridge, Cliffhanger and Body Prop, respectively. In the 7th competition, he made the Second Stage but failed the Spider Walk, his earliest exit from a competition. He reached the Final Stage in the 8th competition, becoming, alongside Yordan Yovchev, the first foreigner to make it that far. Competing in heavy rain, Kane timed out on the Rope Climb; he has not competed since. Shane timed out on the Second Stage's Wall Lift in the 2nd competition, then failed the First Stage's Rolling Log in the 3rd competition. In the 4th, he came close to completing the First Stage but timed out on the Rope Climb. In the 6th and 7th competitions, he made it to the Third Stage, failing both times on the Body Prop. In the 8th competition, he failed to get past the First Stage's Warped Wall. Unlike his brother, Shane competed in the 9th competition, where he failed the Big Boulder in the First Stage.\n\nOther entertainers who have competed include , host of several NHK children's programs; Shigeyuki Nakamura, a champion of the Muscle Gym event in \"Kinniku Banzuke\"; actor-singer Kazumi Morohoshi, a former member of the band Hikaru Genji who is now a solo artist; actor/announcer Kenjirō Ishimaru; and actors Masaki Nomura and Shōei. Sato debuted in the 18th tournament and failed the First Stage's Flying Chute. In the 19th tournament, he failed the Log Grip. In the 20th competition, he timed out before he attempted the Tarzan Rope. In the 21st competition, he timed out on the Warped Wall. In the 22nd, Sato finally cleared the First Stage but failed the Metal Spin in the Second. In \"Sasuke\" 23, he failed the Jumping Spider. In \"Sasuke\" 24, he failed the Metal Spin again. He missed \"Sasuke\" 25, but failed the Jumping Spider again in \"Sasuke\" 26. He missed \"Sasuke\" 27 and 28 but competed in 29, where he shocked the crowd by unexpectedly going out on the first obstacle, the Long Jump. Nakamura made it to the Third Stage in the 2nd competition, failing there on the Pipe Slider, but in the 6th competition he was eliminated by the First Stage's Jump Hang. Morohoshi debuted in the 20th tournament but failed the Log Grip in the First Stage. Ishimaru has never made it past the First Stage; his two closest attempts, in the 16th and 17th competitions, timed out on the Rope Climb. Shōei competed three times. He competed in \"Sasuke\" 6, and failed the Jump Hang when he tried to go under using only his arms. He timed out on the Rope Climb in Stage 1 in \"Sasuke\" 7. He finally made it past the First Stage and Second Stage in \"Sasuke\" 8. He struggled in Stage 3 on the Propeller Bars, and failed the Body Prop.\n\nActor James Okada, a graduate from a martial arts academy, competed in the 6th and 7th competitions. In his first attempt, he failed the Jump Hang in the First Stage, but in the next tournament, he made it all the way to the Third, where he was defeated by the first obstacle, the Propeller Bars.\n\nActor and singer Tetsuji Sakakibara competed four times (23rd–26th tournaments) but never cleared the First Stage, failing on the Jumping Spider in the 23rd and 24th tournaments, the Jump Hang in the 25th tournament, and the Half-Pipe Attack in the 26th tournament.\n\nActor Ryosuke Yamamoto competed in \"Sasuke\" 30 and \"Sasuke\" 31. He never completed the First Stage, failing in Jump Hang Kai in \"Sasuke\" 30. In \"Sasuke\" 31 he did slightly worse by failing the Orugōru (also known as the Music Box) before he could reach the Jump Hang Kai again.\n\nVoice actress Tomoko Kaneda competed in \"Sasuke\" 31. She failed the Rolling Hill on the First Stage. Her husband Wataru Mori, an actor, also competed in several competitions. Mori has competed since \"Sasuke\" 16; he failed Rolling Log. Then he competed again in \"Sasuke\" 20 and failed Jumping Spider. After an eight-year hiatus, he competed again in \"Sasuke\" 32; he timed out on the Lumberjack Climb. He competed again in \"Sasuke\" 33, where he completed the First Stage, and timed out at the Reverse Conveyor. In \"Sasuke\" 34, he surprisingly failed the last steps on the Quad Steps, his foot slipping to the left. He eventually timed out on the Warped Wall in \"Sasuke\" 35.\n\nGolden Bomber members Kenji Darvish and Yutaka Kyan also competed in \"Sasuke\" 31. Kyan failed the Rolling Hill on the First Stage. Darvish had previously competed in \"Sasuke\" 28 and 30 and failed the First Stage. In \"Sasuke\" 31, he finally completed the First Stage and failed the Cross Slider in the Second Stage. In \"Sasuke\" 32, Kyan did better on the Rolling Hill, but he lost his balance on the new obstacle Tie Fighter. Darvish failed at the Tie Fighter when he lost his balance. In \"Sasuke\" 33, Darvish almost cleared the First Stage but shockingly failed the Lumberjack Climb with only several centimeters to finish the obstacle. Kyan failed Quad Steps. In \"Sasuke\" 34, Darvish made it to the 2nd Stage, but he struggled in the Reverse Conveyor. He made it to the Second Stage, he professed slightly further, timing out after lifting the first wall of the Wall Lifting in \"Sasuke\" 35.\n\nModel Shimon Okura competed in \"Sasuke\" 30. He failed on the Log Grip on the First Stage. He came again to \"Sasuke\" 31, doing better on the Log Grip, but he missed the nets on the Jump Hang Kai. Then he joined \"Sasuke\" 32. He fell on the new obstacle Double Pendulum when he tried to get to the red sandbag.\n\nA.B.C-Z member Ryoichi Tsukada competed in \"Sasuke\" 31; he timed out at the Lumberjack Climb. Then, he competed again on \"Sasuke\" 32. He completed the new obstacle Tie Fighter and Double Pendulum, but he failed to reach the top of the Warped Wall. In \"Sasuke\" 33, he cleared the First Stage for the first time. He failed Salmon Ladder Up. Johnny's Jr. Hikaru Iwamoto failed the transition from Quad Steps to the Rolling Hill. He failed on the TIE Fighter in \"Sasuke\" 35.\n\nSeveral Japanese comedians have taken part in \"Sasuke\", including (\"The Monkey\"), Koriki Choshu (\"the most famous gut in Japan\" and 2nd on G4's Craziest Contestants Poll), Passion Yara (\"screaming wacko\" and 5th on G4s craziest contestants poll), Masaki Sumitani (\"Razor Ramon H.G.\" or \"Hard Gay\"), Yoku Hata (\"Guitar Samurai\"), Tetsurō Degawa, and . Most of these compete for entertainment value and do not represent serious challenges – for example, Choshu's only accomplishment was being the first person to clear the Rope Glider in the 18th competition. However, some have seen success. Omori made it to the Final Stage three times in a row (1st–3rd competitions), a record that is shared with \"Sasuke\" all-star Makoto Nagano, but since then he has not been able to clear the First Stage. Nakayama made it to the Second Stage in the 9th and 11th competitions; in the 9th, Nakayama failed the Spider Walk, and in the 11th, he missed hitting the Second Stage's final button by a split-second. He competed in \"Sasuke\" 27. He had footage showing himself training for the new course. He wore #30, and despite his training, he failed the Rolling Escargot when he could not get enough momentum to get the structure spinning, and fell into the water when trying to restart the obstacle. He got revenge on it in the 28th tournament, but timed out on the second Warped Wall. In the 29th tournament, he almost cleared the First Stage for the first time in 10 years, but ultimately, timed out at the top of the Rope Ladder. Recent comedians include Yoshio Kojima, who competed in five competitions (22, 24, 26–28), where he failed at the Log Grip twice, Hazard Swing, Step Slider, and Rolling Escargot respectively. Funnyman Masumi Yagi was featured in the 26th competition but failed on the Step Slider. Cocky comedian Eiko Kano (aka \"Mr. Narcissus\") was featured in the 25th competition and failed at the Dome Steps, but got past the first obstacle in the 26th competition and failed at the Rolling Escargot.\n\nPenalty comedian competed nine times in \"Sasuke\". He debuted in \"Sasuke\" 20 and failed the Halfpipe Attack. In \"Sasuke\" 21 and 22, he failed the Jumping Spider. In \"Sasuke\" 23, he got revenge on both the Jumping Spider and the Halfpipe Attack, only to fail the Slider Jump. In \"Sasuke\" 24, he failed the Halfpipe Attack again. He returned for \"Sasuke\" 27 and cleared the First Stage for the first time. In the Second Stage, he failed the Double Salmon Ladder. In \"Sasuke\" 28, he timed out on the Rope Ladder. He advanced to the Second Stage in \"Sasuke\" 29 and 30, but failed the Swap Salmon Ladder.\n\n65-year-old Minoru Kuramochi, known as \"the Octopus\" because he usually brings an octopus with him, is the owner of the Edokko Izakaya octopus bar in Tokyo and is one of the oldest competitors. He has competed several times, never making it very far into the First Stage. Despite this, he seems to be a fan favorite. In the 20th competition's preview special, he welcomed the G4 American Ninja Challengers to his bar, served them his special octopus meal, and showed off his physical skills to them. He is No. 4 on G4's Craziest Contestant poll. His best performance was in \"Sasuke\" 26, where he managed to make it to the Rolling Escargot. He got further than in \"Sasuke\" 19, when he timed out on the Pole Maze.\n\nToyohisa Ijima, a martial arts dance instructor and former member of the Japan Self-Defense Forces, competed in the first several tournaments. He is known as the \"Japanese Bruce Lee\" because of his resemblance to the late action star, which extends to dressing and acting like him. He has only made it past the First Stage in the 1st tournament; in the 11th tournament, he missed hitting the final button on the Rope Climb by a split second because he had wasted time posing for the crowd after completing each obstacle. He is No. 3 on G4's Craziest Contestant poll.\n\n45-year-old Katsuhide Torisawa is a former weightlifter who has competed in every single Shin-\"Sasuke\" tournament (except \"Sasuke\" 22), starting with \"Sasuke\" 18. He always displays his strength before his run; he has brought a barbell and lifted it over his head multiple times, ripped off his shirt, and crushed an apple and full cans of beer with one hand, and also snapped a baseball bat in half. He has never cleared the First Stage.\n\nThe first woman to have completed the First Stage is former \"Super Sentai\" stuntwoman Chie Nishimura, who did so in the 2nd tournament. She attempted the Second Stage's Spider Walk in a non-optimal fashion, because her legs were too short to reach across the obstacle the proper way, and failed. She also competed in \"Sasuke\" 3 but failed the Rolling Log. She hasn't competed in \"Sasuke\" since.\n\nAll three women who achieved \"kanzenseiha\" on \"Kunoichi\" \"(Women of Ninja Warrior)\", the female equivalent of \"Sasuke\", have also competed in \"Sasuke\" itself, though none have cleared Stage 1. All are also acrobats who worked with Muscle Musical.\n\n\n\n\nAmerican gymnast Kacy Catanzaro, who famously became the first woman in the world to clear both the Warped Wall and the Salmon Ladder during \"American Ninja Warrior\" qualifiers in Dallas in 2014, traveled to the original Mt. Midoriyama for \"Sasuke\" 32 and cleared the Warped Wall at the second attempt before narrowly timing out.\n\nAnother American woman and \"American Ninja Warrior\" standout, stuntwoman Jessie Graff – the first woman to complete Stage 2 in Las Vegas (\"ANW All-Stars\") – was one of the two invited US entrants including Drew Drechsel in \"Sasuke\" 34 the next year. She became only the second woman in \"Sasuke\" history after Nishimura to complete the First Stage, doing so with 14.5 seconds left on the clock (which would have been under the limit set for the male competitors as well; the female competitors were given an extra 10 seconds.) She then surprised everyone once again when she managed to complete Stage 2 with 4.4 seconds left on the clock, becoming the very first woman to ever clear the Second Stage in \"Sasuke\". In Stage 3, Graff started strongly, completing the first three obstacles in good form. However, despite her determination, she failed the Ultra Crazy Cliffhanger when she attempted the first jump from the first to the second ledge and was unable to hold on. However, having impressed the onlookers, she was invited back for the following tournament.\n\nIn fall 2007, the G4 network held a contest called the \"American Ninja Challenge\", whose grand prize was a trip to Japan to compete in \"Sasuke\" 19th competition. Ten semifinalist videos were selected on August 3 via internet poll to determine three finalists who would appear on G4's \"Attack of the Show!\" on August 28–30 to demonstrate their \"Ninja Warrior\" skills. On August 31, Michigan State University Economics student Colin Bell and the runner-up, Greenville, South Carolina native Brett Sims, were both selected, and they became the subjects of an hour-long G4 special on November 14 during G4's \"Ninjafest\". Ultimately, both Colin and Brett qualified for the course thanks to their impressive physical abilities, but they both failed the Jumping Spider.\n\nThe second contest by G4 wrapped up in March 2008 and aired as part of G4's \"Ninjafest 2\" on May 18, 2008. Levi Meeuwenberg of Ann Arbor, Michigan and Brian Orosco of San Francisco, California were both chosen to compete in \"Sasuke\" 20th tournament; both are free runners. They competed alongside surprise guest Brett Sims, who was given the opportunity to return by G4. Sims failed the First Stage's Warped Wall, while Orosco failed the Flying Chute. Meeuwenberg, however, made it to the Third Stage before he ultimately failed the Shin-Cliffhanger. In that tournament, he was the last man standing.\n\nThe third contest by G4 wrapped up in August 2008 and aired as part of G4's \"Ninjafest 3\" on November 12, 2008. Viewers voted for their favorite competitors, the top three of whom would be flown to Japan to compete in \"Sasuke\" 21st tournament. The winners were Brian Orosco (who qualified with a different video), gymnast Mark Witmer of Minneapolis, Minnesota, and free runner/stuntwoman Luci Romberg – the first woman to qualify – of Valley Village, California. They joined \"American Ninja Challenge\" 2 winner Levi Meeuwenberg and both hosts from \"Attack of the Show!\", Olivia Munn and Kevin Pereira, to compete in \"Sasuke\" 21. In that tournament, Munn failed the Sextuple Step, while Pereira's run ended after his feet hit the water on the Log Grip; on the TBS broadcast, Munn's run was shown only in part while Pereira's run was cut completely. Romberg failed the Halfpipe Attack, while Witmer failed the Log Grip due to a severe ulnar nerve injury that he suffered while warming up. Orosco completed the First Stage with just 0.6 seconds left on the clock but failed the Second Stage's Salmon Ladder. Meeuwenberg cleared Stage 1 with the fastest time, with 21.5 seconds remaining, but similarly failed the Salmon Ladder.\n\nThe fourth contest by G4 wrapped up in March 2009 and aired on June 21, 2009 on G4 as part of \"Ninjafest 4\". The competitors' videos were judged by \"Attack of the Show\" Olivia Munn. The winner, David Campbell, was joined by Munn and previous competitors Levi Meeuwenberg and Luci Romberg. Munn failed the new Circle Hammer in the First Stage; Romberg failed the First Stage's Jumping Spider; Campbell timed out on the final First Stage obstacle, the Rope Ladder, and later told the sideline reporter that he \"underestimated the cardio\" involved in the course. Meeuwenberg failed a new First Stage obstacle, the Slider Jump.\n\nIn the summer of 2017 Jessie Graff went on to compete in \"Sasuke\" 34, wearing number #87. She made an impressive mark becoming the second woman in the show's history to clear Stage 1. She also kept the streak going when she became the first woman ever to clear Stage 2. During her Stage 3 run she showed great upper body strength on the course, getting through the first three obstacles, she made it to the Ultra Crazy Cliffhanger when she failed the jump from the first ledge to the second ledge.\n\nThe following is a list of available information of people who achieved the best results in each competition and also the number of competitors who failed in the lower stages. Under each competition, the results are listed in order of best performance. Their names are listed along with their number (1–100) from the competition, and the stage/obstacle they failed to complete (or Total Victory). In the 10th competition the number system ran from 901 to 1000 to indicate that 1000 competitors had attempted the First Stage, and then ran from 1901 to 2000 in the 20th competition to indicate that 2000 competitors had attempted the First Stage, and from 2901 to 3000 during the 30th competition to indicate roughly 3000 attempts on \"Sasuke\". All air dates are of the Japanese broadcast on TBS.\n\nAired: September 27, 1997\n\nAired: September 26, 1998\n\nAired: March 13, 1999\n\nAired: October 16, 1999\n\nAired: March 18, 2000\n\nAired: September 9, 2000\n\nNote: This is the first tournament where no one failed the Second Stage.\n\nAired: March 17, 2001\n\n^Went 2 1/2 meters up then fell down.\n\nAired: September 29, 2001\n\n^ Jovtchev fell off the Spider Climb after the walls split at the 15 second limit.\n\nAired: March 16, 2002\n\nAired: September 25, 2002\n\nAired: March 21, 2003\n\nAired: October 1, 2003\n\nAired: April 6, 2004\n\nAired: January 4, 2005\n\nAired: July 20, 2005\n\nAired: December 30, 2005\n\nAired: October 11, 2006\n\nAired: March 21, 2007\n\nAired: September 19, 2007\n\nNote: This is the first tournament where nobody cleared the Second Stage, marking the earliest end of a tournament.\n\nAired: March 26, 2008\n\nAired: September 17, 2008\n\nAired: March 30, 2009\n\nAired: September 27, 2009\n\nAired: January 1, 2010\n\nAired: March 28, 2010\n\nAired: January 2, 2011\n\nAired: October 3, 2011\n\nAired: December 27, 2012\n\nAired: June 27, 2013\n\nAired: July 3, 2014\n\nAired: July 1, 2015\n\nAired: July 3, 2016\n\nNote: This is the second tournament where no one failed the Second Stage.\n\nAired: March 26, 2017\n\nAired: October 8, 2017\n\nAired : March 26, 2018\n\nOne hundred participants are given the opportunity to attempt the First Stage, a course which primarily tests one's speed. The object is to hit the buzzer at the end of the course before the allotted time expires. If a competitor goes out of bounds or comes into contact with the water in any of the pits below the course, he or she is disqualified from the competition.\n\nTypically, 85 to 90 of the 100 original entrants are eliminated in this stage. However, in the 4th competition, a record 37 of the original 100 competitors made it past the First Stage. After the 4th, 17th, 24th, and 27th competition, the First Stage was thoroughly redesigned to be much more difficult and prevent large numbers of people from moving on. In fact, a G4 special inside the making of the 18th \"Sasuke\" competition revealed that the redesign of the First Stage for the 18th competition was done with the intention of seeing all 100 challengers fail it. This did not happen, however, and that has only spurred the production team on to make this and all stages to follow even harder.\n\nThat goal was almost met in the 19th competition, where much to everyone's surprise, only two competitors cleared the First Stage (neither of the two being \"Sasuke\" All-Stars), a record in \"Sasuke\" history. (The only time something similar has happened was in the first \"Kunoichi\", where again, only two competitors cleared the First Stage.) Executive producer Ushio Higuchi said in interviews later that even he was surprised at the results, anticipating that around 10 to 12 people would survive in spite of the production team's attempts at making the First Stage unbeatable.\n+ — This obstacle is an immediate successor to the previous obstacle, without any way to recuperate between them.\n\nThose with enough skill to complete Stage One then take on an even more grueling set of obstacles in Stage Two. 283 competitors have reached the Second Stage. Like Stage One, the obstacles alter throughout the competitions, but all hold to the same principle: if the competitor makes a single mistake they fall into the water below. The obstacles determine the time limit, and it is usually between 50 and 100 seconds.\n\nUnlike the First Stage, which has always required the competitors to hit a buzzer at the end of the course to stop the clock and pass the course, the Second Stage did not have a buzzer at its end until the 8th competition. Before then, the competitors simply walked through an open gate to stop the clock. From the 8th competition onward, the buzzer opens the gate. If the competitor breaks the gate open without hitting the button, they are disqualified. In addition, the course judges can hold the gates closed if a competitor committed a foul earlier in the Second Stage that would result in their disqualification, such as using the Chain Reaction gloves on the Spider Walk as \"Mr. \"Sasuke\"\" Katsumi Yamada had done in the 12th competition.\n\nOn average, 10 to 15 competitors attempt the Second Stage on each competition. A record 37 competitors attempted the Second Stage during the 4th competition. Also during the 4th competition, a record 11 competitors cleared the Second Stage. During the 5th competition, however, only three men made it to the Second Stage due to new, tougher obstacles in the First Stage. In the 19th competition, neither of the two qualified competitors cleared the circuit (a fall and a timeout on the Salmon Ladder), marking the earliest end of a \"Sasuke\" competition.\n\n+ — This obstacle is an immediate successor to the previous obstacle, without any way to recuperate between them.\n\nThe Third Stage has no time limit, allowing contestants to go at their own pace. Contestants are allowed a few seconds of rest between obstacles during which they can apply \"sticky spray\" to improve their grip. While the first two stages focus on speed and agility, this course almost exclusively tests one's upper body strength and stamina.\n\nOut of 3,000 total competitors and 283 Second Stage competitors, 139 have attempted the Third Stage. The Third Stage is so grueling that, on average, someone passes it only every other competition. Only 22 individuals have ever passed it, and only six have passed it more than once, namely Akira Omori, Shingo Yamamoto, Makoto Nagano, Yuuji Urushihara, Ryo Matachi, and Yusuke Morimoto.\n\n+ — This obstacle is an immediate successor to the previous obstacle, without any way to recuperate between them.\n\nTo date, the Final Stage has known six forms. Each of these share a single, common goal: to scale the tower and reach the button at the top before time expires. If the competitor does not reach the top platform in time, the rope is cut and the competitor falls (they are caught by a safety line). Starting from the 18th competition, the rope is no longer cut. Reaching the top is referred to as \"kanzenseiha\" (), translated roughly as \"complete domination\", and rendered on \"Ninja Warrior\" as \"total victory\". The Final Stage's time limit is between 30 and 45 seconds.\n\nOf all the competitors to attempt to claim victory, only 24 have been admitted to the Final Stage, and only six of them have gotten there more than once (Akira Omori in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd competitions, Shingo Yamamoto in the 3rd and 7th, Makoto Nagano in the 11th, 12th, 13th, his victory in the 17th competition and in the 23rd competition, Yuuji Urushihara in the 22nd and his victories in the 24th competition and 27th, Ryo Matachi in the 27th competition and 30th, Yusuke Morimoto's victory in the 31st competition and in the 35th competition). Currently there are only four victors: Kazuhiko Akiyama defeated \"Sasuke\" in the 4th competition, Makoto Nagano in the 17th, Yuuji Urushihara in the 24th and in the 27th, and Yusuke Morimoto in the 31st.\n\nThe original Final Stage consisted of climbing a 15 meter (49 ft) rope. The contestant must start climbing from a seated position.\n\nThe second version of the Final Stage was unveiled in the 7th competition, when Shingo Yamamoto became the first to attempt it. The height of the tower was increased to . It consists of a Spider Climb followed by a Rope Climb. After 15 seconds, the walls of the Spider Climb spread apart. This ensnared Yordan Yovtchev during the 8th competition, when he failed to complete the Spider Climb before it began spreading, and fell off the tower.\n\nThe third version of the Final Stage was revealed in the 22nd competition, when Yuuji Urushihara was the first to try it. The height of the tower remained mostly the same as the second version of the Final Stage, but two new obstacles were used: a \"Heavenly Ladder\" and a \"G Rope.\" The time limit was increased to 45 seconds, then reduced to 40 seconds in the 23rd competition. Competitors are not dropped due to the Heavenly Ladder being in the way.\n\nThe fourth version of the Final Stage was revealed in the 27th competition, when Ryo Matachi was the first to attempt it. The height of the tower was reduced to 20 meters and consisted of a 20 meter (66 ft) Rope Climb similar to the first version of the Final Stage, but with a 5 meter height difference. The time limit stayed at 40 seconds. Unlike the first version of the Final Stage, competitors started at a standing position instead of a seated position.\n\nThe fifth version of the Final Stage was briefly seen in Stage 3 and in a trailer of \"Sasuke Rising\". Its design was similar to that of the fourth version of the Final Stage consisting of a Rope Climb. Unlike its predecessor, this version is 4 m taller, and the competitors would have likely climbed up the rope in a seated position. The time limit would have likely been 35 seconds, as Urushihara may have cleared this particular version with one second left. It was used for only one tournament.\n\nFor the sixth version, with the removal of the previous version of the Final Stage, it was not unusual to see a change similar to that of the 18–24 version from the Metal Ladder to the Heavenly Ladder. The previous Final Stage consisting of a Rope Climb was thrown out all together and the return of the 7–17 Final Stage took its place. The Spider Walls seem to take up less space this time, and the Rope Climb appears to take up more. Nevertheless, the height of the tower has once again increased, this time to 24 m. The Spider Climb (スパイダークライム) appears to be the same as its predecessor, at 12.5 m, while the Rope Climb (綱登り) was slightly modified in length at 11.5 m from that of its original predecessor, at 10 m. The time limit is likely to stay the same at 30 seconds, though a 35 second Final Stage is not out of the question.\n\nThe prize for completing the Final Stage was ¥2,000,000 (about US$). The prize has now increased to ¥4,000,000 (about US$) since the completion of the 17th tournament. In the 24th tournament a Nissan Fuga was also a prize if anyone could complete the Final Stage.\n\nTypically, only one or two people make it to the Final Stage, if any make it at all. However, both the 3rd and 24th competitions saw a record five competitors attempt the Final Stage. After the 4th competition, though, the Final Stage was only achieved on average every other tournament.\n\nBelow is an incomplete list of the international versions with their own \"Sasuke\"/\"Ninja Warrior\" courses, excluding the original Japanese version and its rebroadcast in other countries.\n\nThese winners are not including the \"kanzenseiha\" (Total Victory) winners from the original Japanese version, or under any other varied rules (including \"Team Ninja Warrior\" in Denmark and the United States).\n\nThe program previously aired on G4 in the United States under the name Ninja Warrior. Each episode now lasts thirty minutes and it also includes some minor changes in the on-screen graphics. Throughout the episode, there's the \"Ninja Killer\" (for the obstacle that took out the most competitors) and \"Warrior Wipeout\" (honors the best wipeout) segments. The Japanese play-by-play commentary and interviews with the competitors have English subtitles, while the competitor profiles, replays, and introductions were dubbed by voice actor Dave Wittenberg.\n\nThe show became the highest rated program on the network since its debut. Aside from a few sporadic occurrences, reruns of \"Ninja Warrior\" stopped airing regularly sometime in December 2012 in wake of G4 slated to be rebranded as the Esquire Network on September 23, 2013. The last four episodes to air on G4 appeared as a two-hour block on April 10, 2013. It is unknown if \"Ninja Warrior\" would return to the network's schedule or if some other channel would acquire the series. Commercials on G4 show \"American Ninja Warrior\" to air on G4 in July, marking it the last program being advertised on the network as a G4 program, and not an Esquire channel presentation.\n\nAs of August 3, 2016, an article released by \"USA Today\" says that \"Esquire has obtained rights to 27 Ninja Warrior tournaments...along with all eight Kunoichi spinoff contests that feature only women contestants.\" and that they \"...will return as a 63 hour Labor Day weekend marathon (Sept. 3, 7 a.m. ET/PT) in Japanese, with English subtitles.\" Whether this is referring to the original broadcasts or the G4 broadcasts is unknown right now due to little notice, but it seems to lean toward the G4 broadcasts. They also stated that \"Additional newer tournaments of the series, never seen in the U.S., will debut next year.\"\n\nThe popularity of the \"American Ninja Challenge\" has led G4 to produce a version of the series featuring American contestants called \"American Ninja Warrior\", which is produced by Pilgrim Films and Television, Inc and is currently hosted by Akbar Gbaja-Biamila and Matt Iseman. Auditions on G4's website ended on August 18, 2009. Open tryouts were held in Los Angeles on August 29 and 30, 2009, and were taped for the show, with ten finalists competing on the 23rd tournament of the original Ninja Warrior course in Japan in September 2009. The eight-episode series began airing on December 12, 2009.\n\nThe qualifying round consists of over 300 competitors, running an obstacle course strongly influenced by \"Sasuke\" First Stage. The course consists of the Quintuple Step, a Rope Swing, the Jumping Spider, a modified version of the Pipe Slider, and a much smaller Warped Wall. The preliminaries used a leader board, and the 30 fastest times moved on to the semi-finals, which included the preliminary course plus three obstacles, the Tarzan Jump, the Jumping Bars, and a Net Climb.\n\n\"American Ninja Warrior\" aired only the American finalists during the \"Sasuke\" obstacle course. The Japanese competitors were later aired on April 10, 2010.\n\nA second season was cast on G4's website as of April 10, 2010 and aired in hour long specials starting December 8, 2010. The top 10 contestants would participate in \"Sasuke\" 26. Three episodes were run for the first two weeks. The first three episodes covered the opening round of the competition; the fourth covered the semifinals. This was followed by four days of a \"boot camp\" where the fifteen winners of the semifinals were divided into three five-man teams and put through several different Pressure Challenges, with the losing team having to complete a punishment while the other two teams got extra training time on models of some of the \"Sasuke\" obstacles (The Warped Wall, Double Salmon Ladder, Balance Tank, and Circle Slider). The teams would then run through a grouping of the obstacles with some sort of hindrance (usually carrying something heavy between obstacles). The teams with the worst time would be forced to send two members to an elimination challenge, with the losing person forced to leave.\n\nAfter boot camp, the ten final winners traveled to the \"Sasuke\" course to compete. Once again, only the American competitors were aired during the special, with the rest of the \"Sasuke\" competition to air later. The most successful of the American competitors in the past, Levi Meeuwenberg, withdrew from the competition due to a fractured wrist, giving his spot to Adam LaPlante. Five members failed in the First Stage: Patrick Cusic and former \"American Gladiators\" champion and gladiator Evan \"Rocket\" Dollard both fell from the new Rolling Escargot obstacle, LaPlante fell on the Halfpipe Attack and Adam Truesdell fell from the Giant Swing, a new variation of the Jump Hang, the only one out of all 100 competitors to do so in the whole tournament. In addition, veteran Shane Daniels once again timed out on the Cargo Net. In the Second Stage, four of the remaining five cleared, while Travis Furlanic fell on the Balance Tank, an obstacle he struggled on during boot camp. In the Third Stage, Paul Kasemir failed the Doorknob Grasper. Brent Steffensen made it to the Ultimate Cliffhanger before falling into the water. David Campbell, despite having the fastest times of all the competitors to compete (finishing the Second Stage with over 24 seconds left) failed at the Ultimate Cliffhanger as well. Brian Orosco fell at the very first obstacle, the Roulette Cylinder, which he had passed easily in the previous competition. While the $250,000 prize went unclaimed, \"Sasuke\" 26 was the start of a successful showing by a collection of American competitors.\n\nThe third season of \"American Ninja Warrior\" debuted on July 31 on G4, again with 300 competitors at the tryouts in Venice Beach. While many top competitors were absent including Levi Meeuwenberg, Rich King and Luci Romberg, a talented crop of new competitors took their place including Denver Broncos wide receiver Matt Willis, who finished the course but did not qualify for boot camp. Other notable competitors who failed to advance to boot camp included two-time \"Sasuke\" veteran Shane Daniels, season two veterans Evan \"Rocket\" Dollard, Adam Truesdell, Adam LaPlante and Patrick Cusic, top first round qualifiers from the previous season Trevor Vaughn and David Money, and former world freerunning champion Tim Shieff. In addition, professional freerunner and \"\" competitor Michael \"Frosti\" Zernow ranked in the top fifteen and was invited to boot camp, but injured himself and was replaced with fellow \"Jump City: Seattle\" competitor Jake Smith. Other competitors from \"Jump City\" who advanced to boot camp also included Brian Orasco, Drew Dreschel and David \"Young Flip\" Rodriguez. The level of competition in boot camp was noticeably higher in the third season, as competitors were only given one attempt at each obstacle in challenges, leading to a large increase in time penalties. Promising competitors Dustin Rocho, Brandon Douglass, Alan , second-seeded qualifier Chris Wilczewski and five-time \"Sasuke\" veteran Brian Orosco all saw their \"Sasuke\" dreams come to an end at boot camp.\n\nOf the ten who advanced to \"Sasuke\", nine easily cleared the First Stage. The only exception was Dreschel, who injured his knee landing on the Halfpipe Attack, and despite a valiant attempt at the Warped Wall, was unable to put any weight on his leg and stated on his Facebook that he will not be available for \"Sasuke\" 28. The high hopes of the remaining nine took a major hit in the Second Stage, as five more were eliminated including Rodriguez on the Slider Drop, Smith on the Double Salmon Ladder, and newcomer Travis Rosen and veterans Travis Furlanic and Brent Steffensen on the Metal Spin. The remaining four competitors made it to the Third Stage only to be outdone by the Ultimate Cliffhanger. Ryan Stratis failed to make the fourth ledge while James McGrath and fan favorite Paul Kasemir failed the transition to the fifth ledge. The last competitor, David Campbell almost made it through the entire obstacle but on the final ledge his grip gave out. Even though no one earned a $500,000 K-Swiss Endorsement Deal, the competitors at \"Sasuke\" 27 were by far the strongest group of Americans to date. The final episode of the third season aired on NBC on August 29, 2011 as a two-hour special in prime-time.\n\nA fourth season of the program began airing on May 20, 2012 and the show aired on both G4 and NBC for the Regionals and the Championship with the grand prize of $500,000 and the coveted \"American Ninja Warrior\" title. The entire format was changed as well – regional qualifiers in different parts of the country were aired and the Mt. Midoriyama course was recreated just off the Las Vegas Strip for the national finals. The regional qualifiers would narrow its selections down to 30 contestants who finished its qualifying course in the fastest time as well as the contestants who finished the furthest the fastest. Qualifying obstacles would include common Stage 1 obstacles such as the Quintuple Steps and the Warped Wall, but its contents would change from city to city. The 30 contestants were then cut in half in the regional finals where the course would extend to include common Stage 2 and Stage 3 obstacles such as the Salmon Ladder, Cliffhanger and Body Prop. The 90 contestants who qualified (including wild cards) earned tickets to Las Vegas to challenge Mt. Midoriyama.\n\nThe show returned for its fifth season on July 1, 2013 in the same format. This season, if a contestant were to finish the course, that player would be guaranteed a spot in the next round. The show returned once again for its sixth season on May 25, 2014 on both NBC and Esquire Network with the same rules as in previous seasons. NBC has renewed the show for its seventh season in 2015 with the grand prize now doubled to $1,000,000. So far, it has produced, among other things, the endorsement of Makoto Nagano, the first American to complete the Ultimate Cliffhanger (Brent Steffensen in 2012), the first woman to complete the Salmon Ladder (Kacy Catanzaro in 2014), the first woman to complete the Jumping Spider (Meagan Martin, also in 2014), the first two Americans to achieve Total Victory (Isaac Caldiero and Geoff Britten on the same night in 2015) and the first female to complete Stage 1 of Mt. Midoriyama in Las Vegas (Jessie Graff in 2016, who also became the first female to complete Stage 2 of the original Mt. Midoriyama in 2017 during \"Sasuke\" 34.) The network has renewed the show once again for its eighth season in 2016 with new qualifying cities including Los Angeles and Oklahoma City. The network has renewed the show for its ninth season in 2017 with three new cities: San Antonio, Daytona Beach, and Cleveland. The tenth season of the show began airing on May 30, 2018 with returning cities and a $10,000 bonus for finishing the Mega Warped Wall.\n\nIn 2014, the first \"Sasuke\"-based team competition was started, pitting five \"Sasuke\" All-Stars and New Stars representing Japan against five \"American Ninja Warrior\" stars representing the United States in what was dubbed by some as the inaugural \"Sasuke\"/\"Ninja Warrior\" world championship. The first meeting took place at the Mt. Midoriyama reconstruction in Las Vegas and was first broadcast in America on January 13, 2014 on NBC, with a second meeting already scheduled for the original Mt. Midoriyama in Aoba-ku in 2015.\n\nAt the first match in Las Vegas, Team Japan was composed of Shingo Yamamoto, Yuuji Urushihara, Ryo Matachi, Hitoshi Kanno and Kazuma Asa from \"Sasuke\", while Team USA was composed of Brent Steffensen, Paul Kasemir, James McGrath, Travis Rosen and Brian Arnold from \"American Ninja Warrior\". The match was composed of four rounds – one on each stage, with each round being a best-of-five of one-on-one races and each competitor running once per stage until the stage outcome was decided. Stage 1 was worth one point, Stage 2 worth two points and Stage 3 worth three, with the tiebreaker being the Final Stage tower. Despite the Japanese boasting superior experience and pedigrees (no Team USA member had completed Stage 3, either in Yokohama or Las Vegas), the Americans pulled off a stunning 6–0 win that included only one Japanese one-on-one race win (Matachi against Arnold on Stage 3.)\n\nWith the success of \"American Ninja Warrior\", Esquire Network announced a spin-off to the series called \"Team Ninja Warrior\" on October 9, 2015. The spin-off consists of 24 teams of three members featuring past and current \"ANW\" contestants from the first seven seasons. The series began airing on January 19, 2016 and is hosted by Akbar Gbaja-Biamila and Matt Iseman with sideline reporter Alex Curry.\n\n\"College Madness\" features college teams in a five-week competition. The second season began airing on November 22, 2016 with Iseman and Biama as hosts and \"ANW\" season six contestant Kacy Catanzaro as the sideline reporter.\n\nUSA renewed the show for its second full season.\n\nIn 2018 the network renamed the show to \"American Ninja Warrior: Ninja vs. Ninja\" with Iseman, Biama, and Curry as hosts and new teams for its third season.\n\nOn May 2, 2018, Universal Kids announced a second spin-off called \"American Ninja Warrior Junior\". The spin-off consists of 192 kids from across America as they compete head to head in three different age brackets: 9-10, 11-12, and 13-14 years old. Each bracket will be mentored by All-Star Ninja Mentors: Drew Dreschel, Barclay Stockett, Kevin Bull, Natalie Duran, Najee Richardson and Meagan Martin. The series began airing on October 13, 2018, with Matt Iseman and Akbar Gbaja-Biamila, joined by Olympic gold medalist Laurie Hernandez as hosts.\n\nThe American-edited \"Ninja Warrior\" episodes are broadcast in the United Kingdom on Challenge. The show has been re-edited to remove the subtitles from the footage of the competitors taking part in the stages, but retain them for contestant interviews. The \"Ninja Killer\" and \"Warrior Wipeout\" sections remain, but there is only one advertisement break halfway through the show.\n\nThe show was voiced-over by Stuart Hall for its first three series, aired between 2007 and 2008. In the fourth UK series, aired in 2011, Jim North took over as the voice-over. Challenge has now removed Hall's commentary from the first three series, following his imprisonment in June 2013, and re-dubbed them with new commentary by North. As of July 2012, all American edited episodes, covering all tournaments up to \"Sasuke\" 27, had aired in the UK. A new run of edited episodes airing in March 2016 was produced in the UK for Challenge, covering the \"Sasuke Rising\" tournaments, once again voiced by North. Another run of brand new edited episodes airing in June 2018 was again produced in the UK for Challenge, covering \"Sasuke\" tournaments 31–34, also voiced by North.\n\nIt was announced on 22 December 2014 that a UK remake of the format, similar to that of the American version, would be aired on ITV in 2015. The first series began on 11 April 2015. It is produced by ITV Studios subsidiary company, Potato and hosted by Ben Shephard, Rochelle Humes and Chris Kamara.\n\n\"American Ninja Warrior\" and \"Swedish Ninja Warrior\" are broadcast in Australia on SBS Two. The play-by-play commentary and interviews with participants are subtitled in English, while the introduction, player profiles, and replays have been dubbed by a voice actor.\n\nOn 19 June 2016, Nine Network announced they are creating \"Australian Ninja Warrior\", an Australian version of the show which will be produced by Endemol Shine and hosted by Rebecca Maddern, Ben Fordham and Freddie Flintoff.\n\nThe program can be seen in Bosnia as Nindža Ratnici (\"Ninja Warriors\") every day from Monday until Friday at 18:20 (UTC+1) on the Hayat TV channel and on Mreža Plus syndicated TV program.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Bulgaria on bTV Comedy as Най-добрият нинджа (The Best Ninja) weekends at 16:00 (UTC+2).\n\nAn unlicensed Chinese edition, 极限勇士 (Sasuke China: X Warrior), started on June 9, 2015 on Jiangsu TV. While the show contains courses directly based on \"American Ninja Warrior\" 6 and follows a similar structure, the version is unofficial and not directly related to \"Sasuke\". The Chinese edition contains four international competitions, the Chinese team playing head-to-head matches against contestants from Netherlands, United Kingdom, Singapore and the notable contestants from \"American Ninja Warrior\".\n\nThe program is broadcast in Colombia on Canal Uno on Saturday and Sunday at 3:00 PM, and a version of \"American Ninja Warrior\" (as \"Guerrero Ninja Americano\") is broadcast on Canal RCN on Saturday and Sunday at 4:00 PM.\n\nThe program can be seen in Croatia on Nova TV as Ninja Ratnici (Ninja Warriors) from Monday to Friday at 09:45 (UTC+1) and 17:15 (UTC+1) narrated by Davor Jurkotić and Mario Lipovšek Battifiaca.\n\nThe program is broadcast in the Czech Republic on Prima Cool as Ninja faktor (Ninja Factor). Episodes are 50 minutes long and split in two parts.\n\nThe program was aired in Estonia as \"Ninjasõdalane\" (Ninja Warrior) on the TV6 channel every Saturday and Sunday at 19:00 pm to 20.00 pm. Running time was 30 minutes per episode.\n\nIn 2016, the inaugural season of Ninja Warrior France aired, on TF1, with Midoriyama located in Cannes. The show is titled Ninja Warrior — Le Parcours des Heros. The obstacle course itself is called \"Le Chemin des Héros\".\n\nThe \"Ninja Warrior\" version of the program was broadcast in Germany on RTL II and DSF for the first time in 2009/2010. A German version titled \"Ninja Warrior Germany\" was aired by RTL in July 2016.\n\nThe program can be seen in Greece as Sasuke on the Skai TV network every Saturday at 16:00 (UTC+2). The show is voiced-over by Akindynos Gkikas and Kostas Papageorgiou.\n\nThe original Japanese version was broadcast in Indonesia for the first time in early 2007–2008. The show is dubbed in Indonesian and is broadcast by TPI (now known as MNCTV ).\n\nThe \"Ninja Warrior\" version of the program is broadcast in Italy on GXT or on GXT +1. The Italian version includes \"Ninja Killer\" and \"Warrior Wipeout\". In October 2016, Italy produced a local version Ninja Warrior Italia transmitted on NOVE and presented by Federico Russo, Carolina Di Domenico, Massimiliano Rosilino and Gabriele Corsi.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Latvia on LNT every day from Tuesday to Friday at 13:00 local time (UTC+3 – summer time). Every day on LMK at 20.00 o'clock.\n\nKovotojas Nindzė on TV6.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Malaysia on Disney XD and TV9 as \"Ninja Warrior\".\n\nThe program is broadcast in Mexico on Azteca 7 as \"Guerrero Ninja\" from Monday to Thursday at 8:30 PM.\n\nIn 2011, Malaysia did a qualifier for \"Sasuke\" 27, which Farid Isham won. In 2014, Malaysia organized the \"Sasuke\" ASEAN Open Cup, a tournament held in Malaysia as a competition of different countries going head to head. Team USA was represented by David Campbell, Brian Kretsch, Ryan Stratis, Mike Bernardo, and Drew Drechsel and won gold. Team Japan was represented by Shingo Yamamoto, Yusuke Morimoto, Kazuma Asa, Hitoshi Kanno, and Kenji Takahashi and won silver. Team Malaysia won bronze with their team captain being Farid Isham. There were three stages and the tournament went for two days. Also, Drew Drechsel got first place in all three stages, giving him a spot in \"Sasuke\" 30.\n\nThe program can be seen in the Middle East as محارب النينجا (Ninja Warriors) on MBC Action every Monday at (20:00 Mecca local time / 17:00 UTC / 12:00 EST). The whole program is dubbed into Arabic.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Russia on Sony Turbo as Путь ниндзя (Way of the Ninja) daily at 16:10.\n\nThe program can be seen in Serbia as Nindža Ratnici (Ninja Warriors) every day from Monday until Friday at 19:00 (UTC+1) on B92 (from 13 August 2012), narrated by Igor Brakus and Vladimir Đorđević.\nThe program was previously seen on Fox TV (now Prva TV), narrated by Ivan Tešanović and Miljan Milićević.\n\nThe program broadcast in Singapore is the non-edited version of \"Ninja Warrior\", with the exception of the subtitles being white instead of yellow. The program will be broadcast on MediaCorp Channel 5 every Wednesday at 20:00 (UTC + 8) and screened two episodes back to back. It was later moved to Thursday at 20:30 (UTC + 8), airing one episode. The show's run ended with the 17th competition of the \"Sasuke\" series.\n\nThe show returned on December 23, 2009, airing Wednesdays at 20:00, showing at various times two episodes, three episodes, or a single episode. The show's run ended with the 24th run.\n\nSingapore has its own edition of \"Sasuke\", which aired on August 9, 2012 at 8:10 pm, after the National Day Parade. It started airing August 15, 2012, and has its own winner going to Japan to take on the \"Sasuke\" course.\n\nSeason 1 was won by 22-year-old SAF's Naval Officer, Isaiah How Jia Jie. He placed 9th in the First Stage but managed to beat 21-year-old NUS student, Jenson Ngoh by 0.1 seconds in the season's 20 meter Rope Climb in the Second Stage to win.\n\nSeason 2 began with a new twist in its first episode: five Singaporean contenders competed with five Malaysians contenders; whichever country scored the first three points would win. Eventually Team Singapore beat Team Malaysia with a score of 3–2. For the competition, a 26-year-old gymnastics trainer edged out the other 12 contenders for the season with the time of 23.9 seconds, just 2.4 seconds shy of beating Isaiah How. He accompanied Isaiah to Japan in supporting him. However, in a twist of events, the production crew brought good luck to Alan Zhang in allowing him to participate.\n\nThe series concluded in its 13th and final episode with Isaiah How and Alan Zhang conquering the obstacle course at Mount Midoriyama, Japan. Both crashed out in the fourth obstacle (Jump Hang Kai) and third obstacle (Spinning Bridge) in the 1st Stage, respectively.\n\nThe program can be seen in Poland as \"Wojownicy Ninja\" (Ninja Warriors) on MTV.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Romania on Sport.ro as \"Ku Ninja In Atak\" (When Ninjas Attack). The show is hosted by two color commentators.\n\nThe program is broadcast in the Slovak Republic on JOJ Plus as Ninja faktor (Ninja Factor).\n\nThe program broadcast in South Africa is the Sony MAX CHANNEL version of \"Ninja Warrior\", with the \"Ninja Killer\" and \"Warrior Wipeout\" sections.\n\nThe program is broadcast in Thailand on Modernine TV as \"Ninja Warrior\" on Tuesday 8:35 PM.\n\nThe \"Ninja Warrior\" version of the program is broadcasting in Turkey on Fox TV narrated by Hayri Hiçler and Hopdedik Ayhan. A Turkish version titled \"Ninja Warrior Türkiye\" was aired by TV8 (2014–2015).\n\nIn Ukraine, \"Sasuke\" is broadcast by channel Mega (the same channel that broadcast \"Unbeatable Banzuke\"), under the name Япона-мать (Yapona-mat`, Japan-mother).\n\nThe Vietnamese version, Sasuke Việt Nam: Không Giới Hạn (Sasuke Vietnam: Unlimited), started airing season 1 on VTV3 in 2015.\n\n\"Sasuke Vietnam\" Season 1 began airing on June 18, 2015. Stage 1 was a split course that shared the first two obstacles (Long Jump, Log Grip), but then split into Stage 1A and Stage 1B. The obstacles on each side were different, and the top 20 fastest times on each side advanced to Stage 2. In Stage 2, common \"Sasuke\" obstacles (Salmon Ladder, double Warped Wall) appeared, and competitors had 100 seconds to clear this stage. Only eight competitors made it to Stage 3, which featured typical Stage 3 obstacles: Pole Maze, Spinning Bridge, Rumbling Dice, Spider Flip, Cliffhanger, and Pipe Slider. All competitors failed on Stage 3, with Le Van Thuc making it the furthest (failed dismounting onto the platform from the Pipe Slider).\n\n\"Sasuke Vietnam\" Season 2 began airing on May 19, 2016. Stage 1 again included a split course but this year, the first two obstacles were the Quad Steps and Log Grip.\n\nThe show \"\" airs on ESPN2 and is also produced by for Fuji TV. Many of the competitors from \"Sasuke\" also compete in the \"Viking\" competition.\n\n\"Sasuke\" executive producer co-created \"\", a live athletic and comedy-oriented performance featuring several notable \"Sasuke\" and \"Kunoichi\" competitors, who have included Ayako Miyake, Naoki Iketani, Sayaka Asami, Terukazu Ishikawa, Kayo Haga, Daisuke Nakata, and Rie Komiya, as well as other Japanese athletes and entertainers. Its popularity in Japan and its growing popularity in the United States has resulted in a long-term run at the Sahara Hotel and Casino in Las Vegas.\n\nEvery January TBS airs the \"Pro Sportsman No.1\" competition, also produced by Monster9. Several people who have competed on \"Sasuke\" have participated in this competition.\n\nOn Odaiba island, Monster9 has built Muscle Park, an indoor theme park based on events from \"Sasuke\" and other \"Muscle Ranking\" related programs. Some well-known \"Sasuke\" participants, such as Katsumi Yamada, have made live appearances there. \"Sasuke\" champion Makoto Nagano was honored in a celebration where he participated in the ribbon cutting there. Since April 2007, Monster9 has been airing episodes of \"Muscle Channel\", a show to promote Muscle Park, the \"Muscle Musical\", and people and events related to \"Sasuke\". \"Muscle Channel\" usually airs on BS-i on Thursdays from 8:00 to 9:53 JST and is hosted by Hiromichi Sato. Past guests include Katsumi Yamada and Shunsuke Nagasaki.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "242222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=242222", "title": "Sex show", "text": "Sex show\n\nA sex show is a form of live performance that features one or more performers engaging in some form of sexual activity on stage for the entertainment or sexual gratification of spectators. Performers are paid either by the spectators or by the organisers of the show. A performance would involve an actual or simulated autoerotic performance or sexual activity with another performer. The performance can be on a theater style, or it can be in a peep show style. An increasingly popular form of sex show is a webcam performance in which the viewer is able to view and interact with webcam models in real time.\n\nSex shows are distinguished from entertainment such as striptease, pole dancing or lap dance, which do not involve sexual activity other than undressing and dancing nude or semi-nude. Sexual activity at sex shows is also distinguished from regular prostitution in that the performers usually engage in sex acts only with other performers and not with spectators or paying customers. Sex shows can overlap with other sectors of the sex industry. For example, a strip club may also offer live sex performances, and a prostitute may offer to perform sex acts with another prostitute for the gratification of a patron.\n\nIn Havana, Cuba in the 1950s there were sex shows and live pornographic theaters such as the Shanghai Theater and the Tokyo Cabaret. The English novelist Graham Greene, writing in his autobiography \"Ways of Escape\", described: \"the Shanghai Theatre where for one dollar and twenty-five cents one could see a nude cabaret of extreme obscenity with the bluest of blue films in the intervals\".\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s the Laotian capital Vientiane was famous for sex shows at ping pong show bars during the Vietnam War. Travel writer Paul Theroux described a bar in 1973 Vientiane thus: “Your eyes get accustomed to the dark and you see the waitress is naked. Without warning she jumps on the chair, pokes a cigarette into her vagina and lights it, puffing it by contracting her uterine lungs.\" British journalist Christopher Robbins wrote that \"The White Rose\", a famous Vientiane bar during the war, featured floor shows in which women used their vaginas to smoke cigarettes and fling ping pong balls.\n\nIn the Reeperbahn, the red-light district of Hamburg, several sex theatres (\"Salambo\", \"Regina\", \"Colibri\", \"Safari\") were once located in the \"\" (\"Great Freedom\") street. They showed live sex acts on stage, but by 2007 the \"Safari\" was the only live sex theatre left in Germany, and that closed in 2013.\n\nIn the red light district of De Wallen in Amsterdam there are three main venues for sex shows: a hostess bar called the \"Bananen Bar\", and the \"Moulin Rouge\" and \"Casa Rosso\" theatres which feature on-stage sex acts and variations on the ping pong show. In Thailand, locations like Patpong in Bangkok, Walking Street, Pattaya, Bangla Road in Phuket and Ta Pae Gate in Chiang Mai have numerous venues hosting ping-pong shows.\n\nSex shows are subject to varying laws such as licensing requirements and locations are subject to local zoning regulations. Some jurisdictions regard a sex show as prostitution. The content of a sex show may also be subject to national and local obscenity and other laws. Some areas allow striptease, but no sexual activity, others may allow only simulated sexual activity or autoerotic activity, while others allow anything that is legal in recorded pornography to be performed live. Generally, as of 2010, autoerotic activity is the most common legally-available kind of live sexual activity. In some cities and countries throughout the world, live sexual activity between multiple performers are legal. Webcam performances are largely unregulated.\n\n"}
{"id": "11581710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11581710", "title": "Showmanship (performing)", "text": "Showmanship (performing)\n\nShowmanship, concerning artistic performing such as in Theatre, is the skill of performing in such a manner that will appeal to an audience or aid in conveying the performance's essential theme or message. \n\nFor instance, the Canadian stage magician Doug Henning used many classic illusions in his magic show. However, he made the old material seem new by rejecting the old stylistic cliches of the art (such as wearing formal wear), and by presenting them with a childlike exuberance that respected the audience's intelligence.\n\nProfitable showmanship frequently appeals to pathos. Showmen aim to display goods with tact in order to sell an object or a show. Companies producing drama and entertainment claim that displaying fairness is necessary.\n"}
{"id": "2974898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974898", "title": "Spiritual successor", "text": "Spiritual successor\n\nA spiritual successor, sometimes called a spiritual sequel, is a successor to a work of fiction which does not build upon the storyline established by a previous work as do most traditional prequels or sequels, yet features many of the same elements, themes, and styles as its source material, thereby resulting in it being related or similar \"in spirit\" to its predecessor.\n\nThe film \"10 Cloverfield Lane\" was not originally scripted with any connection to \"Cloverfield\". When the film was acquired by Bad Robot Productions, producer J. J. Abrams recognized a common element of a giant monster attack between the two films, and chose to market \"10 Cloverfield Lane\" as a spiritual successor to \"Cloverfield\" to help bring interest to the newer film, and allowing him to establish a franchise he could build upon in future.\n\nOne example of a spiritual sequel resulting from legal issues is \"Dark Souls\" by From Software, inspired by \"Demon's Souls\" by the same studio. The rights for \"Demon's Souls\", an exclusive title for the PlayStation 3, was held by Sony Computer Entertainment, preventing From Software from making a successor on other platforms, leading them to create a new property with similar gameplay mechanics for the Xbox 360 and other platforms. Another example is \"Perfect Dark\", developed by Rare as a spiritual sequel to their licensed title \"GoldenEye 007\". Rare had planned to develop a sequel to \"GoldenEye\" but lost the license as they were outbid by Electronic Arts. The developers still wanted to complete another spy-based title and developed \"Perfect Dark\" with a new story but with similar mechanics to \"GoldenEye\". \nAll Final Fantasy games in the original series are spiritual successors of the original game rather than being sequels. The first proper story sequel was Final Fantasy X-2.\n\n\"BioShock\" is one such example as a spiritual successor to \"System Shock 2\". \"System Shock 2\" was the first title developed by Irrational Games, a studio founded by Ken Levine, and while the game was met with critical acclaim, it was considered a commercial failure. Levine attempted to pitch a sequel to \"System Shock 2\" but their publisher Electronic Arts declined due to poor sales of \"System Shock 2\". After several years and other projects at Irrational, as well as being acquired by a new publisher 2K Games, Levine wanted to develop a game with the free-form narrative of \"System Shock 2\", which ultimately became the game \"BioShock\".\n\n\"Shadow of the Colossus\" was considered a spiritual successor to \"Ico\" by the lead director of both games Fumito Ueda; Ueda did not want to necessarily make the connection between the games one of a canonical narrative, but that both had similar narrative themes and elements that he wanted players to interpret on their own.\n\nA more recent example of a video game spiritual successor is the 2017 game \"Yooka-Laylee\", which is considered a spiritual successor to the \"Banjo-Kazooie\" series. \"Yooka-Laylee\" was developed by Playtonic Games, which consists of former employees of Rare; the company that developed the games in the \"Banjo-Kazooie\" series. Another recent example of a video game spiritual successor is Two Point Hospital by Two Point Studios, which is a spiritual successor to Theme Hospital by Bullfrog Productions.\n\nThe Honda CR-Z is regarded as the spiritual successor to the second generation Honda CR-X in both name and exterior design, despite a nearly two decade time difference in production. The Toyota Fortuner SUV is a spiritual successor to the Toyota 4Runner SUV mainly because they both share the same platform as the Hilux pickup truck. The Canon Cat computer was Jef Raskin's spiritual successor to the Apple Macintosh.\n\nIn sports, the Ravens–Steelers rivalry is considered the spiritual successor to the older Browns–Steelers rivalry due to the original Cleveland Browns relocation to Baltimore, as well as the reactivated Browns having a 6-30 record against the Steelers since returning to the league in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2655089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2655089", "title": "SpongeBob SquarePants", "text": "SpongeBob SquarePants\n\nSpongeBob SquarePants, also simply referred to as SpongeBob, is an American animated television series created by marine science educator and animator Stephen Hillenburg for Nickelodeon. The series chronicles the adventures and endeavors of the title character and his various friends in the fictional underwater city of Bikini Bottom. The series' popularity has made it a media franchise, as well as the highest rated series to ever air on Nickelodeon, and the most distributed property of MTV Networks. As of late 2017, the media franchise has generated $13 billion in merchandising revenue for Nickelodeon.\n\nMany of the ideas for the series originated in an unpublished educational comic book titled \"The Intertidal Zone\", which Hillenburg created in 1989. He began developing \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" into a television series in 1996 upon the cancellation of \"Rocko's Modern Life\", and turned to Tom Kenny, who had worked with him on that series, to voice the title character. SpongeBob was originally going to be named SpongeBoy, and the series was to be called \"SpongeBoy Ahoy!\", but both of these were changed, as the name was already trademarked.\n\nNickelodeon held a preview for the series in the United States on May 1, 1999, following the television airing of the 1999 Kids' Choice Awards. The series officially premiered on July 17, 1999. It has received worldwide critical acclaim since its premiere and gained enormous popularity by its second season. A feature film, \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\", was released in theaters on November 19, 2004, and was released on February 6, 2015. In 2018, the series began airing its twelfth season.\n\nThe series has won a variety of awards, including six Annie Awards, eight Golden Reel Awards, four Emmy Awards, 15 Kids' Choice Awards, and two BAFTA Children's Awards. Despite its widespread popularity, the series has been involved in several public controversies, including one centered on speculation over SpongeBob's intended sexual orientation. In 2011, a newly described species of fungus, \"Spongiforma squarepantsii\", was named after the cartoon's title character. A Broadway musical based on the series opened in 2017 to critical acclaim.\n\nThe series revolves around its title character and his various friends. SpongeBob SquarePants is an energetic and optimistic sea sponge who physically resembles a rectangular kitchen sponge. He lives in a submerged pineapple with his pet snail Gary (who meows like a cat) and has a childlike enthusiasm for life - which carries over to his job as a fry cook at a fast food restaurant called the Krusty Krab. SpongeBob's favorite pastimes include \"jellyfishing\" (which involves catching jellyfish with a net in a manner similar to butterfly catching) and blowing soap bubbles into elaborate shapes.\n\nLiving two houses down from SpongeBob is his best friend Patrick Star, a dim-witted yet friendly pink starfish who resides under a rock. Despite his mental setbacks, Patrick still sees himself as intelligent. Squidward Tentacles, SpongeBob's next-door neighbor and co-worker at the Krusty Krab, is an arrogant and ill-tempered octopus, who lives in an Easter Island moai. He enjoys playing the clarinet and painting self-portraits, but hates his job as a cashier and bemoans living in-between SpongeBob and Patrick, due to their childish nature. The owner of the Krusty Krab is a miserly red crab named Mr. Krabs who talks like a sailor and runs his restaurant as if it were a pirate ship. Mr. Krabs is a single parent with one teenage daughter, a sperm whale named Pearl, to whom he wants to pass down his riches. Pearl does not wish to continue her father's business and would rather spend her time listening to pop music or working at the local shopping mall. Another friend of SpongeBob is Sandy Cheeks, a thrill-seeking and athletic squirrel from Texas, who wears an air-filled diving suit to breathe underwater. She lives in an oak tree entrapped in a clear glass dome locked by an airtight, hand-turned seal and is an expert in karate, as well as a scientist.\n\nLocated across the street from the Krusty Krab is an unsuccessful rival restaurant called the Chum Bucket. It is run by a small green copepod named Plankton and his talking supercomputer sidekick, Karen. Plankton constantly tries to steal the secret recipe for Mr. Krabs's popular Krabby Patty burgers, hoping to gain the upper hand and put the Krusty Krab out of business. Karen supplies him with evil schemes to take the formula, but their efforts are never successful and their restaurant rarely gets any customers. When SpongeBob is not working at the Krusty Krab, he is often taking boat-driving lessons from Mrs. Puff, a paranoid but very patient pufferfish. SpongeBob is Mrs. Puff's most diligent student and knows every answer to the oral exams he takes, but he panics and crashes whenever he tries to drive a real boat. When Mrs. Puff endures one of SpongeBob's crashes or is otherwise frightened, she puffs up into a ball.\n\nSpecial episodes of the show are hosted by a live action pirate named Patchy and his pet parrot Potty, whose segments are presented in a dual narrative with the animated stories. Patchy is portrayed as the president of a fictional \"SpongeBob\" fan club, and his greatest aspiration is to meet SpongeBob himself. Potty likes to make fun of Patchy's enthusiasm and causes trouble for him while he tries to host the show. An unseen figure called the French Narrator often introduces episodes and narrates the intertitles as if the series was a nature documentary about the ocean. His role and distinctive manner of speaking are references to the oceanographer Jacques Cousteau.\n\nOther recurring characters appear throughout the series, such as the muscular lifeguard of Goo Lagoon, Larry the Lobster; a pirate specter known as the Flying Dutchman; and retired superheroes Mermaid Man and Barnacle Boy, who are idolized by SpongeBob and Patrick.\n\nThe series primarily takes place in the benthic underwater city of Bikini Bottom, which is located in the Pacific Ocean beneath the real-life coral reef known as Bikini Atoll. In 2015, Tom Kenny confirmed that the fictitious city was named after Bikini Atoll, but denied an Internet fan theory that connected the series' characters to actual nuclear testing that occurred in the atoll. The citizens are mainly multicolored fish who live in buildings made from ship funnels and use \"boatmobiles\", amalgamations of cars and boats, as a mode of transportation. Recurring locations within Bikini Bottom include the neighboring houses of SpongeBob, Patrick, and Squidward; two competing restaurants, the Krusty Krab and the Chum Bucket; Mrs. Puff's Boating School, which includes a driving course and a sunken lighthouse building; the Treedome, an oxygenated glass enclosure where Sandy lives; Shady Shoals Rest Home; a seagrass meadow called Jellyfish Fields; and Goo Lagoon, a popular beach hangout.\n\nWhen the crew began production on the pilot, they were tasked with designing the stock locations where \"the show would return to again and again, and in which most of the action would take place, such as the Krusty Krab and SpongeBob's pineapple house\". The idea for the series was \"to keep everything nautical\", so the crew used a great amount of rope, wooden planks, ships' wheels, netting, anchors, boilerplates, and rivets in creating the show's setting. Transitions between scenes are marked by bubbles filling up the screen, accompanied by the sound of water rushing.\n\nThe series features \"sky flowers\" as a main setting material. They first appeared in the pilot and have since become a common feature throughout the series. When series background designer Kenny Pittenger was asked what they were, he answered, \"They function as clouds in a way, but since the show takes place underwater, they aren't really clouds. Because of the tiki influence on the show, the background painters use a lot of pattern.\" Pittenger said that the sky flowers were meant to \"evoke the look of a flower-print Hawaiian shirt\".\n\nSeries creator Stephen Hillenburg first became fascinated with the ocean as a child. He also began developing his artistic abilities at a young age. Although these two interests would not overlap with each other for a long time—the idea of drawing fish seemed boring to him—Hillenburg pursued both during college, receiving a major in marine biology and a minor in art. After graduating in 1984, he joined the Ocean Institute, an organization in Dana Point, California, dedicated to educating the public about marine science and maritime history.\n\nWhile Hillenburg was there, his love of the ocean began to influence his artistry. He created a precursor to \"SpongeBob SquarePants\": a comic book titled \"The Intertidal Zone\", which was used by the institute to teach visiting students about the animal life of tide pools. The comic starred various anthropomorphic sea lifeforms, many of which would evolve into \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" characters. Hillenburg tried to get the comic professionally published, but none of the companies that he sent it to were interested.\n\nWhile working as a staff artist at the Ocean Institute, Hillenburg entertained plans of eventually returning to college for a master's degree in art. Before this could materialize, he attended an animation festival, which inspired him to make a slight change in course. Instead of continuing his education with a traditional art program, Hillenburg chose to study experimental animation at the California Institute of the Arts. His thesis film, \"Wormholes\", is about the theory of relativity. It was screened at festivals, and at one of these, Hillenburg met Joe Murray, creator of the popular Nickelodeon animated series, \"Rocko's Modern Life\". Murray was impressed by the style of the film and offered Hillenburg a job. Hillenburg joined the series as a director and later, during the fourth season, he took on the roles of producer and creative director.\n\nMartin Olson, one of the writers for \"Rocko's Modern Life\", read \"The Intertidal Zone\" and encouraged Hillenburg to create a television series with a similar concept. At that point, Hillenburg had not even considered creating his own series. However, he realized that if he ever did, this would be the best approach. He began to further develop some of the characters from \"The Intertidal Zone\", including the comic's \"announcer\", Bob the Sponge. He wanted his series to stand out from most popular cartoons of the time, which he felt were exemplified by buddy comedies such as \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\". As a result, Hillenburg decided to focus on a single main character: the \"weirdest\" sea creature that he could think of. This led him to the sponge. \"The Intertidal Zone\"s Bob the Sponge resembles an actual sea sponge, and at first, Hillenburg continued to utilize this design. In determining the new character's behavior, Hillenburg drew inspiration from innocent, childlike figures that he enjoyed, such as Charlie Chaplin, Laurel and Hardy, Jerry Lewis, and Pee-wee Herman. He then considered modeling the character after a kitchen sponge and realized that this idea would perfectly match the character's square personality. Patrick, Mr. Krabs, Pearl, and Squidward were the first other characters Hillenburg created for the show.\n\nTo voice the central character of the series, Hillenburg turned to Tom Kenny, whose career in animation had started alongside Hillenburg's on \"Rocko's Modern Life\". Elements of Kenny's own personality were employed in further developing the character. Initially, Hillenburg wanted to use the name SpongeBoy—the character would have had no last name, and the series would have been called \"SpongeBoy Ahoy!\" However, the Nickelodeon legal department discovered—after voice acting had been completed for the original seven-minute pilot episode—that the name \"SpongeBoy\" was already in use for a mop product. A character of the same name was also already trademarked by \"Flaming Carrot Comics\" creator Bob Burden. In choosing a replacement name, Hillenburg felt that he still had to use the word \"Sponge\", so that viewers would not mistake the character for a \"Cheese Man\". He settled on the name \"SpongeBob\". \"SquarePants\" was then chosen as a family name after Kenny saw a picture of the character and remarked, \"Boy, look at this sponge in square pants, thinking he can get a job in a fast food place.\" Hillenburg loved the phrase upon hearing Kenny say it and felt that it would reinforce the character's nerdiness.\n\nDerek Drymon, who served as creative director for the first three seasons, has said that Hillenburg wanted to surround himself with a \"team of young and hungry people\". Many of the major contributors to \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" had previously worked with Hillenburg on \"Rocko's Modern Life\": this included Drymon, art director Nick Jennings, supervising director Alan Smart, writer / voice actor Doug Lawrence (often credited as Mr. Lawrence), and Tim Hill, who helped develop the series bible.\n\nAlthough Drymon would go onto have a significant influence on \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", he was not initially offered a role on the series. As a late recruit to \"Rocko's Modern Life\", he had not established much of a relationship with Hillenburg before \"SpongeBob\"'s conception. Hillenburg first sought out Drymon's storyboard partner, Mark O'Hare - but O'Hare had just created the soon-to-be syndicated comic strip, \"Citizen Dog\", and while he would later join \"SpongeBob\" as a writer, lacked the time to get involved with both projects at the outset. Drymon has said, \"I remember Hillenburg's bringing it up to Mark in our office and asking him if he'd be interested in working on it...I was all ready to say yes to the offer, but Steve didn't ask; he just left the room. I was pretty desperate...so I ran into the hall after him and basically begged him for the job. He didn't jump at the chance.\" Once Hillenburg had given it some thought and decided to bring Drymon on as creative director, the two began meeting at Hillenburg's house multiple times a week to develop the series. Drymon has identified this period as having begun in 1996, shortly after the end of \"Rocko's Modern Life\".\n\nJennings was also instrumental in \"SpongeBob\"'s genesis. Kenny has called him \"one of SpongeBob's early graphics mentors\". On weekends, Kenny joined Hillenburg, Jennings, and Drymon for creative sessions, in which they captured ideas on a tape recorder. Kenny performed audio tests as SpongeBob during these sessions, while Hillenburg enacted voices for the other characters.\n\nHill contributed scripts for several first-season episodes (including the pilot) and was offered the role of story editor, but turned it down - he would go on to pursue a career as a family film director. In his stead, Pete Burns was brought in for the job. Burns hailed from Chicago and had never met any of the principal players on \"SpongeBob\" before joining the team.\n\nIn 1997, while pitching the cartoon to Nickelodeon executives, Hillenburg donned a Hawaiian shirt, brought along an \"underwater terrarium with models of the characters\", and played Hawaiian music to set the theme. The setup was described by Nickelodeon executive Eric Coleman as \"pretty amazing\". When they were given money and two weeks to write the pilot episode \"Help Wanted\", Derek Drymon, Stephen Hillenburg, and Nick Jennings returned with what was described by Nickelodeon official Albie Hecht as, \"a performance [he] wished [he] had on tape\". Although executive producer Derek Drymon described the pitch as stressful, he said it went \"very well\". Kevin Kay and Hecht had to step outside because they were \"exhausted from laughing\", which worried the cartoonists.\n\nIn an interview, Cyma Zarghami, the current president of Nickelodeon, said, \"their [Nickelodeon executives'] immediate reaction was to see it again, both because they liked it and it was unlike anything they'd ever seen before\". Zarghami was one of four executives in the room when \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" was screened for the first time.\n\nSeries creator Stephen Hillenburg has served as the executive producer over the course of the series' entire history and functioned as the showrunner from the series' debut in 1999 until 2004. The series went on hiatus in 2002, after Hillenburg halted production to work on a feature film of the series, \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\". Once the film was finalized and the third season finished, Hillenburg resigned as the series' showrunner. Although he no longer had a direct role in the production of the series, he still maintained an advisory role and reviewed each episode.\n\nWhen the film was completed, Hillenburg intended it to be the series finale, \"so [the show] wouldn't jump the shark.\" However, Nickelodeon wanted more episodes, so Hillenburg appointed Paul Tibbitt, who previously served on the show as a writer, director, and storyboard artist, to take over his role as showrunner and produce further seasons. Hillenburg considered Tibbitt one of his favorite members of the show's crew, and \"totally trusted him\".\n\nOn December 13, 2014, it was announced that Hillenburg would return to the series in an unspecified position. On November 26, 2018, at the age of 57, Hillenburg died from complications due to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), which he had been diagnosed with in March 2017. Nickelodeon confirmed via Twitter that the series will continue despite his death.\n\nAs of the ninth season, former writers and storyboard directors Vincent Waller and Marc Ceccarelli act as showrunners.\n\nAccording to writer Luke Brookshier, \"\"SpongeBob\" is written differently than many television shows\". Initial storylines are created by a team of five outline and premise writers. A two-page outline is then developed by storyboard artists into a full episode—jokes and dialogue are added during this stage. Unlike most of its contemporaries, \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" does not use written scripts. Brookshier has likened this storyboarding process to how cartoons were made \"in the early days of animation.\"\n\nThe decision to eschew scripts for storyboards is one that Hillenburg made early on in the series' development. \"Rocko's Modern Life\" had also used storyboarding, and having worked on that series, Hillenburg felt strongly about adopting the process for \"SpongeBob SquarePants\"—even though Nickelodeon was beginning to show a greater preference for script-driven cartoons. Another writer for the series, Merriwether Williams, described in an interview that she and Mr. Lawrence would write a draft for an episode in an afternoon and be done at 4 o'clock.\n\nThe writing staff often used their individual life experiences for inspirations to come up with the storylines of the series' episodes. For example, the episode \"Sailor Mouth\", in which SpongeBob and Patrick learn profanity, was inspired by creative director Derek Drymon's experience of getting in trouble as a child for using the f-word in front of his mother. Drymon said, \"The scene where Patrick is running to Mr. Krabs to tattle, with SpongeBob chasing him, is pretty much how it happened in real life\". The end of the episode, in which Mr. Krabs uses even more profanity than SpongeBob and Patrick, was inspired \"by the fact that my [Drymon's] mother has a sailor mouth herself\". The idea for the episode \"The Secret Box\" also came from one of Drymon's childhood experiences. Hillenburg explained, \"Drymon had a secret box [as a kid] and started telling us about it. We wanted to make fun of him \"and\" use it.\"\n\nAlmost every episode is divided into two 11-minute segments. Hillenburg explained that \"[I] never really wanted to deliberately try to write a half-hour show\". He added, \"I wrote the shows to where they felt right\". Each 11-minute segment takes about five months to produce.\n\n\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" features the voices of Tom Kenny, Bill Fagerbakke, Rodger Bumpass, Clancy Brown, Mr. Lawrence, Jill Talley, Carolyn Lawrence, Mary Jo Catlett, and Lori Alan. Most one-off and background characters are voiced by Dee Bradley Baker, Sirena Irwin, Bob Joles, Mark Fite and Thomas F. Wilson.\n\nKenny voices \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" and a variety of other characters, including SpongeBob's pet snail Gary and the French narrator. He also physically portrays Patchy the Pirate in live-action segments of most special episodes. Kenny previously worked with Stephen Hillenburg on \"Rocko's Modern Life\" and, when Hillenburg created \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", he approached Kenny to voice the main character. Kenny originally used the voice of SpongeBob for a minor character on \"Rocko\". He forgot how to perform the voice initially and did not intend to use it afterward. Hillenburg, however, used a video clip of the episode to remind Kenny of the voice. When Hillenburg heard Kenny perform the voice, he immediately knew he wanted it for his character. He said to Nickelodeon executives, \"That's it—I don't want to hear anybody else do the voice. We've got SpongeBob.\" The network insisted on auditioning more actors, but Hillenburg turned them down; in the words of Tom Kenny, \"one of the advantages of having a strong creator is that the creator can say, 'No, I like that—I don't care about celebrities.'\" While Kenny was developing SpongeBob's voice, the show's casting crew wanted him to have a unique, high-pitched laugh in the tradition of Popeye and Woody Woodpecker.\n\nFagerbakke voices Patrick Star and other miscellaneous characters. At the same time when Hillenburg, Derek Drymon, and Tim Hill were writing the pilot \"Help Wanted\", Hillenburg was also conducting auditions to find voices for the characters. Fagerbakke auditioned for the role of Patrick after Kenny had been cast. Fagerbakke recalled that during his audition for the role of Patrick, \"Hillenburg actually played for me a portion of Tom [Kenny]'s performance [as SpongeBob], and they were looking for a counterpoint.\" In an interview, Fagerbakke compared himself to the character and said, \"It's extremely gratifying\". Fagerbakke modeled his performance whenever Patrick is angry after that of American actress Shelley Winters.\n\nSquidward Tentacles is voiced by Rodger Bumpass, who describes Squidward as \"a very nasally, monotone kind of guy.\" He said that the character \"became a very interesting character to do\" because of \"his sarcasm, and then his frustration, and then his apoplexy, and so he became a wide spectrum of emotions\". Arthur Brown, author of \"Everything I Need to Know, I Learned from Cartoons!\", has compared Squidward's voice to that of Jack Benny's, a similarity Bumpass says is mostly unintentional. Voice acting veteran Clancy Brown voices Mr. Krabs, SpongeBob's boss at the Krusty Krab. Hillenburg modeled Mr. Krabs after his former manager at a seafood restaurant, whose strong Maine accent reminded Hillenburg of a pirate. For the character, Brown decided to use a \"piratey\" voice with \"a little Scottish brogue\" after hearing Hillenburg's description of his boss. According to Brown, his Mr. Krabs voice was mostly improvised during his audition and it was not challenging for him to find the correct voice.\n\nMr. Lawrence had met Hillenburg previously on \"Rocko's Modern Life\". When working on the pilot episode of \"SpongeBob\", Hillenburg invited him to audition for all of the characters. Since other voices had been found for the main cast already, Lawrence started out by voicing a variety of minor characters. This included Plankton, who was initially only set to appear in one episode. Mr. Lawrence recalls that Nickelodeon executives told Hillenburg, \"'we could stunt-cast this. You know, we could have Bruce Willis do this voice.' And Steve was just like, 'it's Doug [Lawrence], don't you hear it? This is the character! This is the guy!'\" Jill Talley, Tom Kenny's wife, voices Karen Plankton. Being a Chicago native, she uses a Midwestern accent for the character. Electronic sound effects are underlaid by the series' audio engineers to create a robotic sound whenever she speaks. Talley and Mr. Lawrence often improvise Plankton and Karen's dialogue. Lawrence called improvisation his \"favorite part of the voice over\" in 2009. He elaborated in a 2012 interview, saying, \"I always enjoy the back-and-forth. [Talley and I] start to actually overlap so much talking to each other that [the voice directors] have to tell us, 'hey, stop doing that, separate what you're saying!'\"\n\nCarolyn Lawrence voices Sandy Cheeks. When Lawrence was on a sidewalk in Los Feliz, Los Angeles with a friend who knew \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" casting director Donna Grillo, her friend said to Grillo that Lawrence had \"an interesting voice\". Grillo invited Lawrence to audition and she got the role. Mrs. Puff's voice is provided by American actress Mary Jo Catlett, who is known for her live-action roles on television programs from the 1970s such as \"Diff'rent Strokes\" and \"M*A*S*H\". As of 2017, voicing Mrs. Puff has become her only remaining regular television role; Catlett described herself as \"basically retired\" in 2013, since she feels that voicing Mrs. Puff requires less preparation than her performances in person. Lori Alan voices Pearl Krabs. During her audition for the role, Alan was shown an early drawing of the characters and took note of how Pearl was much larger than the rest of the cast. She decided to reflect the character's size in her voice by making it deep and full in tone. She aimed to make Pearl's voice invoke the sound of whales’ low vocalizations while also sounding \"spoiled and lovable.\" In an interview with AfterBuzz TV, Alan said that she knew Pearl \"had to sound somewhat like a child,\" but needed \"an abnormally large voice.\"\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, episodes feature guest voices from many ranges of professions, including actors, athletes, authors, musicians, and artists. Recurring guest voices include: Ernest Borgnine, who voiced Mermaid Man from 1999 until his death in 2012; Tim Conway as the voice of Barnacle Boy; Brian Doyle-Murray as the Flying Dutchman; and Marion Ross as Grandma SquarePants. Notable guests who have provided vocal cameo appearances includes David Bowie as Lord Royal Highness in the television film \"Atlantis SquarePantis\", John Goodman as the voice of Santa in the episode \"It's a SpongeBob Christmas!\", Johnny Depp as the voice of the surf guru, Jack Kahuna Laguna, in the episode \"SpongeBob SquarePants vs. The Big One\", and Victoria Beckham as the voice of Queen Amphitrite in the episode \"The Clash of Triton\".\n\nVoice recording sessions always include a full cast of actors, which Kenny describes as \"getting more unusual\". Kenny said, \"That's another thing that's given \"SpongeBob\" its special feel. Everybody's in the same room, doing it old radio-show style. It's how the stuff we like was recorded\". Series writer Jay Lender said, \"The recording sessions were always fun ...\" For the first three seasons, Hillenburg and Drymon sat in on the record studio, and they directed the actors. Andrea Romano became the voice director in the fourth season, and Tom Kenny took over the role during the ninth. Wednesday is recording day, the same schedule followed by the crew since 1999. Casting supervisor Jennie Monica Hammond said, \"I loved Wednesdays\".\n\nApproximately 50 people work together in animating and producing an episode of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". Throughout its run, production of the series has been handled domestically at Nickelodeon Animation Studio in Burbank, California, while the finished animation has been created overseas at Rough Draft Studios in South Korea. Storyboarding for each episode is done by the crew in California. The storyboards are then used as templates by the crew in Korea, who animate by hand, color cels on computers, and paint backgrounds. Episodes are finished in California, where they are edited and have music added. Every season, character designs are updated or modified to solve technical issues in the animation.\n\nDuring the first season, the series used cel animation. A shift was made the following year to digital ink and paint animation. In 2009, executive producer Paul Tibbitt said \"The first season of \"SpongeBob\" was done the old-fashioned way on cells, and every cell had to be part-painted, left to dry, paint some other colors. It's still a time-consuming aspect of the process now, but the digital way of doing things means it doesn't take long to correct\".\n\nIn 2008, the crew shifted to using Wacom Cintiqs for the drawings instead of pencils. The fifth season episode \"Pest of the West\" was the first episode in the series to which the crew applied this method. Series background designer Kenny Pittenger said, \"The only real difference between the way we draw now and the way we drew then is that we abandoned pencil and paper during the fifth season\". The crew began the shift while they were working on the episode. Pittenger said, \"It was while we were working on 'Pest of the West', one of the half-hour specials, that we made the switch ... did you notice?\" The shift to Wacom Cintiqs let the designers and animators draw on computer screens and make immediate changes or undo mistakes. Pittenger said, \"Many neo-Luddites—er ... I mean, many of my cohorts—don't like working on them, but I find them useful. There's no substitute for the immediacy of drawing on a piece of paper, of course, but digital nautical nonsense is still pretty fun\".\nSince 2004, the \"SpongeBob\" crew has periodically collaborated with the LA-based animation studio Screen Novelties to create stop-motion sequences for special episodes. The studio produced a brief claymation scene for the climax of the first theatrical film and was re-enlisted in 2009 to create an exclusive opening for the series' tenth anniversary special. The abominable snow mollusk, an octopus-like creature made of clay who acts as the antagonist of the double-length episode \"Frozen Face-Off,\" was also animated by the company. \"Animation World Network\" reported that \"within the \"SpongeBob\" creative team, there was always talk of doing a more involved project together\" with Screen Novelties. As a result, the group was asked to create an episode animated entirely in stop motion in 2011. This project became \"It's a SpongeBob Christmas!”, which reimagined the show's characters as if they were part of a Rankin/Bass holiday film. Tom Kenny, who is not normally involved in the writing process, contributed to the episode's plot; he said in 2012 that he and Nickelodeon \"wanted to do something just like those old school, stop-motion Rankin-Bass holiday specials...which I watched over and over again when I was a kid growing up in Syracuse.\" Unconventional materials such as baking soda, glitter, wood chips and breakfast cereal were used in mass quantities to create the special's sets. Members of the Screen Novelties crew received one win and two nominations at the 30th Annie Awards, a nomination at the 2013 Golden Reel Awards, and a nomination at the 2013 Annecy International Animated Film Festival for animating the episode. The team built a dolphin puppet named Bubbles, voiced by Matt Berry, for \"\". Sequences involving Bubbles included a blend of stop motion and traditional animation. A second special animated in stop motion, themed around Halloween and using the same Rankin/Bass-inspired character models, was produced for season 11.\n\nThe theme song was composed by Mark Harrison and Blaise Smith, while the lyrics to the song were written by series creator Stephen Hillenburg and the series' original creative director Derek Drymon. The melody was inspired by the sea shanty \"Blow the Man Down\". An old oil painting of a pirate is used in the opening sequence. It has been dubbed \"Painty the Pirate\", and according to Tom Kenny, Hillenburg found it in a thrift shop \"years ago\". Patrick Pinney gives voice to Painty the Pirate, singing the theme song as the character. Hillenburg's lips were imposed onto the painting and move along with the lyrics. Kenny joked that this is \"about as close of a glimpse as most \"SpongeBob\" fans are ever going to get of Steve Hillenburg\", because of Hillenburg's private nature.\n\nA cover of the song by Avril Lavigne can be found on the SpongeBob SquarePants Movie soundtrack. Another cover by the Violent Femmes aired on Nickelodeon as a promotion for the series moving to prime time.\n\nSteve Belfer, one of Hillenburg's friends from CalArts, wrote and performed the music that is played over the end credits. This theme includes ukulele music, per Hillenburg's request. Drymon said, \"It's so long ago, it's hard to be sure, but I remember Hillenburg having the Belfer music early on, maybe before the pilot\".\n\nThe series' music editor and main composer is Nicolas Carr. After working with Hillenburg on \"Rocko's Modern Life\", Carr struggled to find a new job in his field. He had been considering a career change when Hillenburg offered him the job. The first season's score primarily featured selections from the Associated Production Music Library, which Carr has said includes \"lots of great old corny Hawaiian music and big, full, dramatic orchestral scores.\" \"Rocko's Modern Life\" also used music from this library. It was Hillenburg's decision to adopt the approach. The selections for \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" have been described by Carr as being \"more over-the-top\" than those for \"Rocko's Modern Life\".\n\nHillenburg also felt that it was important for the series to develop its own music library, consisting of scores that could be reused and re-edited throughout the years. He wanted these scores to be composed by unknowns, and a group of twelve was assembled. They formed \"The Sponge Divers Orchestra\", which includes Carr and Belfer. This group went on to provide the majority of the music for later seasons, although Carr still draws from the Associated Production Music Library, as well as another library that he founded himself—Animation Music Inc.\n\nNickelodeon began celebrating the 10th anniversary of the series on January 18, 2009 with a live cast reading of the episode \"SpongeBob vs. The Big One\". The reading—a first for the series—was held at that year's Sundance Film Festival. The episode, which would not premiere on TV until April 17, featured Johnny Depp as a guest star. Other celebratory actions taken by the network included the launching of a new website for the series (spongebob.com) and the introduction of new merchandising. A \"SpongeBob and water conservation-themed element\" was also added to Nickelodeon's pro-social campaign \"The Big Green Help\". In an interview, Tom Kenny said, \"What I'm most proud of is that kids still really like [\"SpongeBob SquarePants\"] and care about it ... They eagerly await new episodes. People who were young children when it started 10 years ago are still watching it and digging it and think it's funny. That's the loving cup for me\".\n\nThree nights before the official anniversary date, an hour-long documentary of the series, \"\", premiered on VH1. Critically acclaimed duo Patrick Creadon and Christine O'Malley created the film as a followup to \"I.O.U.S.A.\"—a documentary on America's financial situation. Creadon remarked, \"After spending two years examining the financial health of the United States, Christine and I were ready to tackle something a little more upbeat. Telling the SpongeBob story feels like the perfect fit.\" On Friday, July 17, Nickelodeon marked the official anniversary of the series, with a 50-hour television marathon titled \"The Ultimate SpongeBob SpongeBash Weekend\". The marathon began with a new episode, \"To SquarePants or Not to SquarePants\". Saturday saw a countdown of the top ten episodes as picked by fans, as well as an airing of \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\". The marathon finished on Sunday, which saw a countdown of episodes as picked by celebrities, as well as the premiere of ten new episodes.\n\nNickelodeon continued celebrating the anniversary through the rest of the year. An eight-episode DVD set featuring \"To SquarePants or Not to SquarePants\" shortly followed the marathon, with a July 21 release. Next a 2,200 minute, 14-disc DVD set titled \"The First 100 Episodes\" was released on September 22. Finally, on November 6, an hour-long television film, titled \"Truth or Square\", debuted on Nickelodeon. The film is narrated by Ricky Gervais and features live action cameo appearances by Rosario Dawson, Craig Ferguson, Will Ferrell, Tina Fey, LeBron James, P!nk, Triumph the Insult Comic Dog, and Robin Williams. It was released as part of a five-episode DVD set on November 10.\n\nWithin its first month on air, \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" overtook \"Pokémon\" as the highest rated Saturday-morning children's series on television. It held an average national Nielsen rating of 4.9 among children aged two through eleven, denoting 1.9 million viewers. Two years later, the series had firmly established itself as Nickelodeon's second highest rated children's program, after \"Rugrats\". That year, 2001, \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" was credited with helping Nickelodeon take the \"Saturday-morning ratings crown\" for the fourth straight season. The series had gained a significant adult audience by that point – nearly 40 percent of its 2.2 million viewers were aged 18 to 34. In response to this weekend-found success, Nickelodeon gave \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" time slots at 6 PM and 8 PM, Monday through Thursday, to increase exposure of the series. By the end of that year \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" boasted the highest ratings for any children's series, on all of television. Weekly viewership of the series had reached around fifteen million, at least five million of whom were adults.\n\nIn October 2002, another Nickelodeon series, \"The Fairly OddParents\", ranked as the No. 2 program for children between 2 and 11 years old. Its ratings at that time were almost equal to \"SpongeBob SquarePants\"' then-average of 2.2 million viewers per episode. \"The Fairly OddParents\" even briefly surpassed \"SpongeBob SquarePants\", causing the latter series to drop into second place — at this time, \"The Fairly OddParents\" had a 6.2 rating and nearly 2.5 million child viewers, while \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" had a 6.0 rating and 2.4 million kids 2–11. Nickelodeon \"recognized\" \"The Fairly OddParents\" for its climbing ratings and installed it into a new 8 P.M. time slot, previously occupied by \"SpongeBob SquarePants\". In an interview, Cyma Zarghami, then-general manager and executive vice president of Nickelodeon, said, \"Are we banking on the fact that \"Fairly OddParents\" will be the next \"SpongeBob\"? ... We are hoping. But \"SpongeBob\" is so unique, it's hard to say if it will ever be repeated\".\n\nIn 2012, however, it was reported that the series' ratings were declining. The average number of viewers aged 2 to 11 watching \"SpongeBob\" at any given time dropped 29% in the first quarter from a year earlier, according to Nielsen. \"Wall Street Journal\" business writer John Jannarone suggested that the age of the series and oversaturation of the series might be contributing to the decline of the series' ratings, and might also be directly responsible for the decline in Nickelodeon's overall ratings. Media analyst Todd Juenger directly attributes the decline in Nickelodeon's ratings to the availability of streaming video content on services like Netflix, a provider of on-demand Internet streaming media.\n\nPhilippe Dauman, the president and CEO of Viacom, contradicted the notion, saying he did not think \"the limited amount of Nick library content on Netflix ... has had a significant impact\". A Nickelodeon spokesman said \"SpongeBob\" is performing consistently well and remains the number one rated animated series in all of children's television. He added, \"There is nothing that we have seen that points to \"SpongeBob\" as a problem\". Dauman blamed the drop on \"some ratings systemic issues\" at Nielsen, citing extensive set-top-box data that \"does in no way reflect\" the Nielsen data.\n\nJuenger noted that \"SpongeBob\" could affect the ratings of other Nickelodeon programming because children often change channels to find their favorite programs, then stay tuned into that network. Nickelodeon recently reduced its exposure in television. In the first quarter of 2012, the network cut back on the number of episodes it aired by 16% compared with a year earlier.\n\nOn April 22, 2013, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings announced their intentions not to renew their existing deal with Viacom. Since then, Viacom's deal with Netflix expired, and shows such as \"SpongeBob\" and \"Dora the Explorer\" were removed. On June 4, 2013, Viacom announced a multi-year licensing agreement which would move its programs, such as \"SpongeBob\" and \"Dora the Explorer\", to Amazon.com, Netflix's top competitor. Amazon agreed to pay more than $200 million to Viacom for the license, its largest subscription streaming transaction ever.\n\n\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" is one of the longest-running series on Nickelodeon. It became the Nickelodeon series with the most episodes, during its eighth season, surpassing the 172 episodes of \"Rugrats\" with 178. In its ninth season, a total of 26 episodes pushed the series over the 200th episode mark, reaching 204 produced episodes. In a statement, Brown Johnson, animation president for Nickelodeon, said, \"\"SpongeBob\" success in reaching over 200 episodes is a testament to creator Stephen Hillenburg's vision, comedic sensibility and his dynamic, lovable characters. The series now joins the club of contemporary classic Nicktoons that have hit this benchmark, so we're incredibly proud\".\n\n\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" has received critical acclaim from critics, and it has been noted for its appeal towards different age groups. James Poniewozik of \"Time\" magazine described the title character as \"the anti-Bart Simpson, temperamentally and physically: his head is as squared-off and neat as Bart's is unruly, and he has a personality to match—conscientious, optimistic and blind to the faults in the world and those around him\". According to Laura Fries of \"Variety\" magazine, the series is \"a thoughtful and inventive cartoon about a hopelessly optimistic and resilient sea sponge ... Devoid of the double entendres rife in today's animated TV shows, this is purely kid's stuff ... However, that's not to say that \"SpongeBob\" is simplistic or even juvenile. It's charming and whimsical, but clever enough to appeal to teens and college-aged kids, as well\". \"The New York Times\" critic Joyce Millman said \"SpongeBob\" \"is clever without being impenetrable to young viewers and goofy without boring grown-ups to tears. It's the most charming toon on television, and one of the weirdest. And it's also good, clean fun, which makes sense because it is, after all, about a sponge\". Millman wrote, \"His relentless good cheer would be irritating if he weren't so darned lovable and his world so excellently strange ... Like \"Pee-wee's Playhouse\", SpongeBob joyfully dances on the fine line between childhood and adulthood, guilelessness and camp, the warped and the sweet\".\n\nRobert Thompson, a professor of communications and director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television at Syracuse University, told \"The New York Times\", \"There is something kind of unique about [SpongeBob]. It seems to be a refreshing breath from the pre-irony era. There's no sense of the elbow-in-rib, tongue-in-cheek aesthetic that so permeates the rest of American culture—including kids' shows like the \"Rugrats\". I think what's subversive about it is it's so incredibly naive—deliberately. Because there's nothing in it that's trying to be hip or cool or anything else, hipness can be grafted onto it\". In another interview with \"Los Angeles Times\", he commentated on the show's adult audience: \"[On one hand] It's a kind of time machine that transports parents back to when they watched TV in their footie [pajamas]. On the other hand, it's very hip in the way it's presented. It is very edgy to adults who know how to read and listen between the frames.\" In a 2007 interview, Barack Obama named SpongeBob his favorite TV character and admitted that \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" is \"the show I watch with my daughters\". British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has also said he watches the series with his children.\n\n\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" has received many awards and nominations; among these are four Emmy Awards (\"Outstanding Special Class Animated Program\" in 2010, \"Outstanding Sound Editing – Animation\" in 2014, \"Outstanding Children's Animated Series\" in 2018, and \"Outstanding Performer in an Animated Program\" in 2018 for Kenny); six Annie Awards; and two BAFTA Children's Awards. Television critics Alan Sepinwall and Matt Zoller Seitz included the series in their 2016 book \"TV\" as the 22nd greatest American television series of all time, stating that \"\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" is an absurdist masterpiece that Salvador Dalí and Groucho Marx would have watched together in their smoking jackets\". In 2006, IGN ranked \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" 15th on its list, \"Top 25 Animated Series of All Time\", and in 2013, it ranked the series 12th on its list, \"The Top 25 Animated Series for Adults\". Additionally, the website's UK division ran a \"Top 100 Animated Series\" list, and like its US counterpart, ranked \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" 15th.\n\nThe series is among the \"All-TIME 100 TV Shows\" as chosen by \"Time\" television critic James Poniewozik in 2007. He said, \"It's the most funny, surreal, inventive example of the explosion in creative kids' (and adult) entertainment that Nick, Cartoon Network and their ilk made possible\". Viewers of the UK television network Channel 4 voted \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" the 28th \"Greatest Cartoon\" in a 2004 poll. \"TV Guide\" listed the character of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" at No. 9 for its \"50 Greatest Cartoon Characters of All Time\". In 2013, the publication ranked \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" the eighth \"Greatest TV Cartoon of All Time\". In June 2010, \"Entertainment Weekly\" named SpongeBob one of the \"100 Greatest Characters of the Last 20 Years\".\n\nIn July 2009, Madame Tussauds wax museum in New York launched a wax sculpture of SpongeBob in celebration of the series' 10th anniversary. This made SpongeBob the first animated character to ever receive a statue made entirely out of wax. In May 2011, a new species of mushroom, \"Spongiforma squarepantsii\", was described, named after the series' title character.\n\nThe character has also become a trend in Egypt at Cairo's Tahrir Square. After the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, SpongeBob became a fashion phenomenon, appearing on various items of merchandise from hijabs to boxer shorts. The phenomenon led to the creation of the Tumblr project called \"SpongeBob on the Nile\". The project was founded by American students Andrew Leber and Elisabeth Jaquette and attempts to document every appearance of SpongeBob in Egypt. Sherief Elkeshta cited the phenomenon in an essay about the incoherent state of politics in Egypt in an independent monthly paper titled \"Midan Masr\". He wrote, \"Why isn't he [SpongeBob] at least holding a Molotov cocktail? Or raising a fist?\" The phenomenon has even spread to Libya, where a Libyan rebel in SpongeBob dress was photographed celebrating the revolution. Although \"The Guardian\" and \"Vice\" have asserted that the trend has little to no political significance, \"joke\" presidential campaigns have been undertaken for SpongeBob in Egypt and Syria.\n\nA clip was posted to YouTube in February 2013 that features soldiers in the Russian army and navy singing the \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" theme song as they march. According to the website that uploaded the video, this is one of the \"most popular marching songs\" in the Russian military. The video garnered nearly 50,000 views within its first week.\n\nIn 2005, an online video that showed clips from \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" and other children's shows set to the Sister Sledge song \"We Are Family\" to promote diversity and tolerance was attacked by an evangelical group in the United States, because they saw SpongeBob being used to \"advocate homosexuality\". James Dobson of Focus on the Family accused the video of promoting homosexuality, due to it being sponsored by a pro-tolerance group. The incident accentuated questions as to whether or not SpongeBob is gay. Although the character has enjoyed popularity with gay viewers, series creator Stephen Hillenburg had already denied the issue three years earlier, clarifying at the time that he considers the character to be \"somewhat asexual\". After Dobson's comments, Hillenburg reasserted his position, stating that sexual preference does not play a part in what they are \"trying to do\" with the series. Tom Kenny and other production members were distraught that such an issue had arisen.\n\nDobson later stated that his comments were taken out of context and that his original complaints were not with SpongeBob, the video, or any of the characters in the video, but rather with the organization that sponsored the video, the We Are Family Foundation. Dobson said that the We Are Family Foundation posted pro-gay material on their website, but later removed it. After the controversy, John H. Thomas, the United Church of Christ's general minister and president, said they would welcome SpongeBob into their ministry. He said \"Jesus didn't turn people away. Neither do we\".\n\nJeffery P. Dennis, author of the journal article \"Queertoons\", argued that SpongeBob and Sandy are not romantically in love, while adding that he believed that SpongeBob and Patrick \"are paired with arguably erotic intensity\". Martin Goodman of \"Animation World Magazine\" described Dennis' comments regarding SpongeBob and Patrick as \"interesting\". Ukrainian website Family Under the Protection of the Holy Virgin, which has been described as a \"fringe Catholic\" group by \"The Wall Street Journal\", levied criticism against \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" for its alleged \"promotion of homosexuality\". The group sought to have the series banned, along with several other popular children's properties. The National Expert Commission of Ukraine on the Protection of Public Morality took up the matter for review in August 2012.\n\nIn April 2009, Burger King released a SpongeBob-themed advertisement featuring a parody of Sir Mix-a-Lot's song \"Baby Got Back\". The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood protested the ad for being sexist and inappropriately sexual, especially considering that SpongeBob's fan base includes young children. In official statements released by Burger King and Nickelodeon, both companies claimed that the campaign was aimed at parents.\n\nA 2011 study conducted at the University of Virginia and published in the journal \"Pediatrics\" suggested that allowing preschool-aged audiences to watch the series caused short-term disruptions in mental function and attention span due to frequent shot changes. A Nickelodeon executive responded in an interview that the series was not intended for an audience of that age and that the study used \"questionable methodology and could not possibly provide the basis for any valid findings that parents could trust\".\n\nSeveral episodes of the series have been subject to controversy as well. In a report titled \"Wolves in Sheep's Clothing\", which documents the increase in potentially violent, profane, and sexual content in children's programming, the Parents Television Council, a watchdog media group, claimed the season 2 \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" episode \"Sailor Mouth\" was an implicit attempt to promote and satirize use of profanity among children, while \"SpongeBob's Last Stand\" and \"Selling Out\" have received criticism for promoting environmentalism and left-wing politics due to their negative portrayal of big business. \"SpongeBob, You're Fired\", a 2013 season 9 episode, gained heavy controversy and sparked a political debate over its portrayal of unemployment; after Fox News and the \"New York Post\" commented on the episode, Media Matters for America accused the two organizations of using the episode to \"attack the social safety net\". This statement was echoed by Al Sharpton, who claimed conservatives' \"new hero\" to be \"a sponge who lives in a pineapple under the sea\".\n\nVarious publications, such as MSN, \"The A.V. Club\", and \"Vulture\" have reported that \"SpongeBob\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s popularity declined following the release of the 2004 film and Hillenburg's departure as showrunner. In 2012, MSN cited a post on spongebob.wikia.com, which said that many fans felt the series had \"jumped the shark\" following the release of \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\" and that online fansites were becoming \"deserted\".\n\nIn 2018, \"Vulture\" noted that the most popular online memes of the series usually focused on episodes from the first three seasons. That same year, \"The A.V. Club\" wrote that as the series went on, \"[it] leaned hard into kid-friendly physical humor and gross-out moments that appealed to no one in particular\". Episodes produced since the first film have been variously categorized by DVD Talk and DVD Verdict as \"tedious\", \"boring\" and \"dreck\", a \"depressing plateau of mediocrity\", and \"laugh-skimpy\".\n\nIn February 2011, creator Hillenburg first announced the release of the 32-page bimonthly comic book series, \"SpongeBob Comics\", based on the show. The release marked the first time Hillenburg authored his own books. He said, \"I'm hoping that fans will enjoy finally having a \"SpongeBob\" comic book from me\". The comic book series is published by Hillenburg's production company, United Plankton Pictures, and distributed by Bongo Comics Group. Although the characters of the series had previously appeared in \"Nickelodeon Magazine\" and in \"Cine-Manga\", the first issue of \"SpongeBob Comics\" marked the first time the characters have appeared in their own comic books in the United States. Hillenburg described the stories from the comic books as \"original and always true to the humor, characters, and universe of the \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" series\".\n\nChris Duffy, the former senior editor of \"Nickelodeon Magazine\", serves as managing editor of \"SpongeBob Comics\". Hillenburg and Duffy met with various cartoonists—including James Kochalka, Hilary Barta, Graham Annable, Gregg Schigiel, and Jacob Chabot—to contribute to each issues. Retired horror comics writer and artist Stephen R. Bissette returned to write a special Halloween issue in 2012, with Tony Millionaire and Al Jaffee. In an interview with Tom Spurgeon, Bissette said, \"I've even broken my retirement to do one work-for-hire gig [for \"SpongeBob Comics\"] so I could share everything about that kind of current job\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Titan Magazines published comics based on \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" every four weeks from February 3, 2005 through November 28, 2013. Titan Magazines also teamed up with Lego to release a limited edition \"SpongeBob\"-themed comic.\n\nParamount Pictures and Nickelodeon Movies produced \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\", an animated film adaptation of the series that was released on November 19, 2004. The film was directed by creator Stephen Hillenburg, and was written by long-time series writers comprising Hillenburg, Derek Drymon, Tim Hill, Kent Osborne, Aaron Springer, and Paul Tibbitt. Hillenburg and Julia Pistor produced the film, while the film score was composed by Gregor Narholz. The film is about Plankton's evil plan to steal King Neptune's crown and send it to Shell City. SpongeBob and Patrick must retrieve it and save Mr. Krabs' life from Neptune's raft and their home, Bikini Bottom, from Plankton's plan. The film features guest appearances by Jeffrey Tambor as King Neptune, Scarlett Johansson as the King's daughter Mindy, Alec Baldwin as Dennis, and David Hasselhoff as himself. It received positive critical reception, and grossed over $140 million worldwide.\n\nTwo television films were released. The two television films are \"SpongeBob's Atlantis SquarePantis\" released in 2007 and \"SpongeBob's Truth or Square\" released in 2009.\n\nA to the 2004 film was released in theaters on February 6, 2015. The series' main cast members all reprised their roles, and the underwater parts are traditionally animated in the manner of the series and the live-action parts uses CGI animation with the SpongeBob characters. The film has a budget similar to the previous film and did not cost more than $100 million to produce.\n\nOn April 30, 2015, Viacom announced a third film was in development. On August 3, 2015, via Twitter, Vincent Waller confirmed that the sequel is in pre-production and that Paul Tibbitt would direct. In April 2018, Tibbitt was replaced by Tim Hill as director, and the third film's official title was announced: \"It's a Wonderful Sponge\". Paramount assigned the third film with a scheduled release date of July 17, 2020.. In October 2018, it was announced that the movie will be an origin story of how Spongebob came to Bikini Bottom and how he got his squarepants. Around the same time, it was also announced that Hans Zimmer will compose the music.\n\nCollections of original music featured in the series have been released on the albums \"\" (2001), \"SpongeBob's Greatest Hits\" (2009), and \"\" (2005). The first two charted on the US \"Billboard\" 200, reaching number 171 and 122, respectively. Several songs have been recorded with the purpose of a single or album release, and have not been featured on the show. For example, the song \"My Tidy Whities\" written by Tom Kenny and Andy Paley was released only for the album \"The Best Day Ever\" (2006). Kenny's inspiration for the song was \"underwear humor\". Kenny said, \"Underwear humor is always a surefire laugh-getter with kids ... Just seeing a character that odd wearing really prosaic, normal, Kmart, three-to-a-pack underwear is a funny drawing ... We thought it was funny to make a really lush, beautiful love song to his underwear\". \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie – Music from the Movie and More...\", a soundtrack album featuring the score of \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\", was released along with the feature-length film in November 2004. Various artists including the Flaming Lips, Wilco, Ween, Motörhead, the Shins, and Avril Lavigne contributed to the soundtrack that reached number 76 on the US \"Billboard\" 200.\n\nSpongeBob SquarePants 4-D film and ride opened in various locations, including Six Flags Over Texas, Flamingo Land Resort, and the Shedd Aquarium. The ride features water squirts, real bubbles, and other sensory enhancements. In 2012, Nickelodeon teamed up again with SimEx-Iwerks Entertainment and Super 78 to produce \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" 4-D: The Great Jelly Rescue. The attraction opened in early 2013 at the Mystic Aquarium & Institute for Exploration. The attraction was also released at the Nickelodeon Suites Resort Orlando in Orlando, Florida. The seven-minute film follows SpongeBob, Patrick, and Sandy to their old hijinks while rescuing the jellyfish of Jellyfish Fields from Plankton's evil clutches.\n\n\"SpongeBob SquarePants\" appears at the Mall of America's Nickelodeon theme park re-branded from the Mall of America's Park at MOA, formerly Camp Snoopy, to Nickelodeon Universe in the Minneapolis-St. Paul suburb of Bloomington, Minnesota. The new theme park features a \"SpongeBob\"-themed Gerstlauer Euro-Fighter custom roller coaster, the SpongeBob SquarePants Rock Bottom Plunge, which has replaced the Mystery Mine Ride and Olde Time Photo store on the west end of the theme park, which opened March 15, 2008.\n\nOn May 23, 2015, an interactive 3D show titled \"SpongeBob SubPants Adventure\" opened in Texas at Moody Gardens. According to Moody Gardens President and CEO John Zendt, \"Visitors will be able to interact with the Nickelodeon characters on a digital stage as they have never been able to do before.\"\n\nNumerous video games based on the series have been produced. Some of the early games include \"\" (2001) and \"\" (2003). The 2003 video game was added to the Greatest Hits by Sony. It also served as the engine basis for a video game based on \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\". Heavy Iron Studios, the game's developers, tweaked the graphics to give the game a sharper and more imaginative look than that of \"Battle for Bikini Bottom\". They also increased the polygon count, added several racing levels, and incorporated many of the creatures seen in the film. In 2013, Nickelodeon published and distributed \"SpongeBob Moves In!\", a freemium city-building game app developed by Kung Fu Factory for iOS and Android.\n\nNickelodeon launched the first global \"SpongeBob SquarePants\"-themed short film competition, SpongeBob SquareShorts: Original Fan Tributes, in 2013. The contest encourages fans and filmmakers around the world to create original short films inspired by SpongeBob for a chance to win a prize and a trip for four people to a screening event in Hollywood. The contest opened on May 6 and ran through June 28, 2013. On July 19, 2013, Nickelodeon announced the finalists for the competition, and, on August 13, 2013, the \"under 18 years of age\" category was won by David of the United States for his \"The Krabby Commercial\", while the \"Finally Home\" short by Nicole of South Africa won the \"18 and over\" category.\n\nSpongeBob was adapted as a musical for the live stage in 2016 by director Tina Landau. \"SpongeBob SquarePants, The Broadway Musical\" premiered in Chicago in 2016 and opened on Broadway at the Palace Theatre on December 4, 2017.\n\nThe popularity of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" inspired merchandise from T-shirts to posters. It was reported that the franchise generated an estimated $8 billion merchandising revenue for Nickelodeon. It is also the most distributed property of MTV Networks. \"SpongeBob\" is viewed in 170 countries speaking 24 languages, and has also become \"a killer merchandising app\". The title character and his friends have been used as a theme for special editions of well-known family board games, including Monopoly, Life, and Operation, as well as a \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" edition of Ants in the Pants, and Yahtzee.\n\nIn 2001, \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" signed a marketing deal with Target Corporation and Burger King, expanding its merchandising. The popularity of SpongeBob has translated well into sales figures. In 2002, \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" dolls sold at a rate of 75,000 per week, which was faster than Tickle Me Elmo dolls were selling at the time. SpongeBob has gained popularity in Japan, specifically with Japanese women. Nickelodeon's parent company Viacom purposefully targeted marketing at women in the country. Skeptics initially doubted that SpongeBob could be popular in Japan, as the character's design is very different from already popular designs for Hello Kitty and Pikachu. Ratings and merchandise sales showed \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" has caught on with parents and with college audiences. In a recent promotion, college-oriented website Music.com gave away 80,000 \"SpongeBob\" T-shirts, four times more than during a similar promotion for Comedy Central's \"South Park\".\n\nKids' meal tie-ins have been released in snacks and fast food restaurants in many parts of the world, including Burger King in Europe and North America, as well as Wendy's in North America, and Hungry Jack's in Australia. A McDonald's Happy Meal tie-in with SpongeBob-themed Happy Meal boxes and toys was released in Europe and other international markets in the summer of 2007. In Australia, the advertisement for the McDonald's \"SpongeBob\" Happy Meal won the Pester Power Award because the ads are enticing young children to want its food because of the free toy. As a tie-in beverage for the DVD release of \"The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie\", 7-Eleven released the limited edition \"Under-the-Sea Pineapple Slurpee\" in March 2004. Pirate's Booty released limited edition \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" Pirate's Booty snacks in 2013.\n\nIn 2007, high-end \"SpongeBob\"-themed electronics have been introduced by Imation Electronics Products under the Npower brand, including MP3 players, digital cameras, a DVD player, and a flatscreen television. Pictures of \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" also began to appear on the labels of 8 oz. cans of Green Giant cut green beans and frozen packages of Green Giant green beans and butter sauce, which featured free stickers in 2007 as part of an initiative to encourage kids to eat their vegetables. The Simmons Jewelry Co. released a $75,000 diamond pendant as part of a \"SpongeBob\" collection. In New Zealand, the UK-based Beechdean Group unveiled the \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" Vanilla Ice Cream character product as part of a licence deal with Nickelodeon. NZ Drinks launched the \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" bottled water.\n\nBuild-A-Bear Workshop introduced the new \"SpongeBob SqaurePants\" collection in stores and online in North America on May 17, 2013. Shoppers can dress their SpongeBob and Patrick plush in a variety of clothing and accessories. Sandy Cheeks and Gary the Snail are also available as pre-stuffed minis. Build-A-Bear Workshop stores nationwide celebrated the arrival of SpongeBob with a series of special events from May 17 through May 19.\n\nOn July 13, 2013, Toyota, with Nickelodeon, unveiled a \"SpongeBob\"-inspired Toyota Highlander. The 2014 Toyota Highlander was launched on SpongeBob Day at the San Diego Padres v. Giants game. The \"SpongeBob\" Toyota Highlander visited seven U.S. locations during its release, including the Nickelodeon Suites Resort Orlando in Florida.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53781950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53781950", "title": "Star Athletica, LLC v. Varsity Brands, Inc.", "text": "Star Athletica, LLC v. Varsity Brands, Inc.\n\nStar Athletica, LLC v. Varsity Brands, Inc., 580 U.S. ___ (2017), was a Supreme Court of the United States case in which the Court decided under what circumstances aesthetic elements of \"useful articles\" can be restricted by copyright law. The Court created a two-prong \"separability\" test, granting copyrightability on conditions of separate identification and independent existence. In other words, the aesthetic elements must be identifiable as art if mentally separated from the article's practical use and must qualify as copyrightable pictorial, graphic, or sculptural works if expressed in any medium.\n\nThe case concerned a dispute between two clothing manufacturers, Star Athletica and Varsity Brands. Star Athletica began creating cheerleading uniforms with stripes, zigzags, and chevron insignia similar to some made by Varsity, produced at a far lower price point. Varsity sued Star Athletica for copyright infringement and Star Athletica claimed the clothing designs were uncopyrightable because their aesthetic designs were tied so closely to and guided by their utilitarian purposes as uniforms. The Court rejected this argument with a close reading of the statute and established that the clothing designs, as aesthetic elements of the useful article of clothing, could be copyrightable. The Court had declined to hear Star Athletica's follow-up question concerning whether Varsity's specific designs were original enough to be copyrightable, so that part of the case remained unaddressed and Varsity's copyright registrations stood.\n\nThe Court's conclusion that aesthetic elements of useful articles, and thereby clothing design elements, could be copyrighted excited fashion designers and intellectual property scholars. Some loved the decision because they saw extending copyright to clothes as parity with other creative industries that had enjoyed copyrights for much longer. Others denounced the Court's opinion over ambiguities in how to enforce the new rules and because of its potential to end fashion trends in generic clothing.\n\nAt one time, clothing designs were not subject to copyright law, or \"uncopyrightable,\" in the United States. In 1941, the Court heard \"Fashion Originators' Guild of America v. FTC\", which considered the fashion industry's practice of boycotting sale of their \"high fashion\" works at places that would sell knock-offs made by other companies for lower prices, so-called \"style piracy\". The court ruled against the Guild, saying that this practice of attempting to create a monopoly outside of the copyright system suppressed free competition and violated the Sherman Antitrust Act. However, outside fashion, \"Mazer v. Stein\" established in 1954 that an artistic statue created to adorn a lamp base could be copyrightable separately from the utilitarian lamp under expansions from the Copyright Act of 1909. The statue's mass-production alongside the lamp did not invalidate that.\n\nAnother barrier to copyrightability in the United States is a certain vague threshold of originality that must be met to be eligible for an intellectual property monopoly like a copyright or patent. In 1964's \"Sears, Roebuck & Co. v. Stiffel Co.\", the Court agreed with a lower court's ruling that Stiffel's popular lamp design was not original enough to warrant a patent preventing the lamp's sale by Sears, rescinding that restriction and passing the design to the public domain. The Court's opinion indicated that the same logic would apply to an inappropriate copyright.\n\nIn the Copyright Act of 1976, Congress changed the copyright law to allow copyrighting aesthetic features of \"useful articles,\" or \"an article having an intrinsic utilitarian function that is not merely to portray the appearance of the article or to convey information.\" This move was intended to better incorporate the \"Mazer v. Stein\" ruling while clarifying the difference between the copyrightability of \"applied art\" and the more traditional, lesser restriction of \"industrial design,\" the overall combination of features, provided by design patents or trade dress. The Act said \"pictorial, graphic, or sculptural features\" of useful articles were copyrightable only if \"separable\" from the utilitarian aspects of the design and capable of existing independently of the article. This broad definitional language lead to a proliferation of about ten competing, inconsistent legal tests for that separability, a state of affairs criticized for appearing to have judges serve as art critics.\n\nBecause clothes have both aesthetic and utilitarian features in their designs, they fall under this useful article category; therefore, the shapes and cuts of clothing are not copyrightable. Designs placed on clothing were opened up to the possibility of copyrightability, subject to those tests. Practically, the law was construed to mean that copyrighted two-dimensional designs could be placed on clothing, and fabric pattern sheets could be copyrighted before being cut to make clothing, but an article of clothing's overall color scheme and design could not be copyrighted because it was not capable of existing independently of the final useful article. Some fashion designers bristled under these rules, wondering why other creative industries like films or music were allowed to restrict access to their products with copyright and they were not. Others interpreted fashion's successes as an industry thriving in the absence of copyright, perhaps in part because of that. Congresspeople introduced several bills over the years to outright remove the separability requirement from the law, but none of these were successfully signed into law.\n\nNonetheless, Varsity Brands, the largest cheerleading and sports uniform manufacturer in the world, could not register copyrights for the designs of their cheerleading uniforms as clothing. Instead, Varsity applied for copyrights on drawings and photographs of those designs as \"two-dimensional artwork\" or \"fabric design (artwork).\" That design represented in the images would then be applied to the clothing via sewing or sublimation, a process where designs are printed on paper, placed on the fabric, and then heated so the ink sinks in. Following rejections from the Copyright Office, Varsity described the uniforms in extremely specific detail to make the registration appear limited, improving their registration chances. The Office approved over 200 of these narrowly-defined copyrights with descriptions like \"has a central field of black bordered at the bottom by a gray/white/black multistripe forming a shallow 'vee' of which the left-hand leg is horizontal, while the right-hand leg stretches 'northeast' at approximately a forty-five degree angle.\" Varsity proceeded to frequently file lawsuits alleging infringement via accusations of very general copying, intended to stop other companies from releasing competing uniforms. Those competitors regarded these lawsuits as frivolous because the claimed designs were so simple.\n\nStar Athletica was founded in January 2010 as a subsidiary of The Liebe Company. Varsity Brands accused Star Athletica of being created in retaliation for Varsity cancelling a deal with The Liebe Company's sports lettering subsidiary, aided by former Varsity employees knowledgeable about Varsity designs. Later that year, Varsity Brands filed suit against Star Athletica for infringing five of its copyrighted designs for cheerleading uniforms. The Star Athletica designs were not exactly identical, physically or graphically, but Varsity's general description of allegedly copied elements in court filings, \"the lines, stripes, coloring, angles, V’s [or chevrons], and shapes and the arrangement and placement of those elements,\" suited both designs and the case moved forward. Varsity also sued for trademark infringement under the Lanham Act and Star Athletica counter-sued Varsity under the Sherman Antitrust Act for allegedly monopolizing the cheerleading industry, but these portions of the case were dismissed.\n\nIn 2014, the United States District Court for the Western District of Tennessee ruled Star Athletica's favor on the grounds that the designs were not eligible for copyright restriction. According to Judge Robert Hardy Cleland, a design without the distinctive marks like chevrons and zigzags would not identifiable as cheerleading uniforms, so the designs were not separately identifiable. They were not conceptually separable because the marks, if viewed outside the context of the clothing, would have still evoked the idea of a cheerleading uniform.\n\nThe district court's decision was reversed on appeal by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit with the majority of Judge Karen Nelson Moore joined by Judge Ralph B. Guy Jr.. Firstly, Moore said the district court should have deferred to the fact that the Copyright Office's trained personnel had granted the copyright registrations in the first place. On the questions of the case, Moore evaluated the competing separability tests, but ended up creating a new five-step test for the Circuit's analysis. In short, they found that the designs were copyrightable because the clothes had the utility of being athletic wear and removing the designs did not affect that utility. She said the design could be separately identifiable because it could be held \"side by side\" with a blank dress and there would be no utilitarian difference, and it could certainly exist independently because the individual aspects like chevrons could appear in designs on other clothing items. Moore also said that a ruling in favor of Star Athletica would have rendered all paintings uncopyrightable because they decorated the rooms where they hung. Judge David McKeague dissented because of a disagreement over the application of one of the test's steps. The third step asked the court to determine the useful article's \"utilitarian aspects.\" Instead of the majority's more general assessment of athletic wear, McKeague would have defined the uniforms as clothing the body \"in an attractive way for a special occasion\" and \"identify[ing] the wearer as a cheerleader;\" therefore, the aesthetic features could not be separated from the utilitarian to him.\n\nStar Athletica filed to be heard by the United States Supreme Court in January 2016. On May 2, 2016 the Court granted \"certiorari\" \"to resolve widespread disagreement over the proper test for implementing § 101's separate-identification and independent-existence requirements.\" Star Athletica also wanted the Court to decide if Varsity's specific designs were sufficiently original to be copyrighted, but the Court declined.\n\nThe case attracted the attention of various interest groups that filed fifteen briefs of \"amicus curiae\". Among the Star Athletica's advocates was Public Knowledge, which helped draft a brief representing the views of costuming groups, particularly cosplayers of the Royal Manticoran Navy and the International Costuming Guild, who were concerned that a ruling in Varsity's favor could endanger their craft, as much of it involved recreating recognizable designs from pop culture. The Royal Manticoran Navy filed a separate supporting brief that emphasized fair use rights in costuming while voicing a concern that allowing clothing design copyrights would worsen a common characterization of Varsity Brands as a monopolist of the cheerleading industry with 80% market share. Public Knowledge was also involved in a brief representing the views of Shapeways, the Open Source Hardware Association, Formlabs, and the Organization for Transformative Works. They worried that copyright restriction would impact 3D printing by making it difficult to share designs and by creating a fiscal incentive for media companies to crack down on derivative works. Another group of supporters, styled \"Intellectual Property Professors,\" objected to broadly expanding copyright to useful article designs because they considered design patents sufficient and because of specific examples of what Congress considered copyrightable when drafting the 1976 law. In their view, copyrighting the uniform designs would unduly stretch Congress's intent to copyright minor detailing on industrial designs like floral engravings on silverware, carvings in the backs of chairs, or prints on t-shirts.\n\nVarsity received an endorsement from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which believed that extending copyright to clothing designs was critical to prevent exploitative copyists and preserve the United States's rapid rate of expansion in the worldwide fashion industry, representing $370 billion in domestic consumer spending and 1.8 million jobs. The Fashion Law Institute shared these interests and advised that a decision to copyright clothing designs would be a proper reading of the \"Mazer v. Stein\" ruling's later incorporation in the 1976 Copyright Act. Both criticized the \"fast-fashion\" industry of duplicating expensive designs with increasingly-cheap 3D printing technology without paying the original creators. The Institute spoke highly of \"geek fashion,\" including cosplay, as a burgeoning part of the industry rife with copyrightable expression. The United States government also supported Varsity. In part, the government claimed that the question of a proper separability analysis was unnecessary because, in creating the designs as drawings, Varsity had received a copyright for them and reserved the exclusive ability to reproduce that design however they chose in any medium. They pointed to a concession from Star Athletica that if, hypothetically, Varsity controlled \"The Starry Night\", Varsity would be able to restrict the printing of the painting on dresses. Star Athletica had conceded this because it was an abstract painting, not a design for a dress, but the United States said that the painting would cover the entire dress surface—no different than the Varsity designs, they claimed. The government also argued that, in applying the requested conceptual separability analysis, what mattered was that a uniform stripped of the design \"remain[ed] similarly useful\" when compared to the original. A blank dress was equivalent to a designer dress, so the design was copyrightable in the eyes of the government.\n\nOral argument convened on October 31, 2016, Star Athletica represented by John J. Bursch and Varsity by William M. Jay. Eric Feigin also spoke on Varsity's behalf, representing the United States as \"amicus curiae\".\n\nStar Athletica's lawyers gave the Court examples of how the graphic designs were utilitarian. For instance, the colors and shapes were arranged to create optical effects like the Müller-Lyer illusion and deliberately change the cheerleader's appearance to make them appear taller, thinner, and generally more appealing. They considered this distinct from applying a pre-existing two-dimensional image to the uniform because the lines required for those illusions to function needed to be properly located on properly fitted uniforms. According to them, people often made those sorts of deliberately utilitarian decisions about their clothing to make themselves look better or happier. Moreover, were those designs placed on another object, such as a lunchbox, they would not be serving that utilitarian purpose anymore. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, in particular, rejected that line of argument, citing the fact that the examples presented in evidence were two-dimensional works. In her view, it did not matter that the submitted designs were \"superimposed\" on three-dimensional uniforms—the designs were submitted in two-dimensional images, so the designs were separated from the uniforms and copyrightable. After all, both parties agreed that the physical, three-dimensional uniform's cut and how it physically framed the body was not copyrightable. They were interested in the colors and aesthetic designs that were applied to the useful article. She was not comfortable with vagueness she perceived in how Star Athletica wanted the Court to decide when a given two-dimensional design \"is what makes an article utilitarian\" when that design could conceivably be placed on anything. Chief Justice John Roberts felt much the same and added that the designs did more than sit practically on the body because they sent a \"particular message\" that distinguished it from a blank dress, namely that the wearer was \"a member of a cheerleading squad.\" Receiving this expression leaned him toward thinking of it as copyrightable expression.\n\nThe members of the Court also considered more abstract aspects of the case. For example, it was unclear how a decision in Varsity's favor might affect military-style camouflage patterns and whether or not they could be restricted if fashion designs were copyrightable. Varsity supported the idea of camouflage copyrights, although Justice Elena Kagan pointed out the clear utilitarian function of camouflage patterns: concealment. On the industry side, women's fashion alone was a concern worth hundreds of billions of dollars worldwide. Justice Stephen Breyer speculated that the price of dresses could conceivably double if copyright terms were applied to designs and knock-off brands couldn't compete at lower prices. Justice Sonia Sotomayor and he questioned Varsity over their concerns of monopolization effects, such as a uniform design becoming part of a school's brand identity and compelling them to buy exclusively from Varsity during a century of copyright restriction. In the end, Breyer expressed worry that designers or lawyers might resort to simply copyrighting drawings to sue over the design of any dress or suit. Sotomayor, formerly a representative of Fendi in cases brought against knock-offs, wondered aloud if a decision for Varsity would destroy those knock-offs brands, although she was not sure if that would be a bad thing. Justice Anthony Kennedy wondered whether it was \"the domain of copyright to [restrict] the way people present themselves to the world.\"\n\nBreyer also got attention in the media for his aphorism about the purpose of fashion, \"The clothes on the hanger do nothing; the clothes on the woman do everything.\" Kagan thought the sentiment was \"so romantic.\"\n\nJustice Clarence Thomas delivered the majority opinion, which was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts and Justices Alito, Sotomayor, and Kagan. The Court defined its task as \"whether the lines, chevrons, and colorful shapes appearing on the surface of [Varsity Brands'] cheerleading uniforms are eligible for copyright restriction as separable features of the design of those cheerleading uniforms.\" The Court did not consider whether the designs in the case actually met copyright restriction's threshold of originality. Thomas rejected arguments from Varsity and the United States that separability analysis was unneeded, but also did away with all the lower court tests used previously. Instead, the opinion provided one canonical two-part test based on the statute and the \"Mazer v. Stein\" decision:\n\nAfter applying this test to the cheerleading uniforms, the Court ruled in Varsity's favor that the designs were separable from the useful article and could be copyrighted. The separability analysis started with the admittedly permissive first requirement, identifying the designs as separately identifiable \"pictoral, graphical, or sculptural works.\" The design needed to be able to exist independently, and Thomas concluded that the design did when it appeared in other media, such as the two-dimensional drawings submitted to the Copyright Office. In Thomas's view, this conceptual separation would not necessarily recreate the useful dress because the design's elements like the chevrons could appear on items in different contexts, and they did not conjure uniform even when that context was other items of clothing. This analysis moved the consideration away from whether the item left after separation was useful, to solely whether or not the design itself was useful. A feature incapable of being separated was a utilitarian feature anyway, Thomas said.\n\nAddressing concerns that this would grant control over more than the design, Thomas pointed out that the separated aesthetic element could not, itself, be a useful article. Someone also couldn't copyright a design and then exert control over its physical representation. A drawing a or small model of a car, copyrighted, could not restrict production of the functional automobile with the same body by a competitor. The car drawing would not suppress a rival car manufacturer in the automobile market, so Varsity's uniform drawing would not suppress Star Athletica in the uniform market because their uniforms could have the same cut.\n\nThe final section of the opinion discussed objections to the decision raised by the parties in their briefs. There were no requirements that there be an equivalent useful article remaining after the design element was conceptually removed or that the removed element be \"solely artistic.\" Thomas said discussions of the blank dress were unnecessary because the statute did not require the remaining work to be useful or \"similarly useful,\" as the government had put it, because all that mattered was if the separated element was a pictorial, graphical, or sculptural work. Thomas said that adopting this requirement would have overruled \"Mazer\" because the reason the statue in that case was considered \"applied art\" was because the 1909 Act had removed an earlier distinction between aesthetic and useful works of art. That distinction was not reinstated by the 1976 Act, so there was to be no distinguishing between \"conceptual\" and \"physical\" separability.\n\nThomas further rejected Star Athletica's additional \"objective\" considerations from preexisting tests, namely that the work be identified as artistic contributions from a designer independent of the utilitarian purpose, and that the work still be marketable without the utilitarian function of the design. These were not within the statute, so Thomas dismissed them, saying that all that mattered was consumer perception and not the design's intent. Finally, regarding the idea that Congress's noted reluctance to apply copyrightability to useful articles in general, Thomas said that congressional inaction was usually not a significant argument with courts. Thomas found a lot of the discussion moot because copyright could not restrict the cut of the design and copyright coverage was not mutually exclusive from design patenting.\n\nJustice Ginsburg wrote an opinion concurring in judgement—the cheerleading uniform designs were separable—without joining in the majority's reasoning. The copyrights were not registered for the useful articles of clothing, emphasized Ginsburg. The registrations were for pictoral and graphical works that were then \"reproduced on\" the clothing. Because the Copyright Act of 1976 provided copyright claimants \"the right to reproduce the work in or on any kind of article, whether useful or otherwise,\" the claimant of a pictorial, graphical, or sculptural work's copyright could restrict others from reproducing the work's elements on their separate useful articles. According to her, there was no need for the court to address the separability analysis issue at all. To prove her point, Justice Ginsburg attached to her decision several pages of applications submitted by Varsity Brands to the Copyright Office, pointing to their claimed type of work being \"2-dimensional artwork\" or \"fabric design (artwork).\"\n\nIn the concurrence's notes, Ginsburg mentioned that she also did not take a stand on whether or not Varsity's designs were actually original enough to be copyrightable. Nonetheless, she did refer to a previous case called \"Feist Publications, Inc., v. Rural Telephone Service Co.\" and quoted its conclusion that \"the requisite level of creativity [for copyrightability] is extremely low; even a slight amount will suffice.\"\n\nJustice Breyer, joined by Justice Kennedy, dissented. While he agreed with much of the majority's reasoning, he disagreed with the framing and application of the majority's test and concluded the design was not separable from the uniform's useful article. Breyer also criticized what he considered vagueness in the majority's test. He thought that, under it, \"virtually any industrial design\" could be considered separable as soon as it was thought of in terms of art, whether via giving it a picture frame or merely calling the object art like a Marcel Duchamp series. Breyer's approach to the problem was to interpret what \"identified separately\" meant in the context of the statute. His reading was that, to be separable, the design features needed to be either physically separable from the article while leaving the utilitarian object functional or else the design features needed to be conceivably separable without conjuring a picture of the utilitarian object in someone's mind. He returned to \"Mazer v. Stein\" and applied his reasoning to two lamps, one with a Siamese cat statuette for a pole and one with an brass rod pole and a cat statuette attached elsewhere on its base. When it was elsewhere on the base, it could be physically separable and was therefore copyrightable as a figurine. When the cat was the pole, it couldn't be physically separated, but it could be conceptually separated from the context of the lamp without conjuring the idea of a lamp and was therefore copyrightable as a figurine. Applying his version of the test to the cheerleader uniforms, he found that the design was not physically separable. Further, picturing the design separately would reveal a cheerleader uniform \"coextensive with that design and cut\", so the design and useful article were not conceptually separable either.\n\nHe then considered shoes painted by Vincent van Gogh and turned to the examples of Congress's intended targets of copyright in the \"amicus curiae\" brief filed by the Intellectual Property Professors. Breyer found that copyrighting those embellishments was not the same as copyrighting an entire cheerleading uniform design because those examples were conceptually separable while the uniform design was not. He reiterated that van Gogh could certainly have received a copyright to prevent people from reproducing his painting, but the request in \"Star Athletica\" was an injunction against reproducing uniforms and Breyer felt this decision would be equivalent to giving van Gogh a design copyright that could prevent others from producing those shoes. He directly accused Varsity Brands of trying to acquire copyrights in order to \"prevent its competitors from making useful three-dimensional cheerleader uniforms by submitting plainly unoriginal chevrons and stripes as cut and arranged on a useful article.\"\n\nThe majority opinion believed Breyer's concerns were not a bar to a design's copyrightability, and neither was Star Athletica's similar idea that the design couldn't be copyrighted because the designs would have the same outline as the useful article. They analogized the uniform's design to a mural on a curved dome, saying that the contour of the dome would not prevent the mural from being copyrightable. They also thought that Breyer's traditional view that a preexisting two-dimensional artwork applied to a portion of the clothing could be copyrighted was contradictory because then the statute would provide copyright restriction to designs that covered part of the clothing surface, but not designs that covered all of it. Ginsburg's concurrence agreed on the second point in its notes, and referred to the fact that portions of Varsity's claimed uniform designs do appear on other merchandise like t-shirts.\n\nAdditionally, the dissenting justice studied the state of the fashion industry at the time of the decision. Recent Congresses had rejected 70 bills to extend copyright to cover designs on useful articles, which he interpreted as an unwillingness of lawmakers to enact the change. He cited the metrics provided by the Varsity \"amici\" Council of Fashion Designers of America to show that the fashion industry was doing very well for itself without copyright then quoted warnings from Thomas Jefferson and Thomas Babington Macaulay against wantonly expanding copyright monopolies. Seeing no pressing need to extend the restriction, he did not want to overstep the bounds of the Constitution's Copyright Clause, especially when the available design patents afforded fifteen years of restriction and copyright could offer more than a century.\n\nVarsity Brands's leadership and supporters were pleased by the decision. Varsity founder Jeff Webb said that it was a win for \"the basic idea that designers everywhere can create excellent work and make investments in their future without fear of having it stolen or copied.\" Susan Scafidi, founder of the Fashion Law Institute, had been involved in with the case from the district court level and lamented that it had to go all the way to the Supreme Court. Still, she praised Thomas's decision as a maintenance of the status quo based on the copyrightability of fabric patterns. Although it was important to her because she believed fashion designers deserved to restrict their valuable designs with copyright, she didn't think it would change things for designers because it was based on the language of the preexisting statute.\n\nOn March 31, 2017, Puma sued Forever 21 for a number of alleged violations of Puma's intellectual property rights. Puma based the copyright infringement portion of their case on the nine-day-old precedent and said that various Forever 21 shoes included copyrighted elements of similar Puma products. Forever 21, a supplier of knock-offs, had been sued for copyright infringement in the past, but this was among the first times that a company used the argument that, in the case of Puma's Fenty Fur Slides, their \"wide plush fur strap extending to the base of the sandal\" was capable of being represented in another tangible medium, and therefore covered by copyright as separable from the shoe itself. Puma claimed \"a casually knotted satin bow with pointed endings atop a satin-lined side strap that extends to the base of the sandal\" was a copyrighted element on their Bow Slides. Forever 21 responded with a detailed motion to dismiss that claimed the Fenti line resembled prior art, among other things. The companies settled in November 2018.\n\nThe United States Copyright Office, arbiter of copyright registration, updated its \"Compendium\" of rules for validating registrations with preliminary rules taking the \"Star Athletica\" developments into account. The new report, published September 29, 2017, reminded that useful articles and, more specifically, clothing articles were not copyrightable. Regarding two-dimensional visual designs applied to useful articles, the \"Compendium\" reduced its 2014 discussion of the copyrightability of various kinds designs with different kinds of useful article to one section in the 2017 guide that quoted \"Star Athletica\"s two step separability test. There was a note indicating that the Office was \"developing updated guidance\" on the matter to be included in a future version of the report.\n\nThe case was passed back to the district court in Tennessee and, in August 2017, the case was settled out of court in favor of Varsity Brands, over Star Athletica's objection, by Star Athletica's insurance company. Star Athletica wanted to press a counter-claim following the Supreme Court's ruling that designs on the uniforms \"could\" be copyrightable with an argument that the \"particular\" Varsity designs in the case \"should not\" be copyrightable due to their simplicity. The settlement precluded that argument and closed the case with prejudice, so the seven years of litigation concluded firmly.\n\nColumbia Law School professor Ronald Mann provided an analysis of the opinion for SCOTUSblog, remarking:\n\nThere was a split amongst intellectual property attorneys between those who thought the opinion clarified the law and those who thought it made things more ambiguous. Clear or not, many have noted that \"Star Athletica\" was an important case for the fashion industry because it overturned the prevailing wisdom that fashion designs were generally uncopyrightable. The effects of this shift in thought remains to be seen as more designers apply for copyrights and awareness of this change grows. Particularly, there is speculation regarding negative effects on fashion trends, which involve some degree of copying basic styles among designers throughout the industry, and anticipation of an increase in infringement lawsuits. Generic or \"knock-off\" clothing could cease to exist entirely due to the restriction of the designer brands' designs, although designer brands were also accused of copying independent artists before the decision.\n\nThe \"Harvard Law Review\" felt \"Star Athletica\" was an important step towards removing subjectivity from the tests in this area of the law, such as by removing the framing problem that changed the outcome of the analysis based on how the usefulness of the article was defined, evidenced by Judge McKeague. However, the \"Review\" worried that the decision may not fully resolve conflicting lower court rulings because the conflicting majority and dissent were both based on close readings of the statute without enough clearly differentiating examples in the majority to completely discredit the alternative view. A potential contradiction in Thomas's majority opinion may not help on that front that pecerption; specifically, the assertion that surface designs are \"inherently separable\" from useful articles without being useful articles themselves and the assertion that other clothing bearing the design do not conjure the original useful article. The \"Review\" speculated that \"these dicta imply that the independently existing work can have the shape and look of the article, evoke the same concepts, and even perform the same function and still be separable,\" and therefore be copyrightable. Indeed, a 2018 disctrict court case, \"Silvertop Assocs., Inc. v. Kangaroo Mfg., Inc.\", ruled that a banana costume's physical features were separable from the costume and copyrightable because they could be painted on a canvas.\n\nProfessors Jeanne C. Fromer and Mark P. McKenna were critical of the ambiguity of the decision because the three major stages of litigation resulted in three different majority decisions on three different grounds, with more divergent opinions among the dissents and concurrence. Because the courts allowed Varsity to define extremely narrow copyright restrictions in the registration then sue others like Star Athletica with general descriptions in court filings, they were concerned that this disconnect in requirements would lead to more controversial lawsuits, even outside the realm of useful articles. After all, a model car could be copyrighted as a sculpture, a drawing of that model could be copyrighted, and the claimant could use features of either equally to file copyright claims. Exactly what features of either were actually restricted was left up to debate because the registration's description could diverge almost entirely from the lawsuit's filing, so Fromer and McKenna contended it would be impossible to know what the copyright holder considered restricted before they described it in a lawsuit, let alone before the second party begins the desired copying. Moreover, in the absence of that description, they said it was impossible to perform a separability analysis and determine if the feature was even copyrightable at all before active litigation.\n\nSara Benson, a lawyer who agreed with the decision, has wondered if the court's explicit rejection of a copyrightability test that valued artistic effort on the designer's part may harm perception of designers' value to the clients they work for. She mentioned that that test had allowed designers to leverage their creativity for respect and credibility during corporate design processes, and that its removal may have removed some of their negotiating power.\n\nDavid Kluft of Foley Hoag has noted that this new ability to copyright design elements comes paired with criminal penalties if it comes to light that the elements have any utility. If the entity applying for copyright on the design knew about that utility, that would be considered false representation of a material fact in the copyright registration.\n\nThere's also some uncertainty over how this case law may impact the copyrightability of another class of useful articles: food. Top chefs had been seeking this for years before \"Star Athletica\", some taking the step of prohibiting their customers from taking photographs of the food in the name of supposed copyright restriction. The pre-\"Star Athletica\" interpretation of separability allowed one to argue the copyrightability of food as a sculpture with artistic features that didn't contribute to its purpose as a consumable. James P. Flynn of Epstein Becker & Green wondered if \"Star Athletica\" might have changed the fate of served food.\n\n"}
{"id": "416735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=416735", "title": "Summer stock theatre", "text": "Summer stock theatre\n\nIn American theater, summer stock theatre is a theatre that presents stage productions only in the summer. The name combines the season with the tradition of staging shows by a resident company, reusing stock scenery and costumes. Summer stock theatres frequently take advantage of seasonal weather by having their productions outdoors or under tents set up temporarily for their use.\n\nSome smaller theatres still continue this tradition, and a few summer stock theatres have become highly regarded by both patrons as well as performers and designers. Equity status and pay for actors in these theatres varies greatly. Often viewed as a starting point for professional actors, stock casts are typically young, just out of high school or still in college.\n\nSummer stock started in 1919-1920s with four theatres: The Muny, St. Louis, Mo. (1919) is the nation's oldest and largest outdoor musical theatre; Manhattan Theatre Colony, first started near Peterborough, New Hampshire (1927) and moved to Ogunquit, Maine; the Cape Playhouse, Dennis, Massachusetts (1927); and the Berkshire Playhouse, Stockbridge, Massachusetts (1928). Many of the theatres of the heyday, the 1920s through the 1960s, were in New England. Part of the \"straw hat circuit,\" theatres also were in New York, Pennsylvania, and Ohio, among other states. (There had been earlier summer theatres: the Gardens Theatre, Denver (1890) and Lakewood Playhouse near Skowhegan, Maine (1901 for summer), but they were established stock theatres that had then been used as a summer venue.)\n\nThe structure was to present different plays in weekly or biweekly repertory, performed by a resident company, generally between June and September. The usual fare consisted of light comedies, romances and mysteries. The theatres were located in rural areas. Touring companies would carry hand props and costumes to each venue, where sound, lights and set would be awaiting them.\n\nSummer stock provided a training ground for actors and inexpensive entertainment for vacationing East Coast urbanites. Craig Mamrick describes Louis Edmonds' early summer stock experience: \"Louis spent the summer of 1949 working as part of the repertory company at the Ogunquit Playhouse in Ogunquit, Maine...The Ogunquit Playhouse was affiliated with the Manhattan Theatre Colony, an apprentice program that hopeful actors could attend (paying $150 for the summer) to learn their craft and observe—and possibly work with—professionals. Such stage luminaries as Maude Adams, Ethel Barrymore, Lilian Gish, and Ruth Gordon had trod the boards here. Students took classes in acting, stagecraft, makeup, and voice, and if they were talented enough, they might be asked to appear in plays with the resident acting company.\" Additionally, many notable performers spent their summers on the circuit. Plays and musicals that had closed on Broadway would play the circuit. By 1950, there were 152 Equity companies, including the Ogunquit Playhouse and Skowhegan Playhouse in Maine; the Woodstock Playhouse and the Forestburgh Playhouse in upstate New York; Falmouth Playhouse in Massachusetts (burned down in 1994); Priscilla Beach Theatre in Plymouth, Massachusetts, and the Bucks County Playhouse in New Hope (suburban Philadelphia), Pennsylvania (established in 1939). The Westport Country Playhouse in Connecticut, since renovated with the support of Joanne Woodward and Paul Newman, was also part of the summer stock circuit.\n\nThe circuit toured in Florida and the Southeast during the winter. Venues included the Beacham Theater in Orlando and the Royal Poinciana Playhouse in Palm Beach, Florida (closed since 2004) where performers from Bob Cummings in 1958 to Arlene Francis (1961) and Richard Chamberlain (1966) appeared.\n\nStars of Broadway, film, and television would regularly spend summers performing in stock. The Council of Stock Theatres (COST) negotiated a special contract with Actors Equity to cover the work of actors and stage managers.\n\nJohn Kenley, an Ohio-based producer, ran his own summer stock circuit, Kenley Players, in Columbus, Dayton, Warren, the Carousel Theatre in Akron, and Canton, Ohio, and sent many of the shows to an affiliated theatre in Flint, Michigan. Starting in 1958 performers such as Dan Dailey in \"Guys and Dolls\", Barbara Eden in \"Lady in the Dark\", and Howard Keel in \"Kismet\" appeared. Kenley cast \"movie stars and television personalities\" who were nationally known. During Gypsy Rose Lee's engagement in \"Auntie Mame\" at the Warren theatre, Erik Preminger wrote: \"Working for him [John Kenley] was a joy. Everything about his operation was first-class from the director and supporting cast he had assembled through the scenery, props, and costumes...He was attentive, supportive.\" Performers such as Paul Lynde, Bill Bixby, Karen Morrow, Phyllis Diller, Andy Devine, Gordon MacRae and Patrice Munsel starred in Kenley stock productions. Ethel Merman performed in \"Call Me Madam\" at the Kenley Players in 1968 (as well as appearing at the Parker Playhouse and Coconut Grove Playhouse in Miami earlier that year).\n\nThe Cape Playhouse in Dennis, Massachusetts opened in 1927 with \"The Guardsman\", starring Basil Rathbone, and has continued through the 2009 season with Hunter Foster and Malcolm Gets.\n\nThe Ogunquit Playhouse, begun in 1933, attracted performers such as Maude Adams, Ethel Barrymore, and Laurette Taylor in the early years and more recently, Sally Struthers, Lucie Arnaz, and Lorenzo Lamas.\n\nPerformers such as Ginger Rogers, Douglas Fairbanks Jr., Angela Lansbury, Bob Hope, Sergio Franchi, Zero Mostel, Ann Miller, Jane Powell, and Debbie Reynolds performed at the Cape Cod Music Circus and its sister theatre, the South Shore Music Circus.\n\nColleen Dewhurst wrote of her experiences in summer stock as a new actress: \"My first professional jobs were in summer stock, in small, medium and large companies that presented ten plays in ten weeks from June until Labor Day...At that time, the core of each summer stock company was made up of a stage manager and six resident actors: a leading man and woman, a character man and woman, and an ingenue and a juvenile. In some cases, five or six of the summer plays would be 'star vehicles', featuring a familiar actor or actress.\"\n\nWilliam Shatner performed in summer stock after the cancellation of \"\".\n\nSome summer theatres specialize in a particular type of production, such as Shakespearean plays, musicals, or even opera. Some notable summer theatres include: Oregon Shakespeare Festival Ashland, Oregon, Rocky Mountain Repertory Theatre, Grand Lake, Colorado, Utah Shakespearean Festival, Cedar City, Utah, Santa Fe Opera, Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, Becket, Massachusetts, Williamstown Theatre Festival, Williamstown, Massachusetts, Berkshire Theatre Festival, Stockbridge, Massachusetts, Glimmerglass Opera, Cooperstown, New York, The Barn Theatre in Augusta, Michigan and Vancouver's Bard on the Beach.\n\nIn 1949, St. John Terrell began a new experience presenting summer stock theatre under an arena-type (circus) tent in Lambertville, New Jersey, the Music circus. This began a new period of outdoor theatre. In 1951 this new style of summer stock made its way west with the addition of the Sacramento Music Circus.\n\nThe Cape Cod Music Circus (now the Melody Tent) in Hyannis, Massachusetts opened in 1950, the third tent theatre to open, and The South Shore Music Circus in Cohasset, Massachusetts followed in 1951. A tent theatre had opened earlier in Florida.\nAnother theatre in the round, the Valley Forge Music Fair (which closed in 1996), in Devon, Pennsylvania, was opened in 1955 by Shelly Gross, Lee Guber and Frank Ford. They then opened other theatres in the round, including Shady Grove Music Fair in Washington, DC, Painters Mill Music Fair in Maryland (closed in 1991), and the Westbury Music Fair on Long Island, opened in 1956. By 1957, there were 19 tent theatres, many located in Massachusetts, New York, and New Jersey, and all presenting musicals only. (The musical \"The Pajama Game\" was the major show making the tent circuit in the summer of 1957.)\n\nThe theatre in the round concept brought Broadway-style musicals to northern California under a big top tent each summer. Original producers Russell Lewis and Howard Young presented their first production, \"Show Boat\", the same opening production at both the Lambertville and the South Shore Music Circus. The original Lambertville theatre closed in 1970, and both the Sacramento and South Shore theatres continue to thrive today. In Sacramento, live musicals in the round are presented in a new permanent complex, The Wells Fargo Pavilion. The South Shore Music Circus and Cape Cod Melody Tent now serve primarily as intimate settings for musical acts including popular singers, oldies groups, and orchestras.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1087492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1087492", "title": "Supporting character", "text": "Supporting character\n\nA supporting character is a character in a narrative that is not the focus of the primary storyline, but appears or is mentioned in the story enough to be more than just a minor character or a cameo appearance. Sometimes, supporting characters may develop a complex back-story of their own, but this is usually in relation to the main character, rather than entirely independently. In television, supporting characters may appear in more than half of the episodes per season.\n\nIn some cases, especially in ongoing material such as comic books and television series, supporting characters themselves may become main characters in a spin-off if they are sufficiently popular with fans.\n\n"}
{"id": "25526150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25526150", "title": "Tablo ID", "text": "Tablo ID\n\nTablo ID (, literally \"Tablo ID\") is a Ukrainian celebrity illustrated news website, paying significant attention to the public life of Ukrainian politicians and statesmen. Tablo ID is a part of the \"Ukrayinska Pravda\" group. Published in Ukrainian.\n\nIt's news/scoops are sometimes published by the \"more serious\" Ukrainian media like \"Korrespondent.\n\nAn example of a typical Tablo ID scoop is an early 2012 photo of (then) Culture Minister Mykhailo Kulynyak wearing a luxury wristwatch worth his 3-month salary; previously Tablo ID also investigated (and published about) the (viewed as luxurious) lifestyle of former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko, President Viktor Yanukovych and other important politicians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33729175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33729175", "title": "The Mercury Wonder Show", "text": "The Mercury Wonder Show\n\nThe Mercury Wonder Show for Service Men was a 1943 magic-and-variety stage show by the Mercury Theatre, produced by Orson Welles and Joseph Cotten as a morale-boosting entertainment for US soldiers in World War II. Directed by Welles, the show starred Welles (\"Orson the Magnificent\"), Cotten (\"Jo-Jo the Great\"), Agnes Moorehead (\"Calliope Aggie\") and Rita Hayworth, whose part was later filled by Marlene Dietrich. Jean Gabin also worked on the show backstage, as a propman. The show ran to 150 minutes.\n\nIn early 1943, the two concurrent radio series (\"Ceiling Unlimited\", \"Hello Americans\") that Orson Welles created for CBS to support the war effort had ended. Filming also had wrapped on \"Jane Eyre\" and that fee, in addition to the income from his regular guest-star roles in radio, made it possible for Welles to fulfill a lifelong dream. He approached the War Assistance League of Southern California and proposed a show that evolved into a big-top spectacle, part circus and part magic show. He offered his services as magician and director, and invested some $40,000 of his own money in an extravaganza he called \"The Mercury Wonder Show for Service Men\". Members of the U.S. armed forces were admitted free of charge, while the general public had to pay. The show entertained more than 1,000 service members each night, and proceeds went to the War Assistance League, a charity for military service personnel.\n\n\"It was just like a circus — I would have adored it if I'd been a member of the audience, I know that,\" Welles later told filmmaker Peter Bogdanovich.\n\nThe development of the show coincided with the resolution of Welles's draft status in May 1943, when he was finally declared 4-F — unfit for military service — for a variety of medical reasons. \"I felt guilty about the war,\" Welles told biographer Barbara Leaming. \"I was guilt-ridden about my civilian status.\" He had been publicly hounded about his patriotism since \"Citizen Kane\", when the Hearst press began persistent inquiries about why Welles had not been drafted.\n\nWelles's fascination with illusion dated back to childhood; Harry Houdini gave him his first lessons in magic. His 1941 debut at the California State Fair (assisted by Dolores del Río) was a hit and, as \"The Ace\", he continued practicing his performance skills at vaudeville theaters and army camps. By 1943 Welles had developed a two-hour magic show.\n\nThe show's name was a nod to Howard Thurston's \"The Wonder Show of the Universe\". Welles adapted at least five of Thurston's illusions for his own show, and adopted his use of showgirls as stage extras.\n\nFor \"The Mercury Wonder Show\", Welles selected Rita Hayworth, one of the most popular women in motion pictures, as his chief assistant. In April 1943 he began teaching illusions to Hayworth, who was then living with him. The couple practiced the Houdini Substitution Trunk routine in the 125-seat private theater of Bill Larsen, a successful Los Angeles attorney and magician who operated Thayer's Studio of Magic.\n\nOther cast included co-producer Joseph Cotten and, in his stage debut as comedy assistant, Welles's chauffeur, George (Shorty) Chirello. Welles hired Keye Luke — an accomplished visual artist as well as an actor — to design culturally authentic scenery and graphics, in contrast to the fake-Oriental visuals typically seen in Western magic shows.\n\nThe show was rehearsed for 17 weeks. Welles leased the Playtime Theatre (later the Las Palmas Theatre), a 350-seat house in Hollywood. Welles initially planned a moderate-sized magic show, open only to service members, that would run six weeks at the theatre and then tour army camps. Welles and the cast rehearsed from 7 p.m. until 2 or 3 a.m.; back home, Welles would spend the rest of the night improving the magic act and working out new bits of business. He tested 18 different openings before he was satisfied.\n\nPreviews began in June. As the show came together Welles began calling it \"the biggest magic show on earth\", and the cast and crew grew to 31 people. Welles bought or commissioned $26,000 worth of props and put $14,000 into the tent, scenery, costumes and rental of circus equipment. He also rented an entire menagerie, from a canary to a lion. Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer donated the venue, a lot near the Hollywood Canteen on Cahuenga Boulevard.\n\n\"The Mercury Wonder Show\" ran August 3–September 9, 1943, in an 80-by-120-foot tent located at 9000 Cahuenga Boulevard, in the heart of Hollywood. The brand-new, two-pole Big Top offered 1,100 bleacher seats — all of them free — to service members. In the center were 400 folding chairs for the public, with tickets priced at $1.65 to $5.50 for adults and 55 cents for children. For opening night only, the public seats were $5.50 and $11. Charity-minded Hollywood celebrities could pay $30 (the equivalent of $ today) for one of the 25 to 30 seats in the sucker section; it cost $50 or $100 for one of the two super-sucker seats nailed down directly behind the massive tent poles. Welles recalled subjecting this highest-paying public — \"usually Sam Goldwyn or Jack Warner or somebody like that\" — to humiliations that included having eggs broken over their heads. \"And they had to pretend it was all good fun, because our boys in khaki were there, you know. We really gave it to them.\"\n\nAfter performing in the official premiere August 3, Rita Hayworth was thereafter forbidden to appear in \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" by Columbia boss Harry Cohn. When her lawyer confirmed that Hayworth could indeed be sued for breach of contract — filming was then under way for \"Cover Girl\" — Welles persuaded her not to jeopardize her entire career by going on anyway, as she vowed to do. He phoned his friend Marlene Dietrich and asked her to fill in. \"Come teach me the tricks and I do it,\" Dietrich replied. \"She was the good soldier of all time,\" Welles said.\n\nAt intermission September 7, 1943, KMPC radio interviewed audience and cast members of \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" — including Welles and Hayworth, who were married earlier that day. Welles remarked that \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" had been performed for approximately 48,000 members of the U.S. armed forces.\n\nLooking back on the experience 30 years later, Welles said the show was primarily made \"for fun\", but that \"it's one of our great works\" and that the Mercury Theatre were \"as proud of that as anything we ever did.\"\n\nA reduced version toured army bases around the U.S. Several episodes of the 1944 CBS Radio show \"The Orson Welles Almanac\" that were performed live before audiences of servicemen were also called the Mercury Wonder Show.\n\nWelles wrote, directed and performed in a plug for \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" that ran in \"Look\" magazine November 16, 1943. In \"The Trunk Murder\", the magician solves the double murder of Joseph Cotten and showgirl assistant Eleanor Counts. George (Shorty) Chirello, Death Valley Mack, Merry Hamilton and Tommy Hanlon Jr. appear in the five-photo crime puzzle. \"Don't be embarrassed if you can't work it,\" readers are advised, \"since [Welles] admits he has never yet solved a LOOK \"Photocrime\".\"\n\nA portion of the stage show was filmed and included in the 1944 variety film, \"Follow the Boys\". The film segment was directed by Welles, uncredited.\n\nWelles and Dietrich agreed to appear in the film while \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" was still running. The seven-minute segment was shot on the Universal lot in late September 1943. Welles traded his robe and fez for white tie and tails, and brought along a crew from the show — Shorty Chirello, Tommy Hanlon, Professor Bill and his Circus Symphony, Death Valley Mack, two female assistants and eight chorus girls. Welles performed a few illusions; his own appearance on stage and the comic version of the sawing-a-woman-in-half illusion featuring Dietrich were achieved with trick photography. Welles received $30,000 for his part in the film. The segment was to be shot in four or five days, but Welles stretched filming to 16 days to give additional pay to his crew.\n\nA framed copy of the playbill for \"The Mercury Wonder Show\" was sold at auction October 31, 2002, for $1,610. In an auction April 26, 2014, the advertising herald was sold for $1,062.50; the item was among those found in boxes and trunks of Welles's personal possessions by his daughter Beatrice Welles.\n\nA scrapbook kept by George (Shorty) Chirello was offered as part of the \"TCM Presents … There's No Place Like Hollywood\" auction November 24, 2014, at Bonhams in New York. Chirello worked for Welles from about 1942 to 1952; his scrapbook begins in August 1943 with clippings about \"The Mercury Wonder Show\", and includes a copy of the playbill. Chirello managed props for the show, and acted as Welles's comedy assistant on stage and in the film \"Follow the Boys\". The scrapbook and a directors chair inscribed \"Orson Welles\" were sold as a single lot and brought $13,750 at auction.\n\n"}
{"id": "8276718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8276718", "title": "Transporter (franchise)", "text": "Transporter (franchise)\n\nTransporter (French: Le Transporteur) is an English-language French action film franchise, comprising four films released between 2002 and 2015, and a television series. Jason Statham plays Frank Martin in the first three movies, a professional freelance courier driver for hire. Statham himself is an accomplished martial artist, allowing him to do all the combat scenes involving Frank Martin himself. This permits the films' signature Hong Kong-style fight scenes, choreographed by Corey Yuen. \nChris Vance portrays Frank Martin in the and Ed Skrein portrays Frank Martin in the fourth film, a reboot.\n\nFrank Martin (Jason Statham) is a highly skilled driver known only as \"The Transporter.\" He will transport anything, no questions asked, always on time, and he is known as the best in the business. He strictly follows three rules when transporting: Rule Number 1: \"Once the deal is made, it is final\", Rule Number 2: \"No names\", and Rule Number 3: \"Never open the package.\" Frank inadvertently breaks his own rule, opens the package and finds a bound and gagged woman.\n\nFrank is working as the driver/chauffeur for a wealthy family, in the United States. Martin bonds with their young son, whom he drives to school every day. When the boy is kidnapped, Frank must again take action in order to protect his young \"package\" and his family. Eventually, Martin unravels a scheme involving biological weapons and the nefarious Gianni Chellini. Martin is forced to remove a bomb from the bottom of his car by executing an aerial corkscrew manoeuver underneath a crane. The crane catches the bomb and Martin escapes unharmed. Frank debuts the Audi A8 W12 in this film.\n\nInspector Tarconi plays an even more prominent role in this film. It is established that he and Frank are now friends, and Tarconi goes as far as to lie to the police to cover for Frank. His cooking prowess is established as well.\n\nFrank has been pressured into transporting Valentina (Natalya Rudakova) the kidnapped daughter of Leonid Vasilev (Jeroen Krabbé), the head of the Environmental Protection Agency for Ukraine, from Marseille through Stuttgart and Budapest until he ends up in Odessa on the Black Sea. Along the way, with the help of Inspector Tarconi (François Berléand), Frank has to contend with the people who strong armed him to take the job, agents sent by Vasilev to intercept him, and the general non-cooperation of his passenger, who he realises is the package mid-way through the film. Despite Valentina's cynical disposition and Frank's resistance to get involved, Frank and Valentina fall for each other, while escaping from one life-threatening situation after another. Martin again drives an armoured Audi A8 W12 in the film, as well as a BMX bicycle.\n\nIn May 2013, at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival, a new reboot trilogy was announced with EuropaCorp and China's Fundamental Films co-producing and distributing the titles. The films will likely be budgeted between $30 million to $40 million each and at least one will be shot in China. Luc Besson will co-finance, distribute, produce and write all the films. English actor Ed Skrein replaced Jason Statham as Frank Martin on the fourth installment of the series. The fourth film, \"The Transporter Refueled\", was released in the United States on 4 September 2015 with Camille Delamarre directing.\n\n\"Transporter: The Series\" is a television series based on the Transporter films which premiered in 2012 on 11 October in Germany on RTL, and on 6 December in France on M6. Chris Vance took over the role of Frank from Jason Statham and was joined by Hungarian actress Andrea Osvárt, who played Carla, the leading female role in the series, starring as a former Intelligence agent who organises his missions, and French actor François Berléand, the only returning actor from the film series, who reprised his role as Inspector Tarconi.\nThe show was initially supposed to premiere on the cable network Cinemax but Cinemax pulled out due to production problems. TNT picked up the show and aired the 12-episode first season on the TNT network. TNT also ordered a 12-episode second season which aired in the autumn of 2014.\n\nFrank Martin is the protagonist of the films and television series. He initially serves as a reluctant hero. He is portrayed as a former Special Forces operative who was a team leader of a search and destroy unit. His military background includes operations \"in and out of\" Lebanon, Syria and Sudan. He retires from this after becoming fatigued and disenchanted with his superior officers. In simple terms, he got tired of seeing his best efforts turned to nothing by the same people paying him to do the job. So he puts his skills to action as a private driver for hire.\n\n"}
{"id": "10701087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10701087", "title": "Trick roping", "text": "Trick roping\n\nTrick roping is an entertainment or competitive art involving the spinning of a lasso also known as a lariat or a \"rope.\" It is particularly associated with wild west shows or western arts in the United States.\n\nThe lasso is a well-known tool of American cowboys, who developed rope spinning and throwing skills in using lassos to catch animals. Cowboys developed various tricks to show off their prowess with the lasso and demonstrations of these tricks evolved into entertainment and competitive disciplines.\n\nThere is a well-established repertoire of tricks that can be divided into three fundamental categories: \"flat loop\", \"vertical loop\" and \"butterfly\". In addition there are thrown loop tricks and tricks that involve the use of two ropes. Among the vertical loop tricks is the \"Texas Skip\", which involves the performer spinning the lasso in a wide loop in a vertical plane and jumping through the loop from one side to the other on each rotation.\n\nWell-known trick ropers include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50226584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50226584", "title": "United States Telephone Herald Company", "text": "United States Telephone Herald Company\n\nThe United States Telephone Herald Company, founded in 1909, was the parent corporation for a number of associated \"telephone newspaper\" companies, located throughout the United States, that were organized to provide news and entertainment over telephone lines to subscribing homes and businesses. This was the most ambitious attempt made to develop a distributed audio service prior to the rise of radio broadcasting in the early 1920s.\n\nAt least a dozen associate companies were chartered, but despite initial optimism and ambitious goals, only two systems ever went into commercial operation — one based in Newark, New Jersey (New Jersey Telephone Herald, 1911-1912) and the other in Portland, Oregon (Oregon Telephone Herald, 1912-1913). Moreover, both of these systems were shut down after operating for only a short time, due to economic and technical issues.\n\nCorporation activity peaked in 1913, but the lack of success caused the company to suspend operations, and the corporation charter for the United States Telephone Herald Company was repealed in early 1918.\n\nThe United States Telephone Herald Company was an authorized offshoot of the Telefon Hírmondó audio service of Budapest, Hungary. The Telefon Hírmondó programming, transmitted to subscribers over telephone wires, consisted of an extensive selection of news during the day, followed by instruction and entertainment during the evening. This \"news-teller\" service began operation in February 1893, shortly before the death of its inventor, Tivadar Puskás.\n\nFollowing a visit to Hungary, Cornelius Balassa procured the U.S. patent rights to the Telefon Hírmondó technology. (Later reports state that the company also held the rights for Canada and Great Britain. Another group obtained the rights for Italy, where in 1910 they established the service under the name Araldo Telefonico). The formation of a parent U.S. company, initially operating under a New York state charter as the \"Telephone Newspaper Company of America\", was announced in October 1909, with organizing directors Manley M. Gillam (president), William H. Alexander (secretary and treasurer), and Cornelius Balassa, all of New York City. In March 1910, the parent company was reorganized as the \"United States Telephone Herald Company\", now operating as a Delaware-chartered corporation.\n\nAn initial demonstration transmission was given at the company headquarters, located at 110 West Thirty-fourth Street in New York City, in early September 1910. The equipment used was similar to that which was employed in Budapest. As in Hungary, announcers were called \"stentors\", and because vacuum tube technology had not been developed yet, there were limited methods for amplification, so to compensate the stentors had to speak as loudly as possible into oversized dual-microphones. The lack of amplification also meant that subscribers needed to listen through headphones instead of loudspeakers. On February 14, 1911 , describing \"a telephone system... adapted for supplying innumerable subscribers... general news, musical compositions, and operas, sermons, correct or standard time and other happenings at stated intervals of day and night\" was granted to Árpád Németh, and assigned to the company.\n\nRegionally-based Telephone Herald affiliates were authorized for the purpose of creating local \"telephone newspaper\" systems, with \"the parent company to receive a royalty on every instrument installed\". But ultimately the parent company and its affiliates proved financially unsuccessful, and the United States Telephone Herald Company began winding down operations. Its Delaware business charter was repealed on January 28, 1918, for failure to pay state corporate taxes for two years.\n\nAt least twelve Telephone Herald associate companies were formed, although in only two cases was a telephone newspaper service successfully launched: the New Jersey Telephone Herald (1911-1912) and the Oregon Telephone Herald (1912-1913). (In some cases the service was also referred to as the \"telectrophone\".)\n\nEach associate company was established by local owners operating under a state-granted business charter. Publicity for these services commonly stated that the telephone newspaper subscriptions would cost 5 cents a day. (For comparison, at this time a copy of the daily \"Oregonian\" newspaper in Portland also cost 5 cents.) However, a majority of the associate companies got no further than the promotion or demonstration stages.\n\nIn addition to twelve known associate companies, early company publicity stated that installations would also be set up in Chicago, Scranton, Pennsylvania and Montreal, Canada, but systems do not appear to have been established at any of these locations. Also, a December 14, 1912 advertisement for the Central California Telephone Herald listed associate Telephone Herald companies with company names starting with New York, Chicago, New Orleans, Seattle-Tacoma, Columbia (British Columbia and Alberta, Canada), Los Angeles and Oakland, but there is no information for these either.\n\nOf the two Telephone Herald affiliates which launched commercial services, the New Jersey Telephone Herald was both the first and most publicized. The company had been incorporated in October 1910 in the state of New Jersey by Eugene Gorenflo, Duncan McIsaac and Nicholas J. Surgess.\n\nThe original plan was to begin operations in March 1911, however, the New York Telephone Company, which operated the Newark telephone system franchise, initially refused to lease telephone lines to the Telephone Herald, on the grounds that their charter did not permit it. It required a ruling by the Public Utility Commission to compel the telephone company to provide the needed wires. The hiring process for the stentors, who worked as the news readers, was competitive and rigorous. According to one of the original stentors, the position was restricted to \"college men\" with strong voices and extensive vocabularies. Throughout the day four stentors announced during rotating shifts of 15 minutes each, and did staff work when they were not announcing.\n\nOn October 24, 1911, an ambitious daily service, closely patterned after the Telefon Hírmondó's, was launched to a reported fifty receivers located in a department store waiting room, plus five hundred Newark homes. The company's central offices, studio, and switch rooms were located in the Essex Building on Clinton Street in Newark. Condit S. Atkinson, who had extensive newspaper experience, headed the service's news department.\n\nThe company reported that there were many persons eager to sign up with the innovative service, and it soon had more potential subscribers than could be supported. One young listener later remembered that \"it was a great thrill to pick up the small receiver and hear a voice telling about world events\", moreover, \"It was such a novelty that I could scarcely wait to get home from school and listen to it. It fascinated me. I would listen as long as it was operative, or until I was called to do my homework.\" One of the program features was a series of original \"Trippertrot\" stories, written by local children's author Howard R. Garis, which were later assembled into two book collections: \"Three Little Trippertrots\" and \"Three Little Trippertrots on Their Travels\", published in 1912.\nDespite the enthusiastic response, the company soon ran into serious technical and financial difficulties. Due to a revenue crisis, which resulted in employees walking off the job due to missed paychecks, the service was suspended in late February 1912. A replenishment of funding resulted in a temporary revival in late May, with the primary company officials now consisting of Percy Pyne (president), William E. Gunn (vice-president and general manager), and C. E. Danforth (secretary-treasurer), with C. S. Atkinson renewing his editor functions. However, this would only be a temporary respite, and the telephone newspaper transmissions shut down for good in December 1912.\n\nA later review suggested that the primary issue was technical, as the twisted pair phone lines used for the Newark operation had different electrical characteristics than the wiring used by the original Telefon Hírmondó plant. Following the permanent suspension of services, the New Jersey Telephone Herald's business charter was declared null and void on January 18, 1916.\n\nAlthough less well known than the New Jersey affiliate, the second Telephone Herald company to implement an ongoing telephone newspaper service was the Oregon Telephone Herald Company. But like its predecessor, it also soon faced financial difficulties and was short-lived. The company was incorporated in Oregon, and headquartered at 506 Royal Building (Seventh and Morrison) in Portland. Extensive demonstrations were begun in May 1912, and advertisements the next month said commercial service would start \"around October 1st\".\n\nA January 1913 solicitation for home subscribers for \"The Talking Newspaper and Amusement Purveyor\" listed the hours of operation as 8:00 AM to midnight. Later advertisements referred to the service as the \"Te-Lec-Tro-Phone\", and in April saw the introduction of the reporting of local Portland Beavers baseball games. (In December, a Northwestern League representative complained that the service had hurt attendance, and supported \"the ousting of the various telephone herald and signalling systems from the ball parks\"). A promotion the following month offered the chance to hear election results for free at twenty-five business sites. In May, the Portland Hotel advertised that diners could listen to \"the latest baseball, business and other news by Telephone-Herald\" with their meals.\nThere appears to have been a company reorganization in early 1913, and in March two representatives from the parent company, including chief electrical engineer Árpád Németh, were reported in town to give technical advice. But as with its New Jersey predecessor, the Portland enterprise was in trouble. During the summer, Oregon Corporation Commissioner R. A. Watson stepped in, and, under provisions of the state's \"Blue Sky Law\", barred the Oregon Telephone Herald from doing business, stating that \"There was no question about the honesty of this concern, but the scheme isn't practical, and while it might be popular for a short time it would be a failure in the end; therefore, we refused them a permit to sell stock.\"\n\nThe final advertisements for the company appeared in June 1913, and the state corporation charter was terminated on January 16, 1917, for failure to file statements or pay fees for two years.\n\nNone of the other ten Telephone Herald associate companies launched their proposed telephone newspaper systems, although there were widely varying levels of plans and activities.\n\nIncorporated in Massachusetts on April 23, 1913, by Ladislaus de Doory (president), John M. Grosvenor, Jr. (treasurer), and Jesse W. Morton. De Doory was also a promoter with the parent company. However, the syndicate does not appear to have made any demonstrations or other significant development, and its business charter was dissolved on February 21, 1916.\n\nThis was the first of two companies that were headquartered in San Francisco, California. The company received a California business charter in February 1911, issued to G. S. Holbrook, W. A. Whelan, W. B. Heckmann, A. H. Vorrath, R. M. Graham, R. Boreman, William T. Newverth, A. C. Gould and A. Jacoby.\n\nDemonstrations were conducted in September 1911 at 821, 822, 823 Head Building, but no further progress appears to have been made, and the company charter was declared forfeited and repealed for non-payment of taxes in February 1915.\n\nIncorporated in California in February, 1912 by C. J. Ward, F. W. Bresse and S. H. Whisner. Demonstrations were begun on April 2, 1912 from 4th Floor of the Elks' Building. In late 1913, provisions were made to lease a local theater, the Diepenbrock, to serve as a source for programming. However, there was an abrupt change of plans, and instead the owners decided to merge their operations with the Pacific Telephone Herald Company. The telephone newspaper service never became operational, either before or after the Pacific Telephone Herald merger. The company's charter was declared forfeited and repealed for non-payment of taxes in February 1915.\n\nThis company was chartered in Delaware in August 1912 by R. R. Cooling, C. J. Jacobs and H. W. Davis of Wilmington, Delaware. There is no additional information, other than the fact that its corporation charter was repealed on January 24, 1916.\n\nThe company was incorporated in California. Demonstrations were made at H. C. Capwell Company's Store beginning in February 1913 which lasted through at least April. The original corporate offices were at 303-304-305 Union Savings Bank Building in Oakland, prior to a relocation to 1741 Franklin Street.\n\nThe company's secretary-treasurer, J. B. Whited died in September 1913, and the company president, William Angus, was killed in a mining accident in October 1914. In addition, the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company initially refused to lease telephone lines to the company, resulting in a complaint filed before the Railroad Commission of the State of California. This case was dismissed on November 5, 1913 after the two sides reached a settlement.\n\nIn November 1913, a major expansion was announced, with the purchase from the parent company of the rights to operate in twenty-one western U.S. states and \"the greater part of southwestern Canada\", and the next month saw a merger with the Central California Telephone Herald Company of Sacramento. But despite the ambitious expansion plans, it does not appear that any regular service was ever established, and the state business charter was forfeited on March 4, 1916 for failure to pay the state license tax.\n\nIncorporated in the state of Delaware on December 30, 1911 by Frank Vernon, Ivor B. Blaiberg, and Albert D. Miller. Although there was a limited amount of corporate activity reported in 1912-1913, nothing of significance appears to have resulted. The corporation charter was repealed on January 25, 1917 for two years taxes unpaid.\n\nIncorporated in California in August 1911 by H. A. Schmidt (president), M. N. Schmidt and G. Stephens. The principals were inspired by the reported success of the concept in San Francisco, and promotional advertisements were run in the fall of 1911, but the enterprise never began operations.\n\nThis was second San Francisco-based Telephone Herald company, following the earlier California Telephone Herald Company. It was incorporated in the state of California on October 29, 1912, with founding the directors of W. H. Dohrmann, J. F. Dohrmann, A. J. Beecher, F. W. Beecher, Thomas R. White, C. E. Youngblood, Rudolph Schlueten, Clarence Eppstein and E. L. Manner.\n\nDemonstrations were given at 687 Market Street in early January 1913, but no further progress appears to have been made. The corporation charter was forfeited November 30, 1913, for failure to pay the state license tax.\n\nOne of the first associate companies to be formed, this was also, due to fraud, one of the first to fail. It was chartered in California in May 1911, led by Peter Archbold Gordon Grimes, who turned out to be a con man. Grimes soon ran off with company funds, and was next seen impersonating an aviator in Hawaii. The corporation charter was forfeited on November 30, 1911 for failure to pay its state license tax.\n\nThis affiliate, capitalized with $500,000 of common stock, was chartered in the state of Washington in June, 1911. The officers were Sherwood Gillespy, president; B. J. Klarman, vice president; and N. R. Solner, secretary and treasurer. It was also announced that demonstrations were being conducted at the company headquarters at 339-340-341 Henry building. The company soon faced financial difficulties, and in October was forced into receivership due to a salary dispute. The company charter was cancelled sometime during the biennial reporting period of October 1, 1912 to September 30, 1914, for failure to pay the annual state license fee.\n\nThere were a few other early attempts to set up telephone-based news and entertainment systems in the United States, including the Tellevent, which conducted demonstrations and experimental work in Michigan from 1906-1908, and the Automatic Electric Company's Musolaphone, which operated a short-lived entertainment system in Chicago in 1913. However, these efforts were no more successful than the Telephone Herald companies.\n\nBoth the Hungarian Telefon Hírmondó and the Italian Araldo Telefonico survived long enough for their operations to be combined with radio broadcasting in the 1920s. The same did not occur in the United States, and the Telephone Herald companies were the last early effort to offer nationwide audio programming over telephone lines. Although the concept of home audio entertainment was attractive to potential U.S. subscribers, the lack of signal amplification and other technical limitations, such as the need to maintain a telephone line infrastructure, and having to listen over headphones, made the technology unprofitable.\n\nLess than a decade after the failure of the Telephone Herald companies, radio broadcasting was developed, which had the significant advantage that it could dispense with the need to use telephone lines. Moreover, radio programming could be provided free of subscription fees, because selling airtime to advertisers, the financing method most commonly adopted in the United States, provided sufficient revenue for ongoing operations.\n"}
