{"id": "988326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988326", "title": "798 Art Zone", "text": "798 Art Zone\n\n798 Art Zone (), or Dashanzi Art District, comprise a complex of 50-year-old decommissioned military factory buildings boasting a unique architectural style, located in Dashanzi, Chaoyang District of Beijing, that houses a thriving artistic community. The area is often called the 798 Art District or Factory 798 although technically, Factory #798 is only one of several structures inside a complex formerly known as 718 Joint Factory. The buildings are within alleys number 2 and 4 on Jiǔxiānqiáo Lù (酒仙桥路), south of the Dàshānziqiáo flyover (大山子桥). In recent years, it has been the main venue for the annual Beijing Queer Film Festival and Beijing Design Week.\n\nThe Dashanzi factory complex began as an extension of the \"Socialist Unification Plan\" of military-industrial cooperation between the Soviet Union and the newly formed People's Republic of China. By 1951, 156 \"joint factory\" projects had been realized under that agreement, part of the Chinese government's first Five-Year Plan. However the People's Liberation Army still had a dire need of modern electronic components, which were produced in only two of the joint factories. The Russians were unwilling to undertake an additional project at the time, and suggested that the Chinese turn to East Germany from which much of the Soviet Union's electronics equipment was imported. So at the request of then-Premier Zhou Enlai, scientists and engineers joined the first Chinese trade delegation to East Germany in 1951, visiting a dozen factories. The project was green-lighted in early 1952 and a Chinese preparatory group was sent to East Berlin to prepare design plans. This project, which was to be the largest by East Germany in China, was then informally known as Project #157.\n\nThe architectural plans were left to the Germans, who chose a functional Bauhaus-influenced design over the more ornamental Soviet style, triggering the first of many disputes between the German and Russian consultants on the project. The plans, where form follows function, called for large indoor spaces designed to let the maximum amount of natural light into the workplace. Arch-supported sections of the ceiling would curve upwards then fall diagonally along the high slanted banks or windows; this pattern would be repeated several times in the larger rooms, giving the roof its characteristic sawtooth-like appearance. Despite Beijing's northern location, the windows were all to face north because the light from that direction would cast fewer shadows.\n\nThe chosen location was a 640,000 square metre area in Dashanzi, then a low-lying patch of farmland northeast of Beijing. The complex was to occupy 500,000 square metres, 370,000 of which were allocated to living quarters. It was officially named Joint Factory 718, following the Chinese government's method of naming military factories starting with the number 7. Fully funded by the Chinese side, the initial budget was enormous for the times: 9 million rubles or approximately 140 million RMB (US$17 million) at today's rates; actual costs were 147 million RMB.\n\nGround was broken in April 1954. Construction was marked by disagreements between the Chinese, Soviet and German experts, which led at one point to a six-month postponement of the project. The Germans' harshest critic was the Russian technology consultant in charge of Beijing's two Soviet-built electronics factories (714 and 738), who was also head consultant of the Radio Industrial Office of the Second Ministry of Machine Building Industry. The disputes generally revolved around the Germans' high but expensive quality standards for buildings and machines, which were called \"over-engineering\" by the Russians. Among such points of contention was the Germans' insistence, historical seismic data in hand, that the buildings be built to withstand earthquakes of magnitude 8 on the Richter scale, whereas the Chinese and Russians wanted to settle for 7. Communications expert Wang Zheng, head of Communications Industry in the Chinese Ministry of National Defense and supporter the East German bid from the start, ruled in favor of the Germans for this particular factory.\n\nAt the height of the construction effort, more than 100 East German foreign experts worked on the project. The resources of as many as 22 of their factories supplied the construction; at the same time, supply delays were caused by the Soviet Red Army's tremendous drain on East Germany's industrial production. The equipment was transported directly through the Soviet Union via the Trans-Siberian railway, and a 15 km track of railroad between Beijing Railway Station and Dongjiao Station was built especially to service the factory. Caltech-educated scientist Dr. Luo Peilin (罗沛霖), formerly head of the preparatory group in 1951-1953, was Head Engineer of Joint Factory 718 during its construction phase. Dr. Luo, now retired in Beijing, is remembered by his former colleagues as a dedicated perfectionist whose commitment to the obstacle-strewn project was a major factor of its eventual success.\n\nJoint Factory 718 began production in 1957, amid a grandiose opening ceremony and display of Communist brotherhood between China and East Germany, attended by high officials of both countries. The first director was Li Rui (李瑞), who had been involved in the early negotiations in Berlin.\n\nThe factory quickly established a reputation for itself as one of the best in China. Through its several \"danwei\" or \"work units\", it offered considerable social benefits to its 10,000-20,000 workers, especially considering the relative poverty of the country during such periods as the Great Leap Forward. The factory boasted, among others:\n\n\nThe factory even had its own volunteer military reserves or \"jinweishi\" (近卫师), which numbered hundreds and were equipped with large-scale weapons and anti-aircraft guns.\n\nWorkers' skills were honed by frequent personnel exchanges, internships and training in cooperation with East Germany. Different incentives kept motivation high, such as rewards systems and \"model worker\" distinctions. At the same time, political activities such as Maoism study workshops kept the workers in line with Communist Party of China doctrine. During the Cultural revolution, propaganda slogans for Mao Zedong Thought were painted on the ceiling arches in bright red characters (where they remain today at the latter tenants' request).\n\nFrequent VIP visits contributed to the festive atmosphere. Notable guests included Deng Xiaoping, Jiang Zemin, Liu Shaoqi, Zhu De, and Kim Il-Sung.\n\nThe Joint Factory produced a wide variety of military and civilian equipment. Civilian production included acoustic equipment for Beijing's Workers' Stadium and Great Hall of the People, as well as all the loudspeakers on Tiananmen Square and Chang'an Avenue. Military components were also exported to China's Communist allies, and helped establish North Korea's wireless electronics industry.\nAfter 10 years of operation, Joint Factory 718 was split into more manageable components, such as sub-Factories 706, 707, 751, 761, 797 and 798. The first Head of sub-Factory 798 (the largest) was Branch Party Secretary Fu Ke (傅克), who played a major role in recruiting skilled workers from southern China and among returned overseas Chinese.\n\nHowever, the factory came under pressure during Deng Xiaoping's reforms of the 1980s. Deprived of governmental support like many state-owned enterprises, it underwent a gradual decline and was eventually rendered obsolete. By the late 1980s and early 1990s, most sub-factories had ceased production, 60% of the workers had been laid off, and the remains of the management were reconstituted as a real-estate operation called \"Seven-Star Huadian Science and Technology Group\", charged with overseeing the industrial park and finding tenants for the abandoned buildings.\n\nThe Dashanzi factory complex was vacated at around the time when most of Beijing's contemporary artist community was looking for a new home. Avant-garde art being frowned upon by the government, the community had traditionally existed on the fringes of the city. From 1984 to 1995, they worked in run-down houses near the Old Summer Palace (Yuanmingyuan) in northwestern Beijing, until their eviction. Many then moved to the eastern Tongxian County (now Tongzhou District), more than an hour's drive from the city center.\n\nThen in 1995, Beijing's Central Academy of Fine Arts (CAFA), looking for cheap, ample workshop space away from downtown, set up in the now defunct Factory 706. The temporary move became permanent and in 2000 Sui Jianguo(隋建国), Dean of the Department of Sculpture, located his own studio in the area. The cluttered sculpture workshops have always remained open for visitors to peek at the dozens of workers milling about.\n\nIn 2001, American Robert Bernell (considered by many to be the founder of contemporary 798) moved his Timezone 8 Art Books bookshop, gallery and publishing office into a former factory canteen; he was the first foreigner to move in. One of Timezone 8's early employees was fashion designer Xiao Li, who along her husband, performance artist Cang Xin,and Bernell, helped artists secure and rent spaces in the area.\n\nThrough word-of-mouth, artists and designers started trickling in, attracted to the vast cathedral-like spaces. Despite the lack of any conscious aesthetic in the Bauhaus-inspired style, which grounded architectural beauty in practical, industrial function, the swooping arcs and soaring chimneys had an uplifting effect on modern eyes, a sort of post-industrial chic. At the artists' requests, workers renovating the spaces preserved the prominent Maoist slogans on the arches, adding a touch of ironic \"Mao kitsch\" to the place.\n\nLater that year, Mr. Tabata Yukihito from Japan's Tokyo Gallery set up Beijing Tokyo Art Projects (BTAP, 北京东京艺术工程) inside a 400-m² division of Factory 798's main area; this was the first renovated space featuring the high arched ceilings that would become synonymous with the Art District. BTAP's 2002 opening exhibition \"Beijing Afloat\" (curator: Feng Boyi), drew a crowd of over 1,000 people and marked the beginning of the popular infatuation with the area.\n\nIn 2002, designer artist Huang Rui (黄锐) and hutong photographer Xu Yong (徐勇) set up the 798 Space gallery (时态空间) next to BTAP. With its cavernous 1200-m² floor and multiple-arched ceilings at the center of Factory 798, it was and still is the symbolic center of the whole district. (Huang and Xu since designed at least seven spaces in the area and became the prime movers and de facto spokespersons of the District.) A glass-fronted café was set up in the former office section at the back of the 798 space, opening into a back alley now lined with studios and restaurants such as Huang's own At Café, and Cang Xin's #6 Sichuan restaurant, the area's \"canteen\".\n\nIn 2003, Lu Jie (卢杰) set up the Long March Foundation, an ongoing project for artistic re-interpretation of the historical Long March, inside the 25,000 \"Li\" Cultural Transmission Center (二万五千里文化传播中心). Around that time, Singapore-owned China Art Seasons (北京季节画廊) opened for display for pan-Asian art, and was one of several new galleries setting up at that time.\n\nSeveral exhibitions of note took place in 2003. In March 2004, \"Transborder Language\", part of the First Dashanzhi International Art Festival, (curators: Huang Rui and Thomas J. Berghuis) combined poetry installation and performance art. \"Blue Sky Exposure\" was held outdoors in southern Beijing and then relocated to the Art District. On April 13, despite widespread fear of public gatherings during SARS, the exhibitions \"Reconstruction 798\" (798 space) and \"Operation Ink Freedom\" (25,000 \"Li\" Cultural Transmission Center) drew crowds of 5,000 and definitely confirmed the area's widespread appeal.\n\nIn July, with Beijing in full construction boom, Wang Wei's \"Temporary Space\" (curator: Philip Tinari) featured workers completely enclosing an area of the exhibition with a brick wall and then removing the bricks one by one. In September, \"Left Hand - Right Hand\" (curator: Feng Boyi) showcased Chinese and German sculptors at 798 Space and Daoyaolu Workshop A. Among the works was Sui Jianguo's enormous concrete sculpture \"Mao's Right Hand\", which is just what the name suggests, and an example of modern Chinese art's ironic reflections on history.\n\nThe first Beijing Biennale was held on September 18, 2003 at the Art District and featured 14 exhibitions. \"Tui-Transfiguration\" (curator: Wu Hung; \"tui\" here roughly means \"moult\") featured photographs by East Village chronicler Rong Rong (荣荣) and his wife, Japan-born Inri (映里). Their works notably featured their own naked bodies in various strange locales, and were generally well-received despite being criticized by some as typical of the self-centered nature of much art in the area.\n\nThe first Dashanzi International Art Festival, directed by the ever-present Huang Rui, was held from April 24 to May 23, 2004. This first edition, named \"Radiance and Resonance/Signals of Time\" (光•音 / 光阴), was beset by logistical problems arising from landowner Seven-Star Group's increasing irritation with the art community. As such, the festival became as much a public protest against the area's upcoming destruction that a showcase of art itself.\n\nThe environmental performance artist Brother Nut installed his project, “Nongfu Spring Market,” in 798 Art Zone in 2018. A commentary on pollution in China, this project received international attention including an article in the New York Times. One of the most (in)famous displays at the Festival was performance artist He Yunchang having himself cemented shut in a wooden box with only two pipes for ventilation, and staying there for 24 hours before being chiseled out, prompting the proverbial \"Is it art?\" questionings. \"Shock\" exhibitions have become increasingly common in the Art District (see \"China Daily\"'s article \"The avant-garde art goes too far?\" for some extreme examples).\n\nIn 2008 the notable exhibition of foreign artists from Italy (\"Rabarama. Italian Shape\", AnniArt Gallery 798,): Rabarama and Cesare Berlingeri.\n\nThe district's popularity has exploded since the opening of BTAP and 798 Space in 2002, with scores of galleries, lofts, publishing firms, design companies, high-end tailor shops, and cafés and fancy restaurants setting up. In 2003, around 30 artists and organizations had set up studios or offices in the area, with 200 more reportedly on the waiting list to move in.\n\nFashionable clubs also sprang up such as Zhou Ying's \"Vibes\", known for its fetish nights. A former factory cafeteria became Yan Club (仁俱乐部), owned by well-known Beijing socialite and writer Li Xuebing or \"Bing Bing\" (冰冰), also owner of Sanlitun's Jam House. Notable performers at Yan included Morcheeba in March 2003.\n\nIn keeping with the area's \"community spirit\", most galleries and spaces in Dashanzi do not charge either exhibitors or visitors. Instead, they generally sustain themselves by hosting profitable fashion shows and corporate events; among others, Sony had a product launch gala at 798 space, and watchmaker Omega presented a fashion show at Yan Club. Others include Christian Dior, Royal Dutch Shell and Toyota; supermodel Cindy Crawford also made an appearance. Even Li Ka-shing's Cheung Kong Holdings held an event in the district, which some found unsettling given the real-estate industry's designs on the land it sits on.\n\nAs such, Dashanzi is now a center of Beijing's nascent \"BoBo\" (bourgeois-bohemian) community. Huang Rui and Xu Yong are good representatives of the type. And a local guru of sorts is artist/curator/architect Ai Weiwei (艾未未), whose self-designed house in Caochangdi just outside the factory complex was a trend-setter.\n\nIn the absence of any rent control, tenants' costs have escalated. In 2000–2001, rents were 0.8 RMB per square metre per day (24 RMB or US$2.90/m²/month, or about US$0.27/sq.foot/month). They increased slightly to 30 RMB/m²/month in 2003, and then doubled to 60 RMB/m²/month (US$0.67/sq.foot/month) in 2004. Total costs can be quite high considering the average 200–400 m² area of the spaces, and the overhead of renovating and retrofitting the rooms to use modern appliances.\n\nAnother sign of creeping gentrification is the increasing number of luxury cars parked near the galleries; local artist Zhao Bandi purchased the first Alfa Romeo convertible in Beijing. Some (but not all) of the resident artists and their patrons are quite rich compared to other occupants of the area, the remaining factory workers. Some of the workshops are still operational on a small scale, mostly doing car repair or industrial laundry.\n\nSome local artists such as Zhang Zhaohui, a New York-trained art critic and curator, and architect Zhu Jun, a new Dashanzi resident, have criticized the Art District as being less about art and more about show. Says Zhang: \"Few of the artists come to seriously practice art. Most of them just come for opportunities to exhibit and sell works or just have parties and gatherings.\" (\"China Daily\") On the other hand, young artists like Zhang Yue find this atmosphere particularly conducive to establishing one's career. In the course of one summer, Dashanzi Art District's Platform China Contemporary Art Institute and Unlimited Art Gallery afforded this rising artist two well-received solo shows.\n\nIn the days of Joint Factory 718, Dashanzi was chosen for its peripheral position well outside the city center. The artists who later moved there were attracted from the fringes of the city as well. However, the area today sits right on the strategic corridor between the Capital Airport and downtown Beijing along the Airport Expressway. In the context of China's current real estate bubble, the district is highly likely to be demolished in the near future. Hints of development are already appearing with the western entrances of the complex flanked by the Jiuxian and Hongyuan luxury apartment towers. There is all the current government projects which call for the expansion of the neighbouring industrial park to turn all of Dashanzi into a high-tech development zone similar to Zhongguancun. Landowner Seven-Star Group thus hopes to re-employ some of the 10,000 laid-off workers it is still responsible for.\n\nInfluential members of the artist community and architects are lobbying various government instances to persuade them to allow the old buildings to remain, as part of a cultural center which Beijing otherwise lacks and that can only grow organically. In 2003, International Architects Salon roped in architects from various international architectural associations and renowned architects like Bernard Tschumi and Coop Himmelblau's Wolf Prix to hammer in the point how attractive spaces like Factory 798 can be to international design community. They point out that such communities are important if Beijing, and China, is to become a major source of creative design instead of mere low cost low value-added manufacturing. (This issue has far-reaching implications in the domain of intellectual property protection in China - some experts believe that the local IP laws will start to be enforced only when China becomes a source of its own intellectual property.)\n\nPart of the lobbying effort is resident sculptor Li Xiangqun, professor at the Academy of Arts and Design of Tsinghua University, who was elected deputy of the 12th National People's Congress in 2004. Li presented the municipal government with a formal bill in February, requesting suspension of the destruction plans and preservation of the buildings as part of an Olympic-caliber cultural center.\n\nProfessors from architecture schools such as Beijing's Central Academy of Fine Arts and the Southern California Institute of Architecture have proposed various development plans for the area that involve preserving the buildings, although those do not appear especially profitable financially.\n\nMeanwhile, attempts have been made to appeal to the developers' sense of economics by pointing out similarities with New York's Greenwich Village and SoHo, where the high profitability of real estate is due partly to the presence of former post-industrial artists' dwellings. Those arguments have so far been ignored.\n\nIn 2004, Seven-Star Group froze the rental of new spaces and prohibited all renewals. Tenants resorted to subdividing and subleasing their spaces, to which the Group responded by attempting to forbid subleasing to cultural organizations or to foreigners, hoping to drive out the artists. Tenants, despite some of them having leases still valid for several years, were given the ultimatum of December 31, 2005 to vacate the premises.\n\nBy 2006, public outcry was relentless, and prominent cultural organizations from around the world spoke up. An unlikely duo including SevenStar, a government-led consortium acting as stewards of a pension fund for former factory workers, and Guy Ullens, a Belgian philanthropist who had amassed the world's largest collection of contemporary Chinese art, commissioned Boston-based design firm Sasaki Associates to produce a vision plan which sought to re-purpose the district into a stable source of revenue while providing a much needed destination for China's burgeoning arts scene. The plan needed to inspire multiple stakeholders with often divergent interests. First, the city government in Beijing wanted to ensure that the district would a visible and acclaimed destination. Second, land-holder SevenStar Group needed to generate a sustainable revenue stream to endow the pension fund of former factory workers. Third, international and Chinese non-profit cultural institutions investing in 798 such as the Ullens Center for Contemporary Art wanted to focus on culture and protecting the district’s distinctive character. Finally, residents of adjacent neighborhoods were vocal about the need for community parks, recreation, and job opportunities. \nConsidering these voices equally, the Sasaki Associates master plan for 798 endeavored to reach consensus with a long-game approach to redevelopment. Leading with clear principles and detailed guidelines, the plan was an opportunity to codify the values of the district. To address the city’s concerns, connections from nearby transit stations were strengthened, historic buildings were catalogued, and guidelines for their preservation and adaptive reuse were outlined. Next, a long-term strategy for obtaining revenue from new building leases was realized. A proposed arts school, artist-in-residence program, and requirements that tenants are involved in a creative industry provided cultural institutions with a sense that 798 would attract new talent and ideas. Last, multiple parks and plazas responded to community desire for more public open space.\n\nBy the end of 2007 it was decided that the area would continue in its current format of a special art zone. In 2009, the area has been refurbished and is thriving. 798’s abandoned factory buildings have been transformed into new museums, galleries, and cafes. Fallow fields and once hidden courtyards have reemerged as settings for outdoor sculpture, fashion shows, and other cultural events. The roads have been repaved, new galleries have opened, and a cafe culture is emerging. What began as a small collection of ephemeral studios and other work spaces has become the third most visited destination in Beijing, after the Forbidden City and the Great Wall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42788160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42788160", "title": "A. W. Mellon lectures", "text": "A. W. Mellon lectures\n\nThe A. W. Mellon Lectures in the Fine Arts were established in 1949 to bring to the people of the United States the results of the best contemporary thought and scholarship bearing upon the subject of the fine arts. The lectureship has since become an important honor bestowed upon important scholars and critics. Speakers have included Mary Miller, Anthony Grafton, Kirk Varnedoe, Helen Vendler, T. J. Clark, among many others.\n"}
{"id": "24106777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24106777", "title": "Added art", "text": "Added art\n\nAdded Art uses an existing piece of artwork for its canvas, just as traditional graffiti uses the wall of a building for the canvas. It is essentially the graffiti of artwork. Added Art is a merging of high and low art, using the concepts of graffiti, in a high art environment. Adding to someone else’s work has been a very common occurrence in graffiti for decades. In the urban environment, it is typically considered aggressive or antagonistic in nature, but also form of competition. However, it is still considered a taboo in the more established high arts, even though it has been practiced for over fifty years by stalwarts such as Rauschenberg in his \"Erased de Kooning Drawing\". In more recent examples, Banksy has done several added art pieces over Damien Hirst's \"spot\" painting, and Mat Benote used an untitled work by Robert Morris at the MoMA in NYC as a canvas. A very interesting example was done by the Chapman Brothers, who painted over sketches originally created by Adolf Hitler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42747932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42747932", "title": "Art Jog", "text": "Art Jog\n\nArt Jog is a contemporary art fair, held annually in Taman Budaya Yogyakarta, Indonesia. The fair started out in 2008 as part of the Yogyakarta Art Festival. The Jogja Art Fair became independent in 2009, and changed its name to Art Jog in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "27334304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27334304", "title": "Arts District (Portland, Maine)", "text": "Arts District (Portland, Maine)\n\nThe Arts District of Portland, Maine, USA, covers a large part of upper Congress Street towards the West End. There are many art galleries, a theater company, museums, and schools in the general area. It is near the Maine College of Art.\n\nAn event that occurs in the district is the First Friday Art Walk — a self-guided tour that takes place on the first Friday of each month from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. All of the galleries, museums, and local businesses open their doors to the public for a view of everything that is going on in the art community. Most galleries host the event with food and drink. The Portland Museum of Art opens its doors to the public free of charge. The Arts District is home to two television stations (WCSH and WMTW) and several radio stations.\n\n"}
{"id": "48991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48991", "title": "Arts and Crafts movement", "text": "Arts and Crafts movement\n\nThe Arts and Crafts movement was an international movement in the decorative and fine arts that began in Britain and flourished in Europe and North America between about 1880 and 1920, emerging in Japan (the Mingei movement) in the 1920s. It stood for traditional craftsmanship using simple forms, and often used medieval, romantic, or folk styles of decoration. It advocated economic and social reform and was essentially anti-industrial. It had a strong influence on the arts in Europe until it was displaced by Modernism in the 1930s, and its influence continued among craft makers, designers, and town planners long afterwards.\n\nThe term was first used by T. J. Cobden-Sanderson at a meeting of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society in 1887, although the principles and style on which it was based had been developing in England for at least twenty years. It was inspired by the ideas of architect Augustus Pugin, writer John Ruskin, and designer William Morris.\n\nThe movement developed earliest and most fully in the British Isles, and spread across the British Empire and to the rest of Europe and North America. It was largely a reaction against the perceived impoverished state of the decorative arts at the time and the conditions in which they were produced.\n\nThe Arts and Crafts movement emerged from the attempt to reform design and decoration in mid 19th century Britain. It was a reaction against a perceived decline in standards that the reformers associated with machinery and factory production. Their critique was sharpened by the items they saw in the Great Exhibition of 1851, which they considered to be excessively ornate, artificial and ignorant of the qualities of the materials used.\n\nThe art historian Nikolaus Pevsner has said that exhibits in the Great Exhibition showed \"ignorance of that basic need in creating patterns, the integrity of the surface\" and \"vulgarity in detail\". Design reform began with the organisers of the Exhibition itself, Henry Cole (1808–1882), Owen Jones (1809–1874), Matthew Digby Wyatt (1820–1877) and Richard Redgrave (1804–1888), who deprecated excessive ornament and impractical and badly made things. The organisers were \"unanimous in their condemnation of the exhibits.\" Owen Jones, for example, complained that \"the architect, the upholsterer, the paper-stainer, the weaver, the calico-printer, and the potter\" produce \"in art novelty without beauty, or beauty without intelligence.\" From these criticisms of the contemporary state of manufactured goods emerged several publications which set out what the writers considered to be the correct principles of design. Richard Redgrave's \"Supplementary Report on Design\" (1852) analysed the principles of design and ornament and pleaded for \"more logic in the application of decoration.\" Other works followed in a similar vein: Wyatt's \"Industrial Arts of the Nineteenth Century\" (1853), Gottfried Semper's \"Wissenschaft, Industrie und Kunst\" (\"Science, Industry and Art\") (1852), Ralph Wornum's \"Analysis of Ornament\" (1856), Redgrave's \"Manual of Design\" (1876) and Jones's \"Grammar of Ornament\" (1856). The \"Grammar of Ornament\" was particularly influential, liberally distributed as a student prize and running into nine reprints by 1910.\n\nJones declared that \"Ornament ... must be secondary to the thing decorated\", that there must be \"fitness in the ornament to the thing ornamented\", and that wallpapers and carpets must not have any patterns \"suggestive of anything but a level or plain\". Where a fabric or wallpaper in the Great Exhibition might be decorated with a natural motif made to look as real as possible, these writers advocated flat and simplified natural motifs. Redgrave insisted that \"style\" demanded sound construction before ornamentation, and a proper awareness of the quality of materials used. \"\"Utility\" must have precedence over ornamentation.\"\n\nHowever, the design reformers of the mid 19th century did not go as far as the designers of the Arts and Crafts Movement: they were more concerned with ornamentation than construction, they had an incomplete understanding of methods of manufacture, and they did not criticise industrial methods as such. By contrast, the Arts and Crafts movement was as much a movement of social reform as design reform and its leading practitioners did not separate the two.\n\nSome of the ideas of the movement were anticipated by A.W.N. Pugin (1812–1852), a leader in the Gothic revival in architecture. For example, he, like the Arts and Crafts artists, advocated truth to material, structure and function. Pugin articulated the tendency of social critics to compare the faults of modern society (such as the sprawling growth of cities and the treatment of the poor) unfavorably with the Middle Ages, a tendency that became routine with Ruskin, Morris and the Arts and Crafts movement. His book \"Contrasts\" (1836) drew examples of bad modern buildings and town planning in contrast with good medieval examples, and his biographer Rosemary Hill notes that in it he \"reached conclusions, almost in passing, about the importance of craftsmaship and tradition in architecture that it would take the rest of the century and the combined efforts of Ruskin and Morris to work out in detail.\" She describes the spare furnishings he specified for a building in 1841—\"rush chairs, oak tables\"—as \"the Arts and Crafts interior in embryo.\"\n\nThe Arts and Crafts philosophy derived in large measure from John Ruskin's social criticism, which related the moral and social health of a nation to the qualities of its architecture and to the nature of work. Ruskin (1819–1900) considered the sort of mechanized production and division of labour that had been created in the industrial revolution to be \"servile labour\" and he thought that a healthy and moral society required independent workers who designed the things they made. His followers favoured craft production over industrial manufacture and were concerned about the loss of traditional skills, but they were arguably more troubled by the effects of the factory system than by machinery itself and William Morris's idea of \"handicraft\" was essentially work without any division of labour rather than work without any sort of machinery.\n\nWilliam Morris (1834–1896), the towering figure in late 19th century design, was the main influence on the Arts and Crafts movement. The aesthetic and social vision of the Arts and Crafts movement derived from ideas he developed in the 1850s with a group of students at the University of Oxford, who combined a love of Romantic literature with a commitment to social reform. By 1855 they had discovered Ruskin and, believing there to be a contrast between the barbarity of contemporary art and the painters preceding Raphael (1483-1530), they formed themselves into the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood to pursue their artistic aims. The medievalism of Mallory's \"Morte d'Arthur\" set the standard for their early style. In Edward Burne-Jones' words, they intended to \"wage Holy warfare against the age\".\n\nMorris began experimenting with various crafts and designing furniture and interiors. He was personally involved in manufacture as well as design, which was to be the hallmark of the Arts and Crafts movement. Ruskin had argued that the separation of the intellectual act of design from the manual act of physical creation was both socially and aesthetically damaging; Morris further developed this idea, insisting that no work should be carried out in his workshops before he had personally mastered the appropriate techniques and materials, arguing that \"without dignified, creative human occupation people became disconnected from life\".\n\nIn 1861 Morris began making furniture and decorative objects commercially, modeling his designs on medieval styles and using bold forms and strong colors. His patterns were based on flora and fauna and his products were inspired by the vernacular or domestic traditions of the British countryside. In order to display the beauty of the materials and the work of the craftsman, some were deliberately left unfinished, creating a rustic appearance. Truth to materials, structure and function became characteristic of the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nWilliam Morris shared Ruskin's critique of industrial society and at one time or another attacked the modern factory, the use of machinery, the division of labour, capitalism and the loss of traditional craft methods. But his attitude to machinery was inconsistent. He said at one point that production by machinery was \"altogether an evil\", but at others he was willing to commission work from manufacturers who were able to meet his standards with the aid of machines; and he said that, in a \"true society\", where neither luxuries nor cheap trash were made, machinery could be improved and used to reduce the hours of labour. Fiona MacCarthy says that \"unlike later zealots like Gandhi, William Morris had no practical objections to the use of machinery \"per se\" so long as the machines produced the quality he needed.\"\n\nMorris insisted that the artist should be a craftsman-designer working by hand and advocated a society of free craftspeople, such as he believed had existed during the Middle Ages. \"Because craftsmen took pleasure in their work\", he wrote, \"the Middle Ages was a period of greatness the art of the common people. ... The treasures in our museums now are only the common utensils used in households of that age, when hundreds of medieval churches—each one a masterpiece—were built by unsophisticated peasants.\" Medieval art was the model for much Arts and Crafts design and medieval life, literature and building was idealised by the movement.\n\nMorris's followers also had differing views about machinery and the factory system. C. R. Ashbee, for example, a central figure in the Arts and Crafts Movement, said in 1888, that, \"We do not reject the machine, we welcome it. But we would desire to see it mastered.\" After unsuccessfully pitting his Guild and School of Handicraft guild against modern methods of manufacture, he acknowledged that \"Modern civilization rests on machinery\", but he continued to criticize the deleterious effects of what he called \"mechanism\", saying that \"the production of certain mechanical commodities is as bad for the national health as is the production of slave-grown cane or child-sweated wares.\" William Arthur Smith Benson, on the other hand, had no qualms about adapting the Arts and Crafts style to metalwork produced under industrial conditions. (See quotation box.)\n\nMorris and his followers believed the division of labour on which modern industry depended was undesirable, but the extent to which every design should be carried out by the designer was a matter for debate and disagreement. Not all Arts and Crafts artists carried out every stage in the making of goods themselves, and it was only in the twentieth century that that became essential to the definition of craftsmanship. Although Morris was famous for getting hands-on experience himself of many crafts (including weaving, dying, printing, calligraphy and embroidery), he did not regard the separation of designer and executant in his factory as problematic. Walter Crane, a close political associate of Morris's, took an unsympathetic view of the division of labour on both moral and artistic grounds, and strongly advocated that designing and making should come from the same hand. Lewis Foreman Day, a friend and contemporary of Crane's, as unstinting as Crane in his admiration of Morris, disagreed strongly with Crane. He thought that the separation of design and execution was not only inevitable in the modern world, but also that only that sort of specialisation allowed the best in design and the best in making. Few of the founders of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society insisted that the designer should also be the maker. Peter Floud, writing in the 1950s, said that \"The founders of the Society ... never executed their own designs, but invariably turned them over to commercial firms.\" The idea that the designer should be the maker and the maker the designer derived \"not from Morris or early Arts and Crafts teaching, but rather from the second-generation elaboration doctrine worked out in the first decade of [the twentieth] century by men such as W. R. Lethaby\".\n\nMany of the Arts and Crafts Movement designers were socialists, including Morris, T. J. Cobden Sanderson, Walter Crane, C.R.Ashbee, Philip Webb, Charles Faulkner and A.H.Mackmurdo. In the early 1880s Morris was spending more of his time on socialist propaganda than on designing and making. Ashbee established a community of craftsmen, the Guild of Handicraft, in east London, later moving to Chipping Campden. Those adherents who were not socialists, for example, Alfred Hoare Powell, advocated a more humane and personal relationship between employer and employee. Lewis Foreman Day, a very successful and influential Arts and Crafts designer, was not a socialist either, despite his long friendship with Crane.\n\nIn Britain the movement was associated with dress reform, ruralism, the garden city movement and the folk-song revival. All were linked, in some degree, by the ideal of \"the Simple Life\". In continental Europe the movement was associated with the preservation of national traditions in building, the applied arts, domestic design and costume.\n\nMorris's designs quickly became popular, attracting interest when his company's work was exhibited at the 1862 International Exhibition in London. Much of Morris & Co's early work was for churches and Morris won important interior design commissions at St James's Palace and the South Kensington Museum (now the Victoria and Albert Museum). Later his work became popular with the middle and upper classes, despite his wish to create a democratic art, and by the end of the 19th century, Arts and Crafts design in houses and domestic interiors was the dominant style in Britain, copied in products made by conventional industrial methods.\n\nThe spread of Arts and Crafts ideas during the late 19th and early 20th centuries resulted in the establishment of many associations and craft communities, although Morris had little to do with them because of his preoccupation with socialism at the time. A hundred and thirty Arts and Crafts organisations were formed in Britain, most between 1895 and 1905.\n\nIn 1881, Eglantyne Louisa Jebb, Mary Fraser Tytler and others initiated the Home Arts and Industries Association to encourage the working classes, especially those in rural areas, to take up handicrafts under supervision, not for profit, but in order to provide them with useful occupations and to improve their taste. By 1889 it had 450 classes, 1,000 teachers and 5,000 students.\n\nIn 1882, architect A.H.Mackmurdo formed the Century Guild, a partnership of designers including Selwyn Image, Herbert Horne, Clement Heaton and Benjamin Creswick.\n\nIn 1884, the Art Workers Guild was initiated by five young architects, William Lethaby, Edward Prior, Ernest Newton, Mervyn Macartney and Gerald C. Horsley, with the goal of bringing together fine and applied arts and raising the status of the latter. It was directed originally by George Blackall Simonds. By 1890 the Guild had 150 members, representing the increasing number of practitioners of the Arts and Crafts style. It still exists.\n\nThe London department store Liberty & Co., founded in 1875, was a prominent retailer of goods in the style and of the \"artistic dress\" favoured by followers of the Arts and Crafts movement.\n\nIn 1887 the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society, which gave its name to the movement, was formed with Walter Crane as president, holding its first exhibition in the New Gallery, London, in November 1888. It was the first show of contemporary decorative arts in London since the Grosvenor Gallery's Winter Exhibition of 1881. Morris & Co. was well represented in the exhibition with furniture, fabrics, carpets and embroideries. Edward Burne-Jones observed, \"here for the first time one can measure a bit the change that has happened in the last twenty years\". The society still exists as the Society of Designer Craftsmen.\n\nIn 1888, C.R.Ashbee, a major late practitioner of the style in England, founded the Guild and School of Handicraft in the East End of London. The guild was a craft co-operative modelled on the medieval guilds and intended to give working men satisfaction in their craftsmanship. Skilled craftsmen, working on the principles of Ruskin and Morris, were to produce hand-crafted goods and manage a school for apprentices. The idea was greeted with enthusiasm by almost everyone except Morris, who was by now involved with promoting socialism and thought Ashbee's scheme trivial. From 1888 to 1902 the guild prospered, employing about 50 men. In 1902 Ashbee relocated the guild out of London to begin an experimental community in Chipping Campden in the Cotswolds. The guild's work is characterized by plain surfaces of hammered silver, flowing wirework and colored stones in simple settings. Ashbee designed jewellery and silver tableware. The guild flourished at Chipping Camden but did not prosper and was liquidated in 1908. Some craftsmen stayed, contributing to the tradition of modern craftsmanship in the area.\n\nC.F.A. Voysey (1857–1941) was an Arts and Crafts architect who also designed fabrics, tiles, ceramics, furniture and metalwork. His style combined simplicity with sophistication. His wallpapers and textiles, featuring stylised bird and plant forms in bold outlines with flat colors, were used widely.\n\nMorris's thought influenced the distributism of G. K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc.\n\nBy the end of the nineteenth century, Arts and Crafts ideals had influenced architecture, painting, sculpture, graphics, illustration, book making and photography, domestic design and the decorative arts, including furniture and woodwork, stained glass, leatherwork, lacemaking, embroidery, rug making and weaving, jewelry and metalwork, enameling and ceramics. By 1910, there was a fashion for \"Arts and Crafts\" and all things hand-made. There was a proliferation of amateur handicrafts of variable quality and of incompetent imitators who caused the public to regard Arts and Crafts as \"something less, instead of more, competent and fit for purpose than an ordinary mass produced article.\"\n\nThe Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society held eleven exhibitions between 1888 and 1916. By the outbreak of war in 1914 it was in decline and faced a crisis. Its 1912 exhibition had been a financial failure. While designers in continental Europe were making innovations in design and alliances with industry through initiatives such as the Deutsche Werkbund and new initiatives were being taken in Britain by the Omega Workshops and the Design in Industries Association, the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society, now under the control of an old guard, was withdrawing from commerce and collaboration with manufacturers into purist handwork and what Tania Harrod describes as \"decommoditisation\" Its rejection of a commercial role has been seen as a turning point in its fortunes. Nikolaus Pevsner in his book \"Pioneers of Modern Design\" presents the Arts and Crafts Movement as design radicals who influenced the modern movement, but failed to change and were eventually superseded by it.\n\nThe British artist potter Bernard Leach brought to England many ideas he had developed in Japan with the social critic Yanagi Soetsu about the moral and social value of simple crafts; both were enthusiastic readers of Ruskin. Leach was an active propagandist for these ideas, which struck a chord with practitioners of the crafts in the inter-war years, and he expounded them in \"A Potter's Book\", published in 1940, which denounced industrial society in terms as vehement as those of Ruskin and Morris. Thus the Arts and Crafts philosophy was perpetuated among British craft workers in the 1950s and 1960s, long after the demise of the Arts and Crafts movement and at the high tide of Modernism. British Utility furniture of the 1940s also derived from Arts and Crafts principles. One of its main promoters, Gordon Russell, chairman of the Utility Furniture Design Panel, was imbued with Arts and Crafts ideas. He manufactured furniture in the Cotswold Hills, a region of Arts and Crafts furniture-making since Ashbee, and he was a member of the Arts and Crafts Exhibition Society. William Morris's biographer, Fiona MacCarthy, detected the Arts and Crafts philosophy even behind the Festival of Britain (1951), the work of the designer Terence Conran (b. 1931) and the founding of the British Crafts Council in the 1970s.\n\nThe movement spread to Ireland, representing an important time for the nation's cultural development, a visual counterpart to the literary revival of the same time and was a publication of Irish nationalism. The Arts and Crafts use of stained glass was popular in Ireland, with Harry Clarke the best-known artist and also with Evie Hone. The architecture of the style is represented by the Honan Chapel (1916) in Cork in the grounds of University College Cork. Other architects practicing in Ireland included Sir Edwin Lutyens (Heywood House in Co. Laois, Lambay Island and the Irish National War Memorial Gardens in Dublin) and Frederick 'Pa' Hicks (Malahide Castle estate buildings and round tower). Irish Celtic motifs were popular with the movement in silvercraft, carpet design, book illustrations and hand-carved furniture.\n\nThe beginnings of the Arts and Crafts movement in Scotland were in the stained glass revival of the 1850s, pioneered by James Ballantine (1808–77). His major works included the great west window of Dunfermline Abbey and the scheme for St. Giles Cathedral, Edinburgh. In Glasgow it was pioneered by Daniel Cottier (1838–91), who had probably studied with Ballantine, and was directly influenced by William Morris, Ford Madox Brown and John Ruskin. His key works included the \"Baptism of Christ\" in Paisley Abbey, (c. 1880). His followers included Stephen Adam and his son of the same name. The Glasgow-born designer and theorist Christopher Dresser (1834–1904) was one of the first, and most important, independent designers, a pivotal figure in the Aesthetic Movement and a major contributor to the allied Anglo-Japanese movement. The movement had an \"extraordinary flowering\" in Scotland where it was represented by the development of the 'Glasgow Style' which was based on the talent of the Glasgow School of Art. Celtic revival took hold here, and motifs such as the Glasgow rose became popularised. Charles Rennie Mackintosh and the Glasgow School of Art were to influence others worldwide.\n\nIn continental Europe, the revival and preservation of national styles was an important motive of Arts and Crafts designers; for example, in Germany, after unification in 1871 under the encouragement of the \"Bund für Heimatschutz\" (1897) and the \"Vereinigte Werkstätten für Kunst im Handwerk\" founded in 1898 by Karl Schmidt; and in Hungary Károly Kós revived the vernacular style of Transylvanian building. In central Europe, where several diverse nationalities lived under powerful empires (Germany, Austria-Hungary and Russia), the discovery of the vernacular was associated with the assertion of national pride and the striving for independence, and, whereas for Arts and Crafts practitioners in Britain the ideal style was to be found in the medieval, in central Europe it was sought in remote peasant villages.\nWidely exhibited in Europe, the Arts and Crafts style's simplicity inspired designers like Henry van de Velde and styles such as Art Nouveau, the Dutch De Stijl group, Vienna Secession, and eventually the Bauhaus style. Pevsner regarded the style as a prelude to Modernism, which used simple forms without ornamentation.\n\nThe earliest Arts and Crafts activity in continental Europe was in Belgium in about 1890, where the English style inspired artists and architects including can de Velde, Gabriel Van Dievoet, Gustave Serrurier-Bovy and a group known as \"La Libre Esthétique\" (Free Aesthetic).\n\nArts and Crafts products were admired in Austria and Germany in the early 20th century, and under their inspiration design moved rapidly forward while it stagnated in Britain. The Wiener Werkstätte, founded in 1903 by Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser, was influenced by the Arts and Crafts principles of the \"unity of the arts\" and the hand-made. The Deutscher Werkbund (German Association of Craftsmen) was formed in 1907 as an association of artists, architects, designers, and industrialists to improve the global competitiveness of German businesses and became an important element in the development of modern architecture and industrial design through its advocacy of standardized production. However, its leading members, van de Velde and Hermann Muthesius, had conflicting opinions about standardization. Muthesius believed that it was essential were Germany to become a leading nation in trade and culture. Van de Velde, representing a more traditional Arts and Crafts attitude, believed that artists would forever \"protest against the imposition of orders or standardization,\" and that \"The artist ... will never, of his own accord, submit to a discipline which imposes on him a canon or a type.\" \n\nIn Finland, an idealistic artists' colony in Helsinki was designed by Herman Gesellius, Armas Lindgren and Eliel Saarinen, who worked in the National Romantic style, akin to the British Gothic Revival.\n\nIn Hungary, under the influence of Ruskin and Morris, a group of artists and architects, including Károly Kós, Aladár Körösfői-Kriesch and Ede Toroczkai Wigand, discovered the folk art and vernacular architecture of Transylvania. Many of Kós's buildings, including those in the Budapest zoo and the Wekerle estate in the same city, show this influence.\n\nIn Russia, Viktor Hartmann, Viktor Vasnetsov, Yelena Polenova and other artists associated with Abramtsevo Colony sought to revive the quality of medieval Russian decorative arts quite independently from the movement in Great Britain.\n\nIn Iceland, Sölvi Helgason's work shows Arts and Crafts influence.\n\nIn the United States, the Arts and Crafts style initiated a variety of attempts to reinterpret European Arts and Crafts ideals for Americans. These included the \"Craftsman\"-style architecture, furniture, and other decorative arts such as designs promoted by Gustav Stickley in his magazine, \"The Craftsman\" and designs produced on the Roycroft campus as publicized in Elbert Hubbard's \"The Fra\". Both men used their magazines as a vehicle to promote the goods produced with the Craftsman workshop in Eastwood, NY and Elbert Hubbard's Roycroft campus in East Aurora, NY. A host of imitators of Stickley's furniture (the designs of which are often mislabelled the \"Mission Style\") included three companies established by his brothers.\n\nThe terms \"American Craftsman\" or \"Craftsman style\" are often used to denote the style of architecture, interior design, and decorative arts that prevailed between the dominant eras of Art Nouveau and Art Deco in the USA, or approximately the period from 1910 to 1925. The movement was particularly notable for the professional opportunities it opened up for women as artisans, designers and entrepreneurs who founded and ran, or were employed by, such successful enterprises as the Kalo Shops, Rookwood Pottery, and Tiffany Studios. In Canada, the term \"Arts and Crafts\" predominates, but \"Craftsman\" is also recognized.\n\nWhile the Europeans tried to recreate the virtuous crafts being replaced by industrialisation, Americans tried to establish a new type of virtue to replace heroic craft production: well-decorated middle-class homes. They claimed that the simple but refined aesthetics of Arts and Crafts decorative arts would ennoble the new experience of industrial consumerism, making individuals more rational and society more harmonious. The American Arts and Crafts movement was the aesthetic counterpart of its contemporary political philosophy, progressivism. Characteristically, when the Arts and Crafts Society began in October 1897 in Chicago, it was at Hull House, one of the first American settlement houses for social reform.\n\nArts and Crafts ideals disseminated in America through journal and newspaper writing were supplemented by societies that sponsored lectures. The first was organized in Boston in the late 1890s, when a group of influential architects, designers, and educators determined to bring to America the design reforms begun in Britain by William Morris; they met to organize an exhibition of contemporary craft objects. The first meeting was held on January 4, 1897, at the Museum of Fine Arts (MFA) in Boston to organize an exhibition of contemporary crafts. When craftsmen, consumers, and manufacturers realised the aesthetic and technical potential of the applied arts, the process of design reform in Boston started. Present at this meeting were General Charles Loring, Chairman of the Trustees of the MFA; William Sturgis Bigelow and Denman Ross, collectors, writers and MFA trustees; Ross Turner, painter; Sylvester Baxter, art critic for the \"Boston Transcript\"; Howard Baker, A.W. Longfellow Jr.; and Ralph Clipson Sturgis, architect.\n\nThe first American Arts and Crafts Exhibition began on April 5, 1897, at Copley Hall, Boston featuring more than 1000 objects made by 160 craftsmen, half of whom were women. Some of the advocates of the exhibit were Langford Warren, founder of Harvard's School of Architecture; Mrs. Richard Morris Hunt; Arthur Astor Carey and Edwin Mead, social reformers; and Will H. Bradley, graphic designer. The success of this exhibition resulted in the incorporation of The Society of Arts and Crafts (SAC), on June 28, 1897, with a mandate to \"develop and encourage higher standards in the handicrafts.\" The 21 founders claimed to be interested in more than sales, and emphasized encouragement of artists to produce work with the best quality of workmanship and design. This mandate was soon expanded into a credo, possibly written by the SAC's first president, Charles Eliot Norton, which read:\n\nThis Society was incorporated for the purpose of promoting artistic work in all branches of handicraft. It hopes to bring Designers and Workmen into mutually helpful relations, and to encourage workmen to execute designs of their own. It endeavors to stimulate in workmen an appreciation of the dignity and value of good design; to counteract the popular impatience of Law and Form, and the desire for over-ornamentation and specious originality. It will insist upon the necessity of sobriety and restraint, or ordered arrangement, of due regard for the relation between the form of an object and its use, and of harmony and fitness in the decoration put upon it.\n\nAlso influential were the Roycroft community initiated by Elbert Hubbard in Buffalo and East Aurora, New York, Joseph Marbella, utopian communities like Byrdcliffe Colony in Woodstock, New York, and Rose Valley, Pennsylvania, developments such as Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, featuring clusters of bungalow and chateau homes built by Herbert J. Hapgood, and the contemporary studio craft style. Studio pottery—exemplified by the Grueby Faience Company, Newcomb Pottery in New Orleans, Marblehead Pottery, Teco pottery, Overbeck and Rookwood pottery and Mary Chase Perry Stratton's Pewabic Pottery in Detroit, as well as the art tiles made by Ernest A. Batchelder in Pasadena, California, and idiosyncratic furniture of Charles Rohlfs all demonstrate the influence of Arts and Crafts.\n\nThe \"Prairie School\" of Frank Lloyd Wright, George Washington Maher and other architects in Chicago, the Country Day School movement, the bungalow and ultimate bungalow style of houses popularized by Greene and Greene, Julia Morgan, and Bernard Maybeck are some examples of the American Arts and Crafts and American Craftsman style of architecture. Restored and landmark-protected examples are still present in America, especially in California in Berkeley and Pasadena, and the sections of other towns originally developed during the era and not experiencing post-war urban renewal. Mission Revival, Prairie School, and the 'California bungalow' styles of residential building remain popular in the United States today.\n\nAs theoreticians, educators, and prolific artists in mediums from printmaking to pottery and pastel, two of the most influential figures were Arthur Wesley Dow (1857-1922) on the East Coast and Pedro Joseph de Lemos (1882-1954) in California. Dow, who taught at Columbia University and founded the Ipswich Summer School of Art, published in 1899 his landmark \"Composition\", which distilled into a distinctly American approach the essence of Japanese composition, combining into a decorative harmonious amalgam three elements: simplicity of line, \"notan\" (the balance of light and dark areas), and symmetry of color. His purpose was to create objects that were finely crafted and beautifully rendered. His student de Lemos, who became head of the San Francisco Art Institute, Director of the Stanford University Museum and Art Gallery, and Editor-in-Chief of the \"School Arts Magazine\", expanded and substantially revised Dow's ideas in over 150 monographs and articles for art schools in the United States and Britain. Among his many unorthodox teachings was his belief that manufactured products could express \"the sublime beauty\" and that great insight was to be found in the abstract \"design forms\" of pre-Columbian civilizations.\n\nThe Museum of the American Arts and Crafts Movement is under construction in St. Petersburg, Florida, scheduled to open in 2019.\n\nIn Japan, Yanagi Sōetsu, creator of the Mingei movement which promoted folk art from the 1920s onwards, was influenced by the writings of Morris and Ruskin. Like the Arts and Crafts movement in Europe, Mingei sought to preserve traditional crafts in the face of modernising industry.\n\nMany of the leaders of the Arts and Crafts movement were trained as architects (e.g. William Morris, A. H. Mackmurdo, C. R. Ashbee, W. R. Lethaby) and it was on building that the movement had its most visible and lasting influence.\n\nRed House, in Bexleyheath, London, designed for Morris in 1859 by architect Philip Webb, exemplifies the early Arts and Crafts style, with its well-proportioned solid forms, wide porches, steep roof, pointed window arches, brick fireplaces and wooden fittings. Webb rejected classical and other revivals of historical styles based on grand buildings, and based his design on British vernacular architecture, expressing the texture of ordinary materials, such as stone and tiles, with an asymmetrical and picturesque building composition.\n\nThe London suburb of Bedford Park, built mainly in the 1880s and 1890s, has about 360 Arts and Crafts style houses and was once famous for its Aesthetic residents. Several Almshouses were built in the Arts and Crafts style, for example, Whiteley Village, Surrey, built between 1914 and 1917, with over 280 buildings, and the Dyers Almshouses, Sussex, built between 1939 and 1971. Letchworth Garden City, the first garden city, was inspired by Arts and Crafts ideals. The first houses were designed by Barry Parker and Raymond Unwin in the vernacular style popularized by the movement and the town became associated with high-mindedness and simple living. The sandal-making workshop set up by Edward Carpenter moved from Yorkshire to Letchworth Garden City and George Orwell's jibe about \"every fruit-juice drinker, nudist, sandal-wearer, sex-maniac, Quaker, 'Nature Cure' quack, pacifist, and feminist in England\" going to a socialist conference in Letchworth has become famous.\n\n\nGertrude Jekyll applied Arts and Crafts principles to garden design. She worked with the English architect, Sir Edwin Lutyens, for whose projects she created numerous landscapes, and who designed her home \"Munstead Wood\", near Godalming in Surrey. Jekyll created the gardens for \"Bishopsbarns\", the home of York architect Walter Brierley, an exponent of the Arts and Crafts movement and known as the \"Lutyens of the North\". The garden for Brierley's final project, \"Goddards\" in York, was the work of George Dillistone, a gardener who worked with Lutyens and Jekyll at \"Castle Drogo\". At \"Goddards\" the garden incorporated a number of features that reflected the arts and crafts style of the house, such as the use of hedges and herbaceous borders to divide the garden into a series of outdoor rooms. Another notable Arts and Crafts garden is \"Hidcote Manor Garden\" designed by Lawrence Johnston which is also laid out in a series of outdoor rooms and where, like \"Goddards\", the landscaping becomes less formal further away from the house. Other examples of Arts and Crafts gardens include \"Hestercombe Gardens\", \"Lytes Cary Manor\" and the gardens of some of the architectural examples of arts and crafts buildings (listed above).\n\nMorris's ideas were adopted by the New Education Movement in the late 1880s, which incorporated handicraft teaching in schools at Abbotsholme (1889) and Bedales (1892), and his influence has been noted in the social experiments of Dartington Hall during the mid-20th century.\n\nArts and Crafts practitioners in Britain were critical of the government system of art education based on design in the abstract with little teaching of practical craft. This lack of craft training also caused concern in industrial and official circles, and in 1884 a Royal Commission (accepting the advice of William Morris) recommended that art education should pay more attention to the suitability of design to the material in which it was to be executed. The first school to make this change was the Birmingham School of Arts and Crafts, which \"led the way in introducing executed design to the teaching of art and design nationally (working in the material for which the design was intended rather than designing on paper). In his external examiner's report of 1889, Walter Crane praised Birmingham School of Art in that it 'considered design in relationship to materials and usage.'\" Under the direction of Edward Taylor, its headmaster from 1877 to 1903, and with the help of Henry Payne and Joseph Southall, the Birmingham School became a leading Arts-and-Crafts centre.\n\nOther local authority schools also began to introduce more practical teaching of crafts, and by the 1890s Arts and Crafts ideals were being disseminated by members of the Art Workers Guild into art schools throughout the country. Members of the Guild held influential positions: Walter Crane was director of the Manchester School of Art and subsequently the Royal College of Art; F.M. Simpson, Robert Anning Bell and C.J.Allen were respectively professor of architecture, instructor in painting and design, and instructor in sculpture at Liverpool School of Art; Robert Catterson-Smith, the headmaster of the Birmingham Art School from 1902-1920, was also an AWG member; W. R. Lethaby and George Frampton were inspectors and advisors to the London County Council's (LCC) education board and in 1896, largely as a result of their work, the LCC set up the Central School of Arts and Crafts and made them joint principals. Until the formation of the Bauhaus in Germany, the Central School was regarded as the most progressive art school in Europe. Shortly after its foundation, the Camberwell School of Arts and Crafts was set up on Arts and Crafts lines by the local borough council.\n\nAs head of the Royal College of Art in 1898, Crane tried to reform it along more practical lines, but resigned after a year, defeated by the bureaucracy of the Board of Education, who then appointed Augustus Spencer to implement his plan. Spencer brought in Lethaby to head its school of design and several members of the Art Workers' Guild as teachers. Ten years after reform, a committee of inquiry reviewed the RCA and found that it was still not adequately training students for industry. In the debate that followed the publication of the committee's report, C.R.Ashbee published a highly critical essay, \"Should We Stop Teaching Art\", in which he called for the system of art education to be completely dismantled and for the crafts to be learned in state-subsidised workshops instead. Lewis Foreman Day, an important figure in the Arts and Crafts movement, took a different view in his dissenting report to the committee of inquiry, arguing for greater emphasis on principles of design against the growing orthodoxy of teaching design by direct working in materials. Nevertheless, the Arts and Crafts ethos thoroughly pervaded British art schools and persisted, in the view of the historian of art education, Stuart MacDonald, until after the Second World War.\n\n\nKreisman, Lawrence. The Arts & Craft Movement in the Pacific Northwest. Timber Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "23723295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23723295", "title": "Aspectism", "text": "Aspectism\n\nAspectism is a type of visual art which only attempts to represent outward appearances.\n"}
{"id": "35002945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35002945", "title": "Benda Bilili!", "text": "Benda Bilili!\n\nBenda Bilili! is a 2010 documentary by Renaud Barret and Florent de La Tullaye, produced by Yves Chanvillard and Nadim Cheikhrouha (Screenrunner).\n\nThe film follows the Kinshasa street musician group Staff Benda Bilili, whose core members of the group are disabled due to polio. \"Benda Bilili\" means \"look beyond appearances\" in Lingala.\n\nRenaud Barret and partner Florent de La Tullaye first spotted the group performing on the streets of Kinshasa in 2004. The shooting lasted 5 years until the Staff Benda Bilili became worldwide acclaimed. Amid this larger arc of triumph over adversity, it's Barret and de La Tullaye's joint eye for smaller personal and environmental details that keep the film witty and surprising: the camera captures the social cut-and-thrust of urban Kinshasa, before reflecting the group's wonder at a wider world they previously imagined only in mythic terms. In Benda Bilili!, the sense of discovery between subject and audience is thrillingly mutual.\n\nBenda Bilili! received standing ovations when it opened at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival, with the group in attendance, and performing at the Directors' Fortnight opening party.\n\nThe film opened in American theatres in 2011, although a planned U.S. tour in conjunction with the film had to be canceled due to passport problems.\n\nA musical documentary depicting the against-all-odds rise of Staff Benda Bilili, a dynamic band of street musicians from the Democratic Republic of Congo who became beloved stars of the world music circuit. Charting the group's progress across several years, Benda Bilili! tells a real-life Cinderella story spanning humble beginnings in Kinshasa and a triumphant European tour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23694367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23694367", "title": "Biomechanical art", "text": "Biomechanical art\n\nBiomechanical art (also called Biomech) is a surrealistic style of art that combines elements of machines with organics. Rendered with distinct realism, biomechanical art expresses an internal fantasy world, most typically represented with human or animal anatomy where bones and joints are replaced with metal pistons and gears, but infused with muscles and tendons.\n\nBiomechanical art was popularized in 1979 when Swiss artist H.R. Giger designed the alien creatures in the 1979 feature film \"Alien\".\n\nAfter the popularity of Ridley Scott's 1979 movie \"Alien\", tattoo artists began tattooing images taken directly from the movie, and from artist H.R. Giger's Necronomicon series. As the biomechanical tattoo art style became increasingly popular, tattoo artists such as Guy Aitchison and Aaron Cain began designing their own original, biomechanical art, creating one of tattoo's most popular contemporary tattoo art movements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31160993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31160993", "title": "Black Spark", "text": "Black Spark\n\nBlack Spark is an anonymous male American film director and photographer (born on 14 August 1990) who is most noted for his hypersexualized music videos and unique surreal style. He began posting videos in the fourth quarter of 2010. He has stated in interviews that he is bisexual, that all videos are about his own sex life, and that he is influenced by art pornography from the 1970s.\n\nMuch speculation about his identity has been made. Some sources claimed to have identified him as an adult film actor or model who has done scenes for a web company called \"CollegeDudes\".\n\nBlack Spark has given reasons in interviews as to why he has chosen to be anonymous. His everyday real life is the opposite of Black Spark's hypersexualized life, he works on other projects, and he doesn't want the Black Spark identity to hinder his \"large-scale future plans in film\".\n"}
{"id": "24180533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24180533", "title": "Capsule review", "text": "Capsule review\n\nA capsule review is a form of criticism, usually associated with journalism, that offers a relatively short critique of a specified artistic work (movie, music album, restaurant, painting, etc.). Capsule reviews generally appear in publications like newspapers and magazines, and can range anywhere from just a few sentences up to around 300 words.\n\n\"Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide\" is a famous publication that includes hundreds of capsule movie reviews by prolific film writer Leonard Maltin, including the world's shortest capsule review according to the \"Guinness Book of World Records\", a 2 out of 4 star review of the 1948 musical \"Isn't It Romantic?\" that consisted of only the word \"no\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38715838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38715838", "title": "China International Gallery Exposition", "text": "China International Gallery Exposition\n\nThe China International Gallery Exposition (aka CIGE, Zhongguo guoji hualang bolanhui) is an annual art exhibition held in China which showcases modern art and design.\n\nFirst held in April 2004 at the International Science and Technology Centre in Beijing, the CIGE had doubled in size by the following year and is now in its tenth iteration, which was held at the China National Convention Centre in April 2013. In 2007 a spin-off festival, Art Beijing, emerged as a separate event.\n"}
{"id": "9905728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9905728", "title": "Chocolate box art", "text": "Chocolate box art\n\nChocolate box art originally referred literally to decorations on chocolate boxes. Over the years, however, the terminology has changed; it is now applied broadly as an often pejorative term to describe paintings and designs that are overly idealistic and sentimental.\n\nUsing his own paintings of children, flowers and holiday scenes Richard Cadbury, the son of the founder of Cadbury's, introduced such designs to his chocolate boxes in the late 19th century.\n\nRenoir's paintings have been described as \"chocolate box\" and have been derided by Degas and Picasso for being happy, inoffensive scenes. Constable's landscapes have also been so described.\n\nAelbert Cuyp's \"\" (1660), despite being widely regarded as his best work, has been criticised as having \"chocolate box blandness\". Fred Swan is a modern-day proponent of chocolate box paintings as, to his detractors, was Thomas Kinkade.\n\nThe term has also been applied to sculpture. A young couple standing locked in an embrace forms the centrepiece for the new £800m St Pancras International station in central London. Entitled \"The Meeting Place\", the £1m sculpture is by Briton Paul Day who admitted, \"Some will say it is a chocolate box sculpture\".\n"}
{"id": "13307492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13307492", "title": "Cliché verre", "text": "Cliché verre\n\nCliché verre is a combination of painting and or drawing, with photography. In brief, it is a method of either etching, painting or drawing on a transparent surface, such as glass, thin paper or film and printing the resulting image on a light sensitive paper in a photographic darkroom. It is a process first practiced by a number of French painters during the early 19th century. The French landscape painter Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot was the best known of these. Some contemporary artists have developed techniques for achieving a variety of line, tone, texture and color by experimenting with film, frosted Mylar, paint and inks and a wide assortment of tools for painting, etching, scratching, rubbing and daubing. Scratching a negative is another form of cliche verre. Many ways to get different designs for a cliche verre is to print a design off of the computer onto transparent paper. Or even scan a photo onto transparent paper and alter it that way before exposing it. \n\n\"Cliché verre\" is French. \"Cliché\" is a printing term: a printing plate cast from movable type; while \"verre\" means glass.\n\nCliché verre was one of the earliest forms of reproducing images before the advent of the camera. As a precursor to photography, cliché verre could accurately represent the original scene without the tonal variations available in modern day photography.\n\n"}
{"id": "1013749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1013749", "title": "Comprachicos", "text": "Comprachicos\n\nComprachicos (also Comprapequeños and Cheylas) is a compound Spanish neologism meaning \"child-buyers\", which was coined by Victor Hugo in his novel \"The Man Who Laughs\". It refers to various groups in folklore who were said to change the physical appearance of human beings by manipulating growing children, in a similar way to the horticultural method of bonsai – that is, deliberate mutilation. The most common methods said to be used in this practice included stunting children's growth by physical restraint, muzzling their faces to deform them, slitting their eyes, dislocating their joints, and malforming their bones. The resulting dwarfed and deformed adults made their living as mountebanks or were sold to lords and ladies to be used as pages or court fools.\n\nVictor Hugo's novel \"The Man Who Laughs\" is the story of a young aristocrat kidnapped and disfigured by his captors to display a permanent malicious grin. At the opening of the book, Hugo provides a description of the Comprachicos:\n\nThe Comprachicos worked on man as the Chinese work on trees. A sort of fantastic stunted thing left their hands; it was ridiculous and wonderful. They could touch up a little being with such skill that its father could not have recognized it. Sometimes they left the spine straight and remade the face. Children destined for tumblers had their joints dislocated in a masterly manner; thus gymnasts were made. Not only did the Comprachicos take away his face from the child; they also took away his memory. At least, they took away all they could of it; the child had no consciousness of the mutilation to which he had been subjected. Of burnings by sulphur and incisions by the iron he remembered nothing. The Comprachicos deadened the little patient by means of a stupefying powder which was thought to be magical and which suppressed all pain.\n\nAccording to research by John Boynton Kaiser in the Journal of the American Institute of Criminal Law and Criminology, \"Victor\nHugo has given us a pretty faithful picture of many characteristic details of social England of the 17th century; but the word Comprachicos is used to describe a people whose characteristics are an unhistorical conglomeration of much that was once actual but then obsolete in the history of human society.\" Much that seems unimaginable today may have authentic roots in common practices of the seventeenth century.\n\nOne of the common creations of the Comprachicos was supposed to be artificial dwarfs, formed \"by anointing babies' spines with the grease of bats, moles and dormice\" and using drugs such as \"dwarf elder, knotgrass, and daisy juice\". The conception was known to Shakespeare, as Beatrice K. Otto pointed out, quoting \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\":Get you gone, dwarf;<br>You minimus, of hindering knot-grass made;\n\nOther means of creating this result were conjectured to include physical stunting by breaking or dislocating bones, and forcible constraint, whereby growth was inhibited for a long enough period to create permanent deformation. Because of the demand for dwarfs and other novelties in the courts of kings at this time, this could have been a profitable occupation.\n\nThe term \"comprachico\" is very uncommonly used in modern English except in reference or allusion to the antiquated folklore , but similar stories do exist in the English speaking world. For instance, a tale circulating since at least the 1980s tells of a Japanese bride who disappears during her honeymoon in Europe; years later her husband discovers she has been abducted, mutilated, and forced to work in a freak show.\n\n\"Comprachico\" has been adopted as a pejorative term used for individuals and entities who manipulate the minds and attitudes of children in a way that will permanently distort their beliefs or worldview. Twentieth-century philosopher Ayn Rand referred to educators of the time as \"the Comprachicos of the mind\" in her article \"The Comprachicos\". Her criticism was targeted especially toward educational progressivists, but also grade-school and high-school educators who, in her view, used psychologically harmful methods of education.\n\nIn the 2010 album \"Immersion\" by Australian Drum and Bass band Pendulum, one of the songs was named \"Comprachicos\", where the lyrics had references to manipulation and restraint.\n\nThe 2011 DC comic Batman and Robin #26 contained a villain whose father disfigured him after reading about the \"Comprachicos\" in Hugo's novel.\n\nJames Ellroy refers to them and Victor Hugo's novel in \"The Black Dahlia\" which forms a major motivation for the murder of Elizabeth Short.\n\n"}
{"id": "929658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=929658", "title": "Conté", "text": "Conté\n\nConté, also known as Conté sticks or Conté crayons, are a drawing medium composed of compressed powdered graphite or charcoal mixed with a wax or clay base, square in cross-section. They were invented in 1795 by Nicolas-Jacques Conté, who created the combination of clay and graphite in response to the shortage of graphite caused by the Napoleonic Wars (the British naval blockade of France prevented import). Conté crayons had the advantage of being cost-effective to produce, and easy to manufacture in controlled grades of hardness.\n\nThey are now manufactured using natural pigments (iron oxides, carbon black, titanium dioxide), clay (kaolin), and a binder (cellulose ether).\n\nConté crayons are most commonly found in black, white, and sanguine tones, as well as bistre, shades of grey, and other colors. Currently in the USA, sets of 12 assorted portrait and landscape colors are available as well as a sketching set, plus sets of 18, 24 or 48 colors. In Europe, 22 more colors are available and the colors other than sanguine, bistre, grey, black, and white are available open stock.\n\nColors sets are especially useful for field studies and color studies. Some artists create entire paintings with them, using them more like pastels than like a drawing medium. They are also used often to sketch under pastel paintings or lay down initial layers before using dry pastels. The colors sets lean toward very bright spectrum hues that mix well; even the 12 assorted color set can be layered to produce any hues or values desired. Color Conté mixes better on paper than many hard pastel products.\n\nThey are frequently used on rough paper that holds pigment grains well. They can also be used on prepared primed canvases for underdrawing for a painting. The sticks' square profile make Conté crayons more suitable for detailed hatched work as opposed to the bolder painterly drawing style demanded by soft pastels.\n\nIn the 1880s, Georges Seurat used Conté crayons to produce many of his studies.\n"}
{"id": "8884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8884", "title": "Danse Macabre", "text": "Danse Macabre\n\nThe Danse Macabre (from the French language), also called the Dance of Death, is an artistic genre of allegory of the Late Middle Ages on the universality of death: no matter one's station in life, the Dance Macabre unites all.\n\nThe Danse Macabre consists of the dead or a personification of death summoning representatives from all walks of life to dance along to the grave, typically with a pope, emperor, king, child, and laborer. They were produced as mementos mori, to remind people of the fragility of their lives and how vain were the glories of earthly life. Its origins are postulated from illustrated sermon texts; the earliest recorded visual scheme was a now-lost mural at Holy Innocents' Cemetery in Paris dating from 1424 to 1425.\n\nThe earliest recorded visual example is the lost mural on the south wall of the cemetery of the Holy Innocents in Paris, which was painted in 1424-25 during the regency of John, Duke of Bedford: with its emphatic inclusion of a dead crowned king at a time when France did not have a crowned king, the mural may well have had a political subtext. There were also painted schemes in Basel (the earliest dating from c.1440); a series of paintings on canvas by Bernt Notke, in Lübeck (1463); the initial fragment of the original Bernt Notke painting (accomplished at the end of the 15th century) in the St Nicholas' Church, Tallinn, Estonia (Danse Macabre); the painting at the back wall of the chapel of Sv. Marija na Škrilinama in the Istrian town of Beram (1471), painted by Vincent of Kastav; the painting in the Holy Trinity Church, Hrastovlje, Istria by John of Kastav (1490). \n\nA notable example was painted on the cemetery walls of the Dominican Abbey in Bern by Niklaus Manuel Deutsch in 1516/7.\nThis work was destroyed when the wall was torn down in 1660, but a 1649 copy by Albrecht Kauw is extant.\nThere was also a Dance of Death painted around 1430 and displayed on the walls of Pardon Churchyard at Old St Paul's Cathedral, London, with texts by John Lydgate, known as the 'Dauce of (St) Poulys', which was destroyed in 1549.\n\nThe deathly horrors of the 14th century such as recurring famines, the Hundred Years' War in France, and, most of all, the Black Death, were culturally assimilated throughout Europe. The omnipresent possibility of sudden and painful death increased the religious desire for penance, but it also evoked a hysterical desire for amusement while still possible; a last dance as cold comfort. The danse macabre combines both desires: in many ways similar to the mediaeval mystery plays, the dance-with-death allegory was originally a didactic dialogue poem to remind people of the inevitability of death and to advise them strongly to be prepared at all times for death (see \"memento mori\" and \"Ars moriendi\").\n\nShort verse dialogues between Death and each of its victims, which could have been performed as plays, can be found in the direct aftermath of the Black Death in Germany and in Spain (where it was known as the \"Totentanz\" and \"la Danza de la Muerte\", respectively). The French term \"danse macabre\" may derive from the Latin \"Chorea Machabæorum\", literally \"dance of the Maccabees.\" In 2 Maccabees, a deuterocanonical book of the Bible, the grim martyrdom of a mother and her seven sons is described and was a well-known mediaeval subject. It is possible that the Maccabean Martyrs were commemorated in some early French plays or that people just associated the book's vivid descriptions of the martyrdom with the interaction between Death and its prey.\n\nAn alternative explanation is that the term entered France via Spain, the , \"maqabir\" (cemetery) being the root of the word. Both the dialogues and the evolving paintings were ostensive penitential lessons that even illiterate people (who were the overwhelming majority) could understand.\nFrescoes and murals dealing with death had a long tradition and were widespread, e.g. the legend of the Three Living and the Three Dead: on a ride or hunt, three young gentlemen meet three cadavers (sometimes described as their ancestors) who warn them, \"Quod fuimus, estis; quod sumus, vos eritis\" (What we were, you are; what we are, you will be). Numerous mural versions of that legend from the 13th century onwards have survived (for instance, in the of Wismar or the residential Longthorpe Tower outside Peterborough). Since they showed pictorial sequences of men and corpses covered with shrouds, those paintings are sometimes regarded as cultural precursors of the new genre.\n\nA \"danse macabre\" painting may show a round dance headed by Death or a chain of alternating dead and live dancers. From the highest ranks of the mediaeval hierarchy (usually pope and emperor) descending to its lowest (beggar, peasant, and child), each mortal's hand is taken by a skeleton or an extremely decayed body. The famous \"Totentanz\" by Bernt Notke in St. Mary's Church, Lübeck (destroyed during the Allied bombing of Lübeck in World War II), presented the dead dancers as very lively and agile, making the impression that they were actually dancing, whereas their living dancing partners looked clumsy and passive. The apparent class distinction in almost all of these paintings is completely neutralized by Death as the ultimate equalizer, so that a sociocritical element is subtly inherent to the whole genre. The \"Totentanz\" of Metnitz, for example, shows how a pope crowned with his mitre is being led into Hell by the dancing Death.\n\nUsually, a short dialogue is attached to each victim, in which Death is summoning him (or, more rarely, her) to dance and the summoned is moaning about impending death. In the first printed \"Totentanz\" textbook (Anon.: Vierzeiliger oberdeutscher Totentanz, Heidelberger Blockbuch, approx. 1460), Death addresses, for example, the emperor:\n\nAt the lower end of the \"Totentanz\", Death calls, for example, the peasant to dance, who answers:\n\nThe famous designs by Hans Holbein the Younger (1497–1543) for his Dance of Death series were drawn in 1526 while he was in Basel. They were cut in wood by the accomplished Formschneider (block cutter) Hans Lützelburger. William Ivins (quoting W.J. Linton) writes of Lützelburger's work: \"'Nothing indeed, by knife or by graver, is of higher quality than this man's doing,' for by common acclaim the originals are technically the most marvelous woodcuts ever made.\" These woodcuts soon appeared in proofs with titles in German. The first book edition, containing forty-one woodcuts, was published at Lyons by the Treschsel brothers in 1538. The popularity of the work and the currency of its message are underscored by the fact that there were eleven editions before 1562 and over the sixteenth century perhaps as many as a hundred unauthorized editions and imitations. Ten further designs were added in later editions.\n\nThe \"Dance of Death\" (1523–26) refashions the late-medieval allegory of the \"danse macabre\" as a reformist satire, and one can see the beginnings of a gradual shift from traditional to reformed religion. That shift had many permutations however, and in a thoroughly detailed study Natalie Zemon Davis has shown that the contemporary reception and afterlife of Holbein's designs lent themselves to neither purely Catholic or Protestant doctrine, but could be outfitted with different surrounding prefaces and sermons as printers and writers of different political and religious leanings took them up. Most importantly, it was \"The pictures and the Bible quotations above them were the main attractions ... Both Catholics and Protestants wished, through the pictures, to turn men's thoughts to a Christian preparation for death.\".\n\nThe 1538 edition which contained Latin quotations from the Bible above Holbein's designs, and a French quatrain below composed by Gilles Corrozet, actually did not credit Holbein as the artist. It bore the title: Les simulachres & / HISTORIEES FACES / DE LA MORT, AUTANT ELE/gammēt pourtraictes, que artifi/ciellement imaginées. / A Lyon. / Soubz l'escu de COLOIGNE. / M.D. XXXVIII. (\"Images and Illustrated facets of Death, as elegantly depicted as they are artfully conceived.\") These images and workings of death as captured in the phrase \"historiees faces\" of the title \"are the particular exemplification of the way death works, the individual scenes in which the lessons of mortality are brought home to people of every station.\" In his preface to the work Jean de Vauzèle, the Prior of Montrosier, addresses Jehanne de Tourzelle, the Abbess of the Convent at St. Peter at Lyons, and names Holbein's attempts to capture the ever-present, but never directly seen, abstract images of death \"simulachres.\" He writes: \"... simulachres les dis ie vrayement, pour ce que simulachre vient de simuler, & faindre ce que n'est point.\" (\"Simulachre they are most correctly called, for simulachre derives from the verb to simulate and to feign that which is not really there.\") He next employs a trope from the memento mori (remember we all must die) tradition and a metaphor from printing which well captures the undertakings of Death, the artist, and the printed book before us in which these simulachres of death barge in on the living: \"Et pourtant qu'on n'a peu trouver chose plus approchante a la similitude de Mort, que la personne morte, on d'icelle effigie simulachres, & faces de Mort, pour en nos pensees imprimer la memoire de Mort plus au vis, que ne pourroient toutes les rhetoriques descriptiones de orateurs.\" (\"And yet we cannot discover any one thing more near the likeness of Death than the dead themselves, whence come these simulated effigies and images of Death's affairs, which imprint the memory of Death with more force than all the rhetorical descriptions of the orators ever could.\").\n\nHolbein's series shows the figure of \"Death\" in many disguises, confronting individuals from all walks of life. None escape Death's skeletal clutches, not even the pious. As Davis writes, \"Holbein's pictures are independent dramas in which Death comes upon his victim in the midst of the latter's own surroundings and activities. This is perhaps nowhere more strikingly captured than in the wonderful blocks showing the plowman earning his bread by the sweat of his brow only to have his horses speed him to his end by Death. The Latin from the 1549 Italian edition pictured here reads: \"In sudore vultus tui, vesceris pane tuo.\" (\"Through the sweat of thy brow you shall eat your bread\"), quoting Genesis 3.19. The Italian verses below translate: (\"Miserable in the sweat of your brow,/ It is necessary that you acquire the bread you need eat,/ But, may it not displease you to come with me,/ If you are desirous of rest.\"). Or there is the nice balance in composition Holbein achieves between the heavy-laden traveling salesman insisting that he must still go to market while Death tugs at his sleeve to put down his wares once and for all: \"Venite ad me, qui onerati estis.\" (\"Come to me, all ye who [labor and] are heavy laden\"), quoting Matthew 11.28. The Italian here translates: (\"Come with me, wretch, who are weighed down,/ Since I am the dame who rules the whole world:/ Come and hear my advice,/ Because I wish to lighten you of this load.\").\n\nMusical examples include\n\nThe motif \"Death and the Maiden\", is related to, and may have been derived from, the \"Danse Macabre\". It has received numerous treatments in various media—most prominently Schubert's quartet of that name. Further developments of the \"Danse Macabre\" motif include \"Death and the King's Horseman\", \"Death and the Senator\", \"Death and the Compass\", and \"Death and the Physician\".\n\n\n“Dance Macabre” a song put out by a band called Ghost in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "50110539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50110539", "title": "Dedication (art)", "text": "Dedication (art)\n\nIn art, a dedication is the creation or attribution of a work of art as a tribute to or in honor of a person, place, or thing. The dedicatee may be the commissioner, conductor, premiere performer or musical ensemble, or patron. The work may be memorial.\n\nIn music, examples include many of Beethoven's works, such as the Piano Sonata Op. 109, dedicated to his friend Antonie Brentano's daughter Maximiliane.\n\nIn literature, examples include Vladimir Nabokov's dedication of works to his wife Véra.\n\n"}
{"id": "9295770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9295770", "title": "Festivals (book)", "text": "Festivals (book)\n\nFestivals is a 1973 anthology of festival-related folklore from around the world that have been compiled by Ruth Manning-Sanders. According to the book's dust jacket, \"This potpourri of festivals reveals fascinating customs and celebrations from many countries of the world. Each special day is preceded by background material on the origins of the holiday.\"\n\nSome of the special days covered are (using Manning-Sanders' words and spellings): New Year's Day, Saint Bride's Day, the Japanese Snow Festival, Saint Valentine's Day, Saint Patrick's Day, Shrove Tuesday, Mardi Gras, Easter Day, All Fools' Day, the Bright Weather Festival, Saint George's Day, May Day, the Padstow Hobby Horse, Independence Day, Michaelmas Day, Saint Crispin's Day, Hallow E'en, the Fifth of November, Hogmanay, and Christmas.\n\nFor many of the festivals, the book includes the writings of some famous authors or historical personalities. Among those included in the book are Robert Herrick, Fiona Macleod, Marco Polo, John Donne, Sir Charles Lyall, Norman Hunter, Chiang Yee, Flora Thompson, Laurie Lee, Laura Ingalls Wilder, Dylan Thomas, William Shakespeare, Richard Cobbold, P. L. Travers, Oliver Herford, Alison Uttley, Richard Crashaw, Jon and Rumer Godden, and Alfred Tennyson.\n\nEditor Manning-Sanders, a poet and author who was perhaps best known for her series of children's books in which she collected and retold fairy tales, contributes four pieces to this book:\n\n"}
{"id": "18949461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949461", "title": "Fiction", "text": "Fiction\n\nFiction broadly refers to any narrative that is derived from the imagination—in other words, not based strictly on history or fact. It can also refer, more narrowly, to narratives written only in prose (the novel and short story), and is often used as a synonym for the novel.\n\nIn its most narrow usage fiction refers to novels, but it may also denote any \"literary narrative\" (see literary fiction), including novels, novellas, and short stories. More broadly, fiction has come to encompass imaginative storytelling in any format, including writings, theatrical performances, comics, films, television programs, animations, games (most notably, video games and role-playing games), and so on.\n\nA work of fiction implies the inventive act of constructing an imaginary world, so its audience does not typically expect it to be totally faithful to the real world in presenting only characters who are actual people or descriptions that are factually true. Instead, the context of fiction, generally understood as not adhering precisely to the real world, is more open to interpretation. Characters and events within a fictional work may even be set in their own context entirely separate from the known universe: an independent fictional universe. \n\nFiction's traditional opposite is non-fiction, a narrative work whose creator assumes responsibility for presenting only the historical and factual truth. The distinction between fiction and non-fiction however can be unclear in some recent artistic and literary movements, such as postmodern literature.\n\nTraditionally, fiction includes novels, short stories, fables, legends, myths, fairy tales, epic and narrative poetry, plays (including operas, musicals, dramas, puppet plays, and various kinds of theatrical dances). However, fiction may also encompass comic books, and many animated cartoons, stop motions, anime, manga, films, video games, radio programs, television programs (comedies and dramas), etc.\n\nThe Internet has had a major impact on the creation and distribution of fiction, calling into question the feasibility of copyright as a means to ensure royalties are paid to copyright holders. Also, digital libraries such as Project Gutenberg make public domain texts more readily available. The combination of inexpensive home computers, the Internet and the creativity of its users has also led to new forms of fiction, such as interactive computer games or computer-generated comics. Countless forums for fan fiction can be found online, where loyal followers of specific fictional realms create and distribute derivative stories. The Internet is also used for the development of blog fiction, where a story is delivered through a blog either as flash fiction or serial blog, and collaborative fiction, where a story is written sequentially by different authors, or the entire text can be revised by anyone using a wiki.\n\nTypes of literary fiction in prose include:\n\n\nFiction is commonly broken down into a variety of genres: subsets of fiction, each differentiated by a particular unifying tone or style, narrative technique, media content, or popularly defined criterion. Science fiction, for example, predicts or supposes technologies that are not realities at the time of the work's creation: Jules Verne's novel \"From the Earth to the Moon\" was published in 1865 and only in 1969 did astronaut Neil Armstrong first land on the moon.\n\nHistorical fiction places imaginary characters into real historical events. In the early historical novel \"Waverley\", Sir Walter Scott's fictional character Edward Waverley meets a figure from history, Bonnie Prince Charlie, and takes part in the Battle of Prestonpans. Some works of fiction are slightly or greatly re-imagined based on some originally true story, or a reconstructed biography. Often, even when the fictional story is based on fact, there may be additions and subtractions from the true story to make it more interesting. An example is Tim O'Brien's \"The Things They Carried\", a series of short stories about the Vietnam War.\n\nFictional works that explicitly involve supernatural, magical, or scientifically impossible elements are often classified under the genre of fantasy, including Lewis Carroll's \"Alice In Wonderland\", J. K. Rowling's \"Harry Potter\" series, and J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\". Creators of fantasy sometimes introduce imaginary creatures and beings such as dragons and fairies.\n\nLiterary fiction is a term used in the book-trade to distinguish novels that are regarded as having literary merit, from most commercial or \"genre\" fiction.\n\nNeal Stephenson has suggested that while any definition will be simplistic there is today a general cultural difference between literary and genre fiction. On the one hand literary authors nowadays are frequently supported by patronage, with employment at a university or a similar institution, and with the continuation of such positions determined not by book sales but by critical acclaim by other established literary authors and critics. On the other hand, he suggests, genre fiction writers tend to support themselves by book sales. However, in an interview, John Updike lamented that \"the category of 'literary fiction' has sprung up recently to torment people like me who just set out to write books, and if anybody wanted to read them, terrific, the more the merrier. ... I'm a genre writer of a sort. I write literary fiction, which is like spy fiction or chick lit\". Likewise, on \"The Charlie Rose Show\", he argued that this term, when applied to his work, greatly limited him and his expectations of what might come of his writing, so he does not really like it. He suggested that all his works are literary, simply because \"they are written in words\".\n\nLiterary fiction often involves social commentary, political criticism, or reflection on the human condition. In general it focuses on \"introspective, in-depth character studies\" of \"interesting, complex and developed\" characters. This contrasts with genre fiction where plot is the central concern. Usually in literary fiction the focus is on the \"inner story\" of the characters who drive the plot, with detailed motivations to elicit \"emotional involvement\" in the reader. The style of literary fiction is often described as \"elegantly written, lyrical, and ... layered\". The tone of literary fiction can be darker than genre fiction, while the pacing of literary fiction may be slower than popular fiction. As Terrence Rafferty notes, \"literary fiction, by its nature, allows itself to dawdle, to linger on stray beauties even at the risk of losing its way\".\n\nRealistic fiction typically involves a story whose basic setting (time and location in the world) is real and whose events could feasibly happen in a real-world setting; non-realistic fiction involves a story where the opposite is the case, often being set in an entirely imaginary universe, an alternative history of the world other than that currently understood as true, or some other non-existent location or time-period, sometimes even presenting impossible technology or a defiance of the currently understood laws of nature. However, all types of fiction arguably invite their audience to explore real ideas, issues, or possibilities in an otherwise imaginary setting, or using what is understood about reality to mentally construct something similar to reality, though still distinct from it.\n\nIn terms of the traditional separation between fiction and non-fiction, the lines are now commonly understood as blurred, showing more overlap than mutual exclusion. Even fiction usually has elements of, or grounding in, truth. The distinction between the two may be best defined from the perspective of the audience, according to whom a work is regarded as non-fiction if its people, places, and events are all historically or factually real, while a work is regarded as fiction if it deviates from reality in any of those areas. The distinction between fiction and non-fiction is further obscured by an understanding, on the one hand, that the truth can be presented through imaginary channels and constructions, while, on the other hand, imagination can just as well bring about significant conclusions about truth and reality.\n\nLiterary critic James Wood, argues that \"fiction is both artifice and verisimilitude\", meaning that it requires both creative invention as well as some acceptable degree of believability, a notion often encapsulated in poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge's term: willing suspension of disbelief. Also, infinite fictional possibilities themselves signal the impossibility of fully knowing reality, provocatively demonstrating that there is no criterion to measure constructs of reality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "405304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=405304", "title": "Figure painting", "text": "Figure painting\n\nA figure painting is a work of fine art in any of the painting media with the primary subject being the human figure, whether clothed or nude.\nFigure painting may also refer to the activity of creating such a work. The human figure has been one of the constant subjects of art since the first stone age cave paintings, and has been reinterpreted in various styles throughout history.\nUnlike figure drawings which are usually nudes, figure paintings are often historical, mythological, allegorical or imaginary depictions that may have figures in appropriate costumes. A portrait painting is a figure painting that focuses on the creation of a likeness of a particular individual or group.\n\nThe nude has been a theme in Western art since classical antiquity and again in the Renaissance, after being largely absent during the Middle Ages.\n\nOil paint historically has been the ideal media for depicting the figure. By blending and layering paint, the surface can become more like skin. \"Its slow drying time and various degrees of viscosity enable the artist to achieve rich and subtle blends of color and texture, which can suggest transformations from one human substance to another.\" Although working from live models is preferred, the length of time needed to complete a painting has led most modern painters to use photographs as references at least part of the time if not for the entire work.\n\nFigure painting is not synonymous with figurative art, which may depict real objects of any kind (including humans and animals).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368032", "title": "First Things First 1964 manifesto", "text": "First Things First 1964 manifesto\n\nThe First Things First manifesto was written 29 November 1963 and published in 1964 by Ken Garland. It was backed by over 400 graphic designers and artists and also received the backing of Tony Benn, radical left-wing MP and activist, who published it in its entirety in \"The Guardian\" newspaper.\n\nReacting against a rich and affluent Britain of the 1960s, it tried to re-radicalise a design industry which the signatories felt had become lazy and uncritical. Drawing on ideas shared by critical theory, the Frankfurt School and the counter-culture of the time it explicitly reaffirmed the belief that design is not a neutral, value-free process.\n\nIt rallied against the consumerist culture that was purely concerned with buying and selling things and tried to highlight a Humanist dimension to graphic design theory. It was later updated and republished with a new group of signatories as the First Things First 2000 manifesto.\n\n"}
{"id": "659824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659824", "title": "Frame story", "text": "Frame story\n\nA frame story (also known as a frame tale or frame narrative) is a literary technique that sometimes serves as a companion piece to a story within a story, whereby an introductory or main narrative is presented, at least in part, for the purpose of setting the stage either for a more emphasized second narrative or for a set of shorter stories. The frame story leads readers from a first story into another, smaller one (or several ones) within it. The frame story may also be used to allow readers to understand a part of the story, then jump to another part that can now be understood. This is not however, to be mixed up with a narrative structure or character personality change.\n\nSome of the earliest known frame stories are those from ancient Egypt, including one found in the Papyrus Westcar, the \"Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor\", and \"The Eloquent Peasant\". Other early examples are from Indian literature, including the Sanskrit epics \"Mahabharata\", \"Ramayana\", \"Panchatantra\", Syntipas's \"The Seven Wise Masters\", and the fable collections \"Hitopadesha\" and \"Vikram and The Vampire\". This form gradually spread west through the centuries and became popular, giving rise to such classic frame tale collections as the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), \"The Decameron\", and \"Canterbury Tales\". This format had flexibility in that various narrators could retain the stories they liked or understood, while dropping ones they didn't and adding new ones they heard from other places. This occurred particularly with \"One Thousand and One Nights\", where different versions over the centuries have included different stories.\n\nThe use of a frame story in which a single narrative is set in the context of the telling of a story is also a technique with a long history, dating back at least to the beginning section of the \"Odyssey\", in which the narrator Odysseus tells of his wandering in the court of King Alcinous.\n\nThis literary device acts as a convenient conceit for the organization of a set of smaller narratives, which are either of the devising of the author or taken from a previous stock of popular tales, slightly altered by the author for the purpose of the longer narrative. Sometimes a story within the main narrative can be used to sum up or encapsulate some aspect of the framing story, in which case it is referred to in literary criticism by the French term \"mise en abyme\".\n\nA typical example of a frame story is \"One Thousand and One Nights\", in which the character Shahrazad narrates a set of fairy tales to the Sultan Shahriyar over many nights. Many of Shahrazad's tales are also frame stories, such as \"Tale of Sindbad the Seaman and Sindbad the Landsman\", a collection of adventures related by Sindbad the Seaman to Sindbad the Landsman.\n\nExtensive use of this device is found in Ovid's \"Metamorphoses\", where the stories nest several deep, to allow the inclusion of many different tales in one work. Emily Brontë's \"Wuthering Heights\" uses this literary device to tell the story of Heathcliff and Catherine, along with the subplots. Her sister Anne also uses this device in her epistolary novel \"The Tenant of Wildfell Hall\". The main heroine's diary is framed by the narrator's story and letters.\n\nMary Shelley's novel \"Frankenstein\" is another good example of a book with multiple framed narratives. In the book, Robert Walton writes letters to his sister describing the story told to him by Victor Frankenstein; Frankenstein's story contains the creature's story; the creature's story even briefly contains the story of a family among whom it had been living.\n\nFrame stories have also appeared in other media, such as comic books. Neil Gaiman's comic book series \"The Sandman\" featured a story arc called \"Worlds End\" which consisted of frame stories, and sometimes even featured stories within stories within stories.\n\nFrame stories are often organized as a gathering of people in one place for the exchange of stories. Each character tells his or her tale, and the frame tale progresses in that manner. Historically famous frame stories include Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", about a group of pilgrims who tell stories on their journey to Canterbury; and Boccaccio's \"Decameron\" about a group of young aristocrats escaping the Black Death in the countryside and spending the time telling stories.\nSometimes only one storyteller exists, and in this case there might be different levels of distance between the reader and author. In this mode, the frame tale can become more fuzzy. In Washington Irving's \"Sketch Book\", which contains \"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow\" and \"Rip Van Winkle\" among others, the conceit is that the author of the book is not Irving, but a certain gentleman named Crayon. Here the frame includes the world of the imagined Crayon, his stories, and the possible reader who is assumed to play along and \"know\" who Crayon is.\n\nDonald Westlake's short story \"No Story\" is a parody of frame stories, in which a series of narrators start to tell stories, each of which contains a narrator who starts to tell a story, culminating in a narrator who announces that there will be no story. Essentially, it is a frame story without a story to be framed.\n\nWhen there is a single story, the frame story is used for other purposes – chiefly to position the reader's attitude toward the tale. One common one is to draw attention to the narrator's unreliability. By explicitly making the narrator a character within the frame story, the writer distances him or herself from the narrator; she or he may also characterize the narrator to cast doubt on the narrator's truthfulness. In P. G. Wodehouse's stories of Mr Mulliner, Mulliner is made a fly fisherman in order to cast doubt on the outrageous stories he tells. The movie \"Amadeus\" is framed as a story an old Antonio Salieri tells to a young priest, because the movie is based more on stories Salieri told about Mozart than on historical fact. \n\nAnother use is a form of procatalepsis, where the writer puts the readers' possible reactions to the story in the characters listening to it. In \"The Princess Bride\" the frame of a grandfather reading the story to his reluctant grandson puts the cynical reaction a viewer might have to the romantic fairytale into the story in the grandson's persona, and helps defuse it. This is the use when the frame tells a story that lacks a strong narrative hook in its opening; the narrator can engage the reader's interest by telling the story to answer the curiosity of his listeners, or by warning them that the story began in an ordinary seeming way, but they must follow it to understand later actions, thereby identifying the reader's wondering whether the story is worth reading to the listeners'. Such an approach was used by Edith Wharton in her novella Ethan Frome, in which a nameless narrator hears from many characters in the town of Starkfield about the main character Ethan's story.\n\nA specialized form of the frame is a dream vision, where the narrator claims to have gone to sleep, dreamed the events of the story, and then awoken to tell the tale. In medieval Europe, this was a common device, used to indicate that the events included are fictional; Geoffrey Chaucer used it in \"The Book of the Duchess\", \"The House of Fame\", \"Parlement of Foules\", and \"The Legend of Good Women\" (the last also containing a multi-story frame story within the dream). In modern usage, it is sometimes used in works of fantasy as a means toward suspension of disbelief about the marvels depicted in the story. J.R.R. Tolkien, in his essay \"On Fairy-Stories\" complained of such devices as unwillingness to treat the genre seriously. Lewis Carroll's \"Alice\" stories (\"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and \"Through the Looking-Glass\") includes such a frame, but unlike most usages, the stories themselves use dream-like logic and sequences; most dream frames frame stories that appear exactly as if occurring in real life. The writer John Bunyan used a dream device in the Christian allegory Pilgrim's Progress and its sequel, explaining that they were dreams he had while he was in prison and felt God wanted him to write down. This worked because it made what might have been seen as a fantasy something more realistic and meaningful to other who believed as he did.\n\nStill, even when the story proceeds realistically, the dream frame casts doubt on the events. In the book, \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", the events really occur; the dream frame added for the movie detracts from the validity of the fantasy.\n\nAs with all literary conceits, the frame tale has many variations, some clearly within the confines of the conceit, some on the border, and some pushing the boundaries of understanding. The main goal of a frame tale is as a conceit which can adequately collect otherwise disparate tales. It has been mostly replaced, in modern literature, by the short story collection or anthology absent of any authorial conceit and other rhetorical devices.\n\nTo be a frame narrative, the story must act primarily as an occasion for the telling of other stories. If the framing narrative has primary or equal interest, then it is not usually a frame narrative. For example, Odysseus narrates much of the \"Odyssey\" to the Phaeacians, but, even though this recollection forms a great part of the poem, the events after and before the interpolated recollection are of greater interest than the memory.\n\nAnother notable example that plays with frame narrative is the 1994 film \"Forrest Gump\". Most of the film is narrated by Forrest to various companions on the park bench. However, in the last fifth or so of the film, Forrest gets up and leaves the bench, and we follow him as he meets with Jenny and her son. This final segment suddenly has no narrator unlike the rest of the film that came before it, but is instead told through Forrest and Jenny's dialogues.\n\nThis approach is also demonstrated in the 2008 film \"Slumdog Millionaire\" (adapted from the 2005 novel \"Q & A\"), about a poor street kid Jamal coming close to winning \"Kaun Banega Crorepati\" (the Indian version of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\") and then being suspected of cheating. Most of the story is narrated at a police station by Jamal, who narrates how he knew the answers to the questions as the show is played back on video. The show itself then serves as another framing device, as Jamal sees flashbacks of his past as each question is asked. The last portion of the film then unfolds without any narrator.\n\nJoseph Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\" demonstrates a narrator telling a story, while the protagonist is quoted so as to give the framed appearance that he is telling the story. The narrator provides the transition to the one speaking the story.\n\nA famous literary example is Emily Brontë's \"Wuthering Heights\", whereby we learn events through a visitor to the house of the title, who in turn has been told these events by the housekeeper of the Linton family. None of the main characters ever directly narrates.\n\nAnother example is David Mitchell's 2004 novel Cloud Atlas, which is a frame story inside a frame story inside a frame story – and so on. There are six stories in all, each framed inside the other, forming a chiastic structure to a semi-cathartic tale spanning centuries of narrative.\n\nFrame stories are found in many role-playing video games, such as the early \"Dragon Quest IV\", released in 1990. This literary device can also be sparingly used to achieve secondary ends. For instance, the \"Shining Force\" series of role playing games use narrators within frame stories to implement things like starting, saving and exiting the game without breaking the fourth wall entirely, or rather by constructing a second fourth wall to shield the player from having to suspend his/her disbelief as much. A similar approach was used in the open world video game \"\", where the game's missions are presented as a series of flashbacks narrated by Tommy Angelo, as he confesses his involvement with an American Mafia family. Another example of frame stories in video games is the game Catherine. Catherine's first scene is a frame story.\n\nIn the game \"Bastion\", the Kid's actions are narrated by one of the other characters, Rucks, as he tells the Kid's story to another character while the Kid is in the final area. Because Rucks never learns about the Kid's actions explicitly, the narration is mostly anecdotal and primarily serves to fill in background information about each level; however, it also serves to keep the fourth wall intact, as player deaths are portrayed as jokes on the narrator's part. After the player's actions catch up to the story, the narration switches to a more speculative tone, as Rucks no longer knows what the player is doing.\n\nAnother example is \"Persona 5\", which begins \"in medias res\" and is largely framed around Sae Niijima's interrogation of the protagonist, henceforth referred to by his code name \"Joker\" since the character's proper name is player-defined. During the story, Niijima introduces the audience to antagonists the Phantom Thieves have targeted, and whenever a Confidant besides Niijima (who cuts a deal with Joker during the interrogation) or the Velvet Room residents is unlocked, she will press Joker for information on accomplices and skills. Whenever a new party member is introduced, Niijima will press Joker on how he knew them, reacting with horror at the point in the game when her younger sister Makoto becomes a Phantom Thief. Should the player fail to complete a Palace by its deadline, the resulting game over is framed as a truth serum overdose Joker is suffering from preventing him from recalling events correctly and a mysterious man - heavily implied and later confirmed to be a traitor to the Phantom Thieves - murdering him in cold blood while Niijima leaves to allow him to recover. Conversely, a more minor memory problem caused by the truth serum overdose is used to avoid revealing the traitor's identity too early. The device is dropped once the in-game calendar reaches the day of the interrogation, as the prologue leads into the interrogation and the main conflict is still far from resolved by this date.\n\nIn musical sonata form or rondo, a theme occurs at the beginning and end of the work, or returns periodically. This could most simply be a recurrence or restatement of a melody or song. For example, the Beatles song \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" works as a framing device for their album of the same name, appearing at the beginning and end of the album. Other albums with similar devices include Paul McCartney & Wings' \"Band on the Run\", the recurring heartbeats in Pink Floyd's album \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" and \"Wish You Were Here\" (\"Shine On You Crazy Diamond\"), Supertramp's \"Crime of the Century\" (the harmonica riff at the beginning of \"School\" is reprised at the end of the title track), and Spirit's \"Twelve Dreams of Dr. Sardonicus\" (\"You have the world at your fingertips/No one can make it better than you\"). Another is Junior Senior's 'D-D-D-Don't Stop The Beat' album which ends with a reprise of the first notes from the opening track. The closing track of Genesis' \"Selling England by the Pound\" is a reprise of the opening track \"Dancing with the Moonlit Knight.\"\n\nA reprise may be expressed in narrative: at the beginning and the end of the movie \"The Good, the Bad and the Ugly\", Clint Eastwood's character shoots the noose to save his partner from hanging.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1992 movie \"Far and Away\", the father \"dies\" and then returns to life briefly. The same thing happens in \"Vanilla Sky\" where Tom Cruise's character \"dies\" and then comes back to life.\n\nFraming devices may also take the form of a recurrent element that appears at the beginning and the end of the narrative. For example, a story may begin with a character visiting a park under one set of circumstances, then returning at the end to the same park under a different set of circumstances, having undergone a change that allows him or her to see the park in a new light.\nA framing device might also simply be a defining image of the narrative or art that is used at the beginning and end of the work. \n\nAn example of this is in the film \"Chariots of Fire\" which begins and ends with the characters running along a beach, accompanied at both times by the movie’s famous theme music. This scene, although chronologically occurring in the middle of the film and unimportant to the straightforward plot, serves to convey a defining emotion and tone that sets the context for the main story.\n\n"}
{"id": "45389345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45389345", "title": "Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto", "text": "Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto\n\nThe Futurist Painting: Technical Manifesto (1910) by Umberto Boccioni (1882-1916) was the first exposition of the theoretical underpinnings of Italian Futurist painting.\n\nThe manifesto was first published as a leaflet in \"Poesia\", in Milan, 11 April 1910. Apart from Boccioni, it was signed by Carlo Carrà, Luigi Russolo, Giacomo Balla and Gino Severini, although they did not necessarily all contribute to the text. The translation most often used in English is from the \"Exhibition of Works by the Italian Futurist Painters\" at the Sackville Gallery in London, March 1912.\n\nThe manifesto built on the publication of the \"Manifesto of Futurism\" by Filippo Marinetti in \"Le Figaro\" in Paris in 1909 and Boccioni's \"Manifesto of the Futurist Painters\" published as a leaflet in \"Poesia\", 11 February 1910, neither of which had described in detail how Futurist ideas would be represented on the canvas.\n"}
{"id": "25057451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25057451", "title": "Gabriel Villa", "text": "Gabriel Villa\n\nGabriel Villa (born 1965, El Paso, Texas, USA) is a Pilsen, Chicago-based artist and muralist. His influences have been \"Family, U.S Texas/Mexico Border Culture, American Sports, 1960’s Counter Culture, 1980’s Reaganomics, Indigenous and Western Art\".\n\nIn May 2009, he was commissioned to paint a mural on a private property in Chicago's Bridgeport neighborhood depicting three Chicago Police Department public surveillance cameras that carried the CPD logo along with other images, like a crucified Christ, a deer head and a skull. The mural was painted over completely by the Graffiti Blasters at the behest of 11th ward Alderman James Balcer, who said about the mural \"My main concern is the safety and well-being for the people in this community. We have gang violence and children getting shot, and I believed that the mural sent the wrong message.” The incident sparked a local controversy over censorship, surveillance and private property.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "506242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506242", "title": "Gambier Parry process", "text": "Gambier Parry process\n\nThe Gambier Parry process is a development of the classical technique of fresco for painting murals, named for Thomas Gambier Parry.\n\nTrue fresco is the technique of painting on fresh lime plaster whereby the pigments are fixed by the carbonatation of the lime (calcium hydroxide). The technique requires no other binding medium and the fixing process produces a durable crystalline paint layer. However, only a limited range of pigments are suitable for true frescoes and the technique requires careful application under controlled conditions, and relatively low humidity thereafter. In some environments, conventional fresco colours can rapidly accumulate dirt and grime. The decoration of the new Houses of Parliament in the mid-nineteenth century saw an embarrassing failure of true fresco in England but had generated a revival in mural painting. \n\nGambier Parry developed a spirit medium for use on a specially prepared plaster or canvas ground and in 1862 he published his recipe. Originally it used beeswax, oil of spike lavender, spirits of turpentine, elemi resin and copal varnish, and was complex both in preparing the wall surface and applying the paint. With commercialisation the process was simplified and became widely known.\n\nThe system was used by Frederic Leighton for \"The Arts of Industry as Applied to War\" and \"The Arts of Industry as Applied to Peace\" at the Victoria & Albert Museum (1870-72) and by Ford Madox Brown on the \"Manchester Murals\" in Manchester Town Hall (1879-93). One of the most complete examples of the Gambier Parry process may be seen at St Leonard's Church, Newland, Worcestershire where frescoes cover the interior of the church; St Leonard's is the private chapel of the Beauchamp Almshouses.\n"}
{"id": "11985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11985", "title": "Graffiti", "text": "Graffiti\n\nGraffiti (plural of \"graffito\": \"a graffito\", but \"these graffiti\") are writing or drawings that have been scribbled, scratched, or painted, typically illicitly, on a wall or other surface, often within public view. Graffiti range from simple written words to elaborate wall paintings, and they have existed since ancient times, with examples dating back to Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, and the Roman Empire.\n\nIn modern times, paint (particularly spray paint) and marker pens have become the most commonly used graffiti materials. In most countries, marking or painting property without the property owner's permission is considered defacement and vandalism, which is a punishable crime.\n\nGraffiti may also express underlying social and political messages and a whole genre of artistic expression is based upon spray paint graffiti styles. Within hip hop culture, graffiti have evolved alongside hip hop music, b-boying, and other elements. Unrelated to hip-hop graffiti, gangs use their own form of graffiti to mark territory or to serve as an indicator of gang-related activities.\n\nControversies that surround graffiti continue to create disagreement amongst city officials, law enforcement, and writers who wish to display and appreciate work in public locations. There are many different types and styles of graffiti; it is a rapidly developing art form whose value is highly contested and reviled by many authorities while also subject to protection, sometimes within the same jurisdiction.\n\nBoth \"graffiti\" and its occasional singular form \"graffito\" are from the Italian word \"graffiato\" (\"scratched\"). \"Graffiti\" is applied in art history to works of art produced by scratching a design into a surface. A related term is \"sgraffito\", which involves scratching through one layer of pigment to reveal another beneath it. This technique was primarily used by potters who would glaze their wares and then scratch a design into it. In ancient times graffiti were carved on walls with a sharp object, although sometimes chalk or coal were used. The word originates from Greek —\"graphein\"—meaning \"to write\".\n\nThe term \"graffiti\" referred to the inscriptions, figure drawings, and such, found on the walls of ancient sepulchres or ruins, as in the Catacombs of Rome or at Pompeii. Use of the word has evolved to include any graphics applied to surfaces in a manner that constitutes vandalism.\n\nThe only known source of the Safaitic language, a form of proto-Arabic, is from graffiti: inscriptions scratched on to the surface of rocks and boulders in the predominantly basalt desert of southern Syria, eastern Jordan and northern Saudi Arabia. Safaitic dates from the first century BC to the fourth century AD.\n\nThe first known example of \"modern style\" graffiti survives in the ancient Greek city of Ephesus (in modern-day Turkey). Local guides say it is an advertisement for prostitution. Located near a mosaic and stone walkway, the graffiti shows a handprint that vaguely resembles a heart, along with a footprint, a number, and a carved image of a woman's head. This is believed to indicate that a brothel was nearby, with the handprint symbolizing payment.\n\nThe ancient Romans carved graffiti on walls and monuments, examples of which also survive in Egypt. Graffiti in the classical world had different connotations than they carry in today's society concerning content. Ancient graffiti displayed phrases of love declarations, political rhetoric, and simple words of thought, compared to today's popular messages of social and political ideals\nThe eruption of Vesuvius preserved graffiti in Pompeii, which includes Latin curses, magic spells, declarations of love, alphabets, political slogans, and famous literary quotes, providing insight into ancient Roman street life. One inscription gives the address of a woman named Novellia Primigenia of Nuceria, a prostitute, apparently of great beauty, whose services were much in demand. Another shows a phallus accompanied by the text, \"mansueta tene\" (\"handle with care\").\n\nDisappointed love also found its way onto walls in antiquity:\n\nAncient tourists visiting the 5th-century citadel at Sigiriya in Sri Lanka scribbled over 1800 individual graffiti there between the 6th and 18th centuries. Etched on the surface of the Mirror Wall, they contain pieces of prose, poetry, and commentary. The majority of these visitors appear to have been from the elite of society: royalty, officials, professions, and clergy. There were also soldiers, archers, and even some metalworkers. The topics range from love to satire, curses, wit, and lament. Many demonstrate a very high level of literacy and a deep appreciation of art and poetry. Most of the graffiti refer to the frescoes of semi-nude females found there. One reads:\n\n<poem>Wet with cool dew drops\nfragrant with perfume from the flowers\ncame the gentle breeze\njasmine and water lily\ndance in the spring sunshine\nside-long glances\nof the golden-hued ladies\nstab into my thoughts\nheaven itself cannot take my mind\nas it has been captivated by one lass\namong the five hundred I have seen here.</poem>\n\nAmong the ancient political graffiti examples were Arab satirist poems. Yazid al-Himyari, an Umayyad Arab and Persian poet, was most known for writing his political poetry on the walls between Sajistan and Basra, manifesting a strong hatred towards the Umayyad regime and its \"walis\", and people used to read and circulate them very widely.\n\nHistoric forms of graffiti have helped gain understanding into the lifestyles and languages of past cultures. Errors in spelling and grammar in these graffiti offer insight into the degree of literacy in Roman times and provide clues on the pronunciation of spoken Latin. Examples are \"CIL\" IV, 7838: \"Vettium Firmum / aed\"[ilem] \"quactiliar\"[ii] \"rog\"[ant]. Here, \"qu\" is pronounced \"co\". The 83 pieces of graffiti found at \"CIL\" IV, 4706-85 are evidence of the ability to read and write at levels of society where literacy might not be expected. The graffiti appear on a peristyle which was being remodeled at the time of the eruption of Vesuvius by the architect Crescens. The graffiti were left by both the foreman and his workers. The brothel at \"CIL\" VII, 12, 18–20 contains more than 120 pieces of graffiti, some of which were the work of the prostitutes and their clients. The gladiatorial academy at \"CIL\" IV, 4397 was scrawled with graffiti left by the gladiator Celadus Crescens (\"Suspirium puellarum Celadus thraex\": \"Celadus the Thracian makes the girls sigh.\")\n\nAnother piece from Pompeii, written on a tavern wall about the owner of the establishment and his questionable wine:\n\n<poem>\nLandlord, may your lies malign\nBring destruction on your head!\nYou yourself drink unmixed wine,\nWater [do you] sell [to] your guests instead.</poem>\n\nIt was not only the Greeks and Romans who produced graffiti: the Maya site of Tikal in Guatemala contains examples of ancient Maya graffiti. Viking graffiti survive in Rome and at Newgrange Mound in Ireland, and a Varangian scratched his name (Halvdan) in runes on a banister in the Hagia Sophia at Constantinople. These early forms of graffiti have contributed to the understanding of lifestyles and languages of past cultures.\n\nGraffiti, known as Tacherons, were frequently scratched on Romanesque Scandinavian church walls.\nWhen Renaissance artists such as Pinturicchio, Raphael, Michelangelo, Ghirlandaio, or Filippino Lippi descended into the ruins of Nero's Domus Aurea, they carved or painted their names and returned to initiate the \"grottesche\" style of decoration.\n\nThere are also examples of graffiti occurring in American history, such as Independence Rock, a national landmark along the Oregon Trail.\n\nLater, French soldiers carved their names on monuments during the Napoleonic in the 1790s. Lord Byron's survives on one of the columns of the Temple of Poseidon at Cape Sounion in Attica, Greece.\n\nGraffiti writing is often intertwined with hip hop culture and the myriad international styles derived from Philadelphia and New York City Subway graffiti. However, there are many other instances of notable graffiti in the twentieth century. Graffiti have long appeared on building walls, in latrines, railroad boxcars, subways, and bridges. The oldest known example of modern graffiti is found on traincars created by hobos and railworkers started more than eighty years ago, called Bozo Texino, documented by filmmaker Bill Daniel in his 2005 film, \"Who is Bozo Texino?\".\n\nSome graffiti have their own poignancy. In World War II, an inscription on a wall at the fortress of Verdun was seen as an illustration of the US response twice in a generation to the wrongs of the Old World:\n\n<poem>\nAustin White – Chicago, Ill – 1918\nAustin White – Chicago, Ill – 1945\nThis is the last time I want to write my name here.</poem>\n\nDuring World War II and for decades after, the phrase \"Kilroy was here\" with an accompanying illustration was widespread throughout the world, due to its use by American troops and ultimately filtering into American popular culture. Shortly after the death of Charlie Parker (nicknamed \"Yardbird\" or \"Bird\"), graffiti began appearing around New York with the words \"Bird Lives\". The student protests and general strike of May 1968 saw Paris bedecked in revolutionary, anarchistic, and situationist slogans such as \"L'ennui est contre-révolutionnaire\" (\"Boredom is counterrevolutionary\") expressed in painted graffiti, poster art, and stencil art. At the time in the US, other political phrases (such as \"Free Huey\" about Black Panther Huey Newton) became briefly popular as graffiti in limited areas, only to be forgotten. A popular graffito of the early 1970s was \"Dick Nixon Before He Dicks You\", reflecting the hostility of the youth culture to that US president.\n\nRock and roll graffiti is a significant subgenre. A famous graffito of the twentieth century was the inscription in the London tube reading \"Clapton is God\" in a link to the guitarist Eric Clapton. The phrase was spray-painted by an admirer on a wall in an Islington station on the Underground in the autumn of 1967. The graffito was captured in a photograph, in which a dog is urinating on the wall.\n\nGraffiti also became associated with the anti-establishment punk rock movement beginning in the 1970s. Bands such as Black Flag and Crass (and their followers) widely stenciled their names and logos, while many punk night clubs, squats, and hangouts are famous for their graffiti. In the late 1980s the upside down Martini glass that was the tag for punk band Missing Foundation was the most ubiquitous graffito in lower Manhattan, and was copied by hard core punk fans throughout the US and West Germany.\n\nAlong similar lines was the legend \"Frodo Lives,\" referring to the protagonist of \"The Lord of the Rings\".\n\nIn 1979, graffiti artist Lee Quinones and Fab 5 Freddy were given a gallery opening in Rome by art dealer Claudio Bruni. For many outside of New York, it was their first encounter with their art form. Fab 5 Freddy's friendship with Debbie Harry influenced Blondie's single \"Rapture\" (Chrysalis, 1981), the video of which featured Jean-Michel Basquiat, and offered many their first glimpse of a depiction of elements of graffiti in hip hop culture. JaJaJa toured Germany, Switzerland, Belgium, and Holland with a large graffiti canvas as a backdrop. Charlie Ahearn's independently released fiction film \"Wild Style\" (Wild Style, 1983), the early PBS documentary \"Style Wars\" (1983), hit songs such as \"The Message\" and \"Planet Rock\" and their accompanying music videos (both 1982) contributed to a growing interest outside New York in all aspects of hip hop.\n\n\"Style Wars\" depicted not only famous graffiti artists such as Skeme, Dondi, MinOne, and ZEPHYR, but also reinforced graffiti's role within New York's emerging hip-hop culture by incorporating famous early break-dancing groups such as Rock Steady Crew into the film and featuring rap in the soundtrack. Although many officers of the New York City Police Department found this film to be controversial, Style Wars is still recognized as the most prolific film representation of what was going on within the young hip hop culture of the early 1980s. Fab 5 Freddy and Futura 2000 took hip hop graffiti to Paris and London as part of the New York City Rap Tour in 1983. Hollywood also paid attention, consulting writers such as PHASE 2 as it depicted the culture and gave it international exposure in movies such as \"Beat Street\" (Orion, 1984).\n\nThis period also saw the emergence of the new stencil graffiti genre. Some of the first examples were created in 1981 by graffiti artist Blek le Rat in Paris, in 1982 by Jef Aerosol in Tours (France); by 1985 stencils had appeared in other cities including New York City, Sydney, and Melbourne, where they were documented by American photographer Charles Gatewood and Australian photographer Rennie Ellis.\n\nPeople often leave their traces in wet cement or concrete. This type of graffito often commemorates the mutual commitment of a couple, or simply records a person's presence at a particular moment. Often this type of graffito is dated and is left untouched for decades, offering a look into local historical minutiae.\n\nWith the popularity and legitimization of graffiti has come a level of commercialization. In 2001, computer giant IBM launched an advertising campaign in Chicago and San Francisco which involved people spray painting on sidewalks a peace symbol, a heart, and a penguin (Linux mascot), to represent \"Peace, Love, and Linux.\" Due to laws forbidding it, some of the \"street artists\" were arrested and charged with vandalism, and IBM was fined more than US$120,000 for punitive damages and clean-up costs.\n\nIn 2005, a similar ad campaign was launched by Sony and executed by TATS CRU in New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, and Miami, to market its handheld PSP gaming system. In this campaign, taking notice of the legal problems of the IBM campaign, Sony paid building owners for the rights to paint on their buildings \"a collection of dizzy-eyed urban kids playing with the PSP as if it were a skateboard, a paddle, or a rocking horse\".\n\nAlong with the commercial growth has come the rise of video games also depicting graffiti, usually in a positive aspect – for example, the \"Jet Set Radio\" series (2000–2003) tells the story of a group of teens fighting the oppression of a totalitarian police force that attempts to limit the graffiti artists' freedom of speech. In plotlines mirroring the negative reaction of non-commercial artists to the commercialization of the art form by companies such as IBM (and, later, Sony itself) the \"Rakugaki Ōkoku\" series (2003–2005) for Sony's PlayStation 2 revolves around an anonymous hero and his magically imbued-with-life graffiti creations as they struggle against an evil king who only allows art to be produced which can benefit him. Following the original roots of modern graffiti as a political force came another game title, \"\" (2006), featuring a story line involving fighting against a corrupt city and its oppression of free speech, as in the \"Jet Set Radio\" series.\n\nOther games which feature graffiti include \"Bomb the World\" (2004), an online graffiti simulation created by graffiti artist Klark Kent where users can paint trains virtually at 20 locations worldwide, and \"Super Mario Sunshine\" (2002), in which the hero, Mario must clean the city of graffiti left by the villain, Bowser Jr. in a plotline which evokes the successes of the Anti-Graffiti Task Force of New York's Mayor Rudolph Giuliani (a manifestation of the \"broken window theory\") or those of the \"Graffiti Blasters\" of Chicago's Mayor Richard M. Daley.\n\nNumerous other non-graffiti-centric video games allow the player to produce graffiti (such as the \"Half-Life\" series, the \"Tony Hawk's\" series, \"\", \"Rolling\", and \"\"). \"Counter-Strike\", which is a \"Half-Life\" mod, allows users to create their own graffiti tags to use in the game. Many other titles contain in-game depictions of graffiti, including \"The Darkness\", \"\", \"NetHack\", \"\", \"The World Ends with You\", \"The Warriors\", \"Just Cause\", \"Portal\", and various examples of Virtual Graffiti. There also exist games where the term \"graffiti\" is used as a synonym for \"drawing\" (such as \"Yahoo! Graffiti\", \"Graffiti\", etc.).\n\nMarc Ecko, an urban clothing designer, has been an advocate of graffiti as an art form during this period, stating that \"Graffiti is without question the most powerful art movement in recent history and has been a driving inspiration throughout my career.\"\n\nHenry Chalfant is one of the foremost advocates of modern graffiti, having produced the documentary film Style Wars and co-authored the books \"Subway Art\" and \"Spray Can Art\". His most recent work, \"Henry Chalfant's Graffiti Archive: New York City's Subway Art and Artists\" displays his over 800 photographs of New York City Subway Graffiti Art.\n\nKeith Haring was another well-known graffiti artist who brought Pop Art and graffiti to the commercial mainstream. In the 1980s, Haring opened his first Pop Shop: a store that offered everyone access to his works, which until then could only be found spray-painted on city walls. Pop Shop offered commodities such as bags and t-shirts. Haring explained that \"The Pop Shop makes my work accessible. It's about participation on a big level, the point was that we didn't want to produce things that would cheapen the art. In other words, this was still art as statement.\"\n\nGraffiti have become a common stepping stone for many members of both the art and design communities in North America and abroad. Within the United States graffiti artists such as Mike Giant, Pursue, Rime, Noah, and countless others have made careers in skateboard, apparel, and shoe design for companies such as DC Shoes, Adidas, Rebel8, Osiris, or Circa Meanwhile, there are many others such as DZINE, Daze, Blade, and The Mac who have made the switch to being gallery artists, often not even using their initial medium, spray paint.\n\nBut perhaps the greatest example of graffiti artists infiltrating mainstream pop culture is the French crew 123Klan. Founded as a graffiti crew in 1989 by Scien and Klor, 123Klan has gradually turned their hands to illustration and design while still maintaining their graffiti practice and style. In doing so they have designed and produced logos and illustrations, shoes, and fashion for the likes of Nike, Adidas, Lamborghini, Coca Cola, Stussy, Sony, Nasdaq, and more.\n\nThere is a significant graffiti tradition in South America, especially in Brazil. Within Brazil, São Paulo is a significant centre of inspiration for many graffiti artists worldwide.\n\nTristan Manco wrote that Brazil \"boasts a unique and particularly rich, graffiti scene ... [earning] it an international reputation as the place to go for artistic inspiration.\" Graffiti \"flourishes in every conceivable space in Brazil's cities.\" Artistic parallels \"are often drawn between the energy of São Paulo today and 1970s New York.\" The \"sprawling metropolis,\" of São Paulo has \"become the new shrine to graffiti;\" Manco alludes to \"poverty and unemployment ... [and] the epic struggles and conditions of the country's marginalised peoples,\" and to \"Brazil's chronic poverty,\" as the main engines that \"have fuelled a vibrant graffiti culture.\" In world terms, Brazil has \"one of the most uneven distributions of income. Laws and taxes change frequently.\" Such factors, Manco argues, contribute to a very fluid society, riven with those economic divisions and social tensions that underpin and feed the \"folkloric vandalism and an urban sport for the disenfranchised,\" that is South American graffiti art.\n\nProminent Brazilian graffiti artists include Os Gêmeos, Boleta, Nunca, Nina, Speto, Tikka, and T.Freak. Their artistic success and involvement in commercial design ventures has highlighted divisions within the Brazilian graffiti community between adherents of the cruder transgressive form of \"pichação\" and the more conventionally artistic values of the practitioners of \"grafite\".\n\nGraffiti in the Middle East is emerging slowly, with pockets of taggers operating in the various 'Emirates' of the United Arab Emirates, in Israel, and in Iran. The major Iranian newspaper \"Hamshahri\" has published two articles on illegal writers in the city with photographic coverage of Iranian artist A1one's works on Tehran walls. Tokyo-based design magazine, \"PingMag\", has interviewed A1one and featured photographs of his work. The Israeli West Bank barrier has become a site for graffiti, reminiscent in this sense of the Berlin Wall. Many graffiti artists in Israel come from other places around the globe, such as JUIF from Los Angeles and DEVIONE from London. The religious reference \"נ נח נחמ נחמן מאומן\" (\"Na Nach Nachma Nachman Meuman\") is commonly seen in graffiti around Israel.\n\nThere are also a large number of graffiti influences in Southeast Asian countries that mostly come from modern Western culture, such as Malaysia, where graffiti have long been a common sight in Malaysia's capital city, Kuala Lumpur. Since 2010, the country has begun hosting a street festival to encourage all generations and people from all walks of life to enjoy and encourage Malaysian street culture.\n\nThe modern-day graffiti artist can be found with an arsenal of various materials that allow for a successful production of a piece. This includes such techniques as scribing. However, spray paint in aerosol cans is the number one medium for graffiti. From this commodity comes different styles, technique, and abilities to form master works of graffiti. Spray paint can be found at hardware and art stores and comes in virtually every color.\n\nStencil graffiti, originating in the early 1980s (Blek le Rat, Jef Aerosol, Speedy Graphito, Miss Tic ... ) is created by cutting out shapes and designs in a stiff material (such as cardboard or subject folders) to form an overall design or image. The stencil is then placed on the \"canvas\" gently and with quick, easy strokes of the aerosol can, the image begins to appear on the intended surface. This method of graffiti is popular amongst artists because of its swift technique that requires very little time. Time is always a factor with graffiti artists due to the constant threat of being caught by law enforcement.\n\nModern graffiti art often incorporates additional arts and technologies. For example, Graffiti Research Lab has encouraged the use of projected images and magnetic light-emitting diodes (throwies) as new media for graffiti artists. Yarnbombing is another recent form of graffiti. Yarnbombers occasionally target previous graffiti for modification, which had been avoided among the majority of graffiti artists.\n\nSome of the most common styles of graffiti have their own names. A tag is the most basic writing of an artist's name; it is simply a handstyle. A graffiti writer's tag is his or her personalized signature. Tagging is often the example given when opponents of graffiti refer to any acts of handstyle graffiti writing (it is by far the most common form of graffiti). Tags can contain subtle and sometimes cryptic messages, and may incorporate the artist's crew initials or other letters.\n\nOne form of tagging, known as pissing, involves taking a refillable fire-extinguisher and replacing the contents with paint, allowing for tags as high as approximately . Aiming and keeping a handstyle steady in this form of tagging is very difficult, usually coming out wavy and sloppy.\n\nAnother form is the throw-up, also known as a bombing, which is normally painted very quickly with two or three colors, sacrificing aesthetics for speed. Throw-ups can also be outlined on a surface with one color. A piece is a more elaborate representation of the artist's name, incorporating more stylized letters, usually incorporating a much larger range of colors. This is more time-consuming and increases the likelihood of the artist getting caught. A blockbuster or roller is a large piece, almost always done in a block-shaped style, done simply to cover a large area solidly with two contrasting colors, sometimes with the whole purpose of blocking other writers from painting on the same wall. These are usually accomplished with extended paint rollers and gallons of cheap exterior paint.\n\nA more complex style is wildstyle, a form of graffiti usually involving interlocking letters and connecting points. These pieces are often harder to read by non-graffiti artists as the letters merge into one another in an often-undecipherable manner.\n\nSome artists also use self-adhesive stickers as a quick way to do catch ups. While certain critics from within graffiti culture consider this lazy, stickers can be quite detailed in their own right and often, are used in conjunction with other materials. Sticker tags are commonly executed on blank postage stickers, as these can easily be acquired with no cost on the writer's part.\n\nMany graffiti artists believe that doing complex pieces involves too great an investment of time to justify the practice. Doing a piece can take (depending on experience and size) from 30 minutes to months on end, as was the case for Saber MSK while working on the world's largest graffiti piece on the LA river.\n\nAnother graffiti artist can go over a piece in a matter of minutes with a simple throw-up. This was exemplified by the writer \"CAP\" in the documentary \"Style Wars\", who, other writers complain, ruins pieces with his quick throw ups. This became known as capping and often is done when there is a \"beef\", or conflict between writers.\n\nA number of recent examples of graffiti make use of hashtags.\n\nTheories on the use of graffiti by avant-garde artists have a history dating back at least to the Scandinavian Institute of Comparative Vandalism in 1961.\n\nMany contemporary analysts and even art critics have begun to see artistic value in some graffiti and to recognize it as a form of public art. According to many art researchers, particularly in the Netherlands and in Los Angeles, that type of public art is, in fact an effective tool of social emancipation or, in the achievement of a political goal.\n\nThe murals of Belfast and of Los Angeles offer another example of official recognition. In times of conflict, such murals have offered a means of communication and self-expression for members of these socially, ethnically, or racially divided communities, and have proven themselves as effective tools in establishing dialog and thus, of addressing cleavages in the long run. The Berlin Wall was also extensively covered by graffiti reflecting social pressures relating to the oppressive Soviet rule over the GDR.\n\nMany artists involved with graffiti are also concerned with the similar activity of stenciling. Essentially, this entails stenciling a print of one or more colors using spray-paint. Recognized while exhibiting and publishing several of her coloured stencils and paintings portraying the Sri Lankan Civil War and urban Britain in the early 2000s, graffiti artist Mathangi Arulpragasam, aka M.I.A., has also become known for integrating her imagery of political violence into her music videos for singles \"Galang\" and \"Bucky Done Gun\", and her cover art. Stickers of her artwork also often appear around places such as London in Brick Lane, stuck to lamp posts and street signs, she having become a muse for other graffiti artists and painters worldwide in cities including Seville. Graffiti artist John Fekner, called \"caption writer to the urban environment, adman for the opposition\" by writer Lucy Lippard, was involved in direct art interventions within New York City's decaying urban environment in the mid-1970s through the 1980s. Fekner is known for his word installations targeting social and political issues, stenciled on buildings throughout New York.\n\nGraffiti artists constantly have the looming threat of facing consequences for displaying their graffiti. Many choose to protect their identities and reputation by remaining anonymous.\n\nWith the commercialization of graffiti (and hip hop in general), in most cases, even with legally painted \"graffiti\" art, graffiti artists tend to choose anonymity. This may be attributed to various reasons or a combination of reasons. Graffiti still remains the one of four hip hop elements that is not considered \"performance art\" despite the image of the \"singing and dancing star\" that sells hip hop culture to the mainstream. Being a graphic form of art, it might also be said that many graffiti artists still fall in the category of the introverted archetypal artist.\n\nBanksy is one of the world's most notorious and popular street artists who continues to remain faceless in today's society. He is known for his political, anti-war stencil art mainly in Bristol, England, but his work may be seen anywhere from Los Angeles to Palestine. In the UK, Banksy is the most recognizable icon for this cultural artistic movement and keeps his identity a secret to avoid arrest. Much of Banksy's artwork may be seen around the streets of London and surrounding suburbs, although he has painted pictures throughout the world, including the Middle East, where he has painted on Israel's controversial West Bank barrier with satirical images of life on the other side. One depicted a hole in the wall with an idyllic beach, while another shows a mountain landscape on the other side. A number of exhibitions also have taken place since 2000, and recent works of art have fetched vast sums of money. Banksy's art is a prime example of the classic controversy: vandalism vs. art. Art supporters endorse his work distributed in urban areas as pieces of art and some councils, such as Bristol and Islington, have officially protected them, while officials of other areas have deemed his work to be vandalism and have removed it.\n\nPixnit is another artist who chooses to keep her identity from the general public. Her work focuses on beauty and design aspects of graffiti as opposed to Banksy's anti-government shock value. Her paintings are often of flower designs above shops and stores in her local urban area of Cambridge, Massachusetts. Some store owners endorse her work and encourage others to do similar work as well. \"One of the pieces was left up above Steve's Kitchen, because it looks pretty awesome\"- Erin Scott, the manager of New England Comics in Allston, Massachusetts.\n\nGraffiti often has a reputation as part of a subculture that rebels against authority, although the considerations of the practitioners often diverge and can relate to a wide range of attitudes. It can express a political practice and can form just one tool in an array of resistance techniques. One early example includes the anarcho-punk band Crass, who conducted a campaign of stenciling anti-war, anarchist, feminist, and anti-consumerist messages throughout the London Underground system during the late 1970s and early 1980s. In Amsterdam graffiti was a major part of the punk scene. The city was covered with names such as \"De Zoot\", \"Vendex\", and \"Dr Rat\". To document the graffiti a punk magazine was started that was called \"Gallery Anus\". So when hip hop came to Europe in the early 1980s there was already a vibrant graffiti culture.\n\nThe student protests and general strike of May 1968 saw Paris bedecked in revolutionary, anarchistic, and situationist slogans such as \"L'ennui est contre-révolutionnaire\" (\"Boredom is counterrevolutionary\") and \"Lisez moins, vivez plus\" (\"Read less, live more\"). While not exhaustive, the graffiti gave a sense of the 'millenarian' and rebellious spirit, tempered with a good deal of verbal wit, of the strikers.\n\nThe developments of graffiti art which took place in art galleries and colleges as well as \"on the street\" or \"underground\", contributed to the resurfacing in the 1990s of a far more overtly politicized art form in the subvertising, culture jamming, or tactical media movements. These movements or styles tend to classify the artists by their relationship to their social and economic contexts, since, in most countries, graffiti art remains illegal in many forms except when using non-permanent paint. Since the 1990s with the rise of Street Art, a growing number of artists are switching to non-permanent paints and non-traditional forms of painting for a variety of reasons—but primarily because is it difficult for the police to apprehend them and for the courts to sentence or even convict a person for a protest that is as fleeting and less intrusive than marching in the streets. In some communities, such impermanent works survive longer than works created with permanent paints because the community views the work in the same vein as that of the civil protester who marches in the street—such protest are impermanent, but effective nevertheless.\n\nIn some areas where a number of artists share the impermanence ideal, an informal competition develops: the length of time that a work escapes destruction is viewed as a measure of the respect the work garners in the community. A crude work that deserves little respect would be invariably removed immediately, while the most talented artists might have works last for days.\n\nContemporary practitioners, accordingly, have varied and often conflicting practices. Some individuals, such as Alexander Brener, have used the medium to politicize other art forms, and have used the prison sentences enforced on them as a means of further protest.\nThe practices of anonymous groups and individuals also vary widely, and practitioners by no means always agree with each other's practices. For example, the anti-capitalist art group the Space Hijackers did a piece in 2004 about the contradiction between the capitalistic elements of Banksy and his use of political imagery.\n\nOn top of the political aspect of graffiti as a movement, political groups and individuals may also use graffiti as a tool to spread their point of view. This practice, due to its illegality, has generally become favored by groups excluded from the political mainstream (e.g. far-left or far-right groups) who justify their activity by pointing out that they do not have the money – or sometimes the desire – to buy advertising to get their message across, and that a \"ruling class\" or \"establishment\" controls the mainstream press, systematically excluding the radical and alternative point of view. This type of graffiti can seem crude; for example fascist supporters often scrawl swastikas and other Nazi images.\n\nOne innovative form of graffiti that emerged in the UK in the 1970s was devised by the Money Liberation Front (MLF), essentially a loose affiliation of underground press writers such as the poet and playwright Heathcote Williams and magazine editor and playwright Jay Jeff Jones. They initiated the use of paper currency as a medium for counterculture propaganda, overprinting banknotes, usually with a John Bull printing set. Although short lived, the MLF was representative of London's Ladbroke Grove centered alternative and literary community of the period. The area was also a scene of considerable anti-establishment and humorous street graffiti, much of which is also produced by Williams. In 2009, following the elections in Iran, protesters (who regarded the electoral result as rigged) began to deface banknotes with slogans such as \"Death to the dictator\". In Colombia writing and drawing on banknotes has become increasingly popular, either to make political comments, for fun or as an artistic medium. The national government has run advertising campaigns in an attempt to discourage the practice. In the UK there have been signs of an MLF resurgence with a number of banknotes in circulation being over-marked with protest slogans such as \"Banks=Robbers\", relating to the perceived culpability of banks in the financial crisis.\n\nBoth sides of the conflict in Northern Ireland produce political graffiti. As well as slogans, Northern Irish political graffiti includes large wall paintings, referred to as \"murals\". Along with the flying of flags and the painting of kerb stones, the murals serve a territorial purpose, often associated with gang use. Artists paint them mostly on house gables or on the \"Peace Lines\", high walls that separate different communities.\n\nThe murals often develop over an extended period and tend to stylization, with a strong symbolic or iconographic content. Loyalist murals often refer to historical events dating from the war between James II and William III in the late seventeenth century, whereas Republican murals usually refer to the more recent troubles.\n\nTerritorial graffiti marks urban neighborhoods with tags and logos to differentiate certain groups from others. These images are meant to show outsiders a stern look at whose turf is whose. The subject matter of gang-related graffiti consists of cryptic symbols and initials strictly fashioned with unique calligraphies. Gang members use graffiti to designate membership throughout the gang, to differentiate rivals and associates and, most commonly, to mark borders which are both territorial and ideological.\n\nGraffiti has been used as a means of advertising both legally and illegally. Bronx-based TATS CRU has made a name for themselves doing legal advertising campaigns for companies such as Coca-Cola, McDonald's, Toyota, and MTV. In the UK, Covent Garden's Boxfresh used stencil images of a Zapatista revolutionary in the hopes that cross referencing would promote their store.\n\nTech Giants Hewlett Packard used graffiti company Graffiti Kings based in London to showcase the creative use for their Sprout computer by producing a video, during the video Hewlett Packard showed many pieces of graffiti art while the Graffiti Kings artist used the Sprout computer to draw digital graffiti. Smirnoff hired artists to use reverse graffiti (the use of high pressure hoses to clean dirty surfaces to leave a clean image in the surrounding dirt) to increase awareness of their product. Shepard Fairey rose to fame after his \"Andre the Giant Has a Posse\" sticker campaign, in which his art was plastered in cities throughout America.\n\nMany graffiti artists see legal advertising as no more than \"paid for and legalised graffiti\", and have risen against mainstream ads. The Graffiti Research Lab crew have gone on to target several prominent ads in New York as a means of making a statement against this practice.\n\nGraffiti may also be used as an offensive expression. This form of graffiti may be difficult to identify, as it is mostly removed by the local authority (as councils which have adopted strategies of criminalization also strive to remove graffiti quickly). Therefore, existing racist graffiti is mostly more subtle and at first sight, not easily recognized as \"racist\". It can then only be understood if one knows the relevant \"local code\" (social, historical, political, temporal, and spatial), which is seen as heteroglot and thus a 'unique set of conditions' in a cultural context.\nHence, the lack of obvious racist graffiti does not necessarily mean that there is none. By making the graffiti less explicit (as adapted to social and legal constraints), these drawings are less likely to be removed, but do not lose their threatening and offensive character.\n\nElsewhere, activists in Russia have used painted caricatures of local officials with their mouths as potholes, to show their anger about the poor state of the roads. In Manchester, England a graffiti artist painted obscene images around potholes, which often resulted in their being repaired within 48 hours.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the first art galleries to show graffiti artists to the public were Fashion Moda in the Bronx, Now Gallery and Fun Gallery, both in the East Village, Manhattan.\n\nA 2006 exhibition at the Brooklyn Museum displayed graffiti as an art form that began in New York's outer boroughs and reached great heights in the early 1980s with the work of Crash, Lee, Daze, Keith Haring, and Jean-Michel Basquiat. It displayed 22 works by New York graffiti artists, including Crash, Daze, and Lady Pink. In an article about the exhibition in the magazine \"Time Out\", curator Charlotta Kotik said that she hoped the exhibition would cause viewers to rethink their assumptions about graffiti. Terrance Lindall, an artist and executive director of the Williamsburg Art and Historic Center, said regarding graffiti and the exhibition:\n\n\"Graffiti is revolutionary, in my opinion\", he says, \"and any revolution might be considered a crime. People who are oppressed or suppressed need an outlet, so they write on walls—it's free.\"\n\nFrom the 1970s onwards, Burhan Dogancay photographed urban walls all over the world; these he then archived for use as sources of inspiration for his painterly works. The project today known as \"Walls of the World\" grew beyond even his own expectations and comprises about 30,000 individual images. It spans a period of 40 years across five continents and 114 countries. In 1982, photographs from this project comprised a one-man exhibition titled \"Les murs murmurent, ils crient, ils chantent...\" (The walls whisper, shout and sing ... ) at the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris.\n\nIn Australia, art historians have judged some local graffiti of sufficient creative merit to rank them firmly within the arts. Oxford University Press's art history text \"Australian Painting 1788–2000\" concludes with a long discussion of graffiti's key place within contemporary visual culture, including the work of several Australian practitioners.\n\nBetween March and April 2009, 150 artists exhibited 300 pieces of graffiti at the Grand Palais in Paris — a clear acceptance of the art form into the French art world.\n\nMany graffiti artists have used their design talents in other artistic endeavors. In 2009 graffiti artist \"Scape\" published \"GRAFF; the Art & Technique of Graffiti\", the world's first book dedicated to displaying the full techniques of creating graffiti art. Other books that focus on graffiti include \"Faith of Graffiti\" by Norman Mailer, \"Trespass\" by Taschen press, and the comic book by Elite Gudz, \"Concrete Immortalz\", which has a graffiti artist as its main character.\n\nFigurines by KAWS, featuring icons of pop culture, often with crossed-out eyes, run in limited editions and sell for thousands of dollars. World-renowned street artist Banksy directed a film in 2010, \"Exit Through the Gift Shop\", which explored street art and commercialism.\n\nSpray paint has many negative environmental effects. The paint contains toxic chemicals, and the can uses chlorofluorocarbons or volatile hydrocarbon gases to spray the paint unto a surface. As an alternative, moss graffiti is starting to catch on, which uses moss to create text or images. The moss is glued onto a surface by means of beer, buttermilk, or yogurt combined with sugar.\n\nIn China, Mao Zedong in the 1920s used revolutionary slogans and paintings in public places to galvanise the country's communist revolution.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Tsang Tsou Choi was known as the \"King of Kowloon\" for his calligraphy graffiti over many years, in which he claimed ownership of the area. Now some of his work is preserved officially.\n\nIn Taiwan, the government has made some concessions to graffiti artists. Since 2005 they have been allowed to freely display their work along some sections of riverside retaining walls in designated \"Graffiti Zones\". From 2007, Taipei's department of cultural affairs also began permitting graffiti on fences around major public construction sites. Department head Yong-ping Lee (李永萍) stated, \"We will promote graffiti starting with the public sector, and then later in the private sector too. It's our goal to beautify the city with graffiti\". The government later helped organize a graffiti contest in Ximending, a popular shopping district. Graffiti artists caught working outside of these designated areas still face fines up to $6,000 TWD under a department of environmental protection regulation. However, Taiwanese authorities can be relatively lenient, one veteran police officer stating anonymously, \"Unless someone complains about vandalism, we won't get involved. We don't go after it proactively.\"\n\nIn 1993, after several expensive cars in Singapore were spray-painted, the police arrested a student from the Singapore American School, Michael P. Fay, questioned him, and subsequently charged him with vandalism. Fay pleaded guilty to vandalizing a car in addition to stealing road signs. Under the 1966 Vandalism Act of Singapore, originally passed to curb the spread of communist graffiti in Singapore, the court sentenced him to four months in jail, a fine of S$3,500 (US$2,233), and a caning. \"The New York Times\" ran several editorials and op-eds that condemned the punishment and called on the American public to flood the Singaporean embassy with protests. Although the Singapore government received many calls for clemency, Fay's caning took place in Singapore on 5 May 1994. Fay had originally received a sentence of six strokes of the cane, but the presiding president of Singapore, Ong Teng Cheong, agreed to reduce his caning sentence to four lashes.\n\nIn South Korea, Park Jung-soo was fined 2 million South Korean won by the Seoul Central District Court for spray-painting a rat on posters of the G-20 Summit a few days before the event in November 2011. Park alleged that the initial in \"G-20\" sounds like the Korean word for \"rat\", but Korean government prosecutors alleged that Mr. Park was making a derogatory statement about the president of ROK, Lee Myung-bak, the host of the summit. This case led to public outcry and debate on the lack of government tolerance and in support of freedom of expression. The court ruled that the painting, \"an ominous creature like a rat\" amounts to \"an organized criminal activity\" and upheld the fine while denying the prosecution's request for imprisonment for Park.\n\nIn Europe, community cleaning squads have responded to graffiti, in some cases with reckless abandon, as when in 1992 in France a local Scout group, attempting to remove modern graffiti, damaged two prehistoric paintings of bison in the Cave of Mayrière supérieure near the French village of Bruniquel in Tarn-et-Garonne, earning them the 1992 Ig Nobel Prize in archeology.\n\nIn September 2006, the European Parliament directed the European Commission to create urban environment policies to prevent and eliminate dirt, litter, graffiti, animal excrement, and excessive noise from domestic and vehicular music systems in European cities, along with other concerns over urban life.\n\nThe Anti-Social Behaviour Act 2003 became Britain's latest anti-graffiti legislation. In August 2004, the Keep Britain Tidy campaign issued a press release calling for zero tolerance of graffiti and supporting proposals such as issuing \"on the spot\" fines to graffiti offenders and banning the sale of aerosol paint to anyone under the age of 16. The press release also condemned the use of graffiti images in advertising and in music videos, arguing that real-world experience of graffiti stood far removed from its often-portrayed 'cool' or 'edgy' image.\n\nTo back the campaign, 123 MPs (including then Prime Minister Tony Blair), signed a charter which stated: \"Graffiti is not art, it's crime. On behalf of my constituents, I will do all I can to rid our community of this problem.\" However, since the early 1990s, the British graffiti scene has been struck by self-titled \"art terrorist\" Banksy, who has revolutionized the style of UK graffiti (bringing to the forefront stencils to aid the speed of painting), as well as the content; making his work largely satirical of the sociological state of cities, or the political climate of war, often using monkeys and rats as motifs.\n\nIn the UK, city councils have the power to take action against the owner of any property that has been defaced under the Anti-social Behaviour Act 2003 (as amended by the Clean Neighbourhoods and Environment Act 2005) or, in certain cases, the Highways Act. This is often used against owners of property that are complacent in allowing protective boards to be defaced so long as the property is not damaged.\n\nIn July 2008, a conspiracy charge was used to convict graffiti artists for the first time. After a three-month police surveillance operation, nine members of the DPM crew were convicted of conspiracy to commit criminal damage costing at least £1 million. Five of them received prison sentences, ranging from eighteen months to two years. The unprecedented scale of the investigation and the severity of the sentences rekindled public debate over whether graffiti should be considered art or crime.\n\nSome councils, like those of Stroud and Loerrach, provide approved areas in the town where graffiti artists can showcase their talents, including underpasses, car parks, and walls that might otherwise prove a target for the 'spray and run.'\n\nIn Budapest, Hungary both a city-backed movement called \"I Love Budapest\" and a special police division tackle the problem, including the provision of approved areas.\n\nIn an effort to reduce vandalism, many cities in Australia have designated walls or areas exclusively for use by graffiti artists. One early example is the \"Graffiti Tunnel\" located at the Camperdown Campus of the University of Sydney, which is available for use by any student at the university to tag, advertise, poster, and create \"art\". Advocates of this idea suggest that this discourages petty vandalism yet encourages artists to take their time and produce great art, without worry of being caught or arrested for vandalism or trespassing. Others disagree with this approach, arguing that the presence of legal graffiti walls does not demonstrably reduce illegal graffiti elsewhere. Some local government areas throughout Australia have introduced \"anti-graffiti squads\", who clean graffiti in the area, and such crews as BCW (Buffers Can't Win) have taken steps to keep one step ahead of local graffiti cleaners.\n\nMany state governments have banned the sale or possession of spray paint to those under the age of 18 (age of majority). However, a number of local governments in Victoria have taken steps to recognize the cultural heritage value of some examples of graffiti, such as prominent political graffiti. Tough new graffiti laws have been introduced in Australia with fines of up to A$26,000 and two years in prison.\n\nMelbourne is a prominent graffiti city of Australia with many of its lanes being tourist attractions, such as Hosier Lane in particular, a popular destination for photographers, wedding photography, and backdrops for corporate print advertising. The Lonely Planet travel guide cites Melbourne's street as a major attraction. All forms of graffiti, including sticker art, poster, stencil art, and wheatpasting, can be found in many places throughout the city. Prominent street art precincts include; Fitzroy, Collingwood, Northcote, Brunswick, St. Kilda, and the CBD, where stencil and sticker art is prominent. As one moves farther away from the city, mostly along suburban train lines, graffiti tags become more prominent. Many international artists such as Banksy have left their work in Melbourne and in early 2008 a perspex screen was installed to prevent a Banksy stencil art piece from being destroyed, it has survived since 2003 through the respect of local street artists avoiding posting over it, although it has recently had paint tipped over it.\n\nIn February 2008 Helen Clark, the New Zealand prime minister at that time, announced a government crackdown on tagging and other forms of graffiti vandalism, describing it as a destructive crime representing an invasion of public and private property. New legislation subsequently adopted included a ban on the sale of paint spray cans to persons under 18 and increases in maximum fines for the offence from NZ$200 to NZ$2,000 or extended community service. The issue of tagging become a widely debated one following an incident in Auckland during January 2008 in which a middle-aged property owner stabbed one of two teenage taggers to death and was subsequently convicted of manslaughter.\n\nGraffiti databases have increased in the past decade because they allow vandalism incidents to be fully documented against an offender and help the police and prosecution charge and prosecute offenders for multiple counts of vandalism. They also provide law enforcement the ability to rapidly search for an offender's moniker or tag in a simple, effective, and comprehensive way. These systems can also help track costs of damage to city to help allocate an anti-graffiti budget. The theory is that when an offender is caught putting up graffiti, they are not just charged with one count of vandalism; they can be held accountable for all of the other damage for which they are responsible. This has two main benefits for law enforcement. One, it sends a signal to the offenders that their vandalism is being tracked. Two, a city can seek restitution from offenders for all of the damage that they have committed, not merely a single incident. These systems give law enforcement personnel real-time, street-level intelligence that allows them to not only focus on the worst graffiti offenders and their damage, but also to monitor potential gang violence that is associated with the graffiti.\n\nMany restrictions of civil gang injunctions are designed to help address and protect the physical environment and limit graffiti. Provisions of gang injunctions include things such as restricting the possession of marker pens, spray paint cans, or other sharp objects capable of defacing private or public property; spray painting, or marking with marker pens, scratching, applying stickers, or otherwise applying graffiti on any public or private property, including, but not limited to the street, alley, residences, block walls, and fences, vehicles and/or any other real or personal property. Some injunctions contain wording that restricts damaging or vandalizing the property of another, both public and private property, including, but limited to any vehicle, light fixture, door, fence, wall, gate, window, building, street sign, utility box, telephone box, trees, or power pole.\n\nTo help address many of these issues, many local jurisdictions have set up graffiti abatement hotlines, where citizens can call in and report vandalism and have it removed. San Diego's hotline receives more than 5,000 calls per year, in addition to reporting the graffiti, callers can learn more about prevention. One of the complaints about these hotlines is the response time; there is often a lag time between a property owner calling about the graffiti and its removal. The length of delay should be a consideration for any jurisdiction planning on operating a hotline. Local jurisdictions must convince the callers that their complaint of vandalism will be a priority and cleaned off right away. If the jurisdiction does not have the resources to respond to complaints in a timely manner, the value of the hotline diminishes. Crews must be able to respond to individual service calls made to the graffiti hotline as well as focus on cleanup near schools, parks, and major intersections and transit routes to have the biggest impact. Some cities offer a reward for information leading to the arrest and prosecution of suspects for tagging or graffiti related vandalism. The amount of the reward is based on the information provided, and the action taken.\n\nWhen the police use search warrants in connection with a vandalism investigation they are often seeking judicial approval to look for items such as cans of spray paint and nozzles from other kinds of aerosol sprays, etching tools, or other sharp or pointed objects used to etch or scratch glass and other hard surfaces, such as permanent marking pens and markers or paint sticks; evidence of membership or affiliation with any gang or tagging crew, paraphernalia to include any reference to \"(tagger's name),\" and any drawings, writings, objects, or graffiti depicting taggers' names, initials, logos, monikers, slogans, or mention of tagging crew membership; any newspaper clippings relating details of or referring to any graffiti crime.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1396834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396834", "title": "High culture", "text": "High culture\n\nHigh culture encompasses the cultural products of aesthetic value, which a society collectively esteem as exemplary art. It may also include intellectual works considered to be of supreme philosophical, historical, or literary value, as well as the education which cultivates such aesthetic and intellectual pursuits. In popular usage, the term \"high culture\" identifies the culture of an upper class (an aristocracy) or of a status class (the intelligentsia); and also identifies a society’s common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition (e.g. folk culture) that transcends the social-class system of the society. Sociologically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the term \"low culture\", the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes, such as the barbarians, the Philistines, and \"hoi polloi\" (the masses).\n\nIn European history, high culture was understood as a cultural concept common to the humanities, until the mid-19th century, when Matthew Arnold introduced the term \"high culture\" in the book \"Culture and Anarchy\" (1869). The Preface defines culture as \"the disinterested endeavour after man’s perfection\" pursued, obtained, and achieved by effort to \"know the best that has been said and thought in the world.\" Such a literary definition of high culture also comprehends philosophy. Moreover, the philosophy of aesthetics proposed in high culture is a force for moral and political good. Critically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the terms \"popular culture\" and \"mass culture\".\n\nIn \"Notes Towards the Definition of Culture\" (1948), T. S. Eliot said that high culture and popular culture are necessary and complementary parts of the culture of a society. In \"The Uses of Literacy\" (1957), Richard Hoggart presents the sociologic experience of the working-class man and woman in acquiring the cultural literacy, at university, which facilitates social upward mobility. In the U.S., Harold Bloom and F. R. Leavis pursued the definition of high culture, by way of the Western canon of literature.\nMedia theorist Steven Johnson writes that, unlike popular culture, \"the classics—and soon to be classics—are\" in their own right descriptions and explanations of the cultural systems that produced them.\" He says that \"a crucial way in which mass culture differs from high art\" is that individual works of mass culture are less interesting than the broader cultural trends which produced them.\n\nHistory of high culture in the West\n\nThe high culture of the West originated in the classical-world traditions of intellectual and aesthetic life in Ancient Greece (from c. 8th century BC – AD 147) and Ancient Rome (753 BC – AD 476). In the classical Greco-Roman tradition, the ideal mode of language was published and preserved in works of elevated style (correct grammar, syntax, and diction). Certain forms of language used by authors in valorized epochs were held up in antiquity and the Renaissance as eternal valid models and normative standards of excellence; e.g. the Attic dialect of ancient Greek spoken and written by the playwrights and philosophers of Periclean Athens (fifth century BC); and the form of classical Latin used in the \"Golden Age\" of Roman culture (c. 70 B.C. - AD 18) represented by such figures as Cicero and Virgil.This form of education was known to the Greeks as παιδεία, which was translated by the Romans into Latin as \"humanitas\" 'since it reflected a form of education aiming at the refinement of human nature, rather than the acquisition of technical or vocational skills. Indeed, the Greco-Roman world tended to see such manual, commercial, and technical labor as subordinate to purely intellectual activities. From the idea of the \"free\" man with sufficient leisure to pursue such intellectual and aesthetic refinement, arose the classical distinction between the \"liberal\" arts which are intellectual and done for their own sake, as against the \"servile\"or \"mechanical\" arts which were associated with manual labor and done to earn a living.\nThis implied an association between high culture and the upper classes whose inherited wealth provided such time for intellectual cultivation. The leisured gentleman not weighed down by the necessity of earning a living, was free to devote himself to activities proper to such a \"free man\" – those deemed to involve true excellence and nobility as opposed to mere utility.\nDuring the Renaissance, the classical intellectual values of the fully rediscovered Græco–Roman culture were the cultural capital of the upper classes(and the aspiring), and aimed at the complete development of human intellectual, aesthetic, and moral faculties. This ideal associated with humanism (a later term derived from the humanities or \"studia humanitatis\"), was communicated in Renaissance Italy through institutions such as the Renaissance court schools. Renaissance humanism soon spread through Europe becoming much of the basis of upper class education for centuries. For the socially ambitious man and woman who means to rise in society, \"The Book of the Courtier\" (1528), by Baldasare Castiglione, instructs the reader to acquire and possess knowledge of the Græco–Roman Classics, being education integral to the social-persona of the aristocrat. A key contribution of the Renaissance was the elevation of painting and sculpture to a status equal to the liberal arts (hence the visual arts lost for elites any lingering negative association with manual artisanship.) The early Renaissance treatises of Leon Battista Alberti were instrumental in this regard.\n\nThe evolution of the concept of high culture initially was defined in educational terms largely as critical study and knowledge of the Græco–Roman arts and humanities which furnished much of the foundation for European cultures and societies. However, aristocratic patronage through most of the modern era was also pivotal to the support and creation of new works of high culture across the range of arts, music, and literature. The subsequent prodigious development of the modern European languages and cultures meant that the modern definition of the term \"high culture\" embraces not only Greek and Latin texts, but a much broader canon of select literary, philosophical, historical, and scientific books in both ancient and modern languages. Of comparable importance are those works of art and music considered to be of the highest excellence and broadest influence (e.g. the Parthenon, the painting and sculpture of Michelangelo, the music of Mozart, etc). Together these texts and art works constitute the exemplary artifacts representing the high culture of the Western world. \nIn the Western and some East Asian traditions, art that demonstrates the imagination of the artist is accorded the status of high art. In the West this tradition began in Ancient Greece, was reinforced in the Renaissance, and by Romanticism, which eliminated the hierarchy of genres within the fine arts, which was established in the Renaissance. In China there was a distinction between the literati painting by the scholar-officials and the work produced by common artists, working in largely different styles, or the decorative arts such as Chinese porcelain which were produced by unknown craftsmen working in large factories. In both China and the West the distinction was especially clear in landscape painting, where for centuries imaginary views, produced from the imagination of the artist, were considered superior works.\n\nIn socially-stratified Europe and the Americas, a first-hand immersion to the high culture of the West, the Grand Tour of Europe, was a rite of passage that complemented and completed the book education of a gentleman, from the nobility, the aristocracy, and the bourgeoisie, with a worldly perspective of society and civilisation. The post-university tour of the cultural centres of Europe was a social-class benefit of the cultural capital transmitted through the high-status institutions (schools, academies, universities) meant to produce the ideal gentleman of that society. \n\nThe European concept of high culture included cultivation of refined etiquette and manners; the education of taste in the fine arts such as sculpture and painting; an appreciation of classical music and opera in its diverse history and myriad forms; knowledge of the humane letters (\"literae humaniores\") represented by the best Greek and Latin authors, and more broadly of the liberal arts traditions (e.g. philosophy, history, drama, rhetoric, and poetry) of Western civilisation, as well as a general acquaintance with important concepts in theology, science, and political thought.\n\nMuch of high culture consists of the appreciation of what is sometimes called \"high art\". This term is rather broader than Arnold's definition and besides literature includes music, visual arts (especially painting), and traditional forms of the performing arts (including some cinema). The decorative arts would not generally be considered high art.\n\nThe cultural products most often regarded as forming part of high culture are most likely to have been produced during periods of high civilization, for which a large, sophisticated, and wealthy urban-based society provides a coherent and conscious aesthetic framework, and a large-scale milieu of training, and, for the visual arts, sourcing materials and financing work. Such an environment enables artists, as near as possible, to realize their creative potential with as few as possible practical and technical constraints. Although the Western concept of high culture naturally concentrates on the Greco-Roman tradition, and its resumption from the Renaissance onwards, such conditions existed in other places at other times.\n\nArt music (or serious music or erudite music) is an umbrella term used to refer to musical traditions implying advanced structural and theoretical considerations and a written musical tradition. The notion of art music is a frequent and well-defined musicological distinction – musicologist Philip Tagg, for example, refers to art music as one of an \"axiomatic triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics\". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria, with high cultural music often performed to an audience whilst folk music would traditionally be more participatory. In this regard, \"art music\" frequently occurs as a contrasting term to \"popular music\" and to \"traditional\" or \"folk music\".\n\nArt film is the result of filmmaking which is typically a serious, independent film aimed at a niche market rather than a mass market audience. Film critics and film studies scholars typically define an \"art film\" using a \"...canon of films and those formal qualities that mark them as different from mainstream Hollywood films\", which includes, among other elements: a social realism style; an emphasis on the authorial expressivity of the director or writer; and a focus on the thoughts and dreams of characters, rather than presenting a clear, goal-driven story. According to the film scholar David Bordwell, \"art cinema itself is a film genre, with its own distinct conventions.\"\n\nThe term has always been susceptible to attack for elitism, and, in response, many proponents of the concept devoted great efforts to promoting high culture among a wider public than the highly educated bourgeoisie whose natural territory it was supposed to be. There was a drive, beginning in the 19th century, to open museums and concert halls to give the general public access to high culture. Figures such as John Ruskin and Lord Reith of the BBC in Britain, Leon Trotsky and others in Communist Russia, and many others in America and throughout the western world have worked to widen the appeal of elements of high culture such as classical music, art by old masters and the literary classics.\n\nWith the widening of access to university education, the effort spread there, and all aspects of high culture became the objects of academic study, which with the exception of the classics had not often been the case until the late 19th century. University liberal arts courses still play an important role in the promotion of the concept of high culture, though often now avoiding the term itself.\n\nEspecially in Europe, governments have been prepared to subsidize high culture through the funding of museums, opera and ballet companies, orchestras, cinema, public broadcasting stations such as BBC Radio 3, ARTE, and in other ways. Organizations such as the Arts Council of Great Britain, and in most European countries, whole ministries administer these programs. This includes the subsidy of new works by composers, writers and artists. There are also many private philanthropic sources of funding, which are especially important in the US, where the federally funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting also funds broadcasting. These may be seen as part of the broader concept of official culture, although often a mass audience is not the intended market.\n\nThe relations between high culture and mass culture are concerns of cultural studies, media studies, and critical theory, sociology, Postmodernism and Marxist philosophy. In the essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" (1936), Walter Benjamin explored the relations of value of the arts (high and mass) when subjected to industrial reproduction. The critical theoreticians Theodor W. Adorno and Antonio Gramsci interpreted the high-art and mass-art cultural relations as an instrument of social control, with which the ruling class maintain their cultural hegemony upon society.\n\nFor the Orientalist Ernest Renan and for the rationalist philosopher Ernest Gellner, high culture was conceptually integral to the politics and ideology of nationalism, as a requisite part of a healthy national identity. Gellner expanded the conceptual scope of the phrase in \"Nations and Nationalism\" (1983) stating that high art is \"a literate, codified culture, which permits context-free communication\" among cultures.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu proposed that æsthetic taste (cultural judgement), derived from social class, in establishing definitions of high art by the practice of human activities such as social etiquette, gastronomy, oenology, military service. That in such activities of aesthetic judgement, the ruling-class person uses social codes unknown to middle- and the lower-class persons in the pursuit and practice activities of taste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22900852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22900852", "title": "History of art criticism", "text": "History of art criticism\n\nThe history of art criticism, as part of art history, is the study of objects of art in their historical development and stylistic contexts, i.e. genre, design, format, and style, which include aesthetic considerations. This includes the \"major\" arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture as well as the \"minor\" arts of ceramics, furniture, and other decorative objects.\n\nAs a term, the history of art history (also history of art) encompasses several methods of studying and assessing the visual arts; in common usage referring to works of art and architecture. Aspects of the discipline overlap. As the art historian Ernst Gombrich once observed, \"the field of art history [is] much like Caesar's Gaul, divided in three parts inhabited by three different, though not necessarily hostile tribes: (i) the connoisseurs, (ii) the critics, and (iii) the academic art historians\".\n\nAs a discipline, the history of art criticism is distinguished from art criticism, which is concerned with establishing a relative artistic value upon individual works with respect to others of comparable style, or sanctioning an entire style or movement from the standpoint of its history and of its major scholars. It is also distinguished from art theory or \"philosophy of art\", which is concerned with the fundamental nature of art. One branch of this area of study is aesthetics, which includes investigating the enigma of the sublime and determining the essence of beauty. Technically, art history is not these things, because the art historian uses historical method to answer the questions: How did the artist come to create the work?, Who were the patrons?, Who were his or her teachers?, Who was the audience?, Who were his or her disciples?, What historical forces shaped the artist's oeuvre, and How did he or she and the creation, in turn, affect the course of artistic, political, and social events? It is, however, questionable whether many questions of this kind can be answered satisfactorily without also considering basic questions about the nature of art. Unfortunately the current disciplinary gap between art history and the philosophy of art (aesthetics) often hinders this.\n\nThe history of art criticism is not only a biographical endeavor. The history of art criticism often roots its studies in the scrutiny of individual objects. It attempt to answer in historically specific ways, questions such as: What are key features of this style?, What meaning did this object convey?, How does it function visually?, Did the artist meet their goals well?, What symbols are involved?, and Does it function discursively?\n\nThe historical backbone of the discipline is a celebratory chronology of beautiful creations commissioned by public or religious bodies or wealthy individuals in western Europe. Such a \"canon\" remains prominent, as indicated by the selection of objects present in art history textbooks. Nonetheless, since the 20th century there has been an effort to re-define the discipline to be more inclusive of non-Western art, art made by women, and vernacular creativity.\n\nThe history of art criticism as we know it in the 21st century began in the 19th century but has precedents that date to the ancient world. Like the analysis of historical trends in politics, literature, and the sciences, the discipline benefits from the clarity and portability of the written word, but art historians also rely on formal analysis, semiotics, psychoanalysis and iconography. Advances in photographic reproduction and printing techniques after World War II increased the ability of reproductions of artworks. Such technologies have helped to advance the discipline in profound ways, as they have enabled easy comparisons of objects. The study of visual art thus described, can be a practice that involves understanding context, form, and social significance.\n\nArt historians, in performing their assessment within the history of art criticism, employ a number of methods in their research into the ontology and history of objects.\n\nPractitioners of art criticism often examine work in the context of its time. At best, this is done in a manner which respects its creator's motivations and imperatives; with consideration of the desires and prejudices of its patrons and sponsors; with a comparative analysis of themes and approaches of the creator's colleagues and teachers; and with consideration of iconography and symbolism. In short, this approach examines the work of art in the context of the world within which it was created.\n\nPractitioners of art criticism also often examine work through an analysis of form; that is, the creator's use of line, shape, color, texture, and composition. This approach examines how the artist uses a two-dimensional picture plane or the three dimensions of sculptural or architectural space to create his or her art. The way these individual elements are employed results in representational or non-representational art. Is the artist imitating an object or image found in nature? If so, it is representational. The closer the art hews to perfect imitation, the more the art is \"realistic\". Is the artist not imitating, but instead relying on symbolism, or in an important way striving to capture nature's essence, rather than copy it directly? If so the art is non-representational—also called abstract. Realism and abstraction exist on a continuum. Impressionism is an example of a representational style that was not directly imitative, but strove to create an \"impression\" of nature. If the work is not representational and is an expression of the artist's feelings, longings and aspirations, or is a search for ideals of beauty and form, the work is non-representational or a work of expressionism.\n\nAn iconographical analysis is one which focuses on particular design elements of an object. Through a close reading of such elements, it is possible to trace their lineage, and with it draw conclusions regarding the origins and trajectory of these motifs. In turn, it is possible to make any number of observations regarding the social, cultural, economic, and aesthetic values of those responsible for producing the object.\n\nMany practitioners of art criticism use critical theory to frame their inquiries into objects. Theory is most often used when dealing with more recent objects, those from the late 19th century onward. Critical theory in art history is often borrowed from literary scholars, and it involves the application of a non-artistic analytical framework to the study of art objects. Feminist, Marxist, critical race, queer, and postcolonial theories are all well established in the discipline. As in literary studies, there is an interest among scholars in nature and the environment, but the direction that this will take in the discipline has yet to be determined.\n\nMore recently, media and digital technology introduced possibilities of visual, spatial and experiential analyses. The relevant forms vary from movies, to interactive forms, including virtual environments, augmented environments, situated media, networked media, etc. The methods enabled by such techniques are in active development and promise to include qualitative approaches that can emphasize narrative, dramatic, emotional and ludic characteristics of history and art.\n\nThe earliest surviving writing on art that can be classified as art history or art criticism are the passages in Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" (c. AD 77-79), concerning the development of Greek sculpture and painting. From them it is possible to trace the ideas of Xenokrates of Sicyon (c. 280 BC), a Greek sculptor who was perhaps the first art historian. Pliny's work, while mainly an encyclopaedia of the sciences, has thus been influential from the Renaissance onwards. (Passages about techniques used by the painter Apelles c. (332-329 BC), have been especially well-known.) Similar, though independent, developments occurred in the 6th century China, where a canon of worthy artists was established by writers in the scholar-official class. These writers, being necessarily proficient in calligraphy, were artists themselves. The artists are described in the \"Six Principles of Painting\" formulated by Xie He.\n\nWhile personal reminiscences of art and artists have long been written and read (see Lorenzo Ghiberti \"Commentarii,\" for the best early example), it was Giorgio Vasari, the Tuscan painter, sculptor and author of the \"Lives of the Painters\", who wrote the first true \"history\" of art. He emphasized art's progression and development, which was a milestone in this field. His was a personal and a historical account, featuring biographies of individual Italian artists, many of whom were his contemporaries and personal acquaintances. The most renowned of these was Michelangelo, and Vasari's account is enlightening, though biased in places.\n\nVasari's ideas about art were enormously influential, and served as a model for many, including in the north of Europe Karel van Mander's \"Schilder-boeck\" and Joachim von Sandrart's \"Teutsche Akademie\". Vasari's approach held sway until the 18th century, when criticism was leveled at his biographical account of history.\n\nScholars such as Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717–1768), criticised Vasari's \"cult\" of artistic personality, and they argued that the real emphasis in the study of art should be the views of the learned beholder and not the unique viewpoint of the charismatic artist. Winckelmann's writings thus were the beginnings of art criticism. His two most notable works that introduced the concept of art criticism were \"Gedanken über die Nachahmung der griechischen Werke in der Malerei und Bildhauerkunst, published in 1755, shortly before he left for Rome (Fuseli published an English translation in 1765 under the title Reflections on the Painting and Sculpture of the Greeks), and Geschichte der Kunst des Altertums (History of Art in Antiquity), published in 1764 (this is the first occurrence of the phrase ‘history of art’ in the title of a book)\". Winckelmann critiqued the artistic excesses of Baroque and Rococo forms, and was instrumental in reforming taste in favor of the more sober Neoclassicism. Jacob Burckhardt (1818–1897), one of the founders of art history, noted that Winckelmann was 'the first to distinguish between the periods of ancient art and to link the history of style with world history'. From Winckelmann until the mid-20th century, the field of art history was dominated by German-speaking academics. Winckelmann's work thus marked the entry of art history into the high-philosophical discourse of German culture.\n\nWinckelmann was read avidly by Johann Wolfgang Goethe and Friedrich Schiller, both of whom began to write on the history of art, and his account of the Laocoon occasioned a response by Lessing. The emergence of art as a major subject of philosophical speculation was solidified by the appearance of Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Judgment\" in 1790, and was furthered by Hegel's \"Lectures on Aesthetics\". Hegel's philosophy served as the direct inspiration for Karl Schnaase's work. Schnaase's \"Niederländische Briefe\" established the theoretical foundations for art history as an autonomous discipline, and his \"Geschichte der bildenden Künste\", one of the first historical surveys of the history of art from antiquity to the Renaissance, facilitated the teaching of art history in German-speaking universities. Schnaase's survey was published contemporaneously with a similar work by Franz Theodor Kugler.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945), who studied under Burckhardt in Basel, is the \"father\" of modern art history. Wölfflin taught at the universities of Berlin, Basel, Munich, and Zurich. A number of students went on to distinguished careers in art history, including Jakob Rosenberg and Frida Schottmuller. He introduced a scientific approach to the history of art, focusing on three concepts. Firstly, he attempted to study art using psychology, particularly by applying the work of Wilhelm Wundt. He argued, among other things, that art and architecture are good if they resemble the human body. For example, houses were good if their façades looked like faces. Secondly, he introduced the idea of studying art through comparison. By comparing individual paintings to each other, he was able to make distinctions of style. His book \"Renaissance and Baroque\" developed this idea, and was the first to show how these stylistic periods differed from one another. In contrast to Giorgio Vasari, Wölfflin was uninterested in the biographies of artists. In fact he proposed the creation of an \"art history without names.\" Finally, he studied art based on ideas of nationhood. He was particularly interested in whether there was an inherently \"Italian\" and an inherently \"German\" style. This last interest was most fully articulated in his monograph on the German artist Albrecht Dürer.\n\nContemporaneous with Wölfflin's career, a major school of art-historical thought developed at the University of Vienna. The first generation of the Vienna School was dominated by Alois Riegl and Franz Wickhoff, both students of Moritz Thausing, and was characterized by a tendency to reassess neglected or disparaged periods in the history of art. Riegl and Wickhoff both wrote extensively on the art of late antiquity, which before them had been considered as a period of decline from the classical ideal. Riegl also contributed to the revaluation of the Baroque.\n\nThe next generation of professors at Vienna included Max Dvořák, Julius von Schlosser, Hans Tietze, Karl Maria Swoboda, and Josef Strzygowski. A number of the most important twentieth-century art historians, including Ernst Gombrich, received their degrees at Vienna at this time. The term \"Second Vienna School\" (or \"New Vienna School\") usually refers to the following generation of Viennese scholars, including Hans Sedlmayr, Otto Pächt, and Guido Kaschnitz von Weinberg. These scholars began in the 1930s to return to the work of the first generation, particularly to Riegl and his concept of \"Kunstwollen\", and attempted to develop it into a full-blown art-historical methodology. Sedlmayr, in particular, rejected the minute study of iconography, patronage, and other approaches grounded in historical context, preferring instead to concentrate on the aesthetic qualities of a work of art. As a result, the Second Vienna School gained a reputation for unrestrained and irresponsible formalism, and was furthermore colored by Sedlmayr's overt racism and membership in the Nazi party. This latter tendency was, however, by no means shared by all members of the school; Pächt, for example, was himself Jewish, and was forced to leave Vienna in the 1930s.\n\nOur 21st-century understanding of the symbolic content of art comes from a group of scholars who gathered in Hamburg in the 1920s. The most prominent among them were Erwin Panofsky, Aby Warburg, and Fritz Saxl. Together they developed much of the vocabulary that continues to be used in the 21st century by art historians. \"Iconography\"—with roots meaning \"symbols from writing\" refers to subject matter of art derived from written sources—especially scripture and mythology. \"Iconology\" is a broader term that referred to all symbolism, whether derived from a specific text or not. Today art historians sometimes use these terms interchangeably.\n\nPanofsky, in his early work, also developed the theories of Riegl, but became eventually more preoccupied with iconography, and in particular with the transmission of themes related to classical antiquity in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. In this respect his interests coincided with those of Warburg, the son of a wealthy family who had assembled an impressive library in Hamburg devoted to the study of the classical tradition in later art and culture. Under Saxl's auspices, this library was developed into a research institute, affiliated with the University of Hamburg, where Panofsky taught.\n\nWarburg died in 1929, and in the 1930s Saxl and Panofsky, both Jewish, were forced to leave Hamburg. Saxl settled in London, bringing Warburg's library with him and establishing the Warburg Institute. Panofsky settled in Princeton at the Institute for Advanced Study. In this respect they were part of an extraordinary influx of German art historians into the English-speaking academy in the 1930s. These scholars were largely responsible for establishing art history as a legitimate field of study in the English-speaking world, and the influence of Panofsky's methodology, in particular, determined the course of American art history for a generation.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin was not the only scholar to invoke psychological theories in the study of art. Psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud wrote a book on the artist Leonardo da Vinci, in which he used Leonardo's paintings to interrogate the artist's psyche and sexual orientation. Freud inferred from his analysis that Leonardo was probably homosexual.\n\nThough the use of posthumous material to perform psychoanalysis is controversial among art historians, especially since the sexual mores of Leonardo's time and Freud's are different, it is often attempted. One of the best-known psychoanalytic scholars is Laurie Schneider Adams, who wrote a popular textbook, \"Art Across Time\", and a book \"Art and Psychoanalysis\".\n\nAn unsuspecting turn for the history of art criticism came in 1914 when Sigmund Freud published a psychoanalytical interpretation of Michelangelo’s Moses titled Der Moses des Michelangelo as one of the first psychology based analyses on a work of art. Freud first published this work shortly after reading Vasari’s \"Lives\". For unknown purposes, Freud originally published the article anonymously.\n\nCarl Jung also applied psychoanalytic theory to art. C.G. Jung was a Swiss psychiatrist, an influential thinker, and founder of analytical psychology. Jung's approach to psychology emphasized understanding the psyche through exploring the worlds of dreams, art, mythology, world religion and philosophy. Much of his life's work was spent exploring Eastern and Western philosophy, alchemy, astrology, sociology, as well as literature and the arts. His most notable contributions include his concept of the psychological archetype, the collective unconscious, and his theory of synchronicity. Jung believed that many experiences perceived as coincidence were not merely due to chance but, instead, suggested the manifestation of parallel events or circumstances reflecting this governing dynamic. He argued that a collective unconscious and archetypal imagery were detectable in art. His ideas were particularly popular among American Abstract expressionists in the 1940s and 1950s. His work inspired the surrealist concept of drawing imagery from dreams and the unconscious.\n\nJung emphasized the importance of balance and harmony. He cautioned that modern humans rely too heavily on science and logic and would benefit from integrating spirituality and appreciation of the unconscious realm. His work not only triggered analytical work by art historians, but it became an integral part of art-making. Jackson Pollock, for example, famously created a series of drawings to accompany his psychoanalytic sessions with his Jungian psychoanalyst, Dr. Joseph Henderson. Henderson who later published the drawings in a text devoted to Pollock's sessions realized how powerful the drawings were as a therapeutic tool.\n\nThe legacy of psychoanalysis in art history has been profound, and extends beyone Freud and Jung. The prominent feminist art historian Griselda Pollock, for example, draws upon psychoanalysis both in her reading into contemporary art and in her rereading of modernist art. With Griselda Pollock's reading of French feminist psychoanalysis and in particular the writings of Julia Kristeva and Bracha L. Ettinger, as with Rosalind Krauss readings of Jacques Lacan and Jean-François Lyotard and Catherine de Zegher's curatorial rereading of art, Feminist theory written in the fields of French feminism and Psychoanalysis has strongly informed the reframing of both men and women artists in art history.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, art historians embraced social history by using critical approaches. The goal was to show how art interacts with power structures in society. One critical approach that art historians used was Marxism. Marxist art history attempted to show how art was tied to specific classes, how images contain information about the economy, and how images can make the status quo seem natural (ideology).\n\nPerhaps the best-known Marxist was Clement Greenberg, who came to prominence during the late 1930s with his essay \"Avant-Garde and Kitsch\". In the essay Greenberg claimed that the avant-garde arose in order to defend aesthetic standards from the decline of taste involved in consumer society, and seeing kitsch and art as opposites. Greenberg further claimed that avant-garde and Modernist art was a means to resist the leveling of culture produced by capitalist propaganda. Greenberg appropriated the German word 'kitsch' to describe this consumerism, although its connotations have since changed to a more affirmative notion of leftover materials of capitalist culture. Greenberg later became well known for examining the formal properties of modern art.\n\nMeyer Schapiro is one of the best-remembered Marxist art historians of the mid-20th century. Although he wrote about numerous time periods and themes in art, he is best remembered for his commentary on sculpture from the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance, at which time he saw evidence of capitalism emerging and feudalism declining.\n\nArnold Hauser wrote the first Marxist survey of Western Art, entitled \"The Social History of Art\". He attempted to show how class consciousness was reflected in major art periods. The book was controversial when published during the 1950s since it makes generalizations about entire eras, a strategy now called \"vulgar Marxism\".\n\nMarxist Art History was refined in the department of Art History at UCLA with scholars such as T.J. Clark, O.K. Werckmeister, David Kunzle, Theodor W. Adorno, and Max Horkheimer. T.J. Clark was the first art historian writing from a Marxist perspective to abandon vulgar Marxism. He wrote Marxist art histories of several impressionist and realist artists, including Gustave Courbet and Édouard Manet. These books focused closely on the political and economic climates in which the art was created.\n\nLinda Nochlin's essay \"Why have there been no great women artists?\" helped to ignite feminist art history during the 1970s and remains one of the most widely read essays about female artists. In it she applies a feminist critical framework to show systematic exclusion of women from art training. Nochlin argues that exclusion from practicing art as well as the canonical history of art was the consequence of cultural conditions which curtailed and restricted women from art producing fields. The few who did succeed were treated as anomalies and did not provide a model for subsequent success.Griselda Pollock is another prominent feminist art historian, whose use of psychoanalytic theory is described above. While feminist art history can focus on any time period and location, much attention has been given to the Modern era. Some of this scholarship centers on the feminist art movement, which referred specifically to the experience of women.\n\nAs opposed to iconography which seeks to identify meaning, semiotics is concerned with how meaning is created. Roland Barthes’s connoted and denoted meanings are paramount to this examination. In any particular work of art, an interpretation depends on the identification of denoted meaning—the recognition of a visual sign, and the connoted meaning—the instant cultural associations that come with recognition. The main concern of the semiotic art historian is to come up with ways to navigate and interpret connoted meaning.\n\nSemiotic art history seeks to uncover the codified meaning or meanings in an aesthetic object by examining its connectedness to a collective consciousness. Art historians do not commonly commit to any one particular brand of semiotics but rather construct an amalgamated version which they incorporate into their collection of analytical tools. For example, Meyer Schapiro borrowed Saussure’s differential meaning in effort to read signs as they exist within a system. According to Schapiro, to understand the meaning of frontality in a specific pictorial context, it must be differentiated from, or viewed in relation to, alternate possibilities such as a profile, or a three-quarter view. Schapiro combined this method with the work of Charles Sanders Peirce whose object, sign, and interpretant provided a structure for his approach. Alex Potts demonstrates the application of Peirce’s concepts to visual representation by examining them in relation to the Mona Lisa. By seeing the Mona Lisa, for example, as something beyond its materiality is to identify it as a sign. It is then recognized as referring to an object outside of itself, a woman, or Mona Lisa. The image does not seem to denote religious meaning and can therefore be assumed to be a portrait. This interpretation leads to a chain of possible interpretations: who was the sitter in relation to Leonardo? What significance did she have to him? Or, maybe she is an icon for all of womankind. This chain of interpretation, or “unlimited semiosis” is endless; the art historian’s job is to place boundaries on possible interpretations as much as it is to reveal new possibilities.\n\nSemiotics operates under the theory that an image can only be understood from the viewer’s perspective. The artist is supplanted by the viewer as the purveyor of meaning, even to the extent that an interpretation is still valid regardless of whether the creator had intended it. Rosalind Krauss espoused this concept in her essay “In the Name of Picasso.” She denounced the artist’s monopoly on meaning and insisted that meaning can only be derived after the work has been removed from its historical and social context. Mieke Bal argued similarly that meaning does not even exist until the image is observed by the viewer. It is only after acknowledging this that meaning can become opened up to other possibilities such as feminism or psychoanalysis.\n\nAspects of the subject which have come to the fore in recent decades include interest in the patronage and consumption of art, including the economics of the art market, the role of collectors, the intentions and aspirations of those commissioning works, and the reactions of contemporary and later viewers and owners. Museum studies, including the history of museum collecting and display, is now a specialized field of study, as is the history of collecting.\n\nScientific advances have made possible much more accurate investigation of the materials and techniques used to create works, especially infra-red and x-ray photographic techniques which have allowed many underdrawings of paintings to be seen again. Proper analysis of pigments used in paint is now possible, which has upset many attributions. Dendrochronology for panel paintings and radio-carbon dating for old objects in organic materials have allowed scientific methods of dating objects to confirm or upset dates derived from stylistic analysis or documentary evidence. The development of good colour photography, now held digitally and available on the internet or by other means, has transformed the study of many types of art, especially those covering objects existing in large numbers which are widely dispersed among collections, such as illuminated manuscripts and Persian miniatures, and many types of archaeological artworks.\n\nThe field of Art History is traditionally divided into specializations or concentrations based on eras and regions, with further sub-division based on media. Thus, someone might specialize in \"19th-century German architecture\" or in \"16th-century Tuscan sculpture.\" Sub-fields are often included under a specialization. For example, the Ancient Near East, Greece, Rome, and Egypt are all typically considered special concentrations of Ancient art. In some cases, these specializations may be closely allied (as Greece and Rome, for example), while in others such alliances are far less natural (Indian art versus Korean art, for example).\n\nNon-Western art is a relative newcomer to the Art Historical canon. Recent revisions of the semantic division between art and artifact have recast objects created in non-Western cultures in more aesthetic terms. Relative to those studying Ancient Rome or the Italian Renaissance, scholars specializing in Africa, the Ancient Americas and Asia are a growing minority.\n\nContemporary Art History refers to research into the period from the 1960s until today reflecting the break from the assumptions of modernism brought by artists of the neo-avant-garde and a continuity in contemporary art in terms of practice based on conceptualist and post-conceptualist practices.\n\nIn the United States, the most important art history organization is the College Art Association. It organizes an annual conference and publishes the \"Art Bulletin\" and \"Art Journal\". Similar organizations exist in other parts of the world, as well as for specializations, such as architectural history and Renaissance art history. In the UK, for example, the Association of Art Historians is the premiere organization, and it publishes a journal titled \"Art History\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54057718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54057718", "title": "Hohenzollernstraße", "text": "Hohenzollernstraße\n\nHohenzollernstraße is a two kilometer long street in Munich's Schwabing district.\n\nIt starts at Leopoldstraße, then crosses the Kurfürstenplatz and Hohenzollernplatz and changes after the Winzererstraße in the west to the Schwerere-Reiter-Straße as its extension. Between Kurfürstenplatz and Leopoldstraße are smaller shops. Together with Leopoldstraße the shopping street forms the so-called \"Schwabinger T\".\n\nAccording to a study by the traffic data and SaaS provider INRIX of 2016, Hohenzollernstraße is the most heavily occupied road in Germany.\n\nUntil the incorporation of Schwabing to Munich in 1890, the Burgfrieden around Munich ran at the height of Hohenzollernstraße. In 1892 the street was renamed \"Hörmannstraße\" after the Hohenzollern nobility. In 1901, Wassily Kandinsky founded his art school \"Phalanx\" on Hohenzollernstraße 6a, where Gabriele Münter became a pupil. In the house number 104, Willibald Besta had his studio there until 1929. Hohenzollernstraße 21 was the location of the 1902 founded \"Lehr- und Versuchsatelier für angewandte und freikunst\", of Wilhelm von Debschitz and Hermann Obrist, which developed into Germany's largest private educational institution. Paul Klee taught there in 1908. In 1910 Emil Preetorius was the director of the school. In house number 1 lived the writer and painter Fanny zu Reventlow, who was known as \"Schwabinger Skandalgräfin\". Joachim Ringelnatz lived in the Gartenhaus of Hohenzollernstraße 31a /I from 1920 to 1930. In Hohenzollernstraße 110, Werner Heisenberg spent some fourteen years of his youth.\n\nIn 1910, Georg Kerschensteiner founded an experimental school in Hohenzollernstraße 14 which was built in 1905/1906. In 1938, the building was transformed into a hospital, which from 1945 to 1960 served as the \"Chirurgisches Krankenhaus München-Nord\". In 1961, a high school took its place, where for example, Michael Lerchenberg went to school. Since 1941, between Zentnerstraße and Schleissheimer Straße, on Hohenzollernstraße is the neo-classical styled Nordbad, which includes a grandstand for 1,400 spectators. From 1959 to 2009, Theater44 was located at Hohenzollernstraße 44.\n\nFrom the Kurfürstenplatz to the west, the tram lines 12 and 27 run over Hohenzollernstraße. Until August 1900, a horse-drawn carriage had already been running along the line from Promenadeplatz to Hohenzollernstraße. Later, tram lines ran from Nikolaiplatz along the entire length of Hohenzollernstraße to Barerstraße, Schwerere-Reiter-Straße and Schleissheimer Straße. In the 1970s, the section between Nikolaiplatz and Kurfürstenplatz was no longer used.\n\n33 historic architectural monuments lie with Hohenzollernstraße.\n\n"}
{"id": "40857095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40857095", "title": "Hypsos", "text": "Hypsos\n\nHypsos is a Greek philosophical concept comparable to the modern concept of the sublime, or a moment that brings oral speech to an astonishing and monumental pause. Its root \"hypso-\" literally means \"aloft\", \"height\", or \"on high\". However, a distinguishing feature of hypsos in rhetorical studies is that it “combines conflicting emotions: fear and awe, horror and fascinations.” It is a climactic moment in speech that generates uncertainty for the audience.\n\nThe ancient Greek rhetoric teacher Longinus introduced the concept of hypsos in the only significant piece of literature that he is known for having written during his lifetime, \"On the Sublime\". In his work, Longinus prompted the possibilities and freedom that speech could possess by presenting hypsos. Longinus’ theories and concepts differed greatly from other Greek rhetoricians and philosophers, and challenged the traditional rigid structure of rhetorical practices.\n\nHypsos is studied by present-day rhetoricians, and is often referred to through the publication of \"Translations of the Sublime: The Early Modern Reception and Dissemination of Longinus: Peri Hupsous in Rhetoric, the Visual Arts, Architecture, and the Theatre\", a collection of volumes of Longinus’ essays. It stands as one of few pieces that explore the ways in which hypsos (which Longinus refers to as “the sublime in one single thought”) is used not only in rhetoric and literature, but also in the visual arts, architecture, and theater.\n"}
{"id": "30672962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30672962", "title": "IPhone art", "text": "IPhone art\n\niPhone art is a form of Interactive art that takes place on the screen of the iPhone, iPad, or iPod Touch. It is distinct from pictorial works of art produced with an iPhone using paint apps such as Brushes or ArtRage.\n\niPhone Art evolved from screen-based interactive art that formerly appeared on PC computer screens or on wall-mounted displays in galleries and museums. Due to the portability and ease of distribution with the iTunes App Store, these forms of art are currently experiencing a renaissance as interactive works of art from the 1990s and 2000s are adapted to the iPhone and iPad, some even becoming bestsellers in the Entertainment and Music categories where these apps normally appear, since there is currently no Art category in the iTunes App Store.\n\nSome of the first iPhone artists include Miltos Manetas and Memo Atken who created the JacksonPollock app, Theo Watson who created FATTAG, Scott Snibbe who created Gravilux and Bubble Harp, and Golan Levin, creator of Yellowtail.\n\nArtists such as David Hockney, Corliss Blakely and Meri Aaron Walker (iPhoneArtGirl) have held art exhibits with art made exclusively on their iPads. Musician Damon Albarn recorded the entirety of the new Gorillaz album, The Fall, on his iPad with various apps while on his North American tour.\n\niPhone art may pose a threat to traditional gallery distribution of digital art because individual artist can distribute their apps directly to the general public without working through a gallery dealer.\n\n"}
{"id": "21669080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21669080", "title": "KAIROS Prize", "text": "KAIROS Prize\n\nThe KAIROS Prize has been awarded to European artists and scholars from the fields of visual and performing arts, music, architecture, design, film, photography, literature and journalism since 2007 by the Alfred Toepfer Foundation in Hamburg. It is endowed with a sum of 75,000 Euro.\n\nSource: Alfred Toepfer Foundation\n\n"}
{"id": "42003318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42003318", "title": "List of bad luck signs", "text": "List of bad luck signs\n\nBad luck is harmful, negative, or undesirable luck or fortune. This is a list of signs believed to be bring bad luck according to superstitions:\n\n"}
{"id": "34596784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34596784", "title": "Los Angeles Pop Art", "text": "Los Angeles Pop Art\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art (also known as LA Pop Art) is an American company, founded by Joseph Leibovic, headquartered in Las Vegas, Nevada. The company creates text based artwork, entirely drawn by hand, also known as Micrography.\nBy using entire movie scripts, complete song lyrics and manuscripts, Los Angeles Pop Art creates images out of the text that tell the story of that specific image.\n\nThe portfolio of designs are used for the manufacture of a number of products, which include wall art, apparel, tote bags and aprons. These products are sold online in numerous stores as well as in traditional brick and mortar retailers. The portfolio is also licensed out to partner companies for the manufacture of a wide range of products that include everything from stickers to beach towels.\n\nIn 1994 founder Joseph Leibovic was living in Israel when he stumbled upon the Micrography style of art while watching street artists, in the mystical town of Tzvat. The idea of Americanizing this style of art, by creating posters of classic films out of entire scripts, and music icons out of their legendary lyrics, was matured over the following 9 years. It wasn’t until Joseph moved back to Los Angeles, in 2004, that the idea was finally brought to life and Los Angeles Pop Art was founded.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art has worked with some of the biggest names in music and film creating pieces for The Bob Marley Estate, Godfather, Rocky, Nirvana and many more A+ properties.\n\nThe work developed at Los Angeles Pop Art has been featured in top magazines such as Playboy, Rolling Stone, Maxim and Stuff, as well as in top rated TV and films like Breaking Bad, Weeds, The Sopranos, The Girls Next Door, Workaholics and Battle: Los Angeles.\n\nSome of Los Angeles Pop Art’s original art is also included in major art collections and exhibits, such as The Ronald Reagan Presidential Art Collection and being included in The Amazing Collection at Ripley’s Believe it Or Not museums around the world.\n\nA Ronald Reagan design, recreating President Ronald Reagan’s face out of his famous \"Tear down this wall!\" speech, given at the Brandenburg Gate in Germany, was created by Los Angeles Pop Art in 2005. This piece of art was accepted by the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library into the Official Presidential Art Collection. The artwork is currently on display in the Lobby of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley, California.\n\nA partnership with Vivendi Games, in 2006, regarding the release of video game, led Los Angeles Pop Art to create an exclusive poster to be used as a pre-order gift by Vivendi Games, in order to assist in the pre-ordering of the game. The poster consisted in depicting an iconic film scene, using micrography, with the original film script.\n\nJoseph Leibovic was interviewed live on the nationwide Top Rated Mancow Radio show after host Mancow Muller discovered LA Pop Art and wanted to share the art with his listeners.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art was approached in 2010 by Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museums. Ripley’s now shows several Los Angeles Pop Art originals in different locations all over the world, spanning from Tokyo to Hollywood, as part of their permanent collection of amazing things.\n\nAlso in 2010, Los Angeles Pop Art received 2 awards for vendor excellence from Overstock.com. The first was for Highest Average Partner Scorecard and the other was for Best in Stock % Score in the Clothing and Shoes category.\n\nLos Angeles Pop Art work is published in the Ripley's Believe It or Not Annual 2012 book featuring an illustration based on the Lewis Carroll's novel, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.\n\nHigh-profile tourist gift shops, as of 2012, will be supplied by Los Angeles Pop Art with its unique products. Some of the locations include Times Square, Chicago Skydeck, Washington National Cathedral, Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library, The Mob Museum in Las Vegas, Ford’s Theatre, Gettysburg Battlefield Museum, Independence Visitors Center, U.S.S. Midway Museum The American Museum of Natural History in NYC, Museum of Science Boston and countless others.\n\nSince its inception, Los Angeles Pop Art has had a strong licensing program, acting as a licensee for some of the world’s largest Music and Film Properties.\n\nProperties in which Los Angeles Pop Art has acted as a licensee for include:\n\nStudios/Companies in which Los Angeles Pop Art have had licensing partnerships with include:\n\nWith its growing portfolio of original artwork, Los Angeles Pop Art has been building its own licensing program licensing out its original designs to be used on wide variety of products. In 2011, Los Angeles Pop Art entered into an exclusive agent agreement with Beth Schlansky Inc., New York City; renown licensing expert and former L.I.M.A. Board of Director. Beth Schlansky Inc. currently acts as the sole Licensing Agent for Los Angeles Pop Art.\n\nStudios/Companies in which Los Angeles Pop Art have licensing original artwork to include:\n\n"}
{"id": "6608522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6608522", "title": "Miniature art", "text": "Miniature art\n\nMiniature art or painting in little is a genre that focuses on art (especially painting, engraving and sculpture) with a long history that dates back to the scribes of the medieval ages. Miniature art societies, such as the World Federation of Miniaturists (WFM), provide applicable definitions of the term. An often-used definition is that a piece of miniature art can be held in the palm of the hand, or that it covers less than 25 square inches or 100 cm². Subjects are depicted in 1/6 actual size, and in all paintings the spirit of miniaturisation should be maintained.\n\nMiniature art has been made for over 1000 years and is prized by collectors. The U.S. White House, the Smithsonian American Art Museum, Astolat Dollhouse Castle, and museums around the world have collections of miniature paintings, drawings, original prints and etchings, and sculpture.\n\nArtists known for working in miniature include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52723490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52723490", "title": "Necrorealism", "text": "Necrorealism\n\nNecrorealism is a Russian art movement primarily focusing on black humor and the absurd. Russia artist and filmmaker Yevgeny Yufit (1961–2016) is generally considered the father of the movement. The name is a parody of the term Socialist realism.\n\nOther early Necrorealists included Igor Bezrukov, Yevgeniy Kondratiev, and Konstantin Mitenev. Their film-making efforts in the 1980s outside of the official Soviet Goskino State Cinema system became known as Parallel Cinema. Necrorealist works often explore the themes of death, decay, and the transformation of the body.\n"}
{"id": "1430291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430291", "title": "Neomodern", "text": "Neomodern\n\nNeomodern or neomodernist art is a reaction to the complexity of postmodern architecture and eclecticism, seeking greater simplicity.\n\nNeomodern architecture continues modernism as a dominant form of architecture in the 20th and 21st centuries, especially in corporate offices. It tends to be used for certain segments of buildings. Many residential houses tend to embrace postmodern, new classical and neo-eclectic styles, for instance, and major monuments today most often opt for starchitect inspired uniqueness. \nNeomodern architecture shares many of the basic characteristics of modernism. Both reject classical ornamentation, decorations, and deliberate ambitions to continue pre-modernist traditions. Neomodernist buildings, like modernist ones, are designed to be largely monolithic and functional.\n\nThe neomodern artist group was founded in 1997 by Guy Denning on the premise that the diversity of contemporary art was being stifled by the state supported art institutions and organisations. The group have no common style or media but there is a bias towards figurative painting. Original artists listed: Jim Butler, David Cobley, Emily Cole, Mark Demsteader, Guy Denning, Ian Francis, Juno Doran, Ghislaine Howard, Jamin, Maya Kulenovic, Mark Stephen Meadows, Antony Micallef, Motorboy, Carol Peace, Graeme Robbins, Harry Simmonds, Tom Wilmott, Franklin Torres, Kit Wise and Claire Zakiewicz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "252958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=252958", "title": "Old wives' tale", "text": "Old wives' tale\n\nAn old wives' tale is a supposed truth which is actually spurious or a superstition. It can be said sometimes to be a type of urban legend, said to be passed down by older women to a younger generation. Such tales are considered superstition, folklore or unverified claims with exaggerated and/or inaccurate details. Old wives' tales often center on women's traditional concerns, such as pregnancy, puberty, social relations, health, herbalism and nutrition.\n\nIn this context, the word \"wife\" means \"woman\" rather than \"married woman\". This usage stems from Old English ' (\"woman\") and is akin to the German ' (also meaning \"woman\"). This sense of the word is still used in Modern English in constructions such as \"midwife\" and \"fishwife\".\n\nOld wives' tales are often invoked to discourage certain behaviors, usually of children, or to share knowledge of folk cures for ailments ranging from toothaches to dysentery.\n\nThe concept of old wives' tales has existed for centuries. In 1611, the King James Bible was published with the following translation of the Apostle Paul writing to his young protégé Timothy, \"But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself [rather] unto godliness\" (I Timothy 4:7 KJV).\n\nOld wives' tales originate in the oral tradition of storytelling. They were generally propagated by illiterate women, telling stories to each other or to children. The stories do not attempt to moralise, but to teach lessons and make difficult concepts like death or coming of age easy for children to understand. These stories are also used to scare children so they don't do certain things.\n\nThese tales have often been collected by literate men, and turned into written works. Fairy tales by Basile, Perrault, and the Grimms have their roots in the oral tradition of women. These male writers took the stories from women, with their plucky, clever heroines and heroes, and turned them into morality tales for children.\n\nExamples of old wives' tales include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65821", "title": "Pastiche", "text": "Pastiche\n\nA pastiche is a work of visual art, literature, theatre, or music that imitates the style or character of the work of one or more other artists. Unlike parody, pastiche celebrates, rather than mocks, the work it imitates.\n\nThe word \"pastiche\" is a French cognate of the Italian noun \"pasticcio\", which is a pâté or pie-filling mixed from diverse ingredients. Metaphorically, \"pastiche\" and \"pasticcio\" describe works that are either composed by several authors, or that incorporate stylistic elements of other artists' work. Pastiche is an example of eclecticism in art.\n\nAllusion is not pastiche. A literary allusion may refer to another work, but it does not reiterate it. Moreover, allusion requires the audience to share in the author's cultural knowledge. Both allusion and pastiche are mechanisms of intertextuality.\n\nIn literature usage, the term denotes a literary technique employing a generally light-hearted tongue-in-cheek imitation of another's style; although jocular, it is usually respectful.\n\nFor example, many stories featuring Sherlock Holmes, originally penned by Arthur Conan Doyle, have been written as pastiches since the author's time. Ellery Queen and Nero Wolfe are other popular subjects of mystery parodies and pastiches.\n\nA similar example of pastiche is the posthumous continuations of the Robert E. Howard stories, written by other writers without Howard's authorization. This includes the Conan the Barbarian stories of L. Sprague de Camp and Lin Carter.\nDavid Lodge's novel \"The British Museum Is Falling Down\" (1965) is a pastiche of works by Joyce, Kafka, and Virginia Woolf. In 1991 Alexandra Ripley wrote the novel \"Scarlett\", a pastiche of \"Gone with the Wind\", in an unsuccessful attempt to have it recognized as a canonical sequel. \n\nIn 2017, John Banville published Mrs. Osmond, a sequel to Henry James's The Portrait of a Lady, written in a style similar to that of James.\n\nCharles Rosen has characterized Mozart's various works in imitation of Baroque style as pastiche, and Edvard Grieg's \"Holberg Suite\" was written as a conscious homage to the music of an earlier age. Some of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's works, such as his \"Variations on a Rococo Theme\" and \"Serenade for Strings\", employ a poised \"classical\" form reminiscent of 18th-century composers such as Mozart (the composer whose work was his favorite). Perhaps one of the best examples of pastiche in modern music is that of George Rochberg, who used the technique in his String Quartet No. 3 of 1972 and Music for the Magic Theater. Rochberg turned to pastiche from serialism after the death of his son in 1963.\n\n\"Bohemian Rhapsody\" by Queen is unusual as it is a pastiche in both senses of the word, as there are many distinct styles imitated in the song, all \"hodge-podged\" together to create one piece of music. A similar earlier example is \"Happiness is a Warm Gun\" by The Beatles. One can find musical \"pastiches\" throughout the work of the American composer Frank Zappa.\n\nA \"pastiche Mass\" is a musical Mass where the constituent movements come from different Mass settings. Most often this convention has been chosen for concert performances, particularly by early-music ensembles. Masses are composed of movements: Kyrie, Gloria, Credo, Sanctus, Agnus Dei; for example, the \"Missa Solemnis\" by Beethoven and the \"Messe de Nostre Dame\" by Guillaume de Machaut. In a pastiche Mass, the performers may choose a Kyrie from one composer, and a Gloria from another; or choose a Kyrie from one setting of an individual composer, and a Gloria from another.\n\nIn musical theatre pastiche is often an indispensable tool for evoking the sounds of a particular era for which a show is set. For the 1971 musical \"Follies\", a show about a reunion of performers from a musical revue set between the World Wars, Stephen Sondheim wrote over a dozen songs in the style of Broadway songwriters of the 1920s and 1930s. Sondheim imitates not only the music of composers such as Cole Porter, Irving Berlin, Jerome Kern, and George Gershwin but also the lyrics of writers such as Ira Gershwin, Dorothy Fields, Otto Harbach, and Oscar Hammerstein II. For example, Sondheim notes that the torch song \"Losing My Mind\" sung in the show contains \"near-stenciled rhythms and harmonies\" from the Gershwins' \"The Man I Love\" and lyrics written in the style of Dorothy Fields. Examples of musical pastiche also appear in other Sondheim shows including \"Gypsy\", \"Saturday Night\", and \"Anyone Can Whistle\".\n\nPastiche can also be a cinematic device whereby filmmakers pay homage to another filmmaker's style and use of cinematography, including camera angles, lighting, and mise en scène. A film's writer may also offer a pastiche based on the works of other writers (this is especially evident in historical films and documentaries but can be found in non-fiction drama, comedy and horror films as well). Italian director Sergio Leone`s Once Upon a Time in the West is a pastiche of earlier American Westerns. Another major filmmaker, Quentin Tarantino, often uses various plots, characteristics and themes from many lesser-known films to create his films, among them from the films of Sergio Leone, in effect creating a pastiche of a pastiche. Tarantino has openly stated that \"I steal from every single movie ever made.\" Director Todd Haynes' 2002 film Far From Heaven was a conscious attempt to replicate a typical Douglas Sirk melodrama - in particular All That Heaven Allows. The film works as a mostly reverential and unironic tribute to Sirk's filmmaking, lovingly re-creating the stylized mise-en-scene, colors, costumes, cinematography and lighting of Sirkian melodrama.\n\nIn cinema, the influence of George Lucas' \"Star Wars\" films (spawning their own pastiches, such as the 1983 3D film \"\") can be regarded as a function of postmodernity.\n\nIn discussions of urban planning, the term \"pastiche\" may describe developments as imitations of the building styles created by major architects: with the implication that the derivative work is unoriginal and of little merit, and the term is generally attributed without reference to its urban context. Many post-war European developments can in this way be described as pastiches of the work of architects and planners such as Le Corbusier or Ebenezer Howard. The term itself is not pejorative, however Alain de Botton describes pastiche as \"an unconvincing reproduction of the styles of the past\".\n\n"}
{"id": "16448388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16448388", "title": "Religious image", "text": "Religious image\n\nA religious image, sometimes called a votive image, is a work of visual art that is representational and has a religious purpose, subject or connection. All major historical religions have made some use of religious images, although their use is strictly controlled and often controversial in many religions, especially Abrahamic ones. General terms associated with religious images include cult image, a term for images, especially in sculpture which are or have been claimed to be the object of religious worship in their own right, and icon strictly a term for Eastern Orthodox religious images, but often used more widely, in and outside the area of religion.\n\nImages flourished within the Christian world, but by the 6th century, certain factions arose within the Eastern Church to challenge the use of icons, and in 726-30 they won Imperial support. The Iconoclasts actively destroyed icons in most public places, replacing them with the only religious depiction allowed, the cross. The Iconodules (those who favored the veneration of images), on the other hand, argued that icons had always been used by Christians and should continue to be allowed. They further argued that not only should the use of icons be permitted, it was necessary to the Christian faith as a testimony of the dogma of the Incarnation of Christ. Saint John Damascene argued:\n\n\"Of old God the incorporial and uncircumscribed was not depicted at all. But now that God has appeared in the flesh and lived among men, I make an image of the God who can be seen. I do not worship matter, but I worship the Creator of matter, who for my sake became material and deigned to dwell in matter, who through matter effected my salvation.\"\n\nFinally, after much debate at the Second Council of Nicaea, held in 787, the Iconodules, supported by the Empress, upheld the use of icons as an integral part of Christian tradition, and the Western Church, which had been almost totally unaffected by the dispute, confirmed this. According to the definition of the council, icons of Jesus are not intended to depict his divinity, but only the Incarnate Word. Saints are depicted because they reflect the grace of God, as depicted by their halos.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church fully ascribes to the teachings of the Seventh Ecumenical Council and celebrates the restoration of the use of icons after the period of Iconoclasm on the First Sunday of Great Lent. So important are the icons in Orthodox theology that the ceremony celebrating their restoration is known as the Triumph of Orthodoxy.\n\nIn the traditions of Eastern Christianity, only flat images or \"bas relief\" images are used (no more than 3/4 relief). Because the Eastern Church teaches that icons should represent the spiritual reality rather than the physical reality, the traditional style of Orthodox iconography was developed in which figures were stylized in a manner that emphasized their holiness rather than their humanity.\n\nTraditional icons differ from Western art in that they are not romantic or emotional, but call the viewer to \"sobriety\" (\"nipsis\"). The manner of depicting the face, and especially the eyes, is intended to produce in the viewer a sense of calm, devotion, and a desire for asceticism. Icons also differ from Western art in that they use inverse perspective (giving the impression that the icon itself is the source of light), and for this reason make very little use of shadow or highlight. The background of icons is usually covered with gold leaf to remind the viewer that the subject pictured is not earthly but otherworldly (gold being the closest earthly medium in which to signify heavenly glory).\n\nJesus and the Apostles are depicted wearing the robes of philosophers. The precise manner of depicting the face of Jesus and many of the saints is also fixed by tradition. Even the colours used in depicting the clothing of Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and other saints is fixed by tradition, with symbolic meaning attached to each color. Icons of Jesus depict him with a halo that displays three bars of a cross and the Greek letters which signify I AM (the Divine Name which God revealed to Moses at the Burning Bush). The halos of saints, even the Theotokos (Mother of God) are usually simple circles, filled with gold leaf. Over the centuries, painter's manuals have developed to help preserve the traditions and techniques of Orthodox iconography, one of the best-known is the manual from the Stroganov School of iconography in Russia. Despite these strict guidelines, the Orthodox iconographic style is not stilted, and the individual artist is always permitted to bring his own style and spiritual insight into his work, so long as he remains faithful to Sacred Tradition, and many icons display remarkable movement and depth.\n\nThe thoughtful use of symbolism allows the icon to present complex teaching in a simple way, making it possible to educate even the illiterate in theology. The interiors of Orthodox Churches are often completely covered in icons of Christ, Mary and the saints. Most are portrait figures in various conventional poses, but many narrative scenes are also depicted. It is not unusual in narrative icons for the same individual to be depicted more than one time.\n\nOrthodox Christians do not pray \"to\" icons; rather, they pray \"before\" them. An icon is a medium of communication, rather than a medium of art. Gazing at an icon is intended to help draw the worshipper into the heavenly kingdom. As with all of Orthodox theology, the purpose is \"theosis\" (mystical union with God).\n\nIcons are venerated by the faithful by bowing and kissing them. Traditionally, the faithful would not kiss the face of the one depicted on the icon, but rather the right hand or foot depicted on the icon. The composition of an icon is planned with this veneration in mind, and the iconographer will usually portray his subject so that the right hand is raised in blessing, or if it is the saint's full figure is depicted, the right foot is visible.\n\nIcons are also honored with incense and by burning lampadas (oil lamps) in front of them. Icons are carried in processions, and the bishop or priest may bless the people by holding an icon upright and making the sign of the cross with it over them.\n\nUntil the 13th century, icons followed a broadly similar pattern in West and East, although very few such early examples survive from either tradition. Western icons, which are not usually so termed, were largely patterned on Byzantine works, and equally conventional in composition and depiction. From this point on the Western tradition came slowly to allow the artist far more flexibility, and a more realistic approach to the figures.\n\nIn the 15th century the use of icons in the West was enormously increased by the introduction of prints on paper, mostly woodcuts which were produced in vast numbers. With the Reformation, after an initial uncertainty among early Lutherans, Protestants came down firmly against icon-like portraits, especially larger ones, even of Christ. Many Protestants found these idolatrous. Catholics maintained and even intensified the traditional use of icons, both printed and on paper, using the different styles of the Renaissance and Baroque. Popular Catholic imagery to a certain extent has remained attached to a Baroque style of about 1650, especially in Italy and Spain.\n\nIn the Church of England, the Royal Arms of the United Kingdom has been used like an icon, owing to its absence of human portraiture, as a representation of the sovereign as Head of the Church. It has been done in wood and stone as well as painted.\n\nImages of Hindu gods and goddesses use a rich symbolism. Some figures are blue-skinned (the color of heaven) or have multiple arms holding various symbols which depict aspects of the god.\n\nMuslims view sanctified icons as idols, and strictly forbid their worship, nor do they pray in front of one. However, the various divisions of Islam take different positions on the role of visual depictions of living (or once-living) creatures, including people. At one end of the spectrum, sects such as the Wahhabis totally ban drawings and photography. Some branches of Islam forbid only the former but allow the latter. The majority of Sunni Muslims permit both. Some Shia allow even the depiction of Muhammad and the twelve Imams, a position totally unacceptable to most Sunnis.\n\nIt is commonly thought that the Jews absolutely prohibit \"graven images\"; this, however, is not entirely true. There are numerous instances within the scriptures that describe the creation and use of images for religious purposes (the angels on the Ark of the Covenant, the bronze snake Moses mounted on a pole, etc.). What is important to note is that none of these are worshipped as God. Since God is incorporeal and has no form, He cannot be depicted. During the Late Antique period of Jewish history it is clear that restrictions on representation were relaxed considerably; for example, the synagogue at Dura Europas had large figurative wall paintings. It is also clear there was a tradition of painted scrolls, of which the Joshua Roll and the Utrecht Psalter are medieval Christian copies, none of the originals having survived. There are also many medieval illuminated manuscripts, especially of the Haggadah of Pesach (Passover).\n\nA unique Jewish tradition of animal iconography was developed in Eastern Europe, which included symbolic depictions of God's attributes and powers as various animal scenes and plant ornaments in the wooden synagogues in the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth, as well as some mystical imagery on the gravestones. A part of the same imagery also appears on the Ashkenazic Shivisi - meditative images used for contemplation over God's name, not unlike the Eastern Mandalas.\n\nSome synagogue wall paintings contained over 80 various animals, including lions, unicorns, dragons, lion-headed mermaids, three hares, three intertwined fishes, Uroboros, elephants, deer, leopards, bears, foxes, wolves, squirrels, turkeys, ostriches and many others.\n\nGod himself was usually represented as a two-headed golden eagle in the center of the Sun, painted on the ceiling of the synagogue, and surrounded by the Zodiac circle. This system was based on the Kabbalistic symbolic tradition; unfortunately, the meaning of some forgotten symbols is hard to recover.\n\nThomas Hubka has traced the style of decorative painting in the wooden synagogues to the medieval Hebrew illuminated manuscripts of Ashkenazi Jewry, and its meaning to the Jewish mystical literature, such as the Zohar and the works of Rabbi Elazar Rokeach.\n"}
{"id": "6746841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746841", "title": "Society for the Arts, Religion and Contemporary Culture", "text": "Society for the Arts, Religion and Contemporary Culture\n\nThe Society for the Arts, Religion, and Contemporary Culture, or ARC, was founded in October 1961 by three people, Alfred Barr, the art critic and founder of the Museum of Modern Art, the theologian Paul Tillich, and Marvin Halverson an American Protestant theologian sometime of the Chicago Theological Seminary and the author of a 1951 booklet, \"Great Religious Paintings\". Its aims and program are based on the deep and complex relationship between religion and the arts. Its first board of directors included these three as well as Unitarian Universalist theologian and parish minister, James Luther Adams; mythologist Joseph Campbell, principal developer of the merger forming the United Church of Christ, Truman B. Douglass; Congregationalist parish minister and theologian Amos Wilder, and Stanley Romaine Hopper, theologian and co-founder of the first Theology and Literature program in the United States.\n\nAmong the more than 300 Fellows of the Society have been Mircea Eliade, Denise Levertov, Sallie McFague, Cleanth Brooks, Marianne Moore, W. H. Auden, and John Updike.\n\nDuring the late 1960s most of the individuals involved in the published discourse pertaining to the field of theopoetics were either fellows or members of SARCC. Another major focus of the Society has been the role of myth in culture resulting in two publications.\n\nPresently SARCC sponsors public lectures and currently publishes a newsletter, Seedbed. Previously it has published a periodical entitled \"ARC Directions.\"\n\nThe archives of SARCC are maintained at the Andover-Harvard Theological Library\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3910427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3910427", "title": "Street poster art", "text": "Street poster art\n\nStreet poster art is a kind of graffiti, more specifically categorized as \"street art\". Posters are usually handmade or printed graphics on thin paper. It can be understood as an art piece that is installed on the streets as opposed to in a gallery or museum, but by some it is not comprehended as a form of contemporary art.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "725885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725885", "title": "Studio", "text": "Studio\n\nA studio is an artist or worker's workroom. This can be for the purpose of acting, architecture, painting, pottery (ceramics), sculpture, origami, woodworking, scrapbooking, photography, graphic design, filmmaking, animation, industrial design, radio or television production broadcasting or the making of music. The term is also used for the workroom of dancers, often specified to dance studio.\n\nThe word \"studio\" is derived from the , from , from \"studere\", meaning to or zeal.\n\nThe French term for studio, atelier, in addition to designating an artist's studio is used to characterize the studio of a fashion designer. Atelier also has the connotation of being the home of an alchemist or wizard.\n\n\"Studio\" is also a metonym for the group of people who work within a particular studio. \n\nThe studio of any artist, especially from the 15th to the 19th centuries, characterized all the assistants, thus the designation of paintings as \"from the workshop of...\" or \"studio of...\"\nAn art studio is sometimes called an atelier, especially in earlier eras. In contemporary, English language use, \"atelier\" can also refer to the Atelier Method, a training method for artists that usually takes place in a professional artist's studio. \n\nThe above-mentioned \"method\" calls upon that zeal for study to play a significant role in the production which occurs in a studio space. A studio is more or less artful to the degree that the artist who occupies it is committed to the continuing education in his or her formal discipline. Academic curricula categorize studio classes in order to prepare students for the rigors of building sets of skills which require a continuity of practice in order to achieve growth and mastery of their artistic expression. A versatile and creative mind will embrace the opportunity of such practice to innovate and experiment, which develops uniquely individual qualities of each artist's expression. Thus the method raises and maintains an art studio space above the level of a mere production facility or workshop.\n\nSafety is or may be a concern in studios, with some painting materials required to be handled, stored, or used properly to prevent poisoning, chemical burns, or fire.\n\nIn educational studios, students learn to develop skills related to design, ranging from architecture to product design. In specific, educational studios are studio settings where large numbers of students learn to draft and design with instructional help at a college. Educational studios are colloquially referred to as \"studio\" by students, who are known for staying up late hours into the night doing projects and socializing.\n\nThe studio environment is characterized by 2 types in education:\n\nStudio pottery is made by an individual potter working on his own in his studio, rather than in a ceramics factory (although there may be a design studio within a larger manufacturing site).\n\nProduction studios are those studios which act as centres for the production in any of the arts; alternatively they can also be the financial and commercial entity behind such endeavours. In radio and television production studio is the place where programs and radio commercial and television advertising are recorded for further emission.\n\nAnimation studios, like movie studios, may be production facilities, or financial entities. In some cases, especially in anime, they continue the tradition of a studio where a master or group of talented individuals oversee the work of lesser artists and crafts persons in realising their vision. Animation studios are a fast rising entity and they include established firms such as Walt Disney and Pixar.\n\nArtists or writers, predominantly those producing comics, still employ small studios of staff to assist in the creation of a comic strip, comic book or graphic novel. In the early days of Dan Dare, Frank Hampson employed a number of staff at his studio to help with the production of the strip. Eddie Campbell is another creator who has assembled a small studio of colleagues to help him in his art, and the comic book industry of the United States has based its production methods upon the studio system employed at its beginnings.\n\nMany universities are creating studio settings for courses outside the artist's realm. There are several different projects along these lines, most notably the SCALE-UP (Student-Centered Active Learning Environment for Undergraduate Programs) initiated at NC State.\n\nIn audio, a mastering studio is a facility specialised in audio mastering. Tasks may include but not be limited to audio restoration, corrective and tone-shaping EQ, dynamic control, stereo or 5.1 surround editing, vinyl and tape transfers, vinyl cutting, and CD compilation. Depending on the quality of the original mix, the mastering engineer's role can change from small corrections to improving the overall sound of a mix drastically. Typically studios contain a combination of high-end analogue equipment with low-noise circuitry and digital hardware and plug-ins. Some may contain tape machines and vinyl lathes. They may also contain full-range monitoring systems and be acoustically tuned to provide an accurate reproduction of the sound information contained in the original medium. The mastering engineer must prepare the file for its intended destination, which may be radio, CD, vinyl or digital distribution.\n\nIn video production, a mastering studio is a facility specialized in the post-production of video recordings. Tasks may include but not be limited to: video editing, colour grading correction, mixing, DVD authoring and audio mastering. The mastering engineer must prepare the file for its intended destination, which may be broadcast, DVD or digital distribution.\n\nAn \"acting studio\" is an institution or workspace (similar to a dance studio) in which actors rehearse and refine their craft. The Neighborhood Playhouse and Actors Studio are legendary acting studios in New York.\n\nA movie studio is a company which develops, equips and maintains a controlled environment for filmmaking. This environment may be interior (sound stage), exterior (backlot) or both.\n\nA photographic studio is both a workspace and a corporate body. As a workspace it provides space to take, develop, print and duplicate photographs.\n\nA radio studio is a room in which a radio program or show is produced, either for live broadcast or for recording for a later broadcast. The room is soundproofed to avoid unwanted noise being mixed into the broadcast.\n\nA recording studio is a facility for sound recording which generally consists of at least two rooms: the studio or live room, and the control room, where the sound from the studio is recorded and manipulated. They are designed so that they have good acoustics and so that there is good isolation between the rooms.\n\nA television studio is an installation in which television or video productions take place, for live television, for recording video tape, or for the acquisition of raw footage for post-production. The design of a studio is similar to, and derived from, movie studios, with a few amendments for the special requirements of television production. A professional television studio generally has several rooms, which are kept separate for noise and practicality reasons.\n\nMany of the healing arts and activities such as yoga, judo, karate are \"studied\" in a studio. It is very common to see yoga studios and martial arts studios established in settings that might previously have been for other uses, described as studios. These are not really recreation centers, or gyms in the traditional sense, but places where students of these activities practice or study their art.\n\n"}
{"id": "34410745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34410745", "title": "The Beggars", "text": "The Beggars\n\nThe Beggars or The Cripples is an oil-on-panel by the Netherlandish Renaissance artist Pieter Bruegel the Elder, painted in 1568. It is now in the Louvre in Paris.\n\nThis work is the only painting by Bruegel in the Louvre, received as a gift in 1892.\n\nAttempts have been made to interpret the picture of five cripples and a beggar-woman as an allusion to a historical event: the badger's tails, or foxes' tails, on their clothes might refer to the Gueux, a rebel party formed against the government of Philip II of Spain and Granvelle; but these also occur in Bruegel's \"The Fight Between Carnival and Lent\" in Vienna, dated 1559. Still, the beggars are not quite ordinary beggars, as they wear carnival headgear representing various classes of society: a cardboard crown (the king), a paper shako (the soldier), a beret (the bourgeois), a cap (the peasant), and a mitre (the bishop). The work clearly has some satirical meaning, which has so far eluded interpretation. Perhaps physical imperfections are meant to symbolise moral decrepitude, which can affect all men irrespective of class.\n\nOn the back of the painting are two inscriptions which seem to date from the 16th century. One is in Flemish, and in a very fragmentary state; the other is in Latin and records the admiration some humanist felt for Bruegel, \"whose art surpasses Nature itself\".\n\nThe painting dates from the end of Bruegel's career, when he showed a keener interest in the natural world. Tiny though it is, the landscape seen through the opening is bathed in a delicate light which simmers like dew on the foliage.\n\nOn the back of the painting is written:\n\n<poem>\nWhat nature lacks, is lacking in our art,\nSo great was the grace accorded to our painter.\nHere nature, expressed in painted forms, is astonished\nTo see through these cripples that Bruegel is her equal.\n</poem>\n\nModern eyes may be inclined to conclude that Brugel intended to invoke sympathy for the plight of the crippled figures, but from a historical perspective this is unlikely. Europeans of Bruegel's time gave little regard to beggars, and the painting provides hints that Bruegel shared this denigration: the figures are outside the town walls and are posed in such ways as to provoke contempt and amusement. The foxtail on some of the figures was a symbol at the time of ridicule in political caricature and real life. The woman behind them bears an empty bowl and may appear to be ignoring the beggars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "659827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=659827", "title": "The Short North", "text": "The Short North\n\nThe Short North is a neighborhood in Columbus, Ohio, United States, centered on the main strip of High Street immediately north of downtown and extending until just south of the Ohio State University campus area. It is an easy walk from the convention center or Nationwide Arena district to the south. The Short North is often crowded on weekends, particularly during the monthly \"Gallery Hop\" and other local and downtown events.\n\nThe Short North has been described as \"colorful\", \"offbeat\", and \"trendy\". The district is heavily populated with art galleries, specialty shops, pubs, nightclubs, and coffee houses. Most of its tightly packed brick buildings date from at least the early 20th century, with traditional storefronts along High Street (often with brightly painted murals on their side walls), and old apartment buildings and rowhouses and newer condominium developments in the surrounding blocks. The city installed 17 lighted metal archways extending across High Street throughout the Short North, reminiscent of such arches present in the area in the early 1900s.\n\nThe area is also known to be a very gay- and lesbian-friendly neighborhood which contains numerous gay nightclubs and bars and hosts the annual Columbus gay pride parade\n\nThe name \"Short North\" traces its roots back to the vernacular used by police for the area during a period of decline, namely as the neighborhood that—from a suburban commuter's perspective—had fallen 'just short' of the central business district's north end—both physically and economically. A reputation for diversity and an artistic, Bohemian atmosphere has marked the Short North, with land prices and local rents rising steadily from the humble beginnings as a squatter’s neighborhood in the 1980s. Prior to this gentrification of the neighborhood which originated from artists, it had suffered prolonged decay and from latent, street-level crime and gang violence as Columbus affluent residents followed the economic bubble outward—into the suburbs—during the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nThe 1980s saw the neighborhood's rebirth enter into full gear as galleries began to open up and started to flourish. As Maria Gallowy owner of pm gallery the oldest gallery in the Short North once put it \"It was one of those neighborhoods that artists love to move into because the possibilities are there.\" In 1984 two Short North area galleries —the now defunct Art Reach and the still thriving pm gallery— began opening new exhibits on the first Saturday of every month to help cross-promote their businesses and build a more unified community. This loose coordination later evolved into the Gallery Hop which is still held every first Saturday of the month. The Gallery Hop today features most businesses keeping their doors open late into the night, jam-packed streets, and sidewalks populated with street musicians and other performers.\n\nSince 1983, the Short North has also hosted the annual Doo Dah Parade, a parody of typical Fourth of July parades that includes politically slanted paraders and floats as well as absurdities such as the \"Marching Fidels,\" a band of Fidel Castro lookalikes. The parade starts in neighboring Victorian Village, at Goodale Park, and winds north to finish coming south down High Street.\n\nThe Short North also hosts HighBall Halloween, Masquerade on High, a fashion show and street parade that closes down High Street. In 2011, in its 4th year, HighBall Halloween gained notoriety as it accepted its first Expy award. HighBall Halloween has much to offer for those interested in fashion and the performing and visual arts or for those who want to celebrate Halloween and with food and drinks from all around the city. Each year the event is put on with a different theme and it increases in size and popularity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31771", "title": "Urban legend", "text": "Urban legend\n\nAn urban legend, urban myth, urban tale, or contemporary legend is a form of modern folklore. It usually consists of fictional stories, often presented as true, with macabre or humorous elements, rooted in local popular culture. These legends can be used for entertainment purposes, as well as semi-serious explanations for random events such as disappearances and strange objects.\n\nUrban legends are spread by any media, including newspapers, e-mail and social media. Some urban legends have passed through the years with only minor changes to suit regional variations. More recent legends tend to reflect modern circumstances, like the story of people ambushed and anesthetized, who awaken minus one kidney, which was supposedly surgically removed for transplantation.\n\nThe term \"urban legend,\" as used by folklorists, has appeared in print since at least 1968. Jan Harold Brunvand, professor of English at the University of Utah, introduced the term to the general public in a series of popular books published beginning in 1981. Brunvand used his collection of legends, \"The Vanishing Hitchhiker: American Urban Legends & Their Meanings\" (1981) to make two points: first, that legends and folklore do not occur exclusively in so-called primitive or traditional societies, and second, that one could learn much about urban and modern culture by studying such tales.\n\nMany urban legends are framed as complete stories with plot and characters. The compelling appeal of a typical urban legend is its elements of mystery, horror, fear or humor. Often they serve as cautionary tales. Some urban legends are morality tales that depict someone, usually a child, acting in a disagreeable manner, only to wind up in trouble, hurt, or dead.\n\nAs Jan Brunvand points out, antecedent legends including some of the motifs, themes and symbolism of these urtexts can readily be identified. Cases which \"may\" have been at least partially inspired by real events include \"The Death Car\" (traced by Richard Dorson to Michigan, United States); \"the Solid Cement Cadillac\" and the possible origin of \"The Hook\" in the 1946 series of Lovers' Lane murders in Texarkana, Texas, United States. The urban legend that Coca-Cola developed the drink Fanta to sell in Nazi Germany without public backlash originated as the actual tale of German Max Keith, who invented the drink and ran Coca-Cola's operations in Germany during World War II.\n\nThe teller of an urban legend may claim it happened to a friend (or to a friend of a friend), which serves to personalize, authenticate and enhance the power of the narrative while distancing the teller. Many urban legends depict horrific crimes, contaminated foods, or other situations which would potentially affect many people. Anyone believing such stories might feel compelled to warn loved ones. On occasion, news organizations, school officials and even police departments have issued warnings concerning the latest threat. According to the \"Lights Out\" rumor, street-gang members would drive without headlights until a compassionate motorist responded with the traditional flashing of headlights, whereupon a prospective new gang-member would have to murder the citizen as a requirement of initiation. A fax received at the Nassau County, Florida fire department was forwarded to police, and from there to all city departments. Even the Minister of Defence for Canada was taken in by the same legend; he forwarded an urgent security warning to all Ontario Members of Parliament.\n\nMany urban legends are essentially extended jokes, told as if they were true events. Urban legends typically include common elements: the legend is retold on behalf of the original witness or participant; dire warnings are often given for those who might not heed the advice or lesson contained therein (this forms a typical element of many e-mail phishing scams); and the tale is often touted as \"something a friend told me\", while the friend is identified by first name only or not identified at all.\n\nPersistent urban legends often maintain a degree of plausibility, such as a serial killer deliberately hiding in the back seat of a car. One such example since the 1970s has been the recurring rumor that the Procter & Gamble Company was associated with Satan-worshippers because of details within its nineteenth-century trademark. The legend interrupted the company's business to the point that it stopped using the trademark.\n\nThe earliest term by which these narratives were known, \"urban belief tales\", highlights what was then thought of as a key property: their tellers regarded the stories as true accounts, and the device of the FOAF (acronym for \"Friend Of A Friend\" invented by English writer and folklorist Rodney Dale in 1976) was a spurious but significant effort at authentication. The coinage leads in turn to the terms \"FOAFlore\" and \"FOAFtale\". While at least one classic legend, the \"Death Car\", has been shown to have some basis in fact, folklorists have an interest in debunking these narratives only to the degree that establishing non-factuality warrants the assumption that there must be some other reason why the tales are told, re-told and believed. As in the case of myth, these narratives are believed because they construct and reinforce the worldview of the group within which they are told, or \"because they provide us with coherent and convincing explanations of complex events\".\n\nRecently, social scientists have started to draw on urban legends in order to help explain complex socio-psychological beliefs, such as attitudes to crime, childcare, fast food, SUVs and other \"family\" choices. Here the authors make an explicit connection between urban legends and popular folklore, such as \"Grimm's Fairy Tales\", where similar themes and motifs arise. For this reason, it is characteristic of groups within which a given narrative circulates to react very negatively to claims or demonstrations of non-factuality; an example would be the expressions of outrage by police officers who are told that adulteration of Halloween treats by strangers (the subject of periodic moral panics) occurs extremely rarely, if at all.\n\nThe Internet makes it easier to both spread urban legends and debunk them. Discussing, tracking, and analyzing urban legends is the topic of the Usenet newsgroup, \"alt.folklore.urban\" and several web sites, most notably snopes.com. The United States Department of Energy had a service, now discontinued, called Hoaxbusters, that dealt with computer-distributed hoaxes and legends.\n\nTelevision shows such as \"Urban Legends\", \"\", and later \"\", feature re-enactments of urban legends detailing the accounts of the tales and (typically) later in the show, these programs reveal any factual basis they may have. The Discovery Channel TV show \"MythBusters\" (2003–2016) tried to prove or disprove urban legends by attempting to reproduce them using the scientific method.\n\nThe 1998 film \"Urban Legend\" featured students discussing popular urban legends while at the same time falling victim to them.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1998, \"The Guardian\" newspaper \"Weekend\" section published the illustrated \"Urban Myths\" column by Phil Healey and Rick Glanvill, with content taken from a series of four books: \"Urban Myths\", \"The Return Of Urban Myths\", \"Urban Myths Unplugged\", and \"Now! That's What I Call Urban Myths\". The 1994 comics anthology the \"Big Book of Urban Legends\", written by Robert Boyd, Jan Harold Brunvand, and Robert Loren Fleming, collected two hundred urban legends told in comics form.\n\nThe British writer Tony Barrell has explored urban legends in a long-running column in \"The Sunday Times\". These include the story that Orson Welles began work on a Batman movie in the 1940s, which was to feature James Cagney as the Riddler and Marlene Dietrich as Catwoman; the persistent rumour that the rock singer Courtney Love is the granddaughter of Marlon Brando; and the idea that in a famous 1970s poster of Farrah Fawcett, there is a subliminal sexual message concealed in the actress' hair.\n\nInternet urban legends are folklore stories that are spread through the internet. They may be spread through Usenet or email, or more recently by social media.\n\n\nThe capacity of the internet to spread rumors has been used in marketing, for instance with the low-budget film \"The Blair Witch Project\", which was advertised as if it were about a genuine urban legend, rather than a work of original fiction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22711940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22711940", "title": "Van Thanh Rudd", "text": "Van Thanh Rudd\n\nVan Thanh Rudd (born 1973) is an award winning and controversial Australian street artist, sculptor, children's book illustrator, former musician and unionist. He has balanced his twenty year artistic career with labouring jobs in hospitality, warehousing and construction. His political views have drifted toward the revolutionary left since the early 2000s, away from the centrist Australian Labor Party, the party of choice for the Rudd side of the family. He knows very little about his mother's Vietnamese side of the family, most of whom still live in Vietnam. A member of Socialist Alternative and electoral party, the Victorian Socialists his artworks contain radical left-wing commentary and positions. He is also a member of construction and maritime union, the CFMMEU and the newly forming Workers Art Collective with visual artists Sam Wallman, Tia Kass, Niki Minus, Mary Leunig, Sam Davis, SlimOne, with more members to join in the near future. He often uses the name Van T Rudd or Van as a signature on his art as a visual mockery of the popular Vans clothing company. He is influenced by the theories of Karl Marx, and many other revolutionary activists and artists who have been struggling against the forces of capitalism. \n\nRudd has been producing art for over twenty years. He was a musician, mostly as a drummer, bass guitarist and keyboardist in bands Cheezlekane (1993 to 2002), Seconds (2001 to 2007) and Granma (2005 to 2006). One of the first protest marches he attended was for Melbourne's public transport workers in 1997 with his younger brother, Rad. Also with his younger brother, he attended the large S11 anti-capitalism protests in 2000 in Melbourne at Crown Casino. In early 2008, preceding the Global Financial Crisis, he joined the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), which merged into Socialist Alternative in 2013, and contested the seat of Lalor in the 2010 federal election against Prime Minister Julia Gillard, generating 0.50% of the vote. Rudd began drawing cartoons at a young age and was largely self-taught. He nearly failed a humanities course in the early 1990s at Griffith University. After several art exhibitions and playing gigs in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne, he eventually went on to study art at the RMIT University and Victorian College of the Arts, where he was elected student union representative with socialists Left Action. He was meant to complete a PhD in fine art at the Victorian College of the Arts but ran out of funding and also became fed up with the post-marxist saturation of theory and practise in art.\n\nRudd was born in Nambour, Queensland, to Vietnam veteran Malcolm Rudd (the brother of Kevin Rudd) and Tuoi, and now resides in Footscray, Melbourne. He has an older brother Dat and younger brother Rad. For many of his younger years, he was involved in numerous creative projects with Rad including film making and acting. As a drummer, Rudd joined a Brisbane-based indie pop-rock band called Cheezlekane in the early 1990s with members Patrick Devery (lead vocals), Cameron Peterson (bass guitar) and Nick Stamford (guitar). They played many pub gigs in Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne and gained interest from Geffen Records in 1998 due to their first 4-track produced album called Knee High Fidelity. With musician friends Iain Wilson, Ritchie Giliberto and Mark Buggy, Rudd formed the band Seconds with his brother Rad as lead singer. He also was a keyboardist in a band called Stalis Vetch with Rad. He has a partner and experienced youth worker of Chilean heritage, Tania; daughter, Loyola; and son, Manolo. Rudd says that his deeper, leftist political awakening came after meeting his partner, whose family fled Chile after General Augusto Pinochet deposed the elected socialist Salvador Allende and began violently targeting leftists.Tania was an active member of the radical left DSP and campaigned for refugee rights. They formed a band called Granma in 2005 with Tania on drums and her brothers Ricardo on keyboards, Nicolas on Vocals, Simon on guitar and Rudd on Bass and vocals. Rudd decided to leave music in 2007 to focus more upon his visual art.\n\nIn 2004 Rudd was selected as a finalist in the 2004 Metro Art Competition with a realist-style artwork depicting a combined version of paintings by Albert Tucker and Jeffery Smart .\n\nIn 2004, as Rudd's paintings became more politicized, he decided that exhibiting his large paintings inside galleries wasn't going to reach large audiences, so he began carrying them in public. He was to call this The Carriers Project. He entered the project in various festivals based in Melbourne including Fringe and later the Big West Festival, and it later culminated in a national tour of Australia through kultour. Some of his paintings depicting 'exploding terrorists' created unease with authorities in Brisbane and Perth. He claims he was adding valuable commentary about the anti-terror laws in Australia. It was a coincidence that, in 2007, while Rudd was in Perth completing his national tour, that his uncle Kevin Rudd was elected Prime Minister of Australia. \n\nIn 2006, Rudd created an artwork called 'Portrait of an Exploding Terrorist'. It was a combined painting and billboard piece in one. He carried the painting around the streets of Melbourne, while exhibiting a large piece on the public billboard at Trocadero Art Space, Footscray.It wasn't long before the local council demanded the billboard piece be removed, claiming it constituted litter. Gallery director Michael Brennan and Rudd were forced to remove the piece to avoid paying a large fine. The piece was critical of the State of Israel and argued that it inflicted terror upon the Palestinian people. \n\nIn 2007 Rudd created an artwork depicting a large mural on a gallery wall at Trocadero Art Space in Footscray with signatories of Australians who supported a visit to the country by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. It was titled \"Smells Like Sulphur: A Tribute to Venezuela and the Art of Telling Bush to Piss Off\", referencing Chavez' UN General Assembly speech the previous year, when he called former US President George W. Bush \"the devil\".\n\nIn 2007, Rudd submitted an oil painting titled '100 000 to 400 000' to the Sunshine Coast Art Prize. The painting was awarded a second prize and artist Tony Albert won the main prize. The local media tried to whip up controversy around Rudd's painting because it showed a U.S flag burning. \n\nIn 2008 the City of Melbourne rejected a painting by Rudd depicting Ronald McDonald setting fire to Thích Quảng Đức with the Olympic torch. According to Rudd, the artwork was a homage to British street artist Banksy and a comment on human rights abuses in the run-up to the 2008 Olympic Games. Rudd accused the City of Melbourne of political censorship which they denied, claiming he was solely picked to feature in the Ho Chi Minh City exhibition for his Vietnamese heritage.\n\nIn 2009 Rudd made an artwork critical of Connex's parent company Veolia Environnement's light rail contract which is to link Israeli settlements in the West Bank with Jerusalem. The artwork was displayed at Platform Artists Group's public gallery, adjacent to Flinders Street Station, a major train station in Melbourne. Connex threatened Rudd with legal action over his use of a similar font and colour-scheme to the company's logo and the Anti-Defamation League accused the gallery of racism. The Electronic Intifada claimed that Rudd's artwork was a boost to the campaign against Connex and Veolia – a part of the general Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against Israel – whose contract to run Melbourne trains expired in November 2009.\n\nIN 2009 Rudd exhibited in Melbourne a used part from an Afghan civilian car, purportedly destroyed by an International Security Assistance Force missile in Southern Afghanistan. It accompanied a price tag of $1.2 billion. Rudd estimated the value based on what he believed was \"the astronomical price paid by victims of war\". He broke down the multi-trillion dollar US war budget for the Middle East since 2001 and included other variables such as the cost of wounded civilians and soldiers.\n\nIn 2009, Rudd was again selected as a finalist in the Sunshine Coast Art Prize for the collage called 'Freedom Furniture' which was critical of the U.S.A's Operation Enduring Freedom by contrasting an image of a U.S marine placing a wounded child of Afghanistan into the sofa of a luxury home in a western lounge room setting from a home wares catalogue. \n\nOn Australia Day 2010, Rudd and RSP member, Sam King, dressed in Ku Klux Klan outfits with the signs \"Racism – Made in Australia\" in front of the outfits, outside the Rod Laver Arena during the Australian Open to protest the refusal of the Victorian Government to treat the attacks on Indians in Victoria as racially motivated and also the federal government's policies towards asylum seekers. Rudd and King were arrested within 10 minutes and charged with inciting a riot. Rudd also told the Indian weekly newsmagazine \"Outlook\" that the \"dominant culture in Australia is a racist culture.\"\n\nIn a 2010 interview on 3AW, Kevin Rudd expressed to Neil Mitchell that he was not a fan of his nephew's political views but supported the notion of free speech in Australia, adding, \"[you] can choose your friends but...\". According to a member of the RSP, the PM and his nephew are not in regular contact. In a later 2010 Fairfax radio interview, on the same subject Kevin Rudd stated: \"Do I agree in any way with what he's done? No I don't, absolutely.\" Rudd was the subject of an episode of ABC program \"Australian Story\", broadcast in August 2010, which reported his uncle had been invited to appear, but declined.\n\nRudd contested the seat of Lalor for the House of Representatives in the 2010 federal election against Labor Prime Minister Julia Gillard for the unregistered RSP. This signals the RSP's failure to generate the 500-member minimum required by the Victorian Electoral Commission to register as an official political party. He garnered a total of 516 votes, scoring 0.50% of the overall vote, with a +0.50% swing. This placed him as the second least preferred candidate, ahead of regional tourism developer, Marc Aussie-Stone, compared to Gillard as first preference, who garnered 66,060 votes, scoring 64.26% of the overall vote, with a +4.37% swing. The artist claimed on an ABC radio interview his reason for running in the election was that the appointment of Gillard as PM marked \"a more conservative path for Labor\" and that she was \"influenced by the mining magnates... [and] the conservative unions\".\n\nIn 2011, Rudd was asked to submit an artwork for an art exhibition as part of the 2011 Human Rights Arts and Film Festival. He submitted a large canvas that was a celebration of the Arab Spring (2011) on one side, and also a contribution to the BDS campaign on the other. The Arab Spring side showed a cartoon-like body exploding with the words 'I'm not a terrorist, I'm just exploding with joy', and the BDS side showed in cartoon style, pop icon Justine Bieber spray painting graffiti on Israel's separation wall. The graffiti depicted Max Brenner Chocolates as Bieber announced that he wished he didn't play in Israel because he would be complicit in Israel's occupation of Palestine. Max Brenner was targeted by BDS campaigners for its complicity in Israel's occupation of Palestine at around the same period of this art exhibition at No Vacancy Gallery, QV Shopping Centre, Melbourne. But Rudd's artwork was censored before it got installed in the gallery. Rudd claimed the gallery directors confronted him in the gallery saying the artwork was violent. Rudd also took part in the anti-Max Brenner protests in the QV building but avoided being arrested. Several other protesters were arrested but later freed from charges in a landmark victory.\n\nOne of Rudd's more obscure, mysterious, yet incisive art projects is called the #RichForks. It made news at various outlets around the world. It began over fifteen years ago when Rudd began collecting luxury dinner forks that had just been used by the political and business elites of the world. As a waiter, he was able to get access to the soiled forks and is alleged to have made networks with other hospitality workers internationally in order to appropriate forks from some of the richest people on earth. Rudd claims the whole project is commentary on the massive class divide between struggling workers and wealthy capitalists. There has only been two exhibitions of the #RichForks - one in Footscray and one in Newcastle, Australia. It is not known whether Rudd will continue with this project into the near future.\n\nIn 2016, fifty-five Carlton & United Breweries maintenance workers in Abbottsford, Victoria, were sacked then re-employed on individual contracts with an overall 65% wage cut. When one of the organisers from the Electrical Trades Union made a call-out on social media for a street artist to paint a mural on a shipping container. Rudd jumped at the chance and painted an iconic murals at the site of their nine month protest. One of the murals, painted on the side of a shipping container, shows a large unionist's arm pulling aside the shipping container wall revealing the CUB boss stealing bags of money. Another shipping container at the Abbottsford site depicted horses appropriated from the CUB logo, only this time they were dying of thirst in drought conditions (i.e. Carlton Drought).The protest and boycott by the unionists and workers eventually achieved an important victory. After the #CUB55 protests, the murals were transported to the CFMMEU training centre in Port Melbourne. It wasn't long before they were used again, and transported to the striking workers at the Longford Gas Plant, Gippsland. Similar to the CUB55, about 200 workers were threatened with the sack if they didn't sign up to a different contract on significantly lower wages and conditions. Rudd also created a new mural for the protest site which showed an Exxon boss atop a gas platform, sinking workers deeper into the water while smoking a cigar from the gas flare. Rudd has since created a series of murals for the car park of the Electrical Trades Union office in North Melbourne with fellow artist and radical left unionist Azlan McLennan. In 2017, he also created a large mural commemorating the CUB55 victory in the car park at Victorian Trades Hall. In early 2018, Rudd created a mural for the striking waterside workers at Cube\n\n\n"}
