{"id": "21400502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21400502", "title": "Agentic leadership", "text": "Agentic leadership\n\nAgentic leadership derives from the term agency. This leadership style is generally found in the business field by a person who is respected by subordinates. This person demonstrates assertiveness, competitiveness, independence, courageousness, and is masterful in achieving their task at hand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45361330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45361330", "title": "Arbeitskreis Börse", "text": "Arbeitskreis Börse\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse (abbreviated AKB or AK Boerse) is a non-profit organization located in Mannheim (Germany), focused on investment banking, capital markets, consulting and start-up companies within the financial technology sector. It is the oldest financial association lead by students in Germany and with over 1,000 members among the largest student organizations in Germany. The Arbeitskreis Börse is dedicated to connect students interested in financial markets associated with worldwide leading banks and consulting firms. These include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG and Oliver Wyman, which are premium partners of Arbeitskreis Börse. It is organized first and foremost by students of the University of Mannheim but is receiving increasing support from students of other tertiary establishments in Mannheim.\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse was founded in response to a perceived gap in the services provided by student societies at the University of Mannheim. Students interested in the stock exchange and financial markets, that sought to actively participate in capital markets did not have the opportunity to do so whilst engaging on campus as no such opportunity had yet been offered. \nTherefore, a small group of students independently organized an evening event within the university with the aim of creating a platform for students interested in the financial markets . Supported by the University this group developed into a non-profit association which was registered by the city of Mannheim on November 6th 1984.\n\nCorresponding with positive developments within financial markets, membership within the Arbeitskreis Börse steadily grew to exceed 1,000 students within a few years. Through their stock market analysis and research papers the Arbeitskries Börse rapidly became well throughout the Rhine-Neckar area, which led to leading global investment banks and consulting firms taking notice of the Arbeitskreis Börse. At the University of Mannheim the lecture series \"Semester Program of the Arbeitskreis Börse\" was established and the Arbeitskreis Börse focused on building partnerships with financial institutions within the European financial hubs, London and Frankfurt in the following years. To satisfy external requests the \"Kreis der Freunde und Förderer des AKB\" was founded in October 1988, an association that could be joined by everyone interested in the Arbeitskreis Börse.\n\nToday the Arbeitskreis Börse is the largest finance association run by students in Germany and the largest student society at the University of Mannheim. The Arbeitskreis Börse still provides the same extensive semester program and within the framework of their lectures they attract renowned speakers from both the world's leading investment banks and consulting firms. While doing this the students of the University of Mannheim get the chance to develop business contacts at several networking events. \n\nAs a student initiative, the Arbeitskreis Börse is mainly organized by students of the University of Mannheim in addition to several students from other tertiary establishments in Mannheim. In June, the Arbeitskreis Börse annually appoints its new leading team and executive board. The team is made up of the heads of five resorts: member management, event management, IT, marketing and social events. The executive board consists of five additional students who are responsible for resort management, finances, working groups, semester programme, special events, contacts to the university, developments of the Arbeitskreis Börse as an association, premium partners and other cooperation partners.\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse is supported by external partners, including Oliver Wyman, BCG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG, PwC as well as the Mannheim Business School and alumni.\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse attempts to form a direct link between the theoretical frameworks covered in academic studies and the practical application of these within a company. \nDuring each semester various events are organized on Mannheim's main campus - the Mannheim Palace in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Firstly topical lectures are held by renowned individuals from within the financial or consulting industry, these have for instance included Armin von Falkenhayn, Head of Global Corporate and Investment Banking Germany at Bank of America Merrill Lynch; Dr. Marcus Schenk, Chief Financial Officer at Deutsche Bank: Christian Zorn, Head of Investment Banking Germany at Morgan Stanley and Frank Mattern, former CEO at McKinsey & Co.. Occasionally representatives of other industries such as Kurt Bock, CEO at BASF SE, are invited to hold such lectures. Secondly, several company workshops as well as student work groups are conducted to support Mannheim students aspiring a career in the financial sector. Within these lectures, the various companies prepare case studies that provide insight into their structure and everyday work environment. Following these lectures, the audience is able to discuss specific topics with top tier personalities and get to know company recruiters as well as employees.\n\nThe companies that have held lectures or offered workshops during the past years in cooperation with the Arbeitskreis Börse are - besides the premium partners Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG and Oliver Wyman - leading banks such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, J. P. Morgan, Credit Suisse, Commerzbank, Fidelity, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, Lazard, N M Rothschild & Sons, UBS, RBC Capital Markets, Leonardo & Co. and Jefferies, the central banks European Central Bank and Deutsche Bundesbank in addition to leading consulting firms such as Bain & Company, Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey & Co., Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, L.E.K. Consulting, strategy&. Further cooperating companies are Ernst & Young, Perella Weinberg Partners, Blackstone, 3I, Fresenius and BASF SE.\n\nIn cooperation with several company partners the Arbeitskreis Börse organizes an extensive lecture series every semester, composed of up to 12 company presentations and technical lectures concerned with current topics from the financial community and industry. To do so, companies from the fields of investment banking, asset management, consulting and auditing are invited to create a thought provoking presentation that explores various points of view. The lectures demonstrate relationships between the latest case studies and theoretical foundations from academia as well as findings from their business applications. At the following get-together with snacks and drinks students have the opportunity to get in personal contact with the speakers, to discuss specialist topics and ask questions regarding internships and career options.\n\nSimilar to this, the Arbeitskreis Börse, in cooperation with company partners organises numerous workshops every semester. Case studies offer a rare opportunity to gain better insight into specific business divisions and to analyse complex business matters. After the presentation of results, students come into contact with employees and are able ask specific questions and acquire information about a potential career within these companies. Getting to know preferences and strengths during the workshops makes it easier for a single business division or a certain enterprise to make a decision.\n\nAnother task of the Arbeitskreis Börse is to transmit knowledge in Excel and Bloomberg and to encourage active discussions with problems from the area of finance industry and management consultancy. Students can meet weekly to acquire and deepen fundamental knowledge in the respective subject areas under instruction from experienced Alumni to be optimally prepared for internships and entry into the workforce. To advanced students, a platform to discuss highly demanding problems is offered. The knowledge acquired in the working groups is indispensable for future entry into financial business.\n\nDuring each semester, numerous social events take place, which promote cohesion among members and help familiarise students with recently joined fellow students as well provide a temporary escape from stressful university life. Thus the students become part of a large community that outlasts their time at university and allows Alumni to return to Mannheim annually.\n\n2016\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "522230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=522230", "title": "Balanced scorecard", "text": "Balanced scorecard\n\nThe balanced scorecard is a strategy performance management tool – a semi-standard structured report, that can be used by managers to keep track of the execution of activities by the staff within their control and to monitor the consequences arising from these actions.\n\nThe phrase 'balanced scorecard' primarily refers to a performance management report used by a management team, and typically this team is focused on managing the implementation of a strategy or operational activities - in a recent survey 62% of respondents reported using Balanced Scorecard for strategy implementation management, 48% for operational management. Balanced Scorecard is also used by individuals to track personal performance, but this is less common - only 17% of respondents in the survey using Balanced Scorecard in this way, however it is clear from the same survey that a larger proportion (about 30%) use corporate Balanced Scorecard elements to inform personal goal setting and incentive calculations.\n\nThe critical characteristics that define a balanced scorecard are:\n\nBalanced scorecard is an example of a closed-loop controller or cybernetic control applied to the management of the implementation of a strategy. Closed-loop or cybernetic control is where actual performance is measured, the measured value is compared to a reference value and based on the difference between the two corrective interventions are made as required. Such control requires three things to be effective:\n\nWithin the strategy management context, all three of these characteristic closed-loop control elements need to be derived from the organisation's strategy and also need to reflect the ability of the observer to both monitor performance and subsequently intervene – both of which may be constrained. Balanced Scorecard was initially proposed as a general purpose performance management system. Subsequently, it was promoted specifically as an approach to strategic performance management. Balanced scorecard has more recently become a key component of structured approaches corporate strategic management.\n\nTwo of the ideas that underpin modern balanced scorecard designs concern making it easier to select which data to observe, and ensuring that the choice of data is consistent with the ability of the observer to intervene.\n\nOrganizations have used systems consisting of a mix of financial and non-financial measures to track progress for quite some time. One such system was created by Art Schneiderman in 1987 at Analog Devices, a mid-sized semi-conductor company; the Analog Devices Balanced Scorecard. Schneiderman's design was similar to what is now recognised as a \"First Generation\" Balanced Scorecard design.\n\nIn 1990 Art Schneiderman participated in an unrelated research study led by Robert S. Kaplan in conjunction with US management consultancy Nolan-Norton, and during this study described his work on performance measurement. Subsequently, Kaplan and David P. Norton included anonymous details of this balanced scorecard design in a 1992 article. Kaplan and Norton's article wasn't the only paper on the topic published in early 1992 but the 1992 Kaplan and Norton paper was a popular success, and was quickly followed by a second in 1993. In 1996, the two authors published a book \"The Balanced Scorecard\". These articles and the first book spread knowledge of the concept of balanced scorecard widely, and has led to Kaplan and Norton being seen as the creators of the concept.\n\nWhile the \"corporate scorecard\" terminology was coined by Art Schneiderman, the roots of performance management as an activity run deep in management literature and practice. Management historians such as Alfred Chandler suggest the origins of performance management can be seen in the emergence of the complex organisation – most notably during the 19th Century in the USA. More recent influences may include the pioneering work of General Electric on performance measurement reporting in the 1950s and the work of French process engineers (who created the \"tableau de bord\" – literally, a \"dashboard\" of performance measures) in the early part of the 20th century. The tool also draws strongly on the ideas of the 'resource based view of the firm' proposed by Edith Penrose. However it should be noted that none of these influences is explicitly linked to original descriptions of balanced scorecard by Schneiderman, Maisel, or Kaplan & Norton.\n\nKaplan and Norton's first book remains their most popular. The book reflects the earliest incarnations of balanced scorecards – effectively restating the concept as described in the second Harvard Business Review article. Their second book, \"The Strategy Focused Organization\", echoed work by others (particularly a book published the year before by Olve et al. in Scandinavia) on the value of visually documenting the links between measures by proposing the \"Strategic Linkage Model\" or strategy map.\n\nAs the title of Kaplan and Norton's second book highlights, even by 2000 the focus of attention among thought-leaders was moving from the design of Balanced Scorecards themselves, towards the use of Balanced Scorecard as a focal point within a more comprehensive strategic management system. Subsequent writing on Balanced Scorecard by Kaplan & Norton has focused on uses of Balanced Scorecard rather than its design (e.g. \"The Execution Premium\" in 2008), however many others have continued to refine the device itself (e.g. Abernethy et al.).\n\nThe characteristics of the balanced scorecard and its derivatives is the presentation of a mixture of financial and non-financial measures each compared to a 'target' value within a single concise report. The report is not meant to be a replacement for traditional financial or operational reports but a succinct summary that captures the information most relevant to those reading it. It is the method by which this 'most relevant' information is determined (i.e., the design processes used to select the content) that most differentiates the various versions of the tool in circulation. The balanced scorecard indirectly also provides a useful insight into an organisation's strategy – by requiring general strategic statements (e.g. mission, vision) to be precipitated into more specific/tangible forms.\n\nThe first versions of balanced scorecard asserted that relevance should derive from the corporate strategy, and proposed design methods that focused on choosing measures and targets associated with the main activities required to implement the strategy. As the initial audience for this were the readers of the Harvard Business Review, the proposal was translated into a form that made sense to a typical reader of that journal – managers of US commercial businesses. Accordingly, initial designs were encouraged to measure three categories of non-financial measure in addition to financial outputs – those of \"customer,\" \"internal business processes\" and \"learning and growth.\" These categories were not so relevant to public sector or non-profit organisations, or units within complex organizations (which might have high degrees of internal specialization), and much of the early literature on balanced scorecard focused on suggestions of alternative 'perspectives' that might have more relevance to these groups(e.g. Butler et al. (1997), Ahn (2001), Elefalke (2001), Brignall (2002), Irwin (2002), Radnor et al. (2003)).\n\nModern balanced scorecards have evolved since the initial ideas proposed in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and the modern performance management tools including Balanced Scorecard are significantly improved – being more flexible (to suit a wider range of organisational types) and more effective (as design methods have evolved to make them easier to design, and use).\n\nDesign of a balanced scorecard is about the identification of a small number of financial and non-financial measures and attaching targets to them, so that when they are reviewed it is possible to determine whether current performance 'meets expectations'. By alerting managers to areas where performance deviates from expectations, they can be encouraged to focus their attention on these areas, and hopefully as a result trigger improved performance within the part of the organization they lead.\n\nThe original thinking behind a balanced scorecard was for it to be focused on information relating to the implementation of a strategy, and over time there has been a blurring of the boundaries between conventional strategic planning and control activities and those required to design a balanced scorecard. This is illustrated well by the four steps required to design a balanced scorecard included in Kaplan & Norton's writing on the subject in the late 1990s:\n\n\nThese steps go far beyond the simple task of identifying a small number of financial and non-financial measures, but illustrate the requirement for whatever design process is used to fit within broader thinking about how the resulting balanced scorecard will integrate with the wider business management process.\n\nAlthough it helps focus managers' attention on strategic issues and the management of the implementation of strategy, it is important to remember that the balanced scorecard itself has no role in the formation of strategy. In fact, balanced scorecards can co-exist with strategic planning systems and other tools.\n\nThe first generation of balanced scorecard designs used a \"four perspective\" approach to identify what measures to use to track the implementation of strategy. `The original four \"perspectives\" proposed were:\n\nThe idea was that managers used these perspective headings to prompt the selection of a small number of measures that informed on that aspect of the organisation's strategic performance. The perspective headings show that Kaplan and Norton were thinking about the needs of non-divisional commercial organisations in their initial design. These categories were not so relevant to public sector or non-profit organisations, or units within complex organizations (which might have high degrees of internal specialization), and much of the early literature on balanced scorecard focused on suggestions of alternative 'perspectives' that might have more relevance to these groups(e.g. Butler et al. (1997), Ahn (2001), Elefalke (2001), Brignall (2002), Irwin (2002), Flamholtz (2003), Radnor et al. (2003)).\n\nThese suggestions were notably triggered by a recognition that different but equivalent headings would yield alternative sets of measures, and this represents the major design challenge faced with this type of balanced scorecard design: justifying the choice of measures made. \"Of all the measures you could have chosen, why did you choose these?\" These issues contribute to dis-satisfaction with early Balanced Scorecard designs, since if users are not confident that the measures within the Balanced Scorecard are well chosen, they will have less confidence in the information it provides.\n\nAlthough less common, these early-style balanced scorecards are still designed and used today.\n\nIn short, first generation balanced scorecards are hard to design in a way that builds confidence that they are well designed. Because of this, many are abandoned soon after completion.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, an improved design method emerged. In the new method, measures are selected based on a set of \"strategic objectives\" plotted on a \"strategic linkage model\" or \"strategy map\". With this modified approach, the strategic objectives are distributed across the four measurement perspectives, so as to \"connect the dots\" to form a visual presentation of strategy and measures.\n\nIn this modified version of balanced scorecard design, managers select a few strategic objectives within each of the perspectives, and then define the cause-effect chain among these objectives by drawing links between them to create a \"strategic linkage model\". A balanced scorecard of strategic performance measures is then derived directly by selecting one or two measures for each strategic objective. This type of approach provides greater contextual justification for the measures chosen, and is generally easier for managers to work through. This style of balanced scorecard has been commonly used since 1996 or so: it is significantly different in approach to the methods originally proposed, and so can be thought of as representing the \"2nd generation\" of design approach adopted for the balanced scorecard since its introduction.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the design approach had evolved yet again. One problem with the \"second generation\" design approach described above was that the plotting of causal links amongst twenty or so medium-term strategic goals was still a relatively abstract activity. In practice it ignored the fact that opportunities to intervene, to influence strategic goals are, and need to be, anchored in current and real management activity. Secondly, the need to \"roll forward\" and test the impact of these goals necessitated the creation of an additional design instrument: the Vision or Destination Statement. This device was a statement of what \"strategic success\", or the \"strategic end-state\", looked like. It was quickly realized that if a Destination Statement was created at the beginning of the design process, then it was easier to select strategic activity and outcome objectives to respond to it. Measures and targets could then be selected to track the achievement of these objectives. Design methods that incorporate a Destination Statement or equivalent (e.g. the results-based management method proposed by the UN in 2002) represent a tangibly different design approach to those that went before, and have been proposed as representing a \"third generation\" design method for balanced scorecards.\n\nDesign methods for balanced scorecards continue to evolve and adapt to reflect the deficiencies in the currently used methods, and the particular needs of communities of interest (e.g. NGO's and government departments have found the third generation methods embedded in results-based management more useful than first or second generation design methods).\n\nThis generation refined the second generation of balanced scorecards to give more relevance and functionality to strategic objectives. The major difference is the incorporation of Destination Statements. Other key components are strategic objectives, strategic linkage model and perspectives, measures and initiatives.\n\nIn 1997, Kurtzman found that 64 percent of the companies questioned were measuring performance from a number of perspectives in a similar way to the balanced scorecard. Balanced scorecards have been implemented by government agencies, military units, business units and corporations as a whole, non-profit organizations, and schools.\n\nBalanced scorecard has been widely adopted, and consistently has been found to be the most popular performance management framework in a widely respected annual survey (e.g. see results from 2003 and 2013).\n\nTheorists have argued from the earliest days of discussion of Balanced Scorecard usage that much of the benefit of the balanced scorecard comes from the design process itself. Indeed, it is argued that many failures in the early days of balanced scorecard could be attributed to this problem, in that early balanced scorecards were often designed remotely by consultants - it is suggested that by not being involved in the design, the relevant managers who were to use the device did not trust, and so failed to engage with and use the devices.\n\nSince the balanced scorecard was popularized in the early 1990s, a large number of alternatives to the original 'four box' balanced scorecard promoted by Kaplan and Norton in their various articles and books have emerged. Most have very limited application, and are typically proposed either by academics as vehicles for expanding the dialogue beyond the financial bottom line – e.g. Brignall (2002) or consultants as an attempt at differentiation to promote sales of books and / or consultancy (e.g. Neely et al. (2002), Bourne (2002), Niven (2002)).\n\nMany of the structural variations proposed are broadly similar, and a research paper published in 2004 attempted to identify a pattern in these variations – noting three distinct types of variation. The variations appeared to be part of an evolution of the balanced scorecard concept, and so the paper refers to these distinct types as \"generations\". Broadly, the original 'measures in four boxes' type design (as initially proposed by Kaplan & Norton) constitutes the 1st generation balanced scorecard design; balanced scorecard designs that include a 'strategy map' or 'strategic linkage model' (e.g. the Performance Prism, later Kaplan & Norton designs the Performance Driver model of Olve, Roy & Wetter (English translation 1999, 1st published in Swedish 1997)) constitute the 2nd Generation of Balanced Scorecard design; and designs that augment the strategy map / strategic linkage model with a separate document describing the long-term outcomes sought from the strategy (the \"destination statement\" idea) comprise the 3rd generation balanced scorecard design.\n\nVariants that feature adaptations of the structure of balanced scorecard to suit better a particular viewpoint or agenda are numerous. Examples of the focus of such adaptations include the triple bottom line, decision support, public sector management, and health care management. The performance management elements of the UN's Results Based Management system have strong design and structural similarities to those used in the 3rd Generation Balanced Scorecard design approach.\n\nBalanced scorecard is also linked to quality management tools and activities. Although there are clear areas of cross-over and association, the two sets of tools are complementary rather than duplicative.\n\nBalanced scorecard is also used to support the payments of incentives to individuals, even though it was not designed for this purpose and is not particularly suited to it.\n\nAcademic criticism of the balanced scorecard can be broken into three distinct (but overlapping) areas of concern.\n\n\nIn response to these concerns there have been many studies seeking to provide (retrospective) academic underpinnings for the Balanced Scorecard concept, and to provide case study and validation information for the various design generations. There are relatively few reliable assessments of the effectiveness of the approaches embodied in Balanced Scorecard, but some studies demonstrate a link between the use of balanced scorecards and better decision making or improved financial performance of companies. \n\nBroadcast surveys of usage have difficulties in this respect, due to the wide variations in definition of 'what a balanced scorecard is' noted above (making it hard to work out in a survey if you are comparing like with like). Single organization case studies suffer from the 'lack of a control' issue common to any study of organizational change – what the organization would have achieved if the change had not been made isn't known, so it is difficult to attribute changes observed over time to a single intervention (such as introducing a balanced scorecard). However, such studies as have been done have typically found balanced scorecard to be useful.\n\nConsideration has been given to the effect of organisation size on Balanced Scorecard effectiveness: \n\nIt is important to recognize that the balanced scorecard by definition is not a complex thing – typically no more than about 20 measures spread across a mix of financial and non-financial topics, and easily reported manually (on paper, or using simple office software).\n\nThe processes of collecting, reporting, and distributing balanced scorecard information can be labor-intensive and prone to procedural problems (for example, getting all relevant people to return the information required by the required date). The simplest mechanism to use is to delegate these activities to an individual, and many Balanced Scorecards are reported via ad-hoc methods based around email, phone calls and office software.\n\nIn more complex organizations, where there are multiple balanced scorecards to report and/or a need for co-ordination of results between balanced scorecards (for example, if one level of reports relies on information collected and reported at a lower level) the use of individual reporters is problematic. Where these conditions apply, organizations use balanced scorecard reporting software to automate the production and distribution of these reports.\n\nRecent surveys have consistently found that roughly one third of organizations use generic office software to report their balanced scorecard, one third used software developed specifically for their own use, and one third used one of the many commercial packages available.\n\n"}
{"id": "50593901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50593901", "title": "Banker's lien", "text": "Banker's lien\n\nA banker's lien is a legal right arise in many common law jurisdictions of a bank to exercise a lien over any property in the custody of the bank as security for the indebtedness of the customer to the bank.\n\nThe precise effect of a banker's lien varies according to the laws of a particular jurisdiction. Under English common law it applies to all property coming into the possession of the bank in the usual course of banking business, subject to the important exception that it does not apply to property which is deposited with the bank for safe custody.\n\nWhilst most common law liens normally only give the lienee a passive right to retain the property, unusually, the banker's lien permits the bank the sell the relevant property.\n\nThe lien does not generally extend to intangible rights, including credit balances on accounts. However those credit balances may be subject to the banker's right to combine accounts.\n\nThe banker's lien may be modified or abrogated by agreement.\n"}
{"id": "21232723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21232723", "title": "Bestshoring", "text": "Bestshoring\n\nBestshoring, also known as rightshoring, is the process of identifying the best location to move manufacturing, IT or business processes for a company. The decision is to be based on quantifiable criteria which are intended to take subjective and political input out of the decision cycle. Many companies use external consulting firms to make these decisions.\n\nOn August 1, 2004, Hillary Clinton wrote an article explaining why bestshoring beats outsourcing. Her argument is that \"Foreign labor isn't as cheap as it seems.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1342594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342594", "title": "Business alliance", "text": "Business alliance\n\nA business alliance is an agreement between businesses, usually motivated by cost reduction and improved service for the customer. Alliances are often bounded by a single agreement with equitable risk and opportunity share for all parties involved and are typically managed by an integrated project team. An example of this is code sharing in airline alliances.\n\nThere are five basic categories or types of alliances:\n\n\nIn many cases, alliances between companies can involve two or more categories or types of alliances.\n\nA type of an alliance is a horizontal alliance. For example, a horizontal alliance can occur between logistics service providers, i.e., the cooperation between two or more logistics companies that are potentially competing. In a horizontal alliance, these partners can benefit twofold. On one hand, they can \"access tangible resources which are directly exploitable.\" In this example extending common transportation networks, their warehouse infrastructure and the ability to provide more complex service packages can be achieved by combining resources. On the other hand, partners can \"access intangible resources, which are not directly exploitable.\" This typically includes know-how and information and, in turn, innovation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3593875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3593875", "title": "Business mathematics", "text": "Business mathematics\n\nBusiness mathematics is mathematics used by commercial enterprises to record and manage business operations. Commercial organizations use mathematics in accounting, inventory management, marketing, sales forecasting, and financial analysis. \n\nMathematics typically used in commerce includes elementary arithmetic, elementary algebra, statistics and probability. Business management can be done more effectively in some cases by use of more advanced mathematics such as calculus, matrix algebra and linear programming.\n\n\"Business mathematics, \" sometimes called \"commercial math\" or \"consumer math\", is a group of practical subjects used in commerce and everyday life. In schools, these subjects are often taught to students who are not planning a university education. In the United States, they are typically offered in high schools and in schools that grant associate's degrees; elsewhere they may be included under Business studies. The emphasis in these courses is on computational skills and their practical application, with practical application being predominant. \n\nA (U.S.) business math course might include a review of elementary arithmetic, including fractions, decimals, and percentages. Elementary algebra is often included as well, in the context of solving practical business problems. The practical applications typically include checking accounts, price discounts, markups and Markup, payroll calculations, simple and compound interest, consumer and business credit, and mortgages and revenues.\n\n\"Business Mathematics\" comprises mathematics courses taken at an undergraduate level by business students. The two most common here are \"Business Calculus\" and \"Business Statistics\". Programs often also cover matrix operations as above, and may include a separate module on interest calculations.\n\nThese courses are usually focused on problems from the business world, and the syllabus is adjusted correspondingly. Thus for example, whereas in a regular calculus course students would study trigonometric functions, courses here would not typically cover this area. Correspondingly, these courses typically do not go into the same depth as standard courses in the mathematics or science fields. (Although see Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and Bachelor of Business Science.) \n\nNote that economics majors, especially those planning to pursue graduate study in the field, are encouraged to instead take regular calculus, as well as linear algebra and other advanced math courses, especially real analysis. Some programs (instead) include a module in \"mathematics for economists\", providing a bridge between the above \"Business Mathematics\" courses and mathematical economics and econometrics.\nOperations management (and management accounting) may similarly include supplementary coursework in relevant quantitative techniques, generally linear programming as above, as well as other optimization methods.\n\nAt the postgraduate level, \"generalist\" management and finance programs include quantitative topics which are foundational for the study in question - often exempting students with an appropriate background. These are usually \"interest mathematics\" and statistics, both at the above level. MBA programs often also include basic operations research (linear programming, as above) with the emphasis on practice, and may combine the topics as \"quantitative analysis\"; MSF programs may similarly cover applied econometrics.\n\nMore technical Masters in these areas, such as those in management science and quantitative finance, will entail a deeper, more theoretical study of operations research and econometrics, and extend to further advanced topics such as mathematical optimization and stochastic calculus. These programs do not include \"Business mathematics\" \"per se\".\n\nWhere mathematical economics is not required, graduate economics programs often include \"quantitative techniques\", which covers (applied) linear algebra and multivariate calculus, and may include the above topics; regardless, econometrics is usually a separate course, and is dealt with in depth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6868104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6868104", "title": "Business partner", "text": "Business partner\n\nA business partner is a commercial entity with which another commercial entity has some form of alliance. This relationship may be a contractual, exclusive bond in which both entities commit not to ally with third parties. Alternatively, it may be a very loose arrangement designed largely to impress customers and competitors with the size of the network the business partners belong to.\n\nA business partner or alliance can be crucial for businesses. However, businesses can not choose business partners in any way they want. In many instances, the potential partner might not be interested in forming a business relationship, also known as business mating. It is important that both sides of the agreement complement each other, but also that there are some common ground. For example, in management style, mindset, and also technology. If, for example, management style would be too different between the firms then a partnership could be problematic. Kask and Linton (2013) investigate under what conditions business mating (formation) takes place for startup firms seeking business partners. \n\nThe meaning of the term is quite different from that implied in partnership, and it is because of the potential for confusion between the two that widespread use of 'business partner' has been discouraged at times in the past.\n\nA business partner can be:\nThis is a wider definition than a business alliance.\n\nA Business Partner is becoming more common in HR departments as it represents the employees position, ideally seeing the HR issues from the employers and employees point of view. Small and medium business are often turning to external HR Business Partners to solve any HR disputes.\n\nOne example of a business partnership is the \"Agility Alliance\" originated by Electronic Data Systems. Members of this IT-focused alliance include Microsoft, Oracle Corporation, Sun Microsystems and SAP. This highlights two problems with multi-party partnerships:\n\nBusiness partner search or business matchmaking is the process/service of finding buyers/customers, distributors, licensees, and/or other business partners. This can be provided as a paid service by a commercial organization, or as a free service by the commercial section of a country's embassy/consulate or an association of businesses in a particular area.\n\nCustomarily commercial consideration of this service is a one time fee. Fee of this service depends on the business domain, the volume of business of both partners that will end up in a partnership relation as the end result of this service, etc.\n\nIn a specific example of a specific domain this fee is found between EUR 1800~2200 depending on the tasks required from the business matchmaker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1037763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1037763", "title": "Business software", "text": "Business software\n\nBusiness software or a business application is any software or set of computer programs used by business users to perform various business functions. These business applications are used to increase productivity, to measure productivity and to perform other business functions accurately.\n\nBy and large, business software is likely to be developed to meet the needs of a specific business, and therefore is not easily transferable to a different business environment, unless its nature and operation is identical. Due to the unique requirements of each business, off-the-shelf software is unlikely to completely address a company's needs. However, where an on-the-shelf solution is necessary, due to time or monetary considerations, some level of customization is likely to be required. Exceptions do exist, depending on the business in question, and thorough research is always required before committing to bespoke or off-the-shelf solutions.\n\nSome business applications are interactive, i.e., they have a graphical user interface or user interface and users can query/modify/input data and view results instantaneously. They can also run reports instantaneously. Some business applications run in batch mode: they are set up to run based on a predetermined event/time and a business user does not need to initiate them or monitor them.\n\nSome business applications are built in-house and some are bought from vendors (off the shelf software products). These business applications are installed on either desktops or big servers. Prior to the introduction of COBOL (a universal compiler) in 1965, businesses developed their own unique machine language. RCA's language consisted of a 12-position instruction. For example, to read a record into memory, the first two digits would be the instruction (action) code. The next four positions of the instruction (an 'A' address) would be the exact leftmost memory location where you want the readable character to be placed. Four positions (a 'B' address) of the instruction would note the very rightmost memory location where you want the last character of the record to be located. A two digit 'B' address also allows a modification of any instruction. Instruction codes and memory designations excluded the use of 8's or 9's. The first RCA business application was implemented in 1962 on a 4k RCA 301. The RCA 301, mid frame 501, and large frame 601 began their marketing in early 1960. \n\nMany kinds of users are found within the business environment, and can be categorized by using a small, medium and large matrix:\n\n\nTechnologies that previously only existed in peer-to-peer software applications, like Kazaa and Napster, are starting to appear within business applications.\n\n\nThe essential motivation for business software is to increase profits by cutting costs or speeding the productive cycle. In the earliest days of white-collar business automation, large mainframe computers were used to tackle the most tedious jobs, like bank cheque clearing and factory accounting.\n\nFactory accounting software was among the most popular of early business software tools, and included the automation of general ledgers, fixed assets inventory ledgers, cost accounting ledgers, accounts receivable ledgers, and accounts payable ledgers (including payroll, life insurance, health insurance, federal and state insurance and retirement).\n\nThe early use of software to replace manual white-collar labor was extremely profitable, and caused a radical shift in white-collar labor. One computer might easily replace 100 white-collar 'pencil pushers', and the computer would not require any health or retirement benefits.\n\nBuilding on these early successes with IBM, Hewlett-Packard and other early suppliers of business software solutions, corporate consumers demanded business software to replace the old-fashioned drafting board. CAD-CAM software (or computer-aided drafting for computer-aided manufacturing) arrived in the early 1980s. Also, project management software was so valued in the early 1980s that it might cost as much as $500,000 per copy (although such software typically had far fewer capabilities than modern project management software such as Microsoft Project, which one might purchase today for under $500 per copy.)\n\nIn the early days, perhaps the most noticeable, widespread change in business software was the word processor. Because of its rapid rise, the ubiquitous IBM typewriter suddenly vanished in the 1980s as millions of companies worldwide shifted to the use of Word Perfect business software, and later, Microsoft Word software. Another vastly popular computer program for business were mathematical spreadsheet programs such as Lotus 1-2-3, and later Microsoft Excel.\n\nIn the 1990s business shifted massively towards globalism with the appearance of SAP software which coordinates a supply-chain of vendors, potentially worldwide, for the most efficient, streamlined operation of factory manufacture.\n\nYet nothing in the history of business software has had the global impact of the Internet, with its email and websites that now serve commercial interests worldwide. Globalism in business fully arrived when the Internet became a household word.\n\nThe next phase in the evolution of business software is being led by the emergance of Robotic Process Automation (RPA), which involves identifying and automating highly repetitive tasks and processes, with an aim to drive operational efficiency, reduce costs and limit human error. Industries that have been in the forefront of RPA adoption include the Insurance industry, Banking and Financial Services, the Legal industry and the Healthcare industry.\n\nBusiness applications are built based on the requirements from the business users. Also, these business applications are built to use certain kind of Business transactions or data items. These business applications run flawlessly until there are no new business requirements or there is no change in underlying Business transactions. Also, the business applications run flawlessly if there are no issues with computer hardware, computer networks (Intenet/intranet), computer disks, power supplies, and various software components (middleware, database, computer programs, etc.).\n\nBusiness applications can fail when an unexpected error occurs. This error could occur due to a data error (an unexpected data input or a wrong data input), an environment error (an in frastructure related error), a programming error, a human error or a work flow error. When a business application fails one needs to fix the business application error as soon as possible so that the business users can resume their work. This work of resolving business application errors is known as business application support.\n\nThe Business User calls the business application support team phone number or sends an e-mail to the business application support team. The business application support team gets all the details of the error from the business user on the phone or from the e-mail. These details are then entered in a tracking software. The tracking software creates a request number and this request number is given to the business user. This request number is used to track the progress on the support issue. The request is assigned to a support team member.\n\nFor critical business application errors (such as an application not available or an application not working correctly), an e-mail is sent to the entire organization or impacted teams so that they are aware of the issue. They are also provided with an estimated time for application availability.\n\nThe business application support team member collects all the necessary information about the business software error. This information is then recorded in the support request. All of the data used by the business user is also used in the investigation. The application program is reviewed for any possible programming errors.\n\nIf any similar business application errors occurred in the past then the issue resolution steps are retrieved from the support knowledge base and the error is resolved using those steps. If it is a new support error, then new issue resolution steps are created and the error is resolved. The new support error resolution steps are recorded in the knowledge base for future use. For major business application errors (critical infrastructure or application failures), a phone conference call is initiated and all required support persons/teams join the call and they all work together to resolve the error.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to programming errors, then a request is created for the application development team to correct programming errors. If the business user needs new features or functions in the business application, then the required analysis/design/programming/testing/release is planned and a new version of the business software is deployed.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to a work flow issue or human errors during data input, then the business users are notified. Business users then review their work flow and revise it if necessary. They also modify the user guide or user instructions to avoid such an error in the future.\n\nIf the business application error occurred due to infrastructure issues, then the specific infrastructure team is notified. The infrastructure team then implements permanent fixes for the issue and monitors the infrastructure to avoid the re-occurrence of the same error.\n\nThe business application error tracking system is used to review all issues periodically (daily, weekly and monthly) and reports are generated to monitor the resolved issues, repeating issues, and pending issues. Reports are also generated for the IT/IS management for improvement and management of business applications.\n"}
{"id": "18841448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18841448", "title": "Business suite", "text": "Business suite\n\nA business suite is a set of business software functions enabling the core business and business support processes inside and beyond the boundaries of an organization.\n\nThe key characteristic of a business suite is the delivery of end-to-end business processes which span organizational boundaries such as business departments and locations. In the last years the focus of the business processes supported by business suites has expanded to integrate business partners such as customers, suppliers and service providers .\n\nBusiness Suites are generally rooted in the traditional ERP systems that are based on a common data model used to storing the data to be shared between departments and their business processes. Most corporate ERP systems have been enhanced and complemented by additional applications over the years. As a result, the total cost of ownership (TCO) grows, process integrity across applications is at stake, and the flexibility to consistently change and optimize business processes suffers. The vendors of business suites claim to address these issues.\n\nThe issues with business process visibility, flexibility, efficiency, and integrity in heterogeneous business application environments have recently created 2 basic types of business suites:\n\n\nA business suite usually encompasses all core business and business support processes of an organization, unlike business applications such as treasury management or CRM that have been designed to serve a single line of business.\n\nSince no vendor today offers applications covering all business process requirements of larger organizations, vendors complement their application portfolio through acquisitions or through cooperation with specialized partners.\n\nA \"coverage through acquisition\" strategy is confined to the processes that are entirely under the control of a single organization, while the \"coverage through cooperation\" approach can also enable and support processes that span the boundaries of multiple organizations like suppliers, customers, banks.\n\nThe foundational set of business processes supported by a business suite includes business support processes to manage financials, build, develop and administer the workforce, run facilities, support the procurement of generic goods and services. Those foundational processes are required to sustain a functional enterprise that complies with all regulatory requirements.\n\nThe next layer of business processes is sometimes grouped by the main value drivers or differentiators of a company:\n\nKey processes supporting those value drivers invariably span organizational boundaries and are relevant for multiple lines of business. A typical business process that connects organizational entities is \"order to cash\" which can span sales, production, finance, logistics, billing and dispute management and influences important key performance indicators of the involved areas like \"free cash-flow\", \"customer satisfaction\", \"customer profitability\", \"fulfillment cost\".\n\nSome business suites offer a layer of deep industry processes - either through industry extensions of the core business suite or through a network of frequently certified 3rd party software providers which adopt compatible or identical process and data models.\n\nToday, no commercial business suite can cover all business process requirements of a large organization. Modern business suites offer an environment in which an organization can develop or modify business processes reusing the supplied standard processes. Some advanced business suites allow the fast composition of new business processes from process fragments or process steps.\n\n"}
{"id": "2475583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2475583", "title": "CNN Business Traveller", "text": "CNN Business Traveller\n\nCNN Business Traveller is a monthly television program on CNN International hosted by Richard Quest.\n\nThe program was launched in 2002 and the program investigates various topics related to business related travel, including airlines, airport lounges, frequent-flyer programs, hotels and the travelling lifestyle.\n\nJames Williams was also a producer and occasional presenter on the program, before being given his own CNN program in 2016 titled \"In 24 Hours\".\n\nIn 2016, the program attempted a stunt to fly around the world travelling only on low cost carriers, comparing experiences on each airline and interviewing executives from the carriers over two episodes of \"CNN Business Traveller\". Quest travelled on 10 airlines, through 9 countries across 8 days.\n"}
{"id": "3919967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3919967", "title": "Change request", "text": "Change request\n\nA change request is a document containing a call for an adjustment of a system; it is of great importance in the change management process.\n\nA change request is declarative, i.e. it states what needs to be accomplished, but leaves out how the change should be carried out. Important elements of a change request are an ID, the customer (ID), the deadline (if applicable), an indication whether the change is required or optional, the change type (often chosen from a domain-specific ontology) and a change abstract, which is a piece of narrative (Keller, 2005). An example of a change request can be found in Figure 1 on the right.\n\nChange requests typically originate from one of five sources: \nAdditionally, in Project Management, change requests may also originate from an unclear understanding of the goals and the objectives of the project.\n\nChange requests have many different names, which essentially describe the same concept:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3176153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3176153", "title": "Chief Happiness Officer", "text": "Chief Happiness Officer\n\nThe Chief Happiness Officer (CHO) in a company is the manager of workers' happiness. Probably originating in North America, CHO posts are being created in European and UK companies to ensure workers' welfare needs are met.\n\n"}
{"id": "28632367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28632367", "title": "Chief innovation officer", "text": "Chief innovation officer\n\nA chief innovation officer (CINO) or chief technology innovation officer (CTIO) is a person in a company who is primarily responsible for managing the process of innovation and change management in an organization, as well as being in some cases the person who \"originates new ideas but also recognizes innovative ideas generated by other people\". The CINO also manages Technological change.\n\nThe term \"chief innovation officer\" was first coined and described in the 1998 book \"Fourth Generation R&D\". Organizations with a CINO/CTIO are practicing part of the fourth generation of innovation theory and practice to emerge since 1900.\nSuccessful chief innovation officers focus on delivering on the key principles behind innovation - leadership, creating networks, harnessing VOC/HOC in idea development, leveraging the right incentives, and building/running an effective, transparent, and efficient innovation process.\n\nThe CINO is responsible for managing the innovation process inside the organization that identifies strategies, business opportunities and new technologies and then develops new capabilities and architectures with partners, new business models and new industry structures to serve those opportunities.\n\nCINO/CTIO doesn't have to report to the CEO or another C-level executive. CINO/CTIO is a functional title, similar to the chief information security officer. The words \"chief\" and \"officer\" are used to communicate that a person in this position is responsible for driving innovation throughout the entire organization. Using a functional \"chief ... officer\" title helps to communicate that this is a cross-organizational position and enables this person to work across organizational silos.\n\nThe CINO/CTIO focuses on radical or breakthrough innovation. The coined term CINO/CTIO is used to differentiate the position from the chief information officer, who is responsible for the information technology and computer systems that support enterprise goals.\n\nA chief technology innovation officer (CTIO) is focused on the organizational innovation through technology. This is an important strategic position especially in an organization that has significant technology component in addition to the traditional information technology. This position is typically held by a person with a broad technical expertise in that organization's industry.\n\nThe title chief technology innovation officer is commonly used in the organizations that have a technology component as a part of its core business. The CTIO is responsible for maintaining organizational technological strategy, defining the requirements for new technology implementations and communicating them to key business stakeholders.\n\nThe CTIO is responsible for organizational leadership on technology issues, management of the technology research and review function, ensuring the alignment of technology vision with business strategy, and for driving technology innovation throughout the entire organization. The position can also be responsible for tracking new technology developments in areas of interest to the organization to ensure that it maintains a technological edge within the industry, analyzing and improving upon technology standards and maintaining organizational awareness of new technologies.\n\n"}
{"id": "47204279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47204279", "title": "Considered purchase", "text": "Considered purchase\n\nA considered purchase is a complex buying decision with a high degree of financial and/or emotional risk and reward. This process requires meaningful investigation and comparison by key decision makers and influencers prior to a transaction. All purchase decisions fall along a spectrum of complexity and consequence depending on the variables and relevant information involved. Unlike an impulse purchase, a considered purchase typically has a long purchase cycle and significant consequences. Considered purchase decisions exist in both the consumer and commercial realms involving both products and services.\n"}
{"id": "39219632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39219632", "title": "Conversocial", "text": "Conversocial\n\nConversocial is a provider of social customer service software headquartered in New York City and founded in London. Companies such as Google, Barclaycard, Hertz, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Volkswagen and University of Phoenix use Conversocial's Software as a Service to manage the flow of customer service inquiries and discussions on social media channels such as Facebook and Twitter, Google+, Instagram and YouTube.\n\nJoshua March founded Conversocial in November 2009 in London. After spending two years working with applications for social media for both the Facebook Developer Garage London and iPlatform, he realized that social media was the future of communications online. After iPlatform, which they sold to social media marketing company Betapond in 2012, March has focused solely on Conversocial.\n\nIn February 2016, Twitter announced that Conversocial is a Twitter Official Partner, and is working with the company to add deep messaging deep links to tweets.\n\nIn February 2017, Twitter announced that would deepen its partnership with Conversocial for greater growth and monetization in the area of social customer service.\n\nSince Conversocial’s public launch at Tempero (now icuc.social) in 2010, they’ve released their Enterprise edition and raised a total of $23.96 million in funding. In 2012 Conversocial expanded to the USA, opening its headquarters in Manhattan, New York.\n\nIn 2013,Conversocial received $4.4 million in additional funding from a round led by Octopus Ventures.\n\nIn 2014,Conversocial received $5 million in additional funding from a round led by Octopus Ventures.\n\nIn 2015,Conversocial received $11 million in additional funding from a round led by Dawn Capital.\n\nConversocial is a real-time social media management system which allows companies to provide customer support through Facebook and Twitter. Conversocial's functions include:\n\n\nCEO Joshua March has appeared on CNBC, Bloomberg, Fox Business, and BBC as a commentator on customer service and social media, and was named one of 2012’s Top 10 Hottest Digital Marketers by iMedia Connection. Josh March frequently writes about social media and customer service, and his work has been featured in numerous business and technology publications.\n\nPreviously Joshua and Dan Lester co-founded iPlatform, a social app development company, which was acquired by Betapond in September 2012. From 2008 to 2010 Joshua was the Chairman of the Facebook Developer Garage London, an official Facebook event running monthly for developers, entrepreneurs and marketers working on the Facebook platform, which he helped found in 2007.\n\nMost recently, Conversocial was named a \"cool vendor\" in the CRM Customer Service and Social Report published by leading analyst firm Gartner The UK publication V3 has also named Conversocial one of Top 10 up-and-coming UK technology start-ups for 2013.\n\nIn 2010 Conversocial won \"Highly Commended\" in the Best Platform category of TechCrunch's The Europas- European Startup Awards. In 2011, Conversocial was the overall winner in the Best Advertising or Marketing Tech Startup category, and in 2013 they were \"Highly Commended\" in the Best Advertising or Marketing Tech Startup.\n\n"}
{"id": "7035221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7035221", "title": "Converters (industry)", "text": "Converters (industry)\n\nConverting companies are companies that specialize in combining raw materials such as polyesters, adhesives, silicone, adhesive tapes, foams, plastics, felts, rubbers, liners and metals, as well as other materials, to create new products.\n\nMaterials such as paper, plastic film, foil and cloth often are produced in long, continuous sheets that are rolled up for more convenient handling and transportation. These rolls of material vary significantly in size and weight — ranging from wide and weighing as much as several tons. The converting industry takes these continuous rolls of thin, flat materials — known as webs — threads them through processing machines (such as printing presses, laminating, coating and slitting machines) and converts or changes the web of material into an intermediate form or final product. For example, a converter’s equipment might take a web of plastic film, cut it into lengths, and fuse their edges, thus converting it into plastic bags. This activity is known as web processing.\n\nTypical converting processes are coating, laminating and printing. Coating technologies can include hot melt coating, gravure coating, curtain coating and slot-die coating. The most common printing techniques are flexo printing and rotogravure (gravure) printing. Both print processes are suited to high speed roll-to-roll processing.\n\nMany converting companies will process large diameter, wide rolls of material as this increases the converting efficiency by minimising changes. On completion of the converting process the rolls may be cut into smaller rolls on a slitting machine. These rolls are then a convenient size for handling on packaging and other machines. Alternatively, the rolls may be sheeted-cut into sheets — as happens in newspaper and book printing. Further processes such as collation may occur after sheeting.\n\nWeb alignment is an important part of a converting operation as a moving web of material has a tendency to track off course and wander out of alignment during the converting processes. To avoid these problems, engineers have developed a variety of automatic web-guiding systems that assure production accuracy and reduce waste. Web-guiding systems typically are positioned just before a critical stage on a converting machine (for example, just before a print station on a printing press).\n\nEach type of web guiding system uses a sensor to monitor the web position for lateral tracking, and each has an actuator to shift the running web mechanically back on course whenever the sensor detects movement away from the set path. Actuators may be pneumatic or hydraulic cylinders, or some kind of electromechanical device. Because the web may be fragile — particularly at its edge — non-contact sensors are used. These sensors may be pneumatic, photoelectric, ultrasonic, or infrared. The system’s controls must put the output signals from the sensors in to a form that can drive the actuator. Many controls today are electronic, typically using an amplifier to convert signals from the sensor, then commanding a special servo motor incorporating a lead or ball screw for guiding actuation. The latest web guiding systems have touch screen controls to simplify the setup procedure. Some web guiding systems have been designed specifically for the converting industry.\n\nMany converters specialize in \n\nSome converting companies now incorporate electronics in their finished products. For example, converters producing RFID stock labels must incorporate RFID chips and antenna inlays. The electronic components make up the RFID tag. The tag stores the information about the items that have been tagged. These converters therefore sometimes incorporate volume electronics manufacturing practices including controlling static electricity, electronic manufacturing test and similar processes. Solving some of the issues of inclusion of materials sensitive to external influences has led to more tech companies embracing roll-based manufacturing processes, with particular success in the lithium ion and solar cell manufacturing sectors.\n\nThe process of processing pre-cut cartons or \"blanks\" and folding them into the appropriate shape to become finished packaging containers is known as tray forming or carton erecting. These machines can create, for example, nacho trays, chinese noodle soup boxes, pizza boxes, french fry trays, hamburger clamshells, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "24442004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24442004", "title": "Corporate jargon", "text": "Corporate jargon\n\nCorporate jargon, variously known as corporate speak, corporate lingo, business speak, business jargon, management speak, workplace jargon, corporatese or commercialese, is the jargon often used in large corporations, bureaucracies, and similar workplaces. The use of corporate jargon is criticised for its lack of clarity as well as for its tedium, making meaning and intention opaque and understanding difficult.\n\nThe tone is associated with managers of large corporations, business management consultants, and occasionally government. Reference to such jargon is typically derogatory, implying the use of long, complicated, or obscure words, abbreviations, euphemisms, and acronyms. For that reason some of its forms may be considered as an argot. Some of these words may be actually new inventions, designed purely to fit the specialized meaning of a situation or even to \"spin\" negative situations as positive situations.\n\nMarketing speak is a related label for wording styles used to promote a product or service to a wide audience by seeking to create the impression that the vendors of the service possess a high level of sophistication, skill, and technical knowledge. Such language is often used in marketing press releases, advertising copy, and prepared statements read by executives and politicians.\n\nMany terms have straightforward meanings in other contexts (e.g., leverage in physics, picked up with a well-defined meaning in finance), but are used more loosely in business speak. For example, \"deliverable\" is used to refer to anything that has to be done by a certain date to be verified by another party.\n\nThe phrases \"going forward\" or \"moving forward\" make a confident gesture towards the future, but are generally vague on timing, which usually means it can be removed from a sentence with little or no effect on its overall meaning.\n\nLegal terms such as \"Chapter 11\" can be used without explaining what they are about: for example, Chapter 11, Title 11, United States Code is about US bankruptcy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "826311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826311", "title": "Cross-docking", "text": "Cross-docking\n\nCross-docking is a practice in logistics of unloading materials from an incoming semi-trailer truck or railroad car and loading these materials directly into outbound trucks, trailers, or rail cars, with little or no storage in between. This may be done to change the type of conveyance, to sort material intended for different destinations, or to combine material from different origins into transport vehicles (or containers) with the same or similar destinations.\n\nCross-dock operations were pioneered in the US trucking industry in the 1930s, and have been in continuous use in less-than-truckload (LTL) operations ever since. The US military began using cross-docking operations in the 1950s. Wal-Mart began using cross-docking in the retail sector in the late 1980s.\n\nIn the LTL trucking industry, cross-docking is done by moving cargo from one transport vehicle directly onto another, with minimal or no warehousing. In retail practice, cross-docking operations may utilize staging areas where inbound materials are sorted, consolidated, and stored until the outbound shipment is complete and ready to ship.\n\n\n\n\nRetail cross-dock example: using cross-docking, Wal-Mart was able to effectively leverage its logistical volume into a core strategic competency.\n\n\nCross-dock facilities are generally designed in an \"I\" configuration, which is an elongated rectangle. The goal in using this shape is to maximize the number of inbound and outbound doors that can be added to the facility while keeping the floor area inside the facility to a minimum. Bartholdi and Gue (2004) demonstrated that this shape is ideal for facilities with 150 doors or less. For facilities with 150–200 doors, a \"T\" shape is more cost effective. Finally, for facilities with 200 or more doors, the cost-minimizing shape is an \"X\".\n\n\"Making the Move to Crossdocking\", Maida Napolitano and the staff of Gross & Associates, 2000 copyright, www.werc.org\n"}
{"id": "1666421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666421", "title": "Crystal Analysis", "text": "Crystal Analysis\n\nCrystal Analysis (a.k.a. Crystal Analysis Professional) is an On Line Analytical Processing (OLAP) application for analysing business data originally developed by Seagate Software.\n\nIt was first released under the name \"Seagate Analysis\" as a free application written in Java released in 1999. After disappointing application performance, a decision was made to rewrite using ATL COM in C++. The initial rewrite only supported Microsoft Analysis Services, but support for other vendors soon followed, with Holos cubes in version 8.5, Essbase, IBM DB2 and SAP BW following in later releases. The web client was rewritten using an XSLT abstraction layer for the version 9.0 release, with better standards compliance to support Mozilla based browsers—this work also set the building blocks for support for Safari.\n\nCrystal Analysis relies on Crystal Enterprise for distribution of analytical applications created with it.\n\nFuture versions will be released under the name, \"BusinessObjects OLAP Intelligence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7744414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7744414", "title": "Customer attrition", "text": "Customer attrition\n\nCustomer attrition, also known as customer churn, customer turnover, or customer defection, is the loss of clients or customers.\n\nBanks, telephone service companies, Internet service providers, pay TV companies, insurance firms, and alarm monitoring services, often use customer attrition analysis and customer attrition rates as one of their key business metrics (along with cash flow, EBITDA, etc.) because the cost of retaining an existing customer is far less than acquiring a new one. Companies from these sectors often have customer service branches which attempt to win back defecting clients, because recovered long-term customers can be worth much more to a company than newly recruited clients.\n\nCompanies usually make a distinction between voluntary churn and involuntary churn. Voluntary churn occurs due to a decision by the customer to switch to another company or service provider, involuntary churn occurs due to circumstances such as a customer's relocation to a long-term care facility, death, or the relocation to a distant location. In most applications, involuntary reasons for churn are excluded from the analytical models. Analysts tend to concentrate on voluntary churn, because it typically occurs due to factors of the company-customer relationship which companies control, such as how billing interactions are handled or how after-sales help is provided.\n\nWhen companies are measuring their customer turnover, they typically make the distinction between gross attrition and net attrition. Gross attrition is the loss of existing customers and their associated recurring revenue for contracted goods or services during a particular period. Net attrition is gross attrition plus the addition or recruitment of similar customers at the original location. Financial institutions often track and measure attrition using a weighted calculation called Recurring Monthly Revenue (or RMR). In the 2000s, there are also a number of business intelligence software programs which can mine databases of customer information and analyze the factors that are associated with customer attrition, such as dissatisfaction with service or technical support, billing disputes, or a disagreement over company policies. More sophisticated predictive analytics software use churn prediction models that predict customer churn by assessing their propensity of risk to churn. Since these models generate a small prioritized list of potential defectors, they are effective at focusing customer retention marketing programs on the subset of the customer base who are most vulnerable to churn.\n\nFinancial services such as banking and insurance use applications of predictive analytics for churn modeling, because customer retention is an essential part of most financial services' business models. Other sectors have also discovered the power of predictive analytics, including retailing, telecommunications and pay-TV operators. One of the main objectives of modeling customer churn is to determine the causal factors, so that the company can try to prevent the attrition from happening in the future. Some companies want to prevent their \"good\" customers from deteriorating (e.g., by falling behind in their payments) and becoming less profitable customers, so they introduced the notion of partial customer churn.\n\nCustomer attrition merits special attention by mobile telecom service providers worldwide. This is due to the low barriers to switching to a competing service provider especially with the advent of Mobile Number Portability (MNP) in several countries. This allows customers to switch to another provider while preserving their phone numbers. While mature markets with high teledensity (phone market penetration) have churn rates ranging from 1% to 2% per month, high growth developing markets such as India and China are experiencing churn rates between 3% to 4% per month. By deploying new technologies such churn prediction models coupled with effective retention programs, customer attrition could be better managed to stem the significant revenue loss from defecting customers.\n\nCustomer attrition is a major concern for US and Canadian banks, because they have much higher churn rates than banks in Western Europe. US and Canadian banks with the lowest churn rates have achieved customer turnover rates as low as 12% per year, by using tactics such as free checking accounts, online banking and bill payment, and improved customer service. However, once banks can improve their churn rates by improving customer service, they can reach a point beyond which further customer service will not improve retention; other tactics or approaches need to be explored.\n\nChurn or Customer attrition is often used as an indicator of customer satisfaction. However the churn rate can be kept artificially low by making it difficult for the customers to resiliate their services. This can include ignoring resiliations requests, implementing lengthy and complicated resiliation procedures to follow through by an average consumer and various other barriers to resiliation. Thus, churn can improve while customer satisfaction deteriorates. This practice is short sighted and will backfire. However, it was shown to be common in telephone companies and among internet providers.\n\nScholars have studied customer attrition at European financial services companies, and investigated the predictors of churn and how the use of customer relationship management (CRM) approaches can impact churn rates. Several studies combine several different types of predictors to develop a churn model. This model can take demographic characteristics, environmental changes, and other factors into account.\n\nResearch on customer attrition data modeling may provide businesses with several tools for enhancing customer retention. Using data mining and software, one may apply statistical methods to develop nonlinear attrition causation models. One researcher notes that \"...retaining existing customers is more profitable than acquiring new customers due primarily to savings on acquisition costs, the higher volume of service consumption, and customer referrals.\" The argument is that to build an \"...effective customer retention program,\" managers have to come to an understanding of \"...why customers leave\" and \"...identify the customers with high risk of leaving\" by accurately predicting customer attrition.\n\nIn the business context, \"churn\" refers both to customers' migration and to their loss of value. So, \"churn rate\" refers, on the one hand, to the percentage of customers who end their relation with the organization, or, on the other hand, to the customers who still receive their services, but not as much or not as often as they used to.\nCurrent organizations face therefore a huge challenge: to be able to anticipate to customers’ abandon in order to retain them on time, reducing this way costs and risks and gaining efficiency and competitivity.\nThere are in the market advanced analytics tools and applications, especially designed to analyze in depth the enormous amount of data inside the organizations, and to make predictions based on the information obtained from analyzing and exploring those data. They aim to put at the service of marketing departments and agencies –and of all business users- the necessary weapons to:\n\nThere are organizations that have developed international standards regarding recognition and sharing of global best practice in customer service in order to reduce customer attrition. The International Customer Service Institute has developed The International Customer Service Standard to strategically align organizations so they focus on delivering excellence in customer service, whilst at the same time providing recognition of success through a 3rd Party registration scheme.\n\nNot all customer attrition is bad. For many firms, it is useful and desirable that unprofitable customers should churn away. This is known as customer divestment of unprofitable customers. However, simply because a customer is unprofitable does not mean that the customer should be divested, because there are strategic reasons for retaining unprofitable customers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9630061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9630061", "title": "Dividing territories", "text": "Dividing territories\n\nDividing territories (also market division) is an agreement by two companies to stay out of each other's way and reduce competition in the agreed-upon territories. The process known as geographic market allocation is one of several anti-competitive practices outlawed under United States antitrust laws. The term is generally understood to include dividing customers as well.\n\nFor example, in 1984, FMC Corp. and Asahi Chemical agreed to divide territories for the sale of microcrystalline cellulose, and later FMC attempted to eliminate all vestiges of competition by inviting smaller rivals also to collude.\n\n"}
{"id": "167703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167703", "title": "Empowerment", "text": "Empowerment\n\nThe term empowerment refers to measures designed to increase the degree of autonomy and self-determination in people and in communities in order to enable them to represent their interests in a responsible and self-determined way, acting on their own authority. It is the process of becoming stronger and more confident, especially in controlling one's life and claiming one's rights. Empowerment as action refers both to the process of self-empowerment and to professional support of people, which enables them to overcome their sense of powerlessness and lack of influence, and to recognize and use their resources. To do work with power.\n\nThe term empowerment originates from American community psychology and is associated with the social scientist Julian Rappaport (1981). However, the roots of empowerment theory extend further into history and are linked to Marxist sociological theory. These sociological ideas have continued to be developed and refined through Neo-Marxist Theory (also known as Critical Theory).\n\nIn social work, empowerment forms a practical approach of resource-oriented intervention. In the field of citizenship education and democratic education, empowerment is seen as a tool to increase the responsibility of the citizen. Empowerment is a key concept in the discourse on promoting civic engagement. Empowerment as a concept, which is characterized by a move away from a deficit-oriented towards a more strength-oriented perception, can increasingly be found in management concepts, as well as in the areas of continuing education and self-help.\n\nRobert Adams points to the limitations of any single definition of 'empowerment', and the danger that academic or specialist definitions might take away the word and the connected practices from the very people they are supposed to belong to. Still, he offers a minimal definition of the term: \n'Empowerment: the capacity of individuals, groups and/or communities to take control of their circumstances, exercise power and achieve their own goals, and the process by which, individually and collectively, they are able to help themselves and others to maximize the quality of their lives.'\n\nOne definition for the term is \"an intentional, ongoing process centered in the local community, involving mutual respect, critical reflection, caring, and group participation, through which people lacking an equal share of resources gain greater access to and control over those resources\".\n\nRappaport's (1984) definition includes: \"Empowerment is viewed as a process: the mechanism by which people, organizations, and communities gain mastery over their lives.\"\n\nSociological empowerment often addresses members of groups that social discrimination processes have excluded from decision-making processes through – for example – discrimination based on disability, race, ethnicity, religion, or gender. Empowerment as a methodology is also associated with feminism.\n\nEmpowerment is the process of obtaining basic opportunities for marginalized people, either directly by those people, or through the help of non-marginalized others who share their own access to these opportunities. It also includes actively thwarting attempts to deny those opportunities. Empowerment also includes encouraging, and developing the skills for, self-sufficiency, with a focus on eliminating the future need for charity or welfare in the individuals of the group. This process can be difficult to start and to implement effectively.\n\nOne empowerment strategy is to assist marginalized people to create their own nonprofit organization, using the rationale that only the marginalized people, themselves, can know what their own people need most, and that control of the organization by outsiders can actually help to further entrench marginalization. Charitable organizations lead from outside of the community, for example, can disempower the community by entrenching a dependence charity or welfare. A nonprofit organization can target strategies that cause structural changes, reducing the need for ongoing dependence. Red Cross, for example, can focus on improving the health of indigenous people, but does not have authority in its charter to install water-delivery and purification systems, even though the lack of such a system profoundly, directly and negatively impacts health. A nonprofit composed of the indigenous people, however, could ensure their own organization does have such authority and could set their own agendas, make their own plans, seek the needed resources, do as much of the work as they can, and take responsibility – and credit – for the success of their projects (or the consequences, should they fail).\n\nThe process of which enables individuals/groups to fully access personal or collective power, authority and influence, and to employ that strength when engaging with other people, institutions or society. In other words, \"Empowerment is not giving people power, people already have plenty of power, in the wealth of their knowledge and motivation, to do their jobs magnificently. We define empowerment as letting this power out.\" It encourages people to gain the skills and knowledge that will allow them to overcome obstacles in life or work environment and ultimately, help them develop within themselves or in the society.\n\nTo empower a female \"...sounds as though we are dismissing or ignoring males, but the truth is, both genders desperately need to be equally empowered.\" Empowerment occurs through improvement of conditions, standards, events, and a global perspective of life.\n\nBefore there can be the finding that a particular group requires empowerment and that therefore their self-esteem needs to be consolidated on the basis of awareness of their strengths, there needs to be a deficit diagnosis usually carried out by experts assessing the problems of this group. The fundamental asymmetry of the relationship between experts and clients is usually not questioned by empowerment processes. It also needs to be regarded critically, in how far the empowerment approach is really applicable to all patients/clients. It is particularly questionable whether mentally ill people in acute crisis situations are in a position to make their own decisions. According to Albert Lenz, people behave primarily regressive in acute crisis situations and tend to leave the responsibility to professionals. It must be assumed, therefore, that the implementation of the empowerment concept requires a minimum level of communication and reflectivity of the persons involved.\n\nIn social work, empowerment offers an approach that allows social workers to increase the capacity for self-help of their clients. For example, this allows clients not to be seen as passive, helpless 'victims' to be rescued but instead as a self-empowered person fighting abuse/ oppression; a fight, in which the social worker takes the position of a facilitator, instead of the position of a 'rescuer'.\n\nMarginalized people who lack self-sufficiency become, at a minimum, dependent on charity, or welfare. They lose their self-confidence because they cannot be fully self-supporting. The opportunities denied them also deprive them of the pride of accomplishment which others, who have those opportunities, can develop for themselves. This in turn can lead to psychological, social and even mental health problems. \"Marginalized\" here refers to the overt or covert trends within societies whereby those perceived as lacking desirable traits or deviating from the group norms tend to be excluded by wider society and ostracized as undesirables.\n\nAs a concept, and model of practice, empowerment is also used in health promotion research and practice.\nThe key principle is for individuals to gain increased control over factors that influence their health status . \n\nTo empower individuals and to obtain more equity in health, it is also important to address health-related behaviors . \n\nStudies suggest that health promotion interventions aiming at empowering adolescents should enable active learning activities, use visualizing tools to facilitate self-reflection, and allow the adolescents to influence intervention activities .\n\nAccording to Robert Adams, there is a long tradition in the UK and the USA respectively to advance forms of self-help that have developed and contributed to more recent concepts of empowerment. For example, the free enterprise economic theories of Milton Friedman embraced self-help as a respectable contributor to the economy. Both the Republicans in the US and the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher built on these theories. 'At the same time, the mutual aid aspects of the concept of self-help retained some currency with socialists and democrats.'\n\nIn economic development, the empowerment approach focuses on mobilizing the self-help efforts of the poor, rather than providing them with social welfare. Economic empowerment is also the empowering of previously disadvantaged sections of the population, for example, in many previously colonized African countries.\n\nThe World Pensions Council (WPC) has argued that large institutional investors such as pension funds and endowments are exercising a greater influence on the process of adding and replacing corporate directors – as they are themselves steered to do so by their own board members (pension trustees).\n\nThis could eventually put more pressure on the CEOs of publicly listed companies, as “more than ever before, many [North American], UK and European Union pension trustees speak enthusiastically about flexing their fiduciary muscles for the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals”, and other ESG-centric investment practices \n\nLegal empowerment happens when marginalised people or groups use the legal mobilisation i.e., law, legal systems and justice mechanisms to improve or transform their social, political or economic situations. Legal empowerment approaches are interested in understanding how they can use the law to advance interests and priorities of the marginalised.\n\nAccording to 'Open society foundations' (an NGO) \"Legal empowerment is about strengthening the capacity of all people to exercise their rights, either as individuals or as members of a community. Legal empowerment is about grass root justice, about ensuring that law is not confined to books or courtrooms, but rather is available and meaningful to ordinary people.\n\nLorenzo Cotula in his book ' \"Legal Empowerment for Local Resource Control\" ' outlines the fact that legal tools for securing local resource rights are enshrined in legal system, does not necessarily mean that local resource users are in position to use them and benefit from them. The state legal system is constrained by a range of different factors – from lack of resources to cultural issues. Among these factors economic, geographic, linguistic and other constraints on access to courts, \"lack of legal awareness as well as legal assistance \" tend to be recurrent problems.\n\nIn many context, marginalised groups do not trust the legal system owing to the widespread manipulation that it has historically been subjected to by the more powerful. 'To what extent one knows the law, and make it work for themselves with 'para legal tools', is legal empowerment; assisted utilizing innovative approaches like legal literacy and awareness training, broadcasting legal information, conducting participatory legal discourses, supporting local resource user in negotiating with other agencies and stake holders and to strategies combining use of legal processes with advocacy along with media engagement, and socio legal mobilisation.\n\nSometimes groups are marginalized by society at large, with governments participating in the process of marginalization. Equal opportunity laws which actively oppose such marginalization, are supposed to allow empowerment to occur. These laws made it illegal to restrict access to schools and public places based on race. They can also be seen as a symptom of minorities' and women's empowerment through lobbying.\n\nGender empowerment conventionally refers to the empowerment of women, which is a significant topic of discussion in regards to development and economics nowadays. It also points to approaches regarding other marginalized genders in a particular political or social context. This approach to empowerment is partly informed by feminism and employed legal empowerment by building on international human rights. Empowerment is one of the main procedural concerns when addressing human rights and development. The Human Development and Capabilities Approach, The Millennium Development Goals, and other credible approaches/goals point to empowerment and participation as a necessary step if a country is to overcome the obstacles associated with poverty and development. The UN Sustainable Development Goals targets gender equality and women's empowerment for the global development agenda.\n\nAccording to Thomas A. Potterfield, many organizational theorists and practitioners regard employee empowerment as one of the most important and popular management concepts of our time.\n\nCiulla discusses an inverse case: that of bogus empowerment.\n\nIn the sphere of management and organizational theory, \"empowerment\" often refers loosely to processes for giving subordinates (or workers generally) greater discretion and resources: distributing control in order to better serve both customers and the interests of employing organizations.\n\nOne account of the history of workplace empowerment in the United States recalls the clash of management styles in railroad construction in the American West in the mid-19th century, where \"traditional\" hierarchical East-Coast models of control encountered individualistic pioneer workers, strongly supplemented by methods of efficiency-oriented \"worker responsibility\" brought to the scene by Chinese laborers. In this case, empowerment at the level of work teams or brigades achieved a notable (but short-lived) demonstrated superiority. See the views of Robert L. Webb.\n\nSince the 1980s and 1990s, empowerment has become a point of interest in management concepts and business administration. In this context, empowerment involves approaches that promise greater participation and integration to the employee in order to cope with their tasks as independently as possible and responsibly can. A strength-based approach known as \"empowerment circle\" has become an instrument of organizational development. Multidisciplinary empowerment teams aim for the development of quality circles to improve the organizational culture, strengthening the motivation and the skills of employees. The target of subjective job satisfaction of employees is pursued through flat hierarchies, participation in decisions, opening of creative effort, a positive, appreciative team culture, self-evaluation, taking responsibility (for results), more self-determination and constant further learning. The optimal use of existing potential and abilities can supposedly be better reached by satisfied and active workers. Here, knowledge management contributes significantly to implement employee participation as a guiding principle, for example through the creation of communities of practice.\n\nHowever, it is important to ensure that the individual employee has the skills to meet their allocated responsibilities and that the company's structure sets up the right incentives for employees to reward their taking responsibilities. Otherwise there is a danger of being overwhelmed or even becoming lethargic.\n\nEmpowerment of employees requires a culture of trust in the organization and an appropriate information and communication system. The aim of these activities is to save control costs, that become redundant when employees act independently and in a self-motivated fashion. \nIn the book \"Empowerment Takes More Than a Minute\", the authors illustrate three keys that organizations can use to open the knowledge, experience, and motivation power that people already have. The three keys that managers must use to empower their employees are:\n\nAccording to Stewart, in order to guarantee a successful work environment, managers need to exercise the \"right kind of authority\" (p. 6). To summarize, \"empowerment is simply the effective use of a manager’s authority\", and subsequently, it is a productive way to maximize all-around work efficiency.\n\nThese keys are hard to put into place and it is a journey to achieve empowerment in a workplace. It is important to train employees and make sure they have trust in what empowerment will bring to a company.\n\nThe implementation of the concept of empowerment in management has also been criticised for failing to live up to its claims.\n\nMarshall McLuhan insisted that the development of electronic media would eventually weaken the hierarchical structures that underpin central governments, large corporation, academia and, more generally, rigid, “linear-Cartsesian” forms of social organization. \nFrom that perspective, new, “electronic forms of awareness” driven by information technology would empower citizen, employees and students by disseminating in near-real-time vast amounts of information once reserved to a small number of experts and specialists. Citizens would be bound to ask for substantially more say in the management of government affairs, production, consumption, and education \n\nWorld Pensions Council (WPC) economist Nicolas Firzli has argued that rapidly rising cultural tides, notably new forms of online engagement and increased demands for ESG-driven public policies and managerial decisions are transforming the way governments and corporation interact with citizen-consumers in the “Age of Empowerment” \n\n"}
{"id": "58842024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58842024", "title": "Engineering economics (civil engineering)", "text": "Engineering economics (civil engineering)\n\nEngineering Economics in Civil Engineering, also known generally as engineering economics, or alternatively engineering economy, is a subset of economics, more specifically, microeconomics. It is defined as a \"guide for the economic selection among technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources.\" \nIts goal is to guide entities, private or public that are confronted with the fundamental problem of economics, it wishes to accomplish more than its resources will permit. \nThis fundamental problem of economics consists of two fundamental questions that must be answered, namely what objectives should be investigated or explored and how should these be achieved? Economics as a social science answers those questions and is defined as the knowledge used for selecting among “…technically feasible alternatives for the purpose of a rational allocation of scarce resources.” Correspondingly, all problems involving \"...profit maximizing or cost-minimizing are engineering problems with economic objectives\nand are properly described by the label \"engineering economy\".\n\nAs a subdiscipline practiced by civil engineers, engineering economics narrows the definition of the fundamental economic problem and related questions to that of problems related to the investment of capital, public or private in a broad array of infrastructure projects. Civil engineers confront more specialized forms of the fundamental problem in the form of inadequate economic evaluation of engineering projects.\n\nCivil engineers under constant pressure to deliver infrastructure effectively and efficiently confront complex problems associated with allocating scarce resources for ensuring quality, mitigating risk and controlling project delivery. Civil engineers must be educated to recognize the role played by engineering economics as part of the evaluations occurring at each phase in the project lifecycle. \n\nThus, the application of engineering economics in the practice of civil engineering focuses on the decision-making process, its context, and environment in project execution and delivery. \nIt is pragmatic by nature, integrating microeconomic theory with civil engineering practice but, it is also a simplified application of economic theory in that it avoids a number of microeconomic concepts such as price determination, competition and supply and demand. \nThis poses new, underlying economic problems of resource allocation for civil engineers in delivering infrastructure projects and specifically, resources for project management, planning and control functions. \n\nCivil engineers address these fundamental economic problems using specialized engineering economics knowledge as a framework for continuously “… probing economic feasibility…using a stage-wise approach…” throughout the project lifecycle. The application of this specialized civil engineering knowledge can be in the form of engineering analyses of life-cycle cost, cost accounting, cost of capital and the economic feasibility of engineering solutions for design, construction and project management. The civil engineer must have the ability to use engineering economy methodologies for the “formulation of objectives, specification of alternatives, prediction of outcomes” and estimation of minimum acceptability for investment and optimization. \n\nThey must also be capable of integrating these economic considerations into appropriate engineering solutions and management plans that predictably and reliably meet project stakeholder expectations in a sustainable manner. \n\nThe civil engineering profession provides a special function in our society and economy where investing substantial sums of funding in public infrastructure requires \"...some assurance that it will perform its intended function.\" \n\nThus, the civil engineer exercising their professional judgment in making decisions about fundamental problems relies upon the profession’s knowledge of engineering economics to provide \"the practical certainty\" that makes the social investment in public infrastructure feasible. \n\nHistorically, coursework and curricula in engineering economics for civil engineers has focused on Capital budgeting: \"...when to replace capital equipment, and which of several alternative investments to make.\n\n"}
{"id": "31841488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31841488", "title": "Environmental regulation of small and medium enterprises", "text": "Environmental regulation of small and medium enterprises\n\nSmall and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are defined by the European Commission as having less than 250 employees, independent (with no shareholder having over a 25% stake in the business) and with an annual turnover of no more than €50 million or annual balance sheet of €43 million.\n\nSMEs have been identified as a problem area in the field of environmental regulation. Whilst the individual environmental impacts of SMEs are generally small in comparison to those of large corporations, the cumulative environmental impacts of the sector are large. They also pose particular problems for environmental governance, showing little reception to new environment policy instruments (NEPIs) such as market-based instruments, voluntary agreements and informational devices.\n\nThere are approximately 4.7 million businesses in the UK of which 99.7% are SMEs. The large size of the sector lends itself to the idea that environmental impacts are cumulatively large. Whilst there has been limited research into the quantitative impacts of SMEs, the Marshall Report estimates that 60% of total carbon emissions in the UK are attributable to SMEs. SMEs are also responsible for around 60% of commercial waste and 43% of all serious industrial pollution incidents. The perception of SME environmental behaviour is generally poor. Failure to pursue eco-efficient measures has often been attributed to low levels of awareness and lack of resources. It is theorised that as the majority of SMEs serve local markets they are less likely to be exposed to international pressures or incentives, including those likely to promote eco-innovation. It has also been suggested that civil society has less concern for smaller firms’ actions, being more likely to direct their concern towards larger organisations which are seen to have the biggest impact.\n\nWhilst the 1980s and 1990s saw a shift in the perceived relationship between the environment and business practice it has only translated into actions for prominently large firms. This change in environmental business ethics stems mainly from ideas of ‘ecological modernisation', a school of thought advanced most notably by German scholars Joseph Huber and Martin Janicke. They challenged Max Weber’s theory of bureaucratic rationality. A theory which positions government as best placed to resolve environmental problems. Instead, the discourse of ecological modernisation claims that sufficient innovative capacity will come only from industry itself as it has the expertise and means to do so. This is posited with the idea of ‘steering’ industry onto more environmentally beneficial pathways through financial incentives.\n\nThis shift is clearly visible in the 1980 World Conservation Strategy which pushes environmental actions from reactive to anticipatory. The shift towards thinking in terms of ‘ecological modernisation’ has also involved a movement to ‘smart’ regulatory instruments involving more reflexive forms of law (law which pushes businesses to reflect on and regulate their own practices) such as Environmental Management Systems, Environmental Reporting and Disclosure Strategies, Market-Based Instruments and the social license. The latter of these being important in Corporate Social Responsibility.\n\nWhilst ‘smart’ regulation is a promising concept, SMEs have been slow on the uptake and have generally been observed to retain a reactive approach to positive environmental actions. Research has often suggested that a more comprehensive approach will be needed to improve environmental performance in the SME sector, these are based on three distinct theoretical perspectives;\n\n\nIt has been suggested that there is not yet a substantial structure in the UK which forces environmental matters onto the business agendas of UK SMEs. The choice of policy instruments in the UK has tended not to acknowledge the structural differences between large firms and SMEs. For example, the EU White Paper has often promoted a sectoral and ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to addressing the environmental impacts of business activities. Although acknowledging structural differences between industries is important, this distinction alone may undermine the recognition of important differences in large corporations and SMEs that may affect the way in which environmental issues are perceived or acted upon. With regard to policy action, the White Paper has influenced the creation of ‘sectoral sustainability strategies’, voluntary conglomerates of firm representatives from specific industrial sectors. Such associations have been criticised for being unrepresentative of the interests due to the unequal power relations between large and small firms.\n\nSMEs are also perceived to often lack characteristics that would otherwise enable them to engage effectively with the sustainable development agenda, barriers for effective engagement being both internal and external to the firm. It is thought that a lack of institutional enfranchisement of SMEs in the UK is also a key factor in understanding why environmental policies may be ineffective at encouraging proactive environmental performance within smaller firms.\n\nWhilst CSR strategies have been intensively adopted by large and publicly visible corporations, the effectiveness of this type of social regulation with SMEs remains questionable. This is partly due to their size, as their smaller-scale activities are less visible within society. It is thought that many larger firms develop CSR strategies voluntarily to avoid disclosure for bad practice and to maintain and develop a shareholder base. Small firms however are not subject to the same incentives for practicing CSR. This is because they are defined by a limited shareholder base and are unlikely to exhibit environmental and social bad practice on a scale worthy of media attention. These ideas are exemplified in a study by Lynch-Wood and Williamson which has suggested that SME environmental practice is driven by ‘business performance’ and ‘regulation’, rather than the ‘business case’ (i.e. maintaining and improving shareholder base) which CSR practice stems from. It is also apparent that smaller firms may not have the available financial resources for pursuing costly CSR strategies (CSR programmes typically involving funding community projects).\n\nVoluntary measures as a whole have been problematized by some scholars with a suggestion that environmental practice in SMEs is often constrained by free-market decision-making frames that encourage profitability to the detriment of beyond compliance social and environmental behaviour.\n\nEnvironmental Management Systems (EMS) such as ISO 14001 and EMAS seek to provide all businesses (regardless of size and industry) with the means to develop systematic approaches to improving environmental performance. ISO 14001 was purportedly written with the chipshop owner in mind so as to defend its use across the entire EU business community. Whilst EMS is supposed to be suited for SME use, rates of uptake have been marginal. It is estimated that in 1999 only 24% of UK businesses registered with EMAS were SMEs, whilst no figures are available for ISO 14001 based on company size\n\nThe most promoted incentive for businesses implementing EMS is generally cost-savings. A pan-EU survey of businesses using EMAS identified that cost-savings were indeed the biggest perceived benefit to arise from implementation across enterprises in Europe however SMEs placed this second claiming EMAS mainly benefited corporate image.\n\nWhilst ISO 14001 was designed with the chip shop man in mind, the requirements of EMS should not be underestimated. The ISO 14001 follows a basic structure requiring business to define an environmental policy, environmental aspects register (detailing applicable environmental legislation) and annually reviewed objectives and targets (in reference to environmental aspects). Without support or training, these elements can be difficult to understand. ISO 14001 requires internal auditing(on an annual basis) meaning extra constraints such as time dedicated to staff training (as it cannot be undertaken by the individual responsible for overseeing the management system). Certification and Validation are expensive and SMEs especially may require support from consultants, further adding to costs.\n\nWhilst these financial burdens may have minimal impact on larger corporations, for smaller firms the costs of implementation and upkeep may out-weigh the cost savings achieved through the EMS. If SMEs are to pursue EMS it is likely to be a result of supply chain pressure rather than ideas of financial gain.\n\nThe diffusion of cleaner technologies and self-regulation (i.e. through the use of EMS) has been limited in the SME sector. This is thought to offer a key challenge to policy makers as SMEs lack sufficient network relations. A lack of resources often entails that the firm will only participate in limited network activities for example with only one prominent customer or supplier. This limited network activity limits the scope for transferring information on technological innovations.\n\nMore recently structural problems regarding SME governance have been recognised by the European Union. In June 2008 the ‘Small Business Act’ (SBA) for Europe was adopted. The act seeks to promote a greater range of incentives for SME good practice with the aim of bringing the sector in line with the sustainable development agenda.\n\nPrinciple 9 ‘Turning environmental challenges into opportunities’ is seen as pivotal in steering SMEs onto more environmentally active pathways. In line with this principle several member states have provided energy efficiency funding either through subsidies or encouraging loan conditions as well as varying degrees of cost-free consultancy support to SMEs.\n\nThe SBA review invites member states to use an \"SME test\" to assess whether disproportionate effects will be realised in relation to enterprise size. It has also been recognised that greater regulatory incentives need to be given for SMEs to adopt ISO 14001 or EMAS. The review paper sets out to provide greater networking support to SMEs. It is theorised that by facilitating the use of networks it will be possible for information resources regarding eco-innovations to be transferred across a broader array of firms, including those from the SME sector. The SBA review also recognises that ‘whilst SMEs have some market incentives to optimise their resource use, in many cases the market signals are not easy to identify’ they also state that ‘SMEs face challenges of limited information, time and human and financial resources’. It has been suggested that to overcome these challenges it will be necessary to develop incentives such as financial assistance. It is said that the Enterprise Europe Network will provide incentives for good environmental practice by offering assistance to SMEs marketing products and services resulting from best practice, particularly those adopting low carbon technologies.\n\nAlthough the aims of the SBA for Europe are seen as necessary for catalysing positive change in the environmental business performance of the SME sector it is not legally binding.\n"}
{"id": "13982947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13982947", "title": "Ethical implications in contracts", "text": "Ethical implications in contracts\n\nWhen creating a contract, a negotiator is not only doing so to reach an agreement between two or more parties, but to create an agreement that is durable; whereby parties of the contract are legally bound and committed to its promises (Wade and Honeyman 2005, 7). A legally binding contract is defined as an exchange of promises or an agreement between parties that the law will enforce, and there is an underlying presumption for commercial agreements that parties \"intend\" to be legally bound (Contracts 2007).\n\nIn order to be a legally binding contract, most contracts must contain two elements:\nIn addition, certain contracts are required by state law to be in writing (real estate transactions, for example), while others are not.\n\nWade and Honeyman (2007, 7) describe a ‘durable’ contract as one in which all parties substantially perform without abandonment and without resorting to legal proceedings. With only anecdotal evidence, it is difficult to know what percentages of contracts are in fact breached. It is probable that the statistics vary greatly over differing class, culture, wealth and type of transaction (Wade and Honeyman 2005, 7). The reasons for a breach of contract are also varying, and ethical issues can emerge in some situations.\n\nSome ethical considerations which may become apparent in the durability of contracts are cultural relativism and moral relativism.\n\nGrace and Cohen (2005, 200) describe cultural relativism as the extent to which different societies and cultures have different values and ethical standards in the fields of business and organisational life. Those who embrace cultural relativism believe that all beliefs (religious, ethical, aesthetic, and political) are relative to the individual within a culture. Types of relativism include moral (where ethics depend on the social assembly), situational (where right or wrong is dependent on the situation), and cognitive (where truth itself has no objective standard). The legislative system is having a harder time defining laws with the diminishing set of standards, and our court system is having a harder time interpreting them (Cultural Relativism – Illogical Standard 2006).\n\nMoral relativism views ethical standards, morality, and positions of right or wrong as being culturally based. This therefore subjects these views as being an individual’s choice. While modern society was previously governed by a \"Judeo-Christian\" standard, this view has increasingly been acknowledged as the chief moral philosophy of modern society (Moral Relativism – Neutral Thinking?. 2006). However, these \"Judeo-Christian\" standards continue to be the foundation for civil law, as most people believe that right and wrong are not absolutes, but are determined by the individual.\n\nFollowing are reasons for breaches in contracts and the way in which these ethical considerations may impact upon them. In most of these situations, the law may not agree with moral or cultural relativism and award in favour of what people generally view as being ‘right’ or ‘wrong’. It is therefore imperative that contracts are created to be as durable as possible so parties are unable to find legal ‘loopholes’ and use their power, wealth, ignorance or cultural differences in setting contracts aside. Following these descriptions is a list of ways on which contracts can be made more durable.\n\nIn some cultural groups such as Japan, the creation of a contract symbolises the formation of a working relationship, and not a legally binding agreement. Some groups will regard the contract as being flexible in terms that if any problems or issues arise, the parties will reassess the obligations of the agreement and negotiate ways to preserve the relationship (Honeyman and Wade 2007, 8). However, this is not generally the ‘Western’ view on contracts.\n\nIn relation to the ethical issue of cultural relativism, a business is obliged to operate in a manner acceptable to the host country, both legally and morally (Grace and Cohen 2005, 19). But what if the contract is not necessarily subject to having a ‘host country’? Is it morally wrong for a Western party to hold a Japanese party to the contract when it is known that the Japanese party would not have intended to be legally bound? Or is it unethical or immoral of the Japanese to sign such an agreement, even though they mean well when signing it, knowing the Western party intended to be legally bound by the contract but themselves see the contract as more of a flexible agreement?\n\nHoneyman and Wade (2007) state that differences in cultural expectations can predictably lead to the more economically powerful party attempting to negotiate that all breaches will be dealt with ultimately by courts from their own culture, applying their own cultural and legal rules.\n\nThis then highlights the issue of different legal rules existing in different countries which enable contracts to be set aside. The list of exceptions to finality of contracts varies from one jurisdiction to another, and this is often placed under the label ‘frustration of contracts’.\n\nSome acts cannot legally take place because of a lack of informed consent. This can occur under conditions of pressures of limited time, money, exhaustion and exhortations to settle from lawyers. Another person is generally authorised to give consent if an individual is unable to. These cases sometimes result in a party refusing to comply with the terms of the contract; however, they are rarely successful as a defense to an enforcement action. Judges usually take the view that a client advised by a lawyer is strongly presumed both to have a basic understanding of legal principle, and to have given consent (Informed Consent 2007). This was the case in \"Gerbert and Gerbert\" (1990) FLC 92-137, where a husband settled for 10% of assets against his probable entitlement to 40%, and it was held that there was no miscarriage of justice as the husband acted freely and was advised to seek legal advice. In cases where an individual is provided limited facts, serious ethical issues may arise.\n\nIs it ethical to hold someone to a contract when they clearly had no awareness of exactly what they were signing and committing themselves to, due to ignorance or not? Is it ethical for a lawyer to encourage the signing of a document if they are clearly not fully understanding of the document?\n\nIf the chance of success and money is opportune to a wealthy person, their capacity and willingness can give rise to alleging various legal justifications for breach. A few years of legal expenses may only be a small proportion of their empire, and the resulting attrition and disparate investment in the conflict may eventually encourage other parties to renegotiate the disputed clauses (Honeyman and Wade 2005, 15).\n\nIn terms of moral relativism, most people would agree that it is ethically wrong to use wealth to control a situation and to ‘force’ people into renegotiating clauses in contracts if they are unable to afford the legal bill accompanying a dispute. However, as moral relativism is subject to a one’s own beliefs on what is right and wrong, some may not view using wealth as a means to control as being the wrong thing to do. In situations such as these, the ‘little man’ usually loses out and will ultimately succumb to the power of the other party or parties.\n\nUndue influence is an equitable doctrine that involves one person taking advantage of a position of power over another. The law presumes that in certain classes of relationship there will be a special risk of one party unduly influencing their conduct and motives for contracting (Undue Influence 2007). Because the court can vitiate such a contract if there is a special relationship, when no special relationship exists, the general rule is whether there was a relationship of such trust and confidence that it should give rise to such a presumption.\n\nAn example of such a case is \"Odorizzi v. Bloomfield School District\" CA Ct of App 54 Ca Rpt 533 [1964]. The plaintiff was under contract as a teacher. He was arrested, and the next day he allegedly was pressured by his superiors to sign and deliver his resignation. He was cleared of the criminal charges, and then he sought to be reinstated by the school district. They refused, so he sued to rescind his resignation. He claimed that his resignation should not be enforced because, among other things, he signed it under the \"undue influence\" of his superiors.\n\nWhen a party has placed their confidence and trust in another and this relationship is broken, the view of moral relativism will generally see this situation as being wrong. Undue influence is usually an act of dishonesty and/or deceit in a situation where one party realizes their power over the other and takes advantage of this. Deception and deceit are not viewed as being ethical values inherent in a person.\n\nAs Honeyman and Wade (2005, 15) point out, to increase the chances of ‘performance’ of a contract (and therefore reduce chances of a breach), a party should enhance:\n\n\nGrace, D., and S. Cohen. 2005. Business Ethics. 3rd ed. Melbourne: Oxford University Press.\nHoneyman, C. and Prof. J. H. Wade. 2005. Negotiating Beyond Agreement and Commitment: Why contracts are breached and how to make them more durable (20): 7-17. Bond University. http://www.bond.edu.au/law (accessed October 15, 2007). \nContracts. 2007. \n\nCultural Relativism – Illogical Standard. 2006. http://www.cultural-relativism.com/ (accessed October 15, 2007)\n\nMoral Relativism – Neutral Thinking?. 2006. http://www.moral-relativism.com/ (accessed October 15, 2007)\n"}
{"id": "32419826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32419826", "title": "Forged endorsement", "text": "Forged endorsement\n\nForged endorsement is a legal term used to describe a fraudulent payment. For example, someone may write a cheque with a forged signature. In this case the forged signature makes the endorsement fraudulent. Forging endorsements can be use to prevent the person or legal entity that the payment is made out to from being able to receive its value (such as cashing a cheque).\n\nIf an instrument is endorsed in full, it cannot be endorsed or negotiated except by an endorsement signed by the person to whom or to whose order the instrument is payable. Thus, if such an instrument is negotiated by way of a forged endorsement, the endorsee will not acquire the title even though he be a purchaser for value and in good faith, because the endorsement is nullity. But where the instrument has been endorsed in blank, it can be negotiated by mere delivery and the holder derives his title independent of the forged endorsement and can claim the amount from any of the parties to the instrument.\n\nA bill is endorsed, “payable to X or order”. X endorses it in blank and it comes into the hands of Y, who simply delivers it to A. A would then forge Y's endorsement and transfers it to B. B, as the holder, does not derive his title through the forged endorsement to Y, but through the genuine endorsement of X and can claim payment from any of the parties to the instrument in spite of the intervening forged endorsement.\n"}
{"id": "14856988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14856988", "title": "History of public relations", "text": "History of public relations\n\nMost textbooks date the establishment of the \"Publicity Bureau\" in 1900 as the start of the modern public relations (PR) profession. Of course, there were many early forms of public influence and communications management in history. Basil Clarke is considered the founder of the public relations profession in Britain with his establishment of Editorial Services in 1924. Academic Noel Turnball points out that systematic PR was employed in Britain first by religious evangelicals and Victorian reformers, especially opponents of slavery. In each case the early promoters focused on their particular movement and were not for hire more generally.\n\nPropaganda was used by both sides to rally domestic support and demonize enemies during the First World War. PR activists entered the private sector in the 1920s. Public relations became established first in the US by Ivy Lee or Edward Bernays, then spread internationally. Many American companies with PR departments spread the practice to Europe after 1948 when they created European subsidiaries as a result of the Marshall plan.\n\nThe second half of the twentieth century was the professional development building era of public relations. Trade associations, PR news magazines, international PR agencies, and academic principles for the profession were established. In the early 2000s, press release services began offering social media press releases. The Cluetrain Manifesto, which predicted the impact of social media in 1999, was controversial in its time, but by 2006, the effect of social media and new internet technologies became broadly accepted.\n\nAlthough the term \"public relations\" was not yet developed, academics like James E. Grunig and Scott Cutlip identified early forms of public influence and communications management in ancient civilizations. According to Edward Bernays, one of the pioneers of PR, \"The three main elements of public relations are practically as old as society: informing people, persuading people, or integrating people with people.\" Scott Cutlip said historic events have been defined as PR retrospectively, \"a decision with which many may quarrel.\"\n\nA clay tablet found in ancient Iraq that promoted more advanced agricultural techniques is sometimes considered the first known example of public relations. Babylonian, Egyptian and Persian leaders created pyramids, obelisks and statues to promote their divine right to lead. Additionally, claims of magic or religious authority were used to persuade the public of a king or pharaoh's right to rule.\n\nAncient Greek cities produced sophisticated rhetoric, as analyzed by Isocrates, Plato and Aristotle. In Greece there were advocates for hire called \"sophists\". Plato and others said sophists were dishonest and misled the public, while the book \"Public Relations as Communication Management\" said they were \"largely an ethical lot\" that \"used the principles of persuasive communication.\" In Egypt court advisers consulted pharaohs to speak honestly and scribes documented a pharaoh's deeds. In Rome Julius Caesar wrote the first campaign biography promoting his military successes. He also commissioned newsletters and poems to support his political position. In medieval Europe, craftsmen organized into guilds that managed their collective reputation. In England, Lord Chancellors acted as mediators between rulers and subjects.\n\nPope Urban II's recruitment for the crusades is also sometimes referred to as a public relations effort. Pope Gregory XV founded the term \"propaganda\" when he created \"Congregatio de Propaganda\" (\"congregation for propagating the faith\"), which used trained missionaries to spread Christianity. The term did not carry negative connotations until it was associated with government publicity around World War II. In the early 1200s, the Magna Carta was created as a result of Stephen Langton lobbying English barons to insist King John recognize the authority of the church.\n\nExplorers like Magellan, Columbus and kelvin kasiwulaya and Talent Gonsalo used exaggerated claims of grandeur to entice settlers to come to the New World. For example, in 1598, a desolate swampy area of Virginia was described by Captain Arthur Barlowe as follows: \"The soil is the most plentiful, sweet, fruitful and wholesome of all the world.\" When colonists wrote back to Europe about the hardships of colonizing Virginia, including the death toll caused by conflicts with Indians, pamphlets with anonymous authors were circulated to reassure potential settlers and rebuke criticisms.\n\nThe first newsletter and the first daily newspaper were founded in Germany in 1609 and 1615 respectively. Cardinal Richelieu of France had pamphlets made that supported his policies and attacked his political opposition. The government also created a publicity bureau called Information and Propaganda and a weekly newspaper originally controlled by the French government, The Gazette. In the mid-1600s both sides of the English Civil War conflict used pamphlets to attack or defend the monarchy respectively. Poet John Milton wrote anonymous pamphlets advocating for ideas such as liberalizing divorce, the establishment of a republic and the importance of free speech. A then-anonymous pamphlet in 1738 by Maria Theresa of the Austrian Empire was influential in criticizing the freemasons and advocating for an alliance between the British, Dutch and Austrian governments.\n\nIn 1641, Harvard University sent three preachers to England to raise money for missionary activities among the Indians. To support the fund-raising, the University produced one of the earliest fund-raising brochures, \"New England's First Fruits\". An early version of the press release was used when King's College (now Columbia University), sent out an announcement of its 1758 graduation ceremonies and several newspapers printed the information. Princeton was the first university to make it a routine practice of supplying newspapers with information about activities at the college.\n\nAccording to Noel Turnball, a professor from RMIT University, more systematic forms of PR began as the public started organizing for social and political movements. The Society for Effecting the Abolition of the Slave Trade was established in England in 1787. It published books, posters and hosted public lectures in England advocating against slavery. Industries that relied on slavery attempted to persuade the middle-class that it was necessary and that slaves had humane living conditions. The Slave Trade was abolished in 1807. In the US, the movement to abolish slavery began in 1833 with the establishment of the American Anti-Slavery Society, using tactics adopted from the British abolitionist movement. According to Edward Bernays, the US abolitionist movement used \"every available device of communication, appeal and action,\" such as petitions, pamphlets, political lobbying, local societies, and boycotts. The South responded by defending slavery on the basis of economics, religion and the constitution. In some cases propaganda promoting the abolition of slavery was forbidden in The South and abolitionists were killed or jailed. Public relations also played a role in abolitionist movements in France, Australia and in Europe.\n\nThe Boston Tea Party has been called a \"public relations event\" or pseudo event in that it was a staged event intended to influence the public. Pamphlets such as \"Common Sense\" (1775–76) and \"The American Crisis\" (1776 to 1783) were used to spread anti-British propaganda in the United States, as well as the slogan \"taxation without representation is tyranny.\" After the revolution was won, disagreements broke out regarding the United States Constitution. Supporters of the constitution sent letters now called the Federalist Papers to major news outlets, which helped persuade the public to support the constitution. Exaggerated stories of Davy Crocket and the California Gold Rush were used to persuade the public to fight the war against Mexico and to migrate west in the U.S. respectively.\n\nAuthor Marvin Olasky said public relations in the 1800s was spontaneous and de-centralized. In the 1820s, Americans wanted to disprove the perspective of French aristocrats that the American democracy run by \"the mob\" had \"no sense of history, no sense of gratitude to those who had served it, and no sense of the meaning of 'virtue'\". To combat this perception, French aristocrat Marquis de Lafayette, who helped fund the American Revolution, was invited to a tour of the United States. Each community he visited created a committee to welcome him and promote his visit. In the mid-1800s P. T. Barnum founded the American Museum and the Barnum and Bailey Circus. He became well known for publicizing his circus using manipulative techniques. For example, he announced that his museum would exhibit a 161-year-old woman, who had been Washington's nurse, then produced an elderly woman and a forged birth certificate.\n\nIn the 1860s, the major railway companies building the Transcontinental Railroad (Central Pacific Railroad in Sacramento, California, and the Union Pacific Railroad in New York City) engaged in \"sophisticated and systematic corporate public relations\" in order to raise $125 million needed to construct the 1,776-mile-long railroad. To raise the money, the companies needed to maintain \"an image attractive to potential bond buyers, [and maintain relationships] with members of Congress, the California state legislature, and federal regulators; with workers and potential workers; and with journalists.\"\n\nEarly environmental campaigning groups like the Coal Abatement Society and the Congo Reform Association were formed in the late 1800s. In the late 1800s many of the now-standard practices of media relations, such as conducting interviews and press conferences emerged. Industrial firms began to promote their public image. The German steel and armaments company Krupp created the first corporate press department in 1870 to write articles, brochures and other communications advertising the firm. The first US corporate PR department was established in 1889 by Westinghouse Corporation. \"The first public relations department was created by the inventor and industrialist George Westinghouse in 1889 when he hired two men to publicize his pet project,alternating current (AC) electricity.\" The first appearance of the term \"public relations\" was in the \"1897 Year Book of Railway Literature\".\n\nThe book \"Today's Public Relations: An Introduction\" says that, although experts disagree on public relations' origins, many identify the early 1900s as its beginning as a paid profession. According to Barbara Diggs-Brown, an academic with the American University School of Communication, the PR field anchors its work in historical events in order to improve its perceived validity, but it didn't begin as a professional field until around 1900. Scott Cutlip said, \"we somewhat arbitrarily place the beginnings of the public relations vocation with the establishment of The Publicity Bureau in Boston in mid-1900.\" He explains that the origins of PR cannot be pinpointed to an exact date, because it developed over time through a series of events. Most textbooks on public relations say that it was first developed in the United States, before expanding globally; however, Jacquie L'Etang, an academic from the United Kingdom, said it was developed in the UK and the US simultaneously. Noel Turnball claims it began as a professional field in the 18th and 19th century with British evangelicals and Victorian reformers. According to academic Betteke Van Ruler, PR activities didn't begin in Continental Europe as a professional field until the 1920s.\n\nAccording to academic Stuart Ewen, most PR efforts in the US at the time were \"damage control\". According to Goldman, from around 1903 to 1909 \"many newspapers and virtually all mass-circulation magazines featured detailed, indignant articles describing how some industry fleeced its stockholders, overcharged the public or corrupted politics.\" The public became abruptly more critical of big business. The anti-corporate and pro-reform sentiment of the Progressive Era was reflected in newspapers, which were dramatically increasing in circulation as the cost of paper decreased. Public relations was founded, in part, to defend corporate interests against sensational and hyper-critical news articles. It was also influential in promoting consumerism after the emergence of mass production.\n\n The Publicity Bureau was the first PR agency and was founded by former Boston journalists, including Ivy Lee. Ivy Lee is sometimes called the father of PR and was influential in establishing it as a professional practice. In 1906, Lee published a Declaration of Principles, which said that PR work should be done in the open, should be accurate and cover topics of public interest. According to historian Eric Goldman, the declaration of principles marked the beginning of an emphasis on informing, rather than misleading, the public. Ivy Lee is also credited with developing the modern press release and the \"two-way-street\" philosophy of both listening to and communicating with the public. In 1906, Lee helped facilitate the Pennsylvania Railroad's first positive media coverage after inviting press to the scene of a railroad accident, despite objections from executives. At the time, secrecy about corporate operations was common practice. Lee's work was often identified as spin or propaganda. In 1913 and 1914, the mining union was blaming the Ludlow Massacre, where on-strike miners and their families were killed by state militia, on the Rockefeller family and their coal mining operation, The Colorado Fuel and Iron Company. On the Rockefeller family's behalf, Lee published bulletins called \"Facts Concerning the Struggle in Colorado for Industrial Freedom,\" which contained false and misleading information. Lee warned that the Rockefellers were losing public support and developed a strategy that Junior followed to repair it. It was necessary for Junior to overcome his shyness, go personally to Colorado to meet with the miners and their families, inspect the conditions of the homes and the factories, attend social events, and especially to listen closely to the grievances. This was novel advice, and attracted widespread media attention, which opened the way to resolve the conflict, and present a more humanized versions of the Rockefellers. In response the labor press said Lee \"twisted the facts\" and called him a \"paid liar,\" a \"hired slanderer,\" and a \"poisoner of public opinion.\" By 1917, Bethlehem Steel company announced it would start a publicity campaign against perceived errors about them. The Y.M.C.A. opened a new press secretary. AT&T and others also started their first publicity programs.\n\nEdward Bernays, a nephew of Sigmund Freud, is also sometimes referred to as the father of PR and the profession's first theorist for his work in the 1920s. He took the approach that audiences had to be carefully understood and persuaded to see things from the client's perspective. He wrote the first textbook on PR and taught the first college course at New York University in 1923. Bernays also first introduced the practice of using front groups in order to protect tobacco interests. In the 1930s he started the first vocational course in PR. Bernays was influenced by Freud's theories about the subconscious. He authored several books, including \"Crystallizing Public Opinion\" (1923), \"Propaganda\" (1928), and The Engineering of Consent (1947). He saw PR as an \"applied social science\" that uses insights from psychology, sociology, and other disciplines to scientifically manage and manipulate the thinking and behavior of an irrational and \"herdlike\" public.\n\nIn 1929, Edward Bernays helped the Lucky Strike cigarette brand increase its sales among the female demographic. Research showed that women were reluctant to carry a pack of Lucky Strike cigarettes, because the brand's green color scheme clashed with popular fashion choices. Bernays persuaded fashion designers, charity events, interior designers and others to popularize the color green. He also positioned cigarettes as Torches of Freedom that represent rebellion against the norms of a male-dominated society.\n\nAccording to Ruth Edgett from Syracuse University, Lee and Bernays both had \"initial and spectacular successes in raising PR from the art of the snake oil salesman to the calling for a true communicator.\" However, \"late in their careers, both Lee and Bernays took on clients with clearly reprehensible values, thus exposing themselves and their work to public criticism.\" Walter Lippmann was also a contributor to early PR theory, for his work on the books \"Public Opinion\" (1922) and \"The Phantom Public\" (1925). He coined the term \"manufacture of consent,\" which is based on the idea that the public's consent must be coaxed by experts to support a democratic society.\n\nFormer journalist Basil Clarke is considered the founder of PR in the UK. He founded the UK's first PR agency, Editorial Services, in 1924. He also authored the world's first code of ethics for the field in 1929. Clarke wrote that PR, \"must look true and it must look complete and candid or its 'credit' is gone\". He suggested that the selection of which facts are disseminated by PR campaigns could be used to persuade the public. The longest established UK PR agency is Richmond Towers, founded by Suzanne Richmond and Marjorie Towers in 1930.\n\nArthur W. Page is sometimes considered to be the father of \"corporate public relations\" for his work with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T) from 1927 to 1946. The company was experiencing resistance from the public to its monopolization efforts. In the early 1900s, AT&T had assessed that 90 percent of its press coverage was negative, which was reduced to 60 percent by changing its business practices and disseminating information to the press. According to business historian John Brooks, Page positioned the company as a public utility and increased the public's appreciation for the its contributions to society. On the other hand, Stuart Ewen writes that AT&T used its advertising dollars with newspapers to manipulate its coverage and had their PR team write feature stories imitating independent journalism.\n\n Edward Clarke and Bessie Tyler were influential in growing the Ku Klux Clan to four million members over three years using publicity techniques in the early 1920s. In 1926 the Empire Marketing Board was formed by the British government in part to encourage a preference for goods produced in Britain. It folded in 1933 due to government cuts. In 1932, a pamphlet \"The Projection of England\" advocated for the importance of England managing its reputation domestically and abroad. The Ministry of Information was established in the UK in 1937.\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson were the first Presidents to emphasize the use of publicity. In the 1930s Roosevelt used the media to promote The New Deal and to blame corporations for the country's economic problems. This led companies to recruit their own publicists to defend themselves. Roosevelt's anti-trust efforts led corporations to attempt to persuade the public and lawmakers \"that bigger [corporations] was not necessarily more evil.\" Wilson used the media to promote his government reform program, The New Freedom. He formed the Committee on Public Information.\n\nIn the 1930s, the National Association of Manufacturers was one of the first to create a major campaign promoting capitalism and pro-business viewpoints. It lobbied against unions, The New Deal and the 8-hour work-day. NAM tried mostly unsuccessfully to convince the public that the interests of the public were aligned with corporate interests and to create an association between commerce and democratic principles. During the Second World War, Coca-Cola promised that \"every man in uniform gets a bottle of Coca-Cola for five cents, wherever he is and whatever it costs the company.\" The company persuaded politicians that it was crucial to the war-effort and was exempted from sugar rationing. During the European Recovery Program PR became more established in Europe as US-based companies with PR departments created European subsidiaries.\n\nIn 1938, amid concerns regarding dropping diamond prices and sales volume, De Beers and its advertising agency N.W. Ayers adopted a strategy to \"strengthen the association in the public's mind of diamonds with romance,\" whereas \"the larger and finer the diamond, the greater the expression of love.\" This became known as one of America's \"lexicon of great campaigns\" for successfully persuading the public to purchase expensive luxury items during a time of financial stress through psychological manipulation. It also led to the development of the slogan \"A diamond is forever\" in 1947 and was influential in how diamonds were marketed thereafter. After World War I the first signs of public relations as a profession began in France and became more established through the Marshall Plan.\n\nThe first organized, large-scale propaganda campaigns were during World War I. Germany created the German Information Bureau to create pamphlets, books and other communications that were intended to support the justness of their cause, to encourage voluntary recruitment, to demonize the enemy and persuade America to remain neutral in the conflict. In response to learning about Germany's propaganda, the British created a war propaganda agency called the Wellington House in September 1914. Atrocity stories, both real and alleged, were used to incite hatred for the enemy, especially after the \"Rape of Belgium\" in 1915. France created a propaganda agency in 1914. Publicity in Australia led to a lift in the government's ban on military drafts. Austria-Hungary used propaganda tactics to attack the credibility of Italy's leadership and its motives for war. Italy in-turn created the Padua Commission in 1918, which led Allied propaganda against Austria-Hungary.\n\nOne week after the United States declared war on Germany in 1917, US President Woodrow Wilson established the US propaganda agency, the Committee on Public Information (Creel Commission), as an alternative to demands for media censorship by the US army and navy. The CPI spread positive messages to present an upbeat image about the war and denied fraudulent atrocities made up to incite anger for the enemy. The CPI recruited about 75,000 \"Four Minute Men,\" volunteers who spoke about the war at social events for four minutes.\n\nAs a result of World War I propaganda, there was a shift in PR theory from a focus on factual argumentation to one of emotional appeals and the psychology of the crowd. The term \"propaganda\" which was originally associated with religion and the church, became a more widely known concept.\n\nPropaganda did not develop a negative connotation until it was used in Nazi propaganda for World War II. Even though Germany's World War I propaganda was considered more advanced than that of other nations, Adolf Hitler said that propaganda had been under-utilized and claimed that superior British propaganda was the main reason for losing the war. Nazi Germany created the Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda in March 1933, just after Nazis took power. The Nazi party took editorial control over newspapers, created their own news organizations and established Nazi-controlled news organizations in conquered regions. The Nazi party used posters, films, books and public speakers among other tactics.\n\nAccording to historian Zbyněk Zeman, broadcasting became the most important medium for propaganda throughout the war. Posters were also used domestically and leaflets were dropped behind enemy lines by air-ship. In regions conquered by Germany, citizens could be punished by death for listening to foreign broadcasts. Britain had four organizations involved in propaganda and was methodical about understanding its audiences in different countries. US propaganda focused on fighting for freedom and the connection between war efforts and industrial production. Soviet posters also focused on industrial production.\n\nIn countries where citizens are subordinate to the government, aggressive propaganda campaigns continued during peace-time, while liberal democratic nations primarily use propaganda techniques to support war efforts.\n\nAccording to historian Eric Goldman, by the 1940s public relations was being taught at universities and was a professional occupation relied on in a similar way as lawyers and doctors. However, it failed to obtain complete recognition as a profession due in part to a history of deceit. Author Marvin Olasky said in 1987 that the reputation of the profession was getting worse, while Robert L. Heath from the University of Houston said in 1991 that it was progressing toward \"true professional status.\" Academic J. A. R. Pimlott said it had achieved \"quasi-professionalism.\" Heath said despite the field's newfound professionalism and ethics, its reputation was still effected by a history of exploitive behavior.\n\nThe number of media outlets increased and PR talent from wartime propaganda entered the private sector. The practice of public relations became ubiquitous to reach political, activist and corporate objectives. The development of the press into a more real-time media also led to heightened scrutiny of public relations activities and those they represent. For example, Richard Nixon was criticized for \"doubletalk\" and \"stonewalling\" in his PR office's responses to the Watergate scandal.\n\nTrade associations were formed first in the U.S. in 1947 with the Public Relations Society of America (PRSA), followed by the Institute of Public Relations (now the Chartered Institute of Public Relations) in London in 1948. Similar trade associations were created in Australia, Europe, South Africa, Italy and Singapore. The International Association of Public Relations was founded in 1955. The Institute for Public Relations held its first conference in 1949 and that same year the first British book on PR, \"Public Relations and publicity\" was published by J.H. Brebner. The International Association of Business Communicators was founded in 1970. Betsy Ann Plank is called \"the first lady of public relations\" for becoming the first female president of the PRSA in 1973.\n\nTwo of today's largest PR firms, Edelman and Burson-Marsteller, were founded in 1952 and 1953 respectively. Daniel Edelman created the first media tour in the 1950s by touring the country with \"the Toni Twins,\" where one had used a professional salon and the other had used Toni's home-care products. It was also during this period that trade magazines like \"PR Week\", \"Ragans\" and \"PRNews\" were founded. John Hill, founder of Hill & Knowlton, is known as the first international PR pioneer. Hill & Knowlton was the first major U.S. firm to create a strong international network in the 1960s and 1970s. Both Edelman and Burson-Marsteller followed Hill & Knowlton by establishing operations in London in the 1960s and all three began competing internationally in Asia, Europe and other regions. Jacques Coup de Frejac was influential in persuading U.S. and UK companies to also extend their PR efforts into the French market and for convincing French businesses to engage in PR activities. In the early 2000s, PR in Latin America began developing at a pace \"on par with industrialized nations.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Global Public Relations Handbook\", public relations evolved from a series of \"press agents or publicists\" to a manner of theory and practice in the 1980s. Research was published in academic journals like \"Public Relations Review\" and the \"Journal of Public Relations Research\". This led to an industry consensus to categorize PR work into a four-step process: research, planning, communication and action.\n\nDuring the 1990s specialties for communicating to certain audiences and within certain market segments emerged, such as investor relations or technology PR. New internet technology and social media websites effected PR strategies and tactics. In April 1999, four managers from IBM, Sun Microsystems, National Public Radio and Linux Journal created \"The Cluetrain Manifesto.\" The Manifesto established 95 theses about the way social media and internet technologies were going to change business. It concluded that markets had become \"smarter and faster than most companies,\" because stakeholders were getting information from each other. The Manifesto \"created a storm\" with strong detractors and supporters. That same year, Seth Godin published a book on permission marketing, which advocated against advertising and in favor of marketing that is useful and educational. While initially controversial, by 2006 it became commonly accepted that social media had an important role in public relations.\n\nPress releases, which were mostly unchanged for more than a century, began to integrate digital features. BusinessWire introduced the \"Smart News Release,\" which incorporated audio, video and images, in 1997. This was followed by the MultiVu multimedia release from PRNewswire in 2001. The Social Media Release was created by Todd Defren from Shift Communications in 2006 in response to a blog written by journalist and blogger Tom Foremski titled \"Die! Press release! Die! Die! Die!\" Incorporating digital and social features became a norm among wire services, and companies started routinely making company announcements on their corporate blog.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", corporate communications shifted from a monologue to two-way conversational communications and new media also made it \"easier for consumers to learn about the mix-ups and blunders\" of PR. For example, after the \"Deepwater Horizon\" oil spill, BP tried to deflect blame to other parties, claim the spill was not as significant as it was and focused on the science, while human interest stories related to the damage were emerging. In 2011, Facebook tried to covertly spread privacy concerns about competitor Google's Social Circles. Chapstick created a communications crisis after allegedly, repeatedly deleting negative comments on its Facebook page. During the Iraq War, it was exposed that the US created false radio personalities to spread pro-American information and paid Iraqi newspapers to write articles written by American troops.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45445", "title": "Imperfect competition", "text": "Imperfect competition\n\nIn economic theory, imperfect competition is a type of market structure showing some but not all features of competitive markets.\n\nForms of imperfect competition include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45462258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45462258", "title": "List of World Branding Awards winners", "text": "List of World Branding Awards winners\n\nThe List of World Branding Awards winners provide details of the winners of the World Branding Awards, an international award presented to some of the best global and national brands for their work and achievements in branding. The awards are organised by the World Branding Forum, a registered global non-profit organisation based in London.\n\nThe first awards ceremony was held at One Whitehall Place at the Royal Horseguards Hotel in London on October 26, 2014. The event was hosted by David Croft from Sky Sports.\n\nSixty nine brands from 25 countries won an award. Each brand is named \"Brand of the Year\" in their respective categories. The \"Brand of the Year\" logo is a registered trademark. The awards gave special recognition to Tony Fernandes, Group CEO of AirAsia and Chairman of Queens Park Rangers F.C., naming him \"Brand Builder of the Year\" for his outstanding work in building the airline brand.\n\nThe second part of the 2014-2015 awards, took place at the in France on 24 March 2015. The Paris ceremony had an emphasis on food, beverage, luxury, fashion, lifestyle, hospitality, and service brands. Fifty brands from 22 countries were awarded at this ceremony.\n\nIn 2015, 118 brands from 30 countries were honoured with an award. The ceremony took place at Kensington Palace in London. The event was hosted by Olivia Wayne from Sky Sports.\n\nIn 2016, over 120,000 consumers from around the world voted for more than 2,800 brands from 35 countries. 210 brands from 30 countries were declared winners. The ceremony was held again in London's Kensington Palace. Guests included the United Arab Emirates Ambassador to the United Kingdom, Sulaiman Almazroui, and the Philippines Ambassador, Evan Garcia. The event was hosted by David Croft.\n\nIn 2017, over 3,000 brands from 35 countries were nominated, and more than 135,000 consumers from around the world participated during the voting period. 245 Brands from 32 countries were awarded.\n\nIn 2018, the Americas Edition of the awards saw over 80,000 consumers vote for more than 1,500 brands from 22 countries from Americas and the Caribbean. There were 81 brands from 16 countries awarded.\n\nThe awards trophy is made in England, and is on display at the Museum of Brands, Packaging & Advertising in London. In 2016, a newly designed 24 karat gold plated trophy was introduced for all winners. This new design is a solid trophy which highlights the \"Brand of the Year\" registered trademark logo.\n\nThe 2018 Americas Edition of the awards was held at The Plaza on Fifth Avenue in New York City.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2017 awards took place at Kensington Palace in London.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2016 awards took place at Kensington Palace in London.\n\nThe awards ceremony for the 2015 awards took place at the State Apartments of Kensington Palace in London.\n\nWinners of the World Branding Awards, presented in London and Paris.\n\nThe Animalis Edition of the World Branding awards focuses on pet and animal brands. The awards ceremony for 2017 took place at the Hofburg Palace in Vienna.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1690376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1690376", "title": "List of legal entity types by country", "text": "List of legal entity types by country\n\nA business entity is an entity that is formed and administered as per corporate law in order to engage in business activities, charitable work, or other activities allowable. Most often, business entities are formed to sell a product or a service. There are many types of business entities defined in the legal systems of various countries. These include corporations, cooperatives, partnerships, sole traders, limited liability companies and other specifically permitted and labelled types of entities. The specific rules vary by country and by state or province. Some of these types are listed below, by country. For guidance, approximate equivalents in the company law of English-speaking countries are given in most cases, for example:\n\nHowever, the regulations governing particular types of entities, even those described as roughly equivalent, differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. When creating or restructuring a business, the legal responsibilities will depend on the type of business entity chosen.\n\n\n\n\n\nDutch, French or German names may be used.\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main types of business entity in Brunei, namely sole proprietorship, partnership and company.\n\nA private company contains the term \"Sendirian Berhad\" or \"Sdn. Bhd.\" as part of its name where as for a public company \"Berhad\" or \"Bhd.\" is used.\n\n\n\nIn Canada entities can be incorporated under either federal or provincial (or territorial) law. Unlimited liability corporations can be formed in Alberta \"AULC\" and Nova Scotia \"NSULC\".\n\nThe word or expression \"Limited\", \"Limitée\", \"Incorporated\", \"Incorporée\", \"Corporation\" or \"Société par actions de régime fédéral\" or the corresponding abbreviation \"Ltd.\", \"Ltée\", \"Inc.\", \"Corp.\" or \"S.A.R.F.\" forms part of the name of every entity incorporated under the Canada Business Corporations Act (R.S., 1985, c. C-44). ≈ Ltd. or Plc (UK)\n\nAs an exception, entities registered prior to 1985 may continue to be designated \"Société commerciale canadienne\" or by the abbreviation \"S.C.C.\"\n\nUnder the Canada Cooperatives Act (1998, c. 1), a co-operative must have the word \"cooperative\", \"co-operative\", \"coop\", \"co-op\", \"coopérative\", \"united\" or \"pool\", or another grammatical form of any of those words, as part of its name.\n\nUnlike in many other Western countries, Canadian businesses generally only have one form of incorporation available. The aforementioned AULC and NSULC are generally not used as operating business structures, but are instead used to create favorable tax positions for either Americans investing in Canada or vice versa.\n\nRather, Canadian businesses are generally formed under one of the following structures:\n\n\n\n\n\nTypes of legal person business entities:\n\n\nTypes of natural person business entities:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn SE or SCE may be created by registration in any of the EU/EEA Member States, and is subject to the European Company Statute. It may relocate its registered office to any other EU/EEA Member State with minimal formalities.\n\n\nThe abbreviations are usually in Finnish, but Swedish names may also be used either as is or in combination with Finnish, e.g. \"Oy Yritys Ab\".\n\nIn the corporations of real estate law, the ownership or membership may be vested either in the real property or in a legal or natural person, depending on the corporation type. In many cases, the membership or ownership of such corporation is obligatory for a person or property that fulfils the legal requirements for membership or wishes to engage in certain activities.\n\nIn addition to native types, European Union types are implemented:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Hungary, business entities are mainly regulated by the Companies Act of 2006, the Companies Registration Act of 2006 and the new Civil Code of 2013. All companies are required to indicate their type in their name.\n\n\n\n\nSituation in Ireland is similar to United Kingdom below, though without the class \"Community Interest Company\". There were two forms of Company Limited by Guarantee, but only the form \"without a share capital\" is now used. Irish names may also be used, such as \"cpt\" (cuideachta phoibli theoranta) for plc, and \"Teo\" (Teoranta) for Ltd.\n\n\n\nBusiness corporations are referred to as \"kaisha\" (会社) and are formed under the Companies Act of 2005. There are currently (2015) 4 types and each of them has legal personality:\nPartnerships are referred to as \"kumiai\" (組合). Each of these 4 types has no legal personality though other corporations, which include \"kumiai\" in their name, have:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: Any of these entities can be incorporated as a \"Capital Variable\" entity, in which case has to add the \" de C.V.\" sufix to its company name. Example: \"S.A. de C.V.\", \"S. de R.L. de C.V.\"\n\n\n\none of above mentioned form (Preduzetnik; O.D.; K.D.; A.D.; D.O.O.), as such it is registered in the Central Register of Companies. This form is a little bit specific and was created for companies that are domiciled registered in other countries and have its part in Montenegro.\n\n\n\n\n\nCompanies are registered on the Companies Register and with a regional Chamber of Commerce.\n\n\nThe Commercial Code establishes the following types of companies:\n\n\n\n\nThere are three main forms of business:\n\n(a) Sole Proprietorship\n(b) Partnership\n(c) Company\n\n\nIn a sole proprietorship, an individual on his/her own account carries out the business or profession. No formal procedure or formality is required for setting up a sole proprietary concern.\n\n\nA partnership is a business relationship entered into by a formal agreement between two or more persons or corporations carrying on a business in common. The capital for a partnership is provided by the partners who are liable for the total debts of the firms and who share the profits and losses of the business concern according to the terms of the partnership agreement.\n\nPartnerships (other than banking companies) are generally limited in size to twenty partners. The interest of a partner is transferable only with the prior consent of the other partner(s). However, a partner's right to a share of the partnership income may be received in trust for another person.\n\nFor taxation purposes, partnerships are classified into:\n\n(i) Registered Firms\n(ii) Unregistered Firms\n\nThe income of the registered firm is subject to Super Tax before distribution to the partners. Also the individual income of the partners is subject to income tax at the usual rates.\n\nFor unregistered firms, income tax is levied on the firm's income and the partners are not liable to pay tax on the shares of profit received from the unregistered firm(s).\n\n\nA company is a legal entity formed under the Companies Ordinance, 1984. It can have share capital or can be formed without share capital.\n\nA company having share capital may be formed as:\n\n(i) A company limited by shares.\n(ii) A company limited by guarantee.\n(iii) An unlimited company.\n\n\nThe liability of its members is limited to the extent of their shares in the paid-up capital of the company. These companies may further be classified as public limited and private limited companies.\n\n\n(i) Restricts the right to transfer its shares;\n(ii) Limits the number of its members to fifty; and;\n(iii) Prohibits any invitation to the public to subscribe for shares or debentures of the company.\n\nA private limited company is required to use the words \"(Private) Limited\" as the last words of its name.\n\n\nMeans a company having the liability of its members limited by memorandum to such amounts as the members may respectively undertake to contribute to the capital of the company in the event of its winding up. A company limited by guarantee is usually formed on a 'non profit basis'. Companies limited by guarantee use the words (Guarantee) Limited\" as the last words of their n\nUnlimited Company\n\nMeans a company having unlimited liability of its members\n\nhttps://www.secp.gov.pk\n\n\n\nOlder forms (now rarely used)\n\n\n\n\"Societăți comerciale\", abbreviated SC (Companies):\n\nlimited liability company \"societate cu raspundere limitata\" (SRL);\njoint stock company \"societate pe actiuni\" (SA);\n\n\n\n\nPrivate Limited Company, Sole Proprietorship and Partnership are the predominant types of business found in Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Code of Obligations (fifth book of Civil Code) (Act No: 6098)\n\nAccording to the Commercial Code (Act No: 6102)\n\nŞahıs şirketleri ≈ Partnerships (Unlike the partnerships in Anglo-American law, they also have legal personality like companies)\n\nSermaye şirketleri ≈ Companies\n\nAccording to the Capital Markets Act (Act No: 6362)\n\nAccording to the Cooperatives Act (Act No: 1136)\n\nOther entitites:\n\n\n\nCompany formation is regulated by the Ukrainian Civil Code and Commercial Code, Law of Commercial companies, Law of stock companies, law and order.\n\n\nIn the United States, the individual states incorporate most businesses. Very few special types are incorporated by the federal government.\n\nFor federal tax purposes, the Internal Revenue Service has separate entity classification rules. Under the tax rules, an entity may be classified as a corporation, a partnership, a Cooperative or a disregarded entity. A corporation may be taxed as either a C corporation or elect to be treated as a Subchapter S corporation. A disregarded entity has one owner (or a married couple as owner) that is not recognized for tax purposes as an entity separate from its owner. Types of disregarded entities include single-member LLCs; qualified sub-chapter S subsidiaries and qualified real estate investment trust subsidiaries. A disregarded entity's transparent tax status does not affect its status under state law. For example, for federal tax purposes, a sole-member LLC (SMLLC) is disregarded, so that all its assets and liabilities are treated as owned by its single member. But under state law, an SMLLC can contract in its own name and its owner is generally not personally liable for the debts and obligations of the entity. To be recognized as a Cooperative for tax purposes Cooperatives must follow certain rules under Sub Chapter T of the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nThe key word for a bank is \"national\". A bank chartered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) must have the word \"national\" in its name. A bank chartered by a state cannot have \"national\" in its name.\n\nFor a savings bank (formerly called a savings and loan association) or credit union, the key word is \"federal\", and the same rules apply; a federally chartered savings bank or credit union must have the word \"federal\" in its name, while a state chartered savings bank or credit union cannot have \"federal\" in its name.\n\n\nMany federal governmental units are specially formed public corporations, while some private organizations have received a charter from Congress.\n\nThe following are the main business designations and types:\n\n\n\n\nRequired designations for corporations, by U.S. state, territory or commonwealth:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1670481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1670481", "title": "Managed services", "text": "Managed services\n\nManaged services is the practice of outsourcing on a proactive basis certain processes and functions intended to improve operations and cut expenses. It is an alternative to the break/fix or on-demand outsourcing model where the service provider performs on-demand services and bills the customer only for the work done.\n\nUnder this subscription model, the client or customer is the entity that owns or has direct oversight of the organization or system being managed whereas the Managed Services Provider (MSP) is the service provider delivering the managed services. The client and the MSP are bound by a contractual, service-level agreement that states the performance and quality metrics of their relationship.\n\nAdopting managed services is intended to be an efficient way to stay up-to-date on technology, have access to skills and address issues related to cost, quality of service and risk. As the IT infrastructure components of many SMB and large corporations are migrating to the cloud, with MSPs (managed services providers) increasingly facing the challenge of cloud computing, a number of MSPs are providing in-house cloud services or acting as brokers with cloud services providers. A recent survey claims that a lack of knowledge and expertise in cloud computing rather than offerors' reluctance, appears to be the main obstacle to this transition. For example, in transportation, many companies face a significant increase of fuel and carrier costs, driver shortages, customer service requests and global supply chain complexities. Managing day-to-day transportation processes and reducing related costs come as significant burdens that require the expertise of Transportation Managed Services (or managed transportation services) providers.\n\nThe evolution of MSP started in the 1990s with the emergence of application service providers (ASPs) who helped pave the way for remote support for IT infrastructure. From the initial focus of remote monitoring and management of servers and networks, the scope of an MSP's services expanded to include mobile device management, managed security, remote firewall administration and security-as-a-service, and managed print services. Around 2005, Karl W. Palachuk, Amy Luby (Founder of Managed Service Provider Services Network acquired by High Street Technology Ventures), and Erick Simpson (Managed Services Provider University) were the first advocates and the pioneers of the managed services business model.\n\nThe first books on the topic of managed services: \"Service Agreements for SMB Consultants: A Quick-Start Guide to Managed Services\" and \"The Guide to a Successful Managed Services Practice\" were published in 2006 by Palachuk and Simpson, respectively. Since then, the managed services business model has gained ground among enterprise level companies. As the value-added reseller (VAR) community evolved to higher level of services, it adapted the managed service model and tailored it to SMB companies.\n\nIn the new economy, IT manufacturers are currently moving away from a \"box-shifting\" resale to a more customized, managed service offering. In this transition, the billing and sales processes of intangible managed services, appear as the main challenges for traditional resellers.\n\nThe managed services market is expected to grow from an estimated $152.45 billion in 2017 to $257.84 billion by 2022, representing a CAGR of 11.1%. With IT driving all business operations, the significance of aligning managed IT services with all levels in an organization has grown to ensure reliability and continuity of business goals.\n\nIn the information technology area, the most common managed services appear to evolve around connectivity and bandwidth, network monitoring, security, virtualization, and disaster recovery. Beyond traditional application and infrastructure management, managed services may also include storage, desktop and communications, mobility, help desk and technical support. In general, common managed services include the following applications.\n\nA managed services provider (MSP) is most often an information technology (IT) services provider that manages and assumes responsibility for providing a defined set of services to its clients either proactively or as the MSP (not the client) determines that services are needed. Most MSPs bill an upfront setup or transition fee and an ongoing flat or near-fixed monthly fee, which benefits clients by providing them with predictable IT support costs. Sometimes, MSPs act as facilitators who manage and procure staffing services on behalf of the client. In such context, they use an online application called vendor management system (VMS) for transparency and efficiency.\n\nThe managed services model has been useful in the private sector, notably among Fortune 500 companies, and has an interesting future in government.\n\nMain manage services provides originate from the United States (IBM, Accenture, Cognizant), Europe (Atos, Capgemini) and India (TCS, Infosys, Wipro).\n\n"}
{"id": "33411308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33411308", "title": "Manfest", "text": "Manfest\n\nManfest is the annual management festival organized by Indian Institute of Management Lucknow in the third week of January every year. The three day festival is the biggest B-school festival in Asia, facilitating interaction among B-school students, faculty and corporates. The festival hosts various management competitions, paper presentations, quizzes, debates, case study analysis and interactive industry-student sessions.\n\nStarted in the year 1988 as an inter-IIM debate and quiz competition, Manfest has grown into a major business festival attracting international participants. In 2007, Manfest obtained ISO 9001:2000 certification in event management. Every year, the festival is associated with a theme with the competitions and activities in Manfest designed according to the theme. Some of the themes were 'Corporate Social Responsibility'(2005), 'Sustainable Development: Fuelling the Future'(2009). The 25th edition of Manfest was organized in 2012 with the theme 'Innovate, Implement and Inspire: Build a Legacy'.\n\nThe Flagship events of the festival include 'The Next CEO', 'Call for Arms', 'Biz Quiz' and 'Zeus'. The Winners of the competitions were rewarded with placement offers from Tata Administrative Services, Mahindra and Mahindra, Colgate-Palmolive, Accenture, L&T among others. The Biz Quiz(Business Quiz) is conducted professionally by renowned quiz masters. The quizzing event is conducted for B-school students as well as corporate participants. The festival also organizes different management workshops by leading industry professionals in the fields like finance, communications, etc. Many business oriented simulation games are conducted including 'C-Trader', the carbon credit trading competition. The 'Biz-Theatre' is a case competition where different companies present cases based on real facts and participants provide solutions to the companies. 'Treatise', started in 2007, is an online debate competition open for undergraduates, post graduates as well as corporates.\n\nCSR based events\n\nMany Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) events are organized in collaboration with various NGOs and companies. 'Dayitva', an online simulation game where participants adopt a village and identify the problems in it. Prerna Social Entrepreneurship Awards are given to entrepreneurs working on socially relevant issues. These awards are initiated in 2009. The Lucknow City Run was started in 2009 to raise awareness for a certain social issue each year. Each year, Lucknow City Run sees thousands of Lucknow residents run for causes such as AIDS Awareness (2010) and Sustainable Living (2011). The event Yajna, started in 2011, is conducted in association with NGOs and corporates. It provides B-school students social entrepreneurship projects to solve. The projects are based in many cities of India.\n\nLeaders Express includes various talks, conclaves, luncheons, webinars, seminars and panel discussions. In the past, these events have been visited by J.J.Irani, Dilip Chhabria, Rahul Bose, Mallika Sarabhai, Mahesh Bhatt and S.Ramadorai.\n\nBusiness Conclaves\n\nThere are 2 business conclaves held during Manfest. Business leaders from a specific field discuss sector-specific issues. The conclaves at Manfest 2011 were Srujan - The Creative Arts & Media Conclave, and Arthashaastra - The Finance Leadership Summit.\n\nAnjuman\n\nThis is a corporate luncheon, held in partnership with the Industry Interaction Cell of IIM Lucknow, for faculty, business heads, young corporates and students. Key-note speakers present particular topics after which the audience interact with the leaders.\n\nAn annual business publication named 'Gravitas' is released during Manfest. It is a collection of essays by leaders, industrialists, economists and policy makers with leaders like Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Vikram Pandit, R K Pachauri having written exclusively for Gravitas.\n\nThere are three cultural events spread across the three days of Manfest.\n\nCultural Nite\n\nBollywood Nite\n\nInternational Rock Nite\n\nManfest is organized by the Manfest Core Committee that is selected from within the student body of IIM Lucknow.\n\n"}
{"id": "8837930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837930", "title": "Market analysis", "text": "Market analysis\n\nA market analysis studies the attractiveness and the dynamics of a special market within a special industry. It is part of the industry analysis and thus in turn of the global environmental analysis. Through all of these analyses, the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats (SWOT) of a company can be identified. Finally, with the help of a SWOT analysis, adequate business strategies of a company will be defined. The market analysis is also known as a documented investigation of a market that is used to inform a firm's planning activities, particularly around decisions of inventory, purchase, work force expansion/contraction, facility expansion, purchases of capital equipment, promotional activities, and many other aspects of a company.\n\nMarket segmentation is the basis for a differentiated market analysis. Differentiation is important. One main reason is the saturation of consumption, which exists due to the increasing competition in offered products. Consumers ask for more individual products and services and are better informed about the range of products than before. As a consequence, market segmentation is necessary. Segmentation includes a lot of market research, since a lot of market knowledge is required to segment the market. Market research about market structures and processes must be done to define the “relevant market”. The relevant market is an integral part of the whole market, on which the company focuses its activities. To identify and classify the relevant market, a market classification or segmentation has to be done.\n\nMarket segmentation is an important way to find competitive advantage with its differentiation in market analysis. Market segmentation concentrates on market energy and power to gain competitive advantage. In other words, market segmentation is the concept tool to get the force (Thomas, 2007). In market analysis, market knowledge is required to analyze market structure and process. Since segmentation requires a lot of market research, various information can be extracted from it. Market segmentation can identify customer needs and wants and develop products to their satisfaction. Market segmentation can identify different products for different groups, better match customer wants and product benefits, maximize the use of available resources and focus marketing expenditures and competitive advantages (Karlsson,2012).\n\nThere is no specific way to segment market. However, businesses can follow generalized rules like geographic, demographic, psychographic, and behavioral. A good market segmentation should be sustainable, accessible, actionable, measurable, and differentiable (Karlsson,2012).\n\nDavid A. Aaker outlined the following dimensions of a market analysis:\n\n\nMarket analysis strives to determine the attractiveness of a market, currently and in the future. Organizations evaluate future attractiveness of a market by understanding evolving opportunities, and threats as they relate to that organization's own strengths and weaknesses.\n\nOrganizations use these findings to guide the investment decisions they make to advance their success. The findings of a market analysis may motivate an organization to change various aspects of its investment strategy. Affected areas may include inventory levels, a work force expansion/contraction, facility expansion, purchases of capital equipment, and promotional activities.\n\nThe market size is defined through the market volume and the market potential. The market volume exhibits the totality of all realized sales volume of a special market. The volume is therefore dependent on the quantity of consumers and their ordinary demand. Furthermore, the market volume is either measured in quantities or qualities. The quantities can be given in technical terms, like GW for power capacities, or in numbers of items. Qualitative measuring mostly uses the sales turnover as an indicator. That means that the market price and the quantity are taken into account. Besides the market volume, the market potential is of equal importance. It defines the upper limit of the total demand and takes potential clients into consideration. Although the market potential is rather fictitious, it offers good values of orientation. The relation of market volume to market potential provides information about the chances of market growth.\nThe following are examples of information sources for determining market size:\n\n\nMarket trends are the upward or downward movement of a market, during a period of time. The market size is more difficult to estimate if one is starting with something completely new. In this case, you will have to derive the figures from the number of potential customers, or customer segments.\n\nBesides information about the target market, one also needs information about one's competitors, customers, products, etc. Lastly, you need to measure marketing effectiveness. A few techniques are:\n\n\nChanges in the market are important because they often are the source of new opportunities and threats. Moreover, they have the potential to dramatically affect the market size.\n\nExamples include changes in economic, social, regulatory, legal, and political conditions and in available technology, price sensitivity, demand for variety, and level of emphasis on service and support.\n\nA simple means of forecasting the market growth rate is to extrapolate historical data into the future. While this method may provide a first-order estimate, it does not predict important turning points. A better method is to study market trends and sales growth in complementary products. Such drivers serve as leading indicators that are more accurate than simply extrapolating historical data.\n\nImportant inflection points in the market growth rate sometimes can be predicted by constructing a product diffusion curve. The shape of the curve can be estimated by studying the characteristics of the adoption rate of a similar product in the past.\n\nUltimately, many markets mature and decline. Some leading indicators of a market's decline include market saturation, the emergence of substitute products, and/or the absence of growth drivers.\n\nA market opportunity product or a service, based on either one technology or several, fulfills the need(s) of a (preferably increasing) market better than the competition and better than substitution-technologies within the given environmental frame (e.g. society, politics, legislation, etc.).\n\nWhile different organizations in a market will have different levels of profitability, they are all similar to different market conditions. Michael Porter devised a useful framework for evaluating the attractiveness of an industry or market. This framework, known as Porter five forces analysis, identifies five factors that influence the market profitability:\n\n\nThe cost structure is important for identifying key factors for success. To this end, Porter's value chain model is useful for determining where value is added and for isolating the costs.\n\nThe cost structure also is helpful for formulating strategies to develop a competitive advantage. For example, in some environments the experience curve effect can be used to develop a cost advantage over competitors.\n\nExamining the following aspects of the distribution system may help with a market\nanalysis:\n\n\nThe key success factors are those elements that are necessary in order for the firm to achieve its marketing objectives. A few examples of such factors include:\n\n\nIt is important to consider that key success factors may change over time, especially as the product progresses through its life cycle.\n\nEnvironmental analysis\n\nThe environmental analysis can be divided into two parts which are external and internal factors. External factors. Political issues, social potential force, and local economy called external environmental factors. Internal environmental factors belongs to company's internal position such as employees, department structure, budget and so forth (Christina, n.d.). How environmental effect markets. According to the Parry, the government limit pollution emission, they mention environmental taxes to prevent company which produce pollution substance. In other words, the government drives the organization. On the contrary, the cost of products increase due to the environmental taxes. It means that company may take measure of reducing production which may grow unemployment rate by emission tax. Therefore, the environmental taxes leads a income equality. It is not an excuse ignore our serious environmental problem. Even though the higher income group also can benefit from windfall gains(Parry, 2002).\n\nCompetitive analysis\n\nAccording to the Christina, competitive analysis is that company must know their competitors which have the same common services and products. The business can use like product cost, operational efficiency, brand recognition and market Dimensions of market analysis\n\nExcept for David A. Aaker's 7 main dimension of a market analysis including market size, market growth rate, market profitability, industry cost structure, distribution channel, market trends, and key success factor, there is another analysis of dimension market analysis. Based on Christina Callaway, dimension of market analysis can be divided into four parts which is environmental analysis, competitive analysis, target audience analysis, and SWOT analysis. The market analysis is to help company to illustrate current trend in the market and may affect the profitability ( Christina, n.d.). At the same time, market analysis is also to determine the attractiveness in the market. A good marketing analysis can improve organization investment decision accurately, they can based on the attractiveness to change investment tactical.\n\nThe market analysis is to help company to illustrate current trend in the market and may affect the profitability for the business(Thomas,2007). It can be seen as a part of industry analysis with using global environmental analysis. Company can identify strengths, weakness, opportunities and threats so that the business can define the business strategy. The market analysis is also reference for company's activity , like decisions of inventory, purchase, work force, facility expansion and many aspects of company.\n\npenetration to find the difference or competitive advantages between two similarly companies(Christina, n.d). How can we find the competitive advantage? Kevin (2016) says that \"Anticipating and reading market needs can help business leaders take significant steps towards changing the game and obtaining competitive advantage.\"(p. 70). How can we sustain competitive advantages? In terms of Richard research, The company should focus on sustaining competitive advantage due to the swift growth global competition. Therefore, Business practice management is the follow principle to maintain competitive advantage(Richard,2006).\n\nTarget audience analysis\n\nIn the Christina contribution, target audience is for company to target their customer group who most likely to buy their products(Christina, n.d.). The group can be classified with location, age, gender, income, ethnicity, and behaviors. And people who make a decision of purchase can also be divided in the target audience. How identify market in accordance with Women's enterprise centre the market can be classified in three types which are consumer market, industrial market, and reseller market. The company segment their market, research market, and identify why customer would like to buy their products (women's enterprise centre, 2011 ).\n\nSWOT analysis\n\nSWOT is strengths, weakness, opportunities, and threats. It matches internal strengths and weaknesses up against opportunities and threats (Christina, n.d.). Strengths and weakness are internal factors which we can control. And opportunities and threats are external factors that businesses can't control, but can however impact on. When using strengths and weakness, businesses need to collect raw data to get information. Businesses can get information by customer feedback, employee surveys. Furthermore, businesses also can identify the capability if it is weakness or strengths, resources and process. Opportunities and threats are the external factors. Business can get information from secondary data like environmental information, industry information and competitive data. The purpose of the business use the SWOT analysis is to get the information from it and match each other to develop the ideas and get into goal statement to form strategic development (Olsen, 2008).\n\nMarket communication has significant impact on building and maintaining the relationship of stakeholders. Market analysis elements is to form a strategic planning and the information is responsiveness, intelligence generation, and dissemination(Mike, Sandra& Felix, 2005). Besides, market communication provide the information focus on the customer needs and competitive advantage. At the same time, these information spread to customers means the company spread its brand value so that customer can make awareness of the company's products. It is the communication channel between business and customers(Mike, Sandra& Felix, 2005).\n\nMarket Segmentation\n\nMarket segmentation is one of the important ways to find competitive advantage with its differentiation in market analysis. Market segmentation concentrates on market energy and power to gain competitive advantage. In other words, market segmentation is the concept tool to get the force(Thomas,2007). In the market analysis, we need a lot of market knowledge to analyse market structure and process. Since segmentation needs to do a lot of market research so that we can get the information from it. Market segmentation recommends the market strategy. Market segmentation can identify customer needs and wants and develop products to satisfy them. Market segmentation can identify different products for different groups, better match between customer wants and product benefits, maximize the use of available resources, focuse marketing expenditures and competitive advantages (karlsson,2012).\n\nThere is no perfect way to segment market but business can follow some rules like geographic, demographic, psychographic, and behavioral. A good market segmentation should be sustainable, accessible, actionable, measurable, and differentiable (karlsson,2012).\n\nGlobal market segmentation\n\nSince the globalization more and more developed, the global market become indispensability part of the business thinking. In order to explore global market, how market segmentation can be used in the global market. There are some aspects of defining the global market so which is more efficient to segment global market. Some researchers mention about Cross-National and Cross-Cultural Approach to segment global market. To differentiate country and culture, the company have to identify two areas which is vertical market segment existing internal area. Another area is external market segments which a group of countries has relationship of each other and share their characteristics. Compared with cross- cultural approach and cross-national approach, cross-cultural approach has its cultural stability of traditional values. cultural stability has a wide range of shared national-cultural values features, due to group solidarity, interpersonal harmony and so forth(Agarwal, Malhotra & Bolto, 2010). However, cross-cultural approach has challenge of environmental changes, cultural change and some other unstable factors(Agarwal, Malhotra & Bolto, 2010). Therefore, the main principle of looking at cross-cultural approach and cross- national approach base on perceive service quality. In the global service marketing, the marketing manager face a challenge of international services on account of the intangibility of services, unification standardizing services across national borders and difference of preference for customized services in different countries and culture. Therefore, it is significance for business to have a deep understanding service quality in facing across different countries, regions and cultures( Agarwal, Malhotra & Bolto, 2010).\n\nIn the software market, the trend of software is the price is high and coverage is low. In order to improve the trend, there is some problems of software market. Zhang (2014) mention that“ (1) What possibly discourages product differentiation in such a competitive market? (2) Why is versioning absent here? (3) How does the presence of free alternatives in this market impact its structure?”(p. 589). In order to improve these problems, Zhang mention that quality competition and market segmentation apply to the software market. In Zhang's research, the software company lack of developed the method of quality competition, market segmentation, and versioning. In terms of market segmentation, software company think segmentation consumer market is not useful. Therefore, even though versioning is the least costless way of spread product information, the company still ignore it(Zhang, 2014).\n\nThe relationship between market segmentation and communication in marketing is interaction. For example, market segmentation is important in the social media. There is three perspectives supplier perspectives, interaction perspectives, and buyer perspectives. In order to balance these three relationships, business must do segment well. Otherwise, the buyer perspective and supplier perspective cannot interact very well may lead loss of promotion (Oxfordlearninglab, 2009). Therefore, social media is important method of communication in the market and market segmentation also unnecessary before the business use social media channel.\n\nThe literature defines several areas in which market analysis is important. These include: sales forecasting, market research, and marketing strategy. Not all managers will need to conduct a market analysis. Nevertheless, it would be important for managers that use market analysis data to know how analysts derive their conclusions and what techniques they use to do so.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25077295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25077295", "title": "Market intelligence", "text": "Market intelligence\n\nMarket intelligence is the information relevant to a company’s markets, gathered and analyzed specifically for the purpose of accurate and confident decision-making in determining strategy in areas such as market opportunity, market penetration strategy, and market development.\n\nMarket intelligence includes the process of gathering data from the company’s external environment, whereas the Business intelligence process primarily is based on internal recorded events – such as sales, shipments and purchases. The purpose of incorporating Market Information or intelligence into the Business Intelligence process is to provide decision makers with a more “complete picture” of ongoing corporate performance in a set of given market conditions.\n\nEffective market intelligence needs accurate market information that is gathered with right tools and methods. To gather information companies can conduct surveys, interviews, visit and monitor competitors outlets or gather and buy data from different sources.\n\nTraditional interviews and surveys can be done either in-house or by using specialists agencies. As more and more markets are digitalized the market intelligence space has seen a lot of new digital tools that companies can use. There are tools such as Google Consumer Survey that enables companies to ask web users a question through Google network of online publishers. There are also specialist sites companies can buy market intelligence information and market intelligence software that companies can use to collect and monitor data from the internet.\n"}
{"id": "14190268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14190268", "title": "Operational system", "text": "Operational system\n\nAn operational system is a term used in data warehousing to refer to a system that is used to process the day-to-day transactions of an organization. These systems are designed in a manner that processing of day-to-day transactions is performed efficiently and the integrity of the transactional data is preserved.\nSometimes operational systems are referred to as operational databases, transaction processing systems, or online transaction processing systems (OLTP). However, the use of the last two terms as synonyms may be confusing, because operational systems can be batch processing systems as well.\n\nAny enterprise must necessarily maintain a lot of data about its operation. \n\n"}
{"id": "220633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220633", "title": "Point of sale", "text": "Point of sale\n\nThe point of sale (POS) or point of purchase (POP) is the time and place where a retail transaction is completed. At the point of sale, the merchant calculates the amount owed by the customer, indicates that amount, may prepare an invoice for the customer (which may be a cash register printout), and indicates the options for the customer to make payment. It is also the point at which a customer makes a payment to the merchant in exchange for goods or after provision of a service. After receiving payment, the merchant may issue a receipt for the transaction, which is usually printed but is increasingly being dispensed with or sent electronically.\n\nTo calculate the amount owed by a customer, the merchant may use various devices such as weighing scales, barcode scanners, and cash registers. To make a payment, payment terminals, touch screens, and other hardware and software options are available.\n\nThe point of sale is often referred to as the point of service because it is not just a point of sale but also a point of return or customer order. POS terminal software may also include features for additional functionality, such as inventory management, CRM, financials, or warehousing.\n\nBusinesses are increasingly adopting POS systems, and one of the most obvious and compelling reasons is that a POS system does away with the need for price tags. Selling prices are linked to the product code of an item when adding stock, so the cashier merely needs to scan this code to process a sale. If there is a price change, this can also be easily done through the inventory window. Other advantages include the ability to implement various types of discounts, a loyalty scheme for customers, and more efficient stock control.\n\nRetailers and marketers will often refer to the area around the checkout instead as the point of purchase (POP) when they are discussing it from the retailer's perspective. This is particularly the case when planning and designing the area as well as when considering a marketing strategy and offers.\n\nSome point of sale vendors refer to their POS system as \"retail management system\" which is actually a more appropriate term given that this software is no longer just about processing sales but comes with many other capabilities such as inventory management, membership system, supplier record, bookkeeping, issuing of purchase orders, quotations and stock transfers, hide barcode label creation, sale reporting and in some cases remote outlets networking or linkage, to name some major ones.\n\nNevertheless, it is the term \"POS system\" rather than \"retail management system\" that is in vogue among both end-users and vendors.\n\nThe basic, fundamental definition of a POS System, is a system which allows the processing and recording of transactions between a company and their consumers, at the time in which goods and/or services are purchased.\n\nEarly electronic cash registers (ECR) were controlled with proprietary software and were limited in function and communication capability. In August 1973, IBM released the IBM 3650 and 3660 store systems that were, in essence, a mainframe computer used as a store controller that could control up to 128 IBM 3653/3663 point of sale registers. This system was the first commercial use of client-server technology, peer-to-peer communications, local area network (LAN) simultaneous backup, and remote initialization. By mid-1974, it was installed in Pathmark stores in New Jersey and Dillard's department stores.\n\nOne of the first microprocessor-controlled cash register systems was built by William Brobeck and Associates in 1974, for McDonald's Restaurants. It used the Intel 8008, a very early microprocessor (and forerunner to the Intel 8088 processor used in the original IBM Personal Computer). Each station in the restaurant had its own device which displayed the entire order for a customer — for example, [2] Vanilla Shake, [1] Large Fries, [3] BigMac — using numeric keys and a button for every menu item. By pressing the [Grill] button, a second or third order could be worked on while the first transaction was in progress. When the customer was ready to pay, the [Total] button would calculate the bill, including sales tax for almost any jurisdiction in the United States. This made it accurate for McDonald's and very convenient for the servers and provided the restaurant owner with a check on the amount that should be in the cash drawers. Up to eight devices were connected to one of two interconnected computers so that printed reports, prices, and taxes could be handled from any desired device by putting it into \"Manager Mode\". In addition to the error-correcting memory, accuracy was enhanced by having three copies of all important data with many numbers stored only as multiples of 3. Should one computer fail, the other could handle the entire store.\n\nIn 1986, Gene Mosher introduced the first graphical point of sale software featuring a touchscreen interface under the ViewTouch trademark on the 16-bit Atari 520ST color computer. It featured a color touchscreen widget-driven interface that allowed configuration of widgets representing menu items without low level programming. The ViewTouch point of sale software was first demonstrated in public at Fall Comdex, 1986, in Las Vegas Nevada to large crowds visiting the Atari Computer booth. This was the first commercially available POS system with a widget-driven color graphic touch screen interface and was installed in several restaurants in the USA and Canada.\n\nIn 1986, IBM introduced its 468x series of POS equipment based on Digital Research's Concurrent DOS 286 and FlexOS 1.xx, a modular real-time multi-tasking multi-user operating system.\n\nA wide range of POS applications have been developed on platforms such as Windows and Unix. The availability of local processing power, local data storage, networking, and graphical user interface made it possible to develop flexible and highly functional POS systems. Cost of such systems has also declined, as all the components can now be purchased off-the-shelf.\n\nIn 1993, IBM adopted FlexOS 2.32 as the basis of their IBM 4690 OS in their 469x series of POS terminals. This was developed up to 2014 when it was sold to Toshiba, who continued to support it up to at least 2017.\n\nAs far as computers are concerned, off-the-shelf versions are usually newer and hence more powerful than proprietary POS terminals. Custom modifications are added as needed. Other products, like touchscreen tablets and laptops, are readily available in the market, and they are more portable than traditional POS terminals. The only advantage of the latter is that they are typically built to withstand rough handling and spillages; a benefit for food & beverage businesses.\n\nThe key requirements that must be met by modern POS systems include high and consistent operating speed, reliability, ease of use, remote supportability, low cost, and rich functionality. Retailers can reasonably expect to acquire such systems (including hardware) for about $4000 US (as of 2009) per checkout lane.\n\nReliability depends not wholly on the developer but at times on the compatibility between a database and an OS version. For example, the widely used MS Access database system had a compatibility issue when Windows XP machines were updated to a newer Windows OS. Microsoft immediately offered no solution. Some businesses were severely disrupted in the process, and many downgraded back to Windows XP for a quick resolution. Other companies utilized community support, for a registry tweak solution has been found for this.\n\nPOS systems are one of the most complex software systems available because of the features that are required by different end-users. Many POS systems are software suites that include sale, inventory, stock counting, vendor ordering, customer loyalty and reporting modules. Sometimes purchase ordering, stock transferring, quotation issuing, barcode creating, bookkeeping or even accounting capabilities are included. Furthermore, each of these modules is interlinked if they are to serve their practical purpose and maximize their usability.\n\nFor instance, the sale window is immediately updated on a new member entry through the membership window because of this interlinking. Similarly, when a sale transaction is made, any purchase by a member is on record for the membership window to report providing information like payment type, goods purchased, date of purchase and points accumulated. Comprehensive analysis performed by a POS machine may need to process several qualities about a single product, like selling price, balance, average cost, quantity sold, description and department. Highly complex programming is involved (and possibly considerable computer resources) to generate such extensive analyses.\n\nPOS systems are designed not only to serve the retail, wholesale and hospitality industries as historically is the case. Nowadays POS systems are also used in goods and property leasing businesses, equipment repair shops, healthcare management, ticketing offices such as cinemas and sports facilities and many other operations where capabilities such as the following are required: processing monetary transactions, allocation and scheduling of facilities, keeping record and scheduling services rendered to customers, tracking of goods and processes (repair or manufacture), invoicing and tracking of debts and outstanding payments.\n\nDifferent customers have different expectations within each trade. The reporting functionality alone is subject to so many demands, especially from those in the retail/wholesale industry. To cite special requirements, some business's goods may include perishables and hence the inventory system must be capable of prompting the admin and cashier on expiring or expired products. Some retail businesses require the system to store credit for their customers, credit which can be used subsequently to pay for goods. A few companies even expect the POS system to behave like a full-fledged inventory management system, including the ability to provide even FIFO (First In First Out) and LIFO (Last In First Out), reports of their goods for accounting and tax purposes.\n\nIn the hospitality industry, POS system capabilities can also diverge significantly. For instance, while a restaurant is typically concerned about how the sale window functions, whether it has functionality such as for creating item buttons, for various discounts, for adding a service charge, for holding of receipts, for queuing, for table service as well as for takeaways, merging and splitting of a receipt, these capabilities may yet be insufficient for a spa or slimming center which would require in addition a scheduling window with historical records of customers' attendance and their special requirements.\n\nIt may be said that a POS system can be made to serve different things to different end-users depending on their unique business processes. Quite often an off-the-shelf POS system is inadequate for customers; some customization is required, and this is why a POS system can become very complex. The complexity of a mature POS system even extends to remote networking or interlinking between remote outlets and the HQ such that updating both ways is possible. Some POS systems even offer the linking of web-based orders to their sale window. Even when local networking is only required (as in the case of a high-traffic supermarket), there is the ever-present challenge for the developer to keep most if not all of their POS stations running. This puts high demand not just on software coding but also designing the whole system covering how individual stations and the network work together, and special consideration for the performance capability and usage of databases. Due to such complexity, bugs and errors encountered in POS systems are frequent.\n\nWith regards to databases, POS systems are very demanding on their performance because of numerous submissions and retrievals of data - required for correct sequencing the receipt number, checking up on various discounts, membership, calculating subtotal, so forth - just to process a single sale transaction. The immediacy required of the system on the sale window such as may be observed at a checkout counter in a supermarket also cannot be compromised. This places much stress on individual enterprise databases if there are just several tens of thousands of sale records in the database. Enterprise database Ms SQL, for example, has been known to freeze up (including the OS) entirely for many minutes under such conditions showing a \"Timeout Expired\" error message. Even a lighter database like Ms Access will slow to a crawl over time if the problem of database bloating is not foreseen and managed by the system automatically. Therefore, the need to do extensive testing, debugging and improvisation of solutions to preempt failure of a database before commercialization further complicates the development.\n\nPOS system accuracy is demanding, given that monetary transactions are involved continuously not only via the sale window but also at the backend through the receiving and inputting of goods into the inventory. Calculations required are not always straightforward. There may be many discounts and deals that are unique to specific products, and the POS machine must quickly process the differences and the effect on pricing. There is much complexity in the programming of such operations, especially when no error in calculation can be allowed.\n\nOther requirements include that the system must have functionality for membership discount and points accumulation/usage, quantity and promotional discounts, mix and match offers, cash rounding up, invoice/delivery-order issuance with outstanding amount. It should enable a user to adjust the inventory of each product based on physical count, track expiry of perishable goods, change pricing, provide audit trail when modification of inventory records is performed, be capable of multiple outlet functionality, control of stocks from HQ, doubling as an invoicing system, just to name some.\n\nIt is clear that POS system is a term that implies a wide range of capabilities depending on the end-user requirements. POS system review websites cannot be expected to cover most let alone all the features; in fact, unless one is a developer himself, it is unrealistic to expect the reviewer to know all the nuts and bolts of a POS system. For instance, a POS system might work smoothly on a test database during the review but not when the database grows significantly in size over months of usage. And this is only one among many hidden critical functionality issues of a POS system.\nGOODS\n\nVendors and retailers are working to standardize development of computerized POS systems and simplify interconnecting POS devices. Two such initiatives are OPOS and JavaPOS, both of which conform to the UnifiedPOS standard led by The National Retail Foundation.\n\nOPOS (OLE for POS) was the first commonly adopted standard and was created by Microsoft, NCR Corporation, Epson and Fujitsu-ICL. OPOS is a COM-based interface compatible with all COM-enabled programming languages for Microsoft Windows. OPOS was first released in 1996. JavaPOS was developed by Sun Microsystems, IBM, and NCR Corporation in 1997 and first released in 1999. JavaPOS is for Java what OPOS is for Windows, and thus largely platform independent.\n\nThere are several communication ways POS systems use to control peripherals such as:\n\nThere are also nearly as many proprietary protocols as there are companies making POS peripherals. Most POS peripherals, such as displays and printers, support several of these command protocols in order to work with many different brands of POS terminals and computers.\n\nThe design of the sale window is the most important one for the user. This user interface is highly critical when compared to those in other software packages such as word editors or spreadsheet programs where the speed of navigation is not so crucial for business performance.\n\nFor businesses at prime locations where real estate comes at a premium, it can be common to see a queue of customers. The faster a sale is completed the shorter the queue and hence the more room available in a store for customers to shop around and employees to do their work. High-traffic operations such as grocery outlets and cafes need to process sales quickly at the sales counter so the UI flow is often designed with as few popups or other interruptions to ensure the operator isn't distracted and the transaction can be processed as quickly as possible.\n\nAlthough improving the ergonomics is possible, a clean, fast-paced look may come at the expense of sacrificing functions that are often wanted by end-users such as discounts, access to commission earned screens, membership and loyalty schemes can involve looking at a different function of the POS to ensure the point of sale screen contains only what a cashier needs at their disposal to serve customers.\n\nThe advent of cloud computing has given birth to the possibility of POS systems to be deployed as software as a service, which can be accessed directly from the Internet using any internet browser. Using the previous advances in the communication protocols for POS's control of hardware, cloud-based POS systems are independent from platform and operating system limitations. Cloud-based POS systems are also created to be compatible with a wide range of POS hardware and sometimes tablets such as Apple's IPad. Thus cloud-based POS also helped expand POS systems to mobile devices, such as tablet computers or smartphones. These devices can also act as barcode readers using a built-in camera and as payment terminals using built-in NFC technology or an external payment card reader. A number of POS companies built their software specifically to be cloud-based. Other businesses who launched pre-2000s have since adapted their software to evolving technology.\n\nCloud-based POS systems are different from traditional POS largely because user data, including sales and inventory, are not stored locally, but in a remote server. The POS system is also not run locally, so there is no installation required.\n\nDepending on the POS vendor and the terms of contract, compared to traditional on-premises POS installation, the software is more likely to be continually updated by the developer with more useful features and better performance in terms of computer resources at the remote server and in terms of lesser bugs and errors.\n\nOther advantages of a cloud-based POS are instant centralization of data (important especially to chain stores), ability to access data from anywhere there is internet connection, and lower start-up costs.\n\nCloud based POS requires an internet connection. For this reason it important to use a device which has its own 3G capability in case the device's primary internet goes down. In addition to being significantly less expensive than traditional legacy point of sale systems, the real strength of a cloud based point of sale system is that there are developers all over the world creating software applications for cloud based POS. Cloud based POS systems are often described as future proof as new applications are constantly being conceived and built.\n\nA number of noted emerging cloud-based POS systems came on the scene less than a decade or even half a decade back. These systems are usually designed for restaurants, small and medium-sized retail operations with fairly simple sale processes as can be culled from POS system review sites. It appears from such software reviews that enterprise-level cloud-based POS systems are currently lacking in the market. \"Enterprise-level\" here means that the inventory should be capable of handling a large number of records, such as required by grocery stores and supermarkets. It can also mean that the system--software and cloud server--must be capable of generating reports such as analytics of sale against inventory for both a single and multiple outlets that are interlinked for administration by the headquarters of the business operation.\n\nPOS vendors of such cloud based systems should also have a strong contingency plan for the breakdown of their remote server such as represented by failover server support. However, sometimes even a major data center can fail completely, such as in a fire. On-premises installations are therefore sometimes seen alongside cloud-based implementation to preempt such incidents, especially for businesses with very high traffic. However the on-premises installations may not have the most up-to-date inventory and membership information.\n\nFor such contingency, a more innovative though highly complex approach for the developer is to have a trimmed down version of the POS system installed on the cashier computer at the outlet. On a daily basis the latest inventory and membership information from the remote server is automatically updated into the local database. Thus should the remote server fail, the cashier can switch over to the local sale window without disrupting sales. When the remote server is restored and the cashier switches over to the cloud system, the locally processed sale records are then automatically submitted to the remote system, thus maintaining the integrity of the remote database.\n\nAlthough cloud-based POS systems save the end-user startup cost and technical challenges in maintaining an otherwise on-premises installation, there is a risk that should the cloud-based vendor close down it may result in more immediate termination of services for the end-user compared to the case of a traditional full on-premises POS system where it can still run without the vendor.\n\nAnother consideration is that a cloud-based POS system actually exposes business data to service providers - the hosting service company and the POS vendor which have access to both the application and database. The importance of securing critical business information such as supplier names, top selling items, customer relationship processes cannot be underestimated given that sometimes the few key success factors or trade secrets of a business are actually accessible through the POS system. This security and privacy concern is an ongoing issue in cloud computing.\n\nThe retail industry is one of the predominant users of POS terminals.\n\nA retail point of sale system typically includes a cash register (which in recent times comprises a computer, monitor, cash drawer, receipt printer, customer display and a barcode scanner) and the majority of retail POS systems also include a debit/credit card reader. It can also include a conveyor belt, weight scale, integrated credit card processing system, a signature capture device and a customer pin pad device. While the system may include a keyboard and mouse, more and more POS monitors use touch-screen technology for ease of use, and a computer is built into the monitor chassis for what is referred to as an all-in-one unit. All-in-one POS units liberate counter space for the retailer. The POS system software can typically handle a myriad of customer based functions such as sales, returns, exchanges, layaways, gift cards, gift registries, customer loyalty programs, promotions, discounts and much more. POS software can also allow for functions such as pre-planned promotional sales, manufacturer coupon validation, foreign currency handling and multiple payment types.\n\nThe POS unit handles the sales to the consumer but it is only one part of the entire POS system used in a retail business. \"Back-office\" computers typically handle other functions of the POS system such as inventory control, purchasing, receiving and transferring of products to and from other locations. Other typical functions of a POS system are: store sales information for enabling customer returns, reporting purposes, sales trends and cost/price/profit analysis. Customer information may be stored for receivables management, marketing purposes and specific buying analysis. Many retail POS systems include an accounting interface that \"feeds\" sales and cost of goods information to independent accounting applications.\n\nA multiple point of sale system used by big retailers like supermarkets and department stores has a far more demanding database and software architecture than that of a single station seen in small retail outlets. A supermarket with high traffic cannot afford a systemic failure, hence each point of sale station should not only be very robust both in terms of software, database and hardware specifications but also designed in such a way as to prevent causing a systemic failure - such as may happen through the use of a single central database for operations.\n\nAt the same time updating between multiple stations and the backend administrative computer should be capable of being efficiently performed, so that on one hand either at the start of the day or at any time each station will have the latest inventory to process all items for sale, while on the other hand at the end of the day the backend administrative computer can be updated in terms of all sale records.\n\nThis gets even more complicated when there is a membership system requiring real-time two-way updating of membership points between sale stations and the backend administrative computer.\n\nRetail operations such as hardware stores (lumber yards), electronic stores and so-called multifaceted superstores need specialized additional features compared to other stores. POS software in these cases handles special orders, purchase orders, repair orders, service and rental programs as well as typical point of sale functions. Rugged hardware is required for point of sale systems used in outdoor environments. Wireless devices, battery powered devices, all-in-one units, and Internet-ready machines are typical in this industry.\n\nRecently new applications have been introduced, enabling POS transactions to be conducted using mobile phones and tablets. According to a recent study, mobile POS (mPOS) terminals are expected to replace the contemporary payment techniques because of various features including mobility, upfront low cost investment and better user experience.\n\nIn the mid-2000s, the blind community in the United States engaged in structured negotiations to ensure that retail point of sale devices had tactile keypads. Without keys that can be felt, a blind person cannot independently enter her or his PIN. In the mid-2000s retailers began using \"flat screen\" or \"signature capture\" devices that eliminated tactile keypads. Blind people were forced to share their confidential PIN with store clerks in order to use their debit and other PIN-based cards. The blind community reached agreement with Walmart, Target, CVS and eight other retailers that required real keys so blind people could use the devices.\n\nEarly stores typically kept merchandise behind a counter. Staff would fetch items for customers to prevent the opportunity for theft and sales would be made at the same counter. Self-service grocery stores such as Piggly Wiggly, beginning in 1916, allowed customers to fetch their own items and pass the point of sale on the way to the exit. Many stores have a number of cash registers for checkout, possibly now including self-checkout. This requires customers to guess which line will move the fastest, if they want to minimize their wait times; they are often frustrated to be wrong or be stuck behind another customer who encounters a problem or who takes a long time to check out. Some stores use a single, much longer but faster-moving line, that is served by multiple registers, which produces the same average wait time, but reduces the frustration and variance in wait time from person to person. Regardless of the configuration, checkout lines usually pass by impulse buy items to grab the attention of otherwise idle customers.\n\nHospitality point of sale systems are computerized systems incorporating registers, computers and peripheral equipment, usually on a computer network to be used in restaurants, hair salons or hotels. Like other point of sale systems, these systems keep track of sales, labor and payroll, and can generate records used in accounting and bookkeeping. They may be accessed remotely by restaurant corporate offices, troubleshooters and other authorized parties.\n\nPoint of sale systems have revolutionized the restaurant industry, particularly in the fast food sector. In the most recent technologies, registers are computers, sometimes with touch screens. The registers connect to a server, often referred to as a \"store controller\" or a \"central control unit\". Printers and monitors are also found on the network. Additionally, remote servers can connect to store networks and monitor sales and other store data.\n\nTypical restaurant POS software is able to create and print guest checks, print orders to kitchens and bars for preparation, process credit cards and other payment cards, and run reports. In addition, some systems implement wireless pagers and electronic signature-capture devices.\n\nIn the fast food industry, displays may be at the front counter, or configured for drive-through or walk-through cashiering and order taking. Front counter registers allow taking and serving orders at the same terminal, while drive-through registers allow orders to be taken at one or more drive-through windows, to be cashiered and served at another. In addition to registers, drive-through and kitchen displays are used to view orders. Once orders appear they may be deleted or recalled by the touch interface or by bump bars. Drive-through systems are often enhanced by the use of drive-through wireless (or headset) intercoms. The efficiency of such systems has decreased service times and increased efficiency of orders.\n\nAnother innovation in technology for the restaurant industry is wireless POS. Many restaurants with high volume use wireless handheld POS to collect orders which are sent to a server. The server sends required information to the kitchen in real time. Wireless systems consist of drive-through microphones and speakers (often one speaker will serve both purposes), which are wired to a \"base station\" or \"center module.\" This, in turn, will broadcast to headsets. Headsets may be an all-in-one headset or one connected to a belt pack.\n\nIn hotels, POS software allows for transfer of meal charges from dining room to guest room with a button or two. It may also need to be integrated with property management software.\n\nNewer, more sophisticated systems are getting away from the central database \"file server\" type system and going to what is called a \"cluster database\". This eliminates any crashing or system downtime that can be associated with the back office file server. This technology allows 100% of the information to not only be stored, but also pulled from the local terminal, thus eliminating the need to rely on a separate server for the system to operate.\n\nTablet POS systems popular for retail solutions are now available for the restaurant industry. Initially these systems were not sophisticated and many of the early systems did not support a remote printer in the kitchen. Tablet systems today are being used in all types of restaurants including table service operations. Most tablet systems upload all information to the Internet so managers and owners can view reports from anywhere with a password and Internet connection. Smartphone Internet access has made alerts and reports from the POS very accessible. Tablets have helped create the Mobile POS system, and Mobile POS applications also include payments, loyalty, online ordering, table side ordering by staff and table top ordering by customers. Regarding the payments, mobile POS can accept all kinds of payment methods from contactless cards, EMV chip-enabled cards, and mobile NFC enabled cards. Mobile POS (AKA mPOS) is growing quickly with new developers entering the market almost on a daily basis.\n\nWith the proliferation of low-priced touchscreen tablet computers, more and more restaurants have implemented self-ordering through tablet POS placed permanently on every table. Customers can browse through the menu on the tablet and place their orders which are then sent to the kitchen. Most restaurants that have iPad self-order menus include photos of the dishes so guests can easily choose what they want to order. This apparently improves service and saves manpower on the part of the restaurant. However this depends on how intelligently the system has been programmed to be.\nAs a case in point, some self-ordering systems not requiring staff assistance may not properly recognize a subsequent order from the same customer at a table. As a result, the customer is left waiting and wondering why his second order of food and drink is not being served.\n\nAnother example of how intelligent the system can be, is whether an order that has been placed but not yet been processed by the kitchen can be modified by the customer through the tablet POS. For such an unprocessed order the customer should be given the option to easily retrieve his order and modify it on the tablet POS. But when his order is being processed this function should then be automatically disabled.\n\nSelf-ordering systems are not always free completely from intervention by the staff and for some good reasons. For example, some restaurants require that items selected by the customers be attended to and can only be placed by the waiter who has the password required to do so. This prevents fake orders - such as may be entered by playful kids - and subsequent dispute on the items ordered. If alcoholic drinks are ordered, it also becomes necessary for the waiter to first verify the age of the customer before sending the order.\n\nThe technical specifications for implementing such self-ordering system are more demanding than a single cashier-controlled POS station. On the software and hardware side each tablet on a customer table has to be networked to the cashier POS station and the kitchen computer so that both are continually updated on orders placed. The common database that serves this network must also be capable of serving many concurrent users - cashier, customers, kitchen and perhaps even a drink bar.\n\nIt is therefore to be noted by developers that some databases like popularly used Ms Access may have the specifications that it is capable of usage by multiple concurrent users. However under the stress of a POS system, they can fail miserably resulting in constant errors and corruption of data.\n\nPOS systems are often designed for a variety of clients, and can be programmed by the end users to suit their needs. Some large clients write their own specifications for vendors to implement. In some cases, POS systems are sold and supported by third-party distributors, while in other cases they are sold and supported directly by the vendor.\n\nThe selection of a restaurant POS system is critical to the restaurant's daily operation and is a major investment that the restaurant's management and staff must live with for many years. The restaurant POS system interfaces with all phases of the restaurant operation and with everyone that is involved with the restaurant including guests, suppliers, employees, managers and owners. The selection of a restaurant POS system is a complex process that should be undertaken by the restaurant owner and not delegated to an employee. The purchase process can be summarized into three steps: Design, Compare and Negotiate. The Design step requires research to determine which restaurant POS features are needed for the restaurant operation. With this information the restaurant owner or manager can Compare various restaurant POS solutions to determine which POS systems meet their requirements. The final step is to Negotiate the price, payment terms, included training, initial warranty and ongoing support costs.\n\nPOS systems record sales for business and tax purposes. Illegal software dubbed \"zappers\" can be used on POS devices to falsify these records with a view to evading the payment of taxes.\n\nIn some countries, legislation is being introduced to make cash register systems more secure. For example, the French treasury is estimated to be failing to collect approximately €14 billion of VAT revenue each year. The Finance Bill of 2016 is intended to address some of this loss by making it compulsory for taxpayers to operate on “secure systems”. Therefore, from 1 January 2018, all retail businesses in France are required to record customer payments using certified secure accounting software or cash register systems. \n\nA certified cash register system must provide for the (i) inalterability, (ii) security and (iii) storage and archiving of data. All businesses required to comply must obtain a certificate from the cash register system provider which certifies that the system meets these requirements. This is because VAT taxpayers may need to provide a certificate to the tax authorities showing that their cash management system fulfils the new requirements.\n\nIf the business cannot provide this certificate to the tax authorities, they may be fined. And, if the tax authorities can demonstrate fraudulent use of the system, both the business and the software provider can face tax penalties, fines, and criminal sanctions. Certification can be obtained either from: a body accredited by the French Accreditation Committee (Comité français d’accréditation or COFRAC) or the software provider of the cash register system.\n\nDespite the more advanced technology of a POS system as compared to a simple cash register, the POS system is still as vulnerable to employee theft through the sale window. A dishonest cashier at a retail outlet can collude with a friend who pretends to be just another customer. During checkout, the cashier can bypass scanning certain items or enter a lower quantity for some items thus profiting thereby from the \"free\" goods.\n\nThe ability of a POS system to void a closed sale receipt for refund purpose without needing a password from an authorized superior also represents a security loophole. Even a function to issue a receipt with a negative amount which can be useful under certain circumstances, can be exploited by a cashier to easily lift money from the cash drawer.\n\nIn order to prevent such employee theft, it is crucial for a POS system to provide an admin window for the boss or administrator to generate and inspect a daily list of sale receipts, especially pertaining to the frequency of cancelled receipts before completion, refunded receipts and negative receipts. This is one effective way to alert the company to any suspicious activity - such as a high number of cancelled sales by a certain cashier - that may be going on and to take monitoring action.\n\nTo further deter employee theft, the sale counter should also be equipped with a closed-circuit television camera pointed at the POS system to monitor and record all the activities.\n\nAt the backend, price and other changes like discounts to inventory items through the administration module should also be secured with passwords provided only to trusted administrators. Any changes made should also be logged and capable of being subsequently retrieved for inspection.\n\nThe sale records and inventory are highly important to the business because they provide very useful information to the company in terms of customer preferences, customer membership particulars, what are the top selling products, who are the vendors and what margins the company is getting from them, the company monthly total revenue and cost, just to name some.\n\nIt is therefore important that reports on these matters generated at the administrative backend be restricted only to trusted personnel. The database from which these reports are generated should also be secured via passwords or via encryption of data stored in the database so as to prevent them from being copied or tampered with.\n\nDespite all such precautions and more, the POS system can never be entirely watertight in security from internal misuse if a clever but dishonest employee knows how to exploit many of its otherwise useful capabilities.\n\nNews reports on POS system hacking show that hackers are more interested in stealing credit card information than anything else. The ease and advantage offered by the ability of a POS system to integrate credit card processing thus have a downside. In 2011, hackers were able to steal credit card data from 80,000 customers because Subway's security and POS configuration standards for PCI Compliance - which governs credit card and debit card payment systems security - were \"directly and blatantly disregarded\" by Subway franchisees.\n\nIn June 2016, several hundred of Wendy's fast food restaurants had their POS systems hacked by an illegally installed malware. The report goes on to say that \"the number of franchise restaurants impacted by these cybersecurity attacks is now expected to be considerably higher than the 300 restaurants already implicated\" and that the \"hackers made hundreds of thousands of fraudulent purchases on credit and debit cards issued by various financial institutions after breaching Wendy's computer systems late last year\".\n\nAgain, these exploits by hackers could only be made possible because payment cards were processed through the POS system allowing the malware to either intercept card data during processing or steal and transmit unencrypted card data that is stored in the system database.\n\nIn April 2017, security researchers identified critical vulnerabilities in point of sale systems developed by SAP and Oracle and commented, “POS systems are plagued by vulnerabilities, and incidents occurred because their security drawbacks came under the spotlight.” If successfully exploited, these vulnerabilities provide a perpetrator with access to every legitimate function of the system, such as changing prices, and remotely starting and stoping terminals. To illustrate the attack vector, the researchers used the example of hacking POS to change the price of a MacBook to $1. The security issues were reported to the vendor, and a patch was released soon after the notification. Oracle confirmed security bug affects over 300,000 Oracle POS Systems\n\nIn some countries, credit and debit cards are only processed via payment terminals. Thus one may see quite a number of such terminals for different cards cluttering up a sale counter. This inconvenience is however offset by the fact that credit and debit card data is far less vulnerable to hackers, unlike when payment cards are processed through the POS system where security is contingent upon the actions taken by end-users and developers.\n\nWith the launch of mobile payment particularly Android Pay and Apple Pay both in 2015, it is expected that because of its greater convenience coupled with good security features, this would eventually eclipse other types of payment services - including the use of payment terminals. However, for mobile payment to go fully mainstream, mobile devices like smartphones that are NFC-enabled must first become universal. This would be a matter of several years from the time of this writing (2017) as more and more models of new smartphones are expected to become NFC-enabled for such a purpose. For instance, iPhone 6 is fully NFC-enabled for mobile payment while iPhone 5 and older models are not. The aforesaid disastrous security risks connected with processing payment card usage through a POS system would then be greatly diminished.\n"}
{"id": "27270754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27270754", "title": "Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship", "text": "Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship\n\nIn his \"A New Beginning\" speech on June 4, 2009, at Cairo University in Cairo, Egypt, President of the United States Barack Obama announced that \"I will host a Summit on Entrepreneurship this year to identify how we can deepen ties between business leaders, foundations and social entrepreneurs in the United States and Muslim communities around the world\". The Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship, held in Washington, D.C., on Monday April 26, and Tuesday, April 27, 2010, at the Ronald Reagan Building, followed through on President Obama’s commitment by highlighting the importance of social and economic entrepreneurship, and strengthening mutually-beneficial relationships with entrepreneurs in Muslim-majority countries and Muslim communities around the world. At the second summit in Istanbul, Turkey, Vice President Joe Biden announced that the Presidential Summit would become the marquee event that kicks off Global Entrepreneurship Week each year, with the 2013 host being the United Arab Emirates.\n\nParticipants were selected from around the world to represent their home countries, regions, and sectors at the summit. They hailed from over fifty countries on five continents and include successful entrepreneurs, investors, academics, and leaders of entrepreneurship networks, non-profit organizations, foundations, and businesses who are invested in promoting entrepreneurship.\n\nParticipants hailed from: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Brunei, Cameroon, Canada, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Finland, France, Gambia, Germany, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kosovo, Kuwait, Kyrgyz, Lebanon, Libya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, the Palestinian Territories, Paraguay, the Philippines, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Syria, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkey, UAE, Uganda, United Kingdom, the United States, and Yemen.\n\nBelow are videos of briefings and remarks of participants in the Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship, Washington, DC, April 26–27, 2010.\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/entrepreneurshipsummit/140878.htm\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/secretary/rm/2010/04/140968.htm\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=80184470001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=80200483001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=81338747001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=81376620001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=81677518001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=81403906001\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=81314892001:\n\nhttp://www.state.gov/video/?videoid=80200482001\n\nA town hall hosted by the U.S. Department of State on April 28 also featured remarks by Special Representative to Muslim Communities Farah Pandith and Special Envoy to the Organisation of the Islamic Conference Rashad Hussain, as well as E-Summit delegate Asim Siddiqui, a community organizer from the UK. A panel discussion on cultivating grassroots partnerships followed, including Shelly Porges from the Bureau of Economic, Energy and Business Affairs, Rob Lalka from the Global Partnership Initiative, and Ari Alexander from USAID’s Center for Faith-Based and Community Initiatives:\nhttp://www.blogtalkradio.com/public-liaison/2010/05/04/town-hall-meeting-presidents-summit-on-entrepreneu\nhttp://www.blogtalkradio.com/public-liaison/2010/05/05/town-hall-meeting-presidents-summitt-on-entreprene\n\n\nIn addition to the official events for the Presidential Summit, over thirty partner organizations invited participants to outside events, highlighting how the President and the US Government have helped catalyze a long-term, sustainable conversation on entrepreneurship. During recent months, the State Department coordinated with outside organizations on these related but independent events.\n\nEvents during the week of the Summit on Entrepreneurship included:\n\n\nIn addition, the US Government hosted special events for delegates, including briefings on business development by the US Small Business Administration, an economic support roundtable at the US Trade and Development Agency, and a reception hosted by the State Department for delegates with the Ambassadors to the United States from delegates’ home countries.\n\nThe US Government released an interactive Google map with detailed information on each of these events, which was embedded on the websites http://www.state.gov/entrepreneurshipsummit/ and http://www.entrepreneurship.gov/summit/ and is available at https://maps.google.com/maps/ms?hl=en&gl=us&ie=UTF8&oe=UTF8&msa=0&msid=101425100571760103462.000483f33a9087a901671&ll=38.901187,-77.057676&spn=0.033665,0.109863&z=14\n\nSeveral overseas institutions and partners have expressed an interest in hosting Follow-on Conferences to continue to advance the mission of the Entrepreneurship Summit beyond the April 26 and 27 Presidential Summit in Washington. These Follow-on Conferences will be locally or regionally focused and may focus on a specific element of advancing entrepreneurship (e.g. youth entrepreneurship, access to capital, etc.) We have told these partners that we want to be supportive of these events and acknowledge them at the Summit. We have said that we would attempt to have an appropriate USG official attend, but that we would not play any role in organizing them and would not expect to provide any funding assistance.\n\nThese Conferences have been initiated by partners who are heeding the President’s call to shared action and responsibility. Through their initiative, they will help to advance what the United States and its partners on the Presidential Summit on Entrepreneurship have started. We have received Statements of Intent for the following Follow-on Conferences:\n\n\nPrime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan sent a letter to Obama with Deulcom International's CEO Baybars Altuntaş during the summit, proposing to hold the next Entrepreneurship Summit in Istanbul. During his remarks, President Obama embraced the proposal and stated that \"Together, we’ve sparked a new era of entrepreneurship -- with events all over Washington this week, and upcoming regional conferences around the world. Tonight, I am pleased to announce that Prime Minister Erdogan has agreed to host the next Entrepreneurship Summit next year in Turkey. And so I thank the Prime Minister and the people and private sector leaders of Turkey for helping to sustain the momentum that we will unleash this week.\"\n"}
{"id": "7686145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7686145", "title": "Professional services automation", "text": "Professional services automation\n\nProfessional services automation (frequently abbreviated to PSA) is software designed to assist professionals, such as lawyers, auditors, and IT consultants, with project management and resource management for client projects and utilization rate management for billable staff. This is accomplished by developing metrics to quantify and qualify basic business processes that can then be used to streamline and improve those processes.\n\nTypical PSA functions include project management and documentation, time recording, billing, reporting, and labor utilization. These features are often integrated with accounting, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems, and payroll systems in order to improve efficiency of overall operations. As a result, in addition to better managing client projects, independent contractors can prevent lost revenue and slow billing cycles.\n\nUltimately PSA software suites allow users to integrate industry-appropriate metrics in order to better understand operations and, in turn, improve efficiency and profitability.\nAs businesses grow, the size and complexity of their projects tend to increase as well. PSA software is used to provide visibility into mid-project profitability.\n\nThose familiar with ERP software may like to think of PSA as an ERP system for service organizations.\n\nIn its simplest form, PSA software may offer only timesheet systems (including expense reporting and project management). However, in their most robust incarnation they can also include customer relationship management (CRM), resource management, opportunity and knowledge management.\n\nA comparison of PSA software is available.\n\nPSA software is designed to improve the performance and profitability of professional services firms. A recent end-user survey conducted by SPI Research showed significant improvement in key performance indicators such as:\n\nThe study concluded with a return on investment (ROI) model for an average 172-person professional services firm. According to the research, over a five-year horizon, the firm could expect to invest just under $200,000 in implementation and software license costs. The return, however, was estimated at nearly $23 million in increased revenue and reduced costs.\n\nAs in most software categories, the Software and Information Industry Association rates this category of software.\n"}
{"id": "9566209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9566209", "title": "Purchasing manager", "text": "Purchasing manager\n\nA Purchasing Manager is an employee within a company, business or other organization who is responsible at some level for buying or approving the acquisition of goods and services needed by the company. Responsible for buying the best quality products, goods and services for their company at the most competitive prices, purchasing managers work in a wide range of sectors for many different organizations. The position responsibilities may be the same as that of a buyer or purchasing agent, or may include wider supervisory or managerial responsibilities. A Purchasing Manager may oversee the acquisition of materials needed for production, general supplies for offices and facilities, equipment, or construction contracts. A Purchasing Manager often supervises purchasing agents and buyers, but in small companies the Purchasing Manager may also be the purchasing agent or buyer. The Purchasing Manager position may also carry the title \"Procurement Manager\" or in the public sector, \"Procurement Officer\". He or she can come from both an Engineering or Economics background.\n\nA Purchasing Manager's responsibilities may include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51783746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51783746", "title": "Recruitee", "text": "Recruitee\n\nRecruitee is Software as a service (Saas) that functions as an applicant tracking system (ATS). It includes a careers site editor for employer branding, a plugin for sourcing (personnel), job board integration, email and calendar synchronization. Within 4 months after its public launch in August 2015, Recruitee attracted over 1000 small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and recruiting agencies worldwide.\n\nIn 2011, Perry Oostdam met Pawel Smoczyk on Founder2be, a social network that helps aspiring entrepreneurs find their co-founder. Working remotely from the Netherlands and Poland, they put together their first product - a mobile activation game called GeoRun.\n\nIn 2014, Oostdam and Smoczyk pivoted the business and built Recruitee out of their own frustration with the hassles of hiring. They believe hiring should be a team effort, not only for founders and HR alone.\n\nAfter its launch, Recruitee quickly became popular and got an undisclosed amount of seed funding in September 1, 2015. Its board members include Dutch entrepreneurs Robert Pijselman and Luc Brandts.\n\nIn November 2015, Recruitee announced a partnership with Rockstart, an accelerator in Amsterdam. Recruitee set up a Talent Pool that let applicants apply to job openings from all startups that are and were affiliated with Rockstart.\n\nRecruitee's current clients include Vice (magazine), Usabilla, and Vlisco.\n\nUsers can customize the hiring pipeline for each job opening. Users can drag and drop candidates' profiles to different stages as they move along the hiring process. Users can post job openings to free and paid job boards from Recruitee.\n\nUsers can bulk upload résumés, synchronize emails and calendars to Recruitee and Users can send bulk emails to candidates.\n\nUsers can import potential candidates from websites by using Recruitee's sourcing extension for Google Chrome and Firefox.\n\nUsers can make careers sites to showcase their employer branding like company, team, and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "50395663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50395663", "title": "Retail outsourcing", "text": "Retail outsourcing\n\nRetail outsourcing is a form of business process outsourcing practiced in retail, logistic and restaurant business. It involves the contracting of the operations and responsibilities of transportation, cooking, customer servicing or settlement of accounts business processes to a third-party service provider. Such provider bears the ultimate responsibility for the proper execution of the designated functions at stores, warehouses or catering facilities. The service supplier carries out the internal (back office) and front office duties including recruiting, training and legalizing human resources, tracking their job conduct, reporting and solving the problems, performing daily production tasks. Retail outsourcing is typically contracted for operational segments requiring large amounts of unskilled work force in such spheres as shipment, cash desk processing, counter servicing, bread baking, meat and fish cutting, cleaning, dish washing, packing, boxing or bundling.\n\nInitially, the concept of retail outsourcing has been conceived in Russia. It has fully matured by the end of the 2000s. Currently, retail outsourcing is practiced by all major Russian retailers. It accounts for more than 25% of their total business operations. Even the abolition of the contingent labor (2016) failed to impact these services significantly. It only put a ban on specific segments (primarily, cash desk processing) but left other parts almost intact.\n"}
{"id": "40905817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40905817", "title": "Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership", "text": "Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership\n\nList of Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership recipients is a compilation of United States government executives who have received the Jones Award from the American University School of Public Affairs, an institution of higher education and research located in Washington, D.C. that grants academic degrees in fields such as political science, public administration, public policy, and justice, law and society. First awarded in 1978, the award has been presented every year since then to two United States federal career executives who have shown leadership in the training of federal government managers and executives and in organizational abilities.\n\nThe awards namesake, Roger W. Jones (1908 – 1993), was a federal civil servant who helped direct the Office of Management and Budget in the 1940s and 1950s. In 1978, Bernard Rosen, a former United States Civil Service Commission executive director, graduate instructor at the American University, and subsequent author of the 1984 book \"Holding Government Bureaucracies Accountable,\" helped start American University's Roger W. Jones Award for Executive Leadership in federal government. In 2002, Victor J. Ferlise, United States Army Deputy to the Commanding General, Communications Electronic Command, received the award on September 24, which marked the 25th anniversary of the award.\n\n"}
{"id": "294216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294216", "title": "SWOT analysis", "text": "SWOT analysis\n\nSWOT analysis (or SWOT matrix) is a strategic planning technique used to help a person or organization identify strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats related to business competition or project planning. It is intended to specify the objectives of the business venture or project and identify the internal and external factors that are favorable and unfavorable to achieving those objectives. Users of a SWOT analysis often ask and answer questions to generate meaningful information for each category to make the tool useful and identify their competitive advantage. SWOT has been described as the tried-and-true tool of strategic analysis. \n\nStrengths and weakness are frequently internally-related, while opportunities and threats commonly focus on the external environment. The name is an acronym for the four parameters the technique examines:\nThe degree to which the internal environment of the firm matches with the external environment is expressed by the concept of strategic fit. Identification of SWOTs is important because they can inform later steps in planning to achieve the objective. First, decision-makers should consider whether the objective is attainable, given the SWOTs. If the objective is \"not\" attainable, they must select a different objective and repeat the process.\n\nSome authors credit SWOT to Albert Humphrey, who led a convention at the Stanford Research Institute (now SRI International) in the 1960s and 1970s using data from Fortune 500 companies. However, Humphrey himself did not claim the creation of SWOT, and the origins remain obscure.\n\nSWOT analysis aims to identify the key internal and external factors seen as important to achieving an objective. SWOT analysis groups key pieces of information into two main categories:\n\n\nAnalysis may view the internal factors as strengths or as weaknesses depending upon their effect on the organization's objectives. What may represent strengths with respect to one objective may be weaknesses (distractions, competition) for another objective. The factors may include all of the 4Ps as well as personnel, finance, manufacturing capabilities, and so on.\n\nThe external factors may include macroeconomic matters, technological change, legislation, and sociocultural changes, as well as changes in the marketplace or in competitive position. The results are often presented in the form of a matrix.\n\nSWOT analysis is just one method of categorization and has its own weaknesses. For example, it may tend to persuade its users to compile lists rather than to think about actual important factors in achieving objectives. It also presents the resulting lists uncritically and without clear prioritization so that, for example, weak opportunities may appear to balance strong threats.\n\nIt is prudent not to eliminate any candidate SWOT entry too quickly. The importance of individual SWOTs will be revealed by the value of the strategies they generate. A SWOT item that produces valuable strategies is important. A SWOT item that generates no strategies is not important.\n\nThe usefulness of SWOT analysis is not limited to profit-seeking organizations. SWOT analysis may be used in any decision-making situation when a desired end-state (objective) is defined. Examples include non-profit organizations, governmental units, and individuals. SWOT analysis may also be used in pre-crisis planning and preventive crisis management. SWOT analysis may also be used in creating a recommendation during a viability study/survey.\n\nSWOT analysis can be used effectively to build organizational or personal strategy. Steps necessary to execute strategy-oriented analysis involve identification of internal and external factors (using the popular 2x2 matrix), selection and evaluation of the most important factors, and identification of relations existing between internal and external features.\n\nFor instance, strong relations between strengths and opportunities can suggest good conditions in the company and allow using an \"aggressive\" strategy. On the other hand, strong interactions between weaknesses and threats could be analyzed as a potential warning and advice for using a \"defensive\" strategy.\n\nOne way of using SWOT is matching and converting. Matching is used to find competitive advantage by matching the strengths to opportunities. Another tactic is to convert weaknesses or threats into strengths or opportunities. An example of a conversion strategy is to find new markets. If the threats or weaknesses cannot be converted, a company should try to minimize or avoid them.\n\nAs part of the development of strategies and plans to enable the organization to achieve its objectives, that organization will use a systematic/rigorous process known as corporate planning. SWOT alongside PEST/PESTLE can be used as a basis for the analysis of business and environmental factors.\n\nIn many competitor analysis, marketers build detailed profiles of each competitor in the market, focusing especially on their relative competitive strengths and weaknesses using SWOT analysis. Marketing managers will examine each competitor's cost structure, sources of profits, resources and competencies, competitive positioning and product differentiation, degree of vertical integration, historical responses to industry developments, and other factors.\n\nMarketing management often finds it necessary to invest in research to collect the data required to perform accurate marketing analysis. Accordingly, management often conducts market research (alternately marketing research) to obtain this information. Marketers employ a variety of techniques to conduct market research, but some of the more common include:\n\nBelow is an example SWOT analysis of a market position of a small management consultancy with specialism in HRM.\n\nThe SWOT analysis has been used in community work as a tool to identify positive and negative factors within organizations, communities, and the broader society that promote or inhibit successful implementation of social services and social change efforts. It is used as a preliminary resource, assessing strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats in a community served by a nonprofit or community organization. This organizing tool is best used in collaboration with community workers and/or community members before developing goals and objectives for a program design or implementing an organizing strategy. The SWOT analysis is a part of the planning for social change process and will not provide a strategic plan if used by itself. After a SWOT analysis is completed, a social change organization can turn the SWOT list into a series of recommendations to consider before developing a strategic plan.\n\nStrengths and weaknesses (\"internal factors within an organization\"):\n\nOpportunities and threats (\"external factors stemming from community or societal forces\"):\n\nAlthough the SWOT analysis was originally designed as an organizational method for business and industries, it has been replicated in various community work as a tool for identifying external and internal support to combat internal and external opposition. The SWOT analysis is necessary to provide direction to the next stages of the change process. It has been used by community organizers and community members to further social justice in the context of Social Work practice.\n\nAs mentioned above, SWOT can be crucial to determining the success of a project, while factoring in funding, as well as accessibility and logic. Often, a city will spend a year weighing the Risk-benefits of a project before they even vote on it.\nElements to consider in a SWOT analysis include understanding the community that a particular organization is working with. This can be done via public forums, listening campaigns, and informational interviews. Data collection will help inform the community members and workers when developing the SWOT analysis. A needs and assets assessment is tooling that can be used to identify the needs and existing resources of the community. When these assessments are done and data has been collected, an analysis of the community can be made that informs the SWOT analysis.\n\nA SWOT analysis is best developed in a group setting such as a work or community meeting. A facilitator can conduct the meeting by first explaining what a SWOT analysis is as well as identifying the meaning of each term.\n\nOne way of facilitating the development of a SWOT analysis includes developing an example SWOT with the larger group then separating each group into smaller teams to present to the larger group after set amount of time. This allows for individuals, who may be silenced in a larger group setting, to contribute. Once the allotted time is up, the facilitator may record all the factors of each group onto a large document such as a poster board, and then the large group, as a collective, can go work through each of the threats and weaknesses to explore options that may be used to combat negative forces with the strengths and opportunities present within the organization and community. A SWOT meeting allows participants to creatively brainstorm, identify obstacles, and possibly strategize solutions/way forward to these limitations.\n\nThe uses of a SWOT analysis by a community organization are as follows: to organize information, provide insight into barriers that may be present while engaging in social change processes, and identify strengths available that can be activated to counteract these barriers.\n\n\"A SWOT analysis can be used to:\"\n\nThe SWOT analysis in social work practice framework is beneficial because it helps organizations decide whether or not an objective is obtainable and therefore enables organizations to set achievable goals, objectives, and steps to further the social change or community development effort. It enables organizers to take visions and produce practical and efficient outcomes that effect long-lasting change, and it helps organizations gather meaningful information to maximize their potential. Completing a SWOT analysis is a useful process regarding the consideration of key organizational priorities, such as gender and cultural diversity and fundraising objectives.\n\nSome findings from Menon et al. (1999) and Hill and Westbrook (1997) have suggested that SWOT may harm performance and that \"no-one subsequently used the outputs within the later stages of the strategy\". \n\nOther critiques include the misuse of the SWOT analysis as a technique that can be quickly designed without critical thought leading to a misrepresentation of strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats within an organization's internal and external surroundings. If a firm becomes preoccupied with a single strength, such as cost control, they can neglect their weaknesses, such as product quality.\n\nAnother limitation includes the development of a SWOT analysis simply to defend previously decided goals and objectives. This misuse leads to limitations on brainstorming possibilities and \"real\" identification of barriers. This misuse also places the organization’s interest above the well-being of the community. Further, a SWOT analysis should be developed as a collaborative with a variety of contributions made by participants including community members. The design of a SWOT analysis by one or two community workers is limiting to the realities of the forces, specifically external factors, and devalues the possible contributions of community members.\n\nOverall, managers should remember that SWOT is a starting point for discussion and cannot, in itself, show managers how to achieve a competitive advantage. Because the SWOT analysis is a snapshot of the firm at a particular moment in time, the analysis might obscure the fact that both the internal and external environment are rapidly changing.\n\nIn project management, the alternative to SWOT known by the acronym SVOR (Strengths, Vulnerabilities, Opportunities, and Risks) compares the project elements along two axes: internal and external, and positive and negative. It takes into account the mathematical link that exists between these various elements, considering also the role of infrastructures. The SVOR table provides an intricate understanding of the elements at play in a given project:\nConstraints consist of: calendar of tasks and activities, costs, and norms of quality. The \"k\" constant varies with each project (for example, it may be valued at 1.3).\n\nMany reports have been published about the use of SWOT by real life companies, and how the idea is spreading. Coca-Cola has used this in their television ads in order to effectively target a customer, such as appeal to senses.\n\nIn the \"Silicon Valley\" episode \"Homicide\" (Season 2, Episode 6), Jared Dunn (Zach Woods) introduces the Pied Piper team to SWOT analysis. Later in that episode Dinesh (Kumail Nanjiani) and Gilfoyle (Martin Starr) employ the method when deciding whether or not to inform a stunt driver that the calculations for his upcoming jump were performed incorrectly.\n\n"}
{"id": "5582851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5582851", "title": "Sales order", "text": "Sales order\n\nThe sales order, sometimes abbreviated as SO, is an order issued by a business or sole trader to a customer. A sales order may be for products and/or services. Given the wide variety of businesses, this means that the orders can be fulfilled in several ways. Broadly, the fulfillment modes, based on the relationship between the order receipt and production, are as follows:\n\n\nA sales order is an internal document of the company, meaning it is generated by the company itself. A sales order should record the customer's originating purchase order which is an external document. Rather than using the customer's purchase order document, an internal sales order form allows the internal audit control of completeness to be monitored. A sequential sales order number may be used by the company for its sales order documents. The customer's PO is the originating document which triggers the creation of the sales order. A sales order, being an internal document, can therefore contain many customer purchase orders under it. In a manufacturing environment, a sales order can be converted into a work order to show that work is about to begin to manufacture, build or engineer the products the customer wants.\n\nMany sales orders are no longer paper-based, but rather transmitted electronically over a corporate Intranet. These sales orders may be communicated across different enterprise business applications. The automated sales and purchase order process enables customers to place orders 24/7, even when offices are closed.\n\n\nThe steps involved in fulfilling the demands made in a sales order make up the order fulfillment process.\n\n"}
{"id": "20038219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20038219", "title": "SigFig (company)", "text": "SigFig (company)\n\nSigFig (formerly Wikinvest) is an investment portal that uses the wiki format. It is available online and via an app. Wikinvest was also a winner in the 2008 SXSW Interactive Web Awards.\n\nWikinvest was founded in 2006 by Parker Conrad and Michael Sha. As of November 2008, the site covered over 1800 companies and over 180 economic issues, and had around 1400 contributors. \n\nWikinvest also provided a syndication service for financial bloggers, the Wikinvest Wire. Additionally, the site's WikiCharts feature allowed financial charts to be annotated as well as embedded in other websites.\n\nContributions fell under two main categories, \"companies\" and \"concepts\". The former offered financial and business analysis on individual corporations, whereas the latter examined trends in broader economic issues. In addition to being an information resource for the public, the site's financial analysis has also been cited in mainstream business publications such as the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn May 2012, Wikinvest announced that it would be a portfolio tracking and investment adviser referral service with a new name, SigFig.\n\nAs of 2 June 2012, Wikinvest had 400,000 users. Parker Conrad and Michael Sha said that Wikinvest would eventually be phased out.\n\nAs of November, 2015, the Wikinvest website continues to work, but the mobile apps no longer function. Accounts are now mirrored to SigFig.com with the same username and password as the Wikinvest website, but with new, additional features available.\n\n"}
{"id": "498940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498940", "title": "Supervision", "text": "Supervision\n\nSupervision is an act or instance of directing, managing, or oversight.\n\nThe English noun \"supervision\" derives from the two Latin words \"super\" (above) and \"videre\" (see, observe).\n\nThe spelling is \"Supervision\" in Standard English of all English linguistic varieties, including North American English.\n\nSupervision is the act or function of overseeing something or somebody.\n\nA person who performs supervision is a \"supervisor\", but does not always have the formal title of supervisor. A person who is getting supervision is the \"supervisee\".\n\nGenerally, supervision contains elements of providing knowledge, helping to organize tasks, enhance motivation, and monitoring activity and results; the amount of each element is varying in different contexts.\n\nIn academia, supervision is aiding and guiding of a postgraduate research student, graduate student, or undergraduate student, in their research project; offering both moral support and scientific insight and guidance. The supervisor is often a senior scientist or scholar, and in some countries called doctoral advisor.\n\nIn business, supervision is overseeing the work of staff. The person performing supervision could lack a formal title or carry the title supervisor or manager, where the latter has wider authority.\n\nIn clinical supervision, the psychologist or psychiatrist has talk sessions with another professional in the field to debrief and mentally process the patient work.\nIn society, supervision could be performed by the state or corporate entities to monitor and control its citizens. Public entities often do supervision of different activities in the nation, such as bank supervision.\n\n"}
{"id": "13179109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13179109", "title": "TREX search engine", "text": "TREX search engine\n\nTREX is a search engine in the SAP NetWeaver integrated technology platform produced by SAP SE using columnar storage. The TREX engine is a standalone component that can be used in a range of system environments but is used primarily as an integral part of SAP products such as Enterprise Portal, Knowledge Warehouse, and Business Intelligence (BI, formerly SAP Business Information Warehouse). In SAP NetWeaver BI, the TREX engine powers the BI Accelerator, which is a plug-in appliance for enhancing the performance of online analytical processing. The name \"TREX\" stands for Text Retrieval and information EXtraction, but it is not a registered trademark of SAP and is not used in marketing collateral.\n\nTREX supports various kinds of text search, including exact search, boolean search, wildcard search, linguistic search (grammatical variants are normalized for the index search) and fuzzy search (input strings that differ by a few letters from an index term are normalized for the index search). Result sets are ranked using term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) weighting, and results can include snippets with the search terms highlighted.\n\nTREX supports text mining and classification using a vector space model. Groups of documents can be classified using query based classification, example based classification, or a combination of these plus keyword management.\n\nTREX supports structured data search not only for document metadata but also for mass business data and data in SAP Business Objects. Indexes for structured data are implemented compactly using data compression and the data can be aggregated in linear time, to enable large volumes of data to be processed entirely in memory.\n\nRecent developments include:\n\nThe first code for the engine was written in 1998 and TREX became an SAP component in 2000. The SAP NetWeaver BI Accelerator was first rolled out in 2005. As of Q1 2013, the current release of TREX is SAP NW 7.1.\n\nA security vulnerability in TREX was first identified and fixed in 2015 (see SAP Security Note 2234226). The vulnerability occurred due to lack of authentication in TREXnet, an internal communication protocol. The aforementioned patch fixed the problem by removing some critical functionality.\n\nLater on, ERPScan head of threat intelligence Mathieu Geli continued to look into the vulnerability and found that the vulnerability was still exploitable . Moreover, in case of successful attack, the vulnerability would allow a remote attacker to get full control over the server without authorization . The vulnerability has been finally patched via SAP Security Note 2419592.\n\n"}
{"id": "20715195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20715195", "title": "World Business Forum", "text": "World Business Forum\n\nThe World Business Forum is an annual global business summit held in New York City. A 2008 Burson-Marsteller survey ranked the forum among the world's top five most influential venues for C-Suite executives. The event is organized by WOBI, an executive education and management content firm.\n\nThe yearly summit brings together over 5,000 attendees, consisting mostly of senior executives, from over 60 countries to hear the debate and discussions of top political and business leaders as well as renowned intellectuals about the current issues and challenges of the world business environment and global economy.\n\nThe World Business Forum in New York City launched in 2004. Past speakers in the World Business Forum included political figures such as Bill Clinton, Kofi Annan, Rudy Giuliani, Tony Blair and Colin Powell, CEOs such as Jack Welch, Richard Branson, Herb Kelleher and John Chambers, financial experts Alan Greenspan and Jeremy Siegel as well as management experts Tom Peters, Peter Drucker and Michael Porter among others.\n\nSpeakers included:\n\n\n\n75% of attendees to the World Business Forum are at director level or above, and 30% are C-Suite executives.\n\nThe event is organized by WOBI, an executive education and management content firm which has been holding business conferences globally for over 20 years under the names World Business Forum and ExpoManagement. In addition to the World Business Forum in New York, WOBI organizes business forums around the world as well as other forums including the WOBI On Innovation.\n\n"}
{"id": "39443872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39443872", "title": "Young Achievers Award", "text": "Young Achievers Award\n\nThe Young Achievers Awards is a national competition held annually in Uganda which selects and promotes the best practice and excellence in youth creativity. By demonstrating a young person’s potential to create an outstanding nation built on entrepreneurship, YAA aims at recognizing Uganda’s leaders of tomorrow today. It provides an opportunity for people from all walks of life to work together to address national developmental challenges in ICT, the Arts, Health, Education, Gender and access to better lives.\n\nFounded in 2009 by two young entreprenuers, Awel Uwihanganye and Ivan Serwano Kyambadde, the Award was created as a platform to showcase Africa’s best talent as an encouragement in their quest to create economic opportunity, attain financial independence and improve their leadership abilities to ultimately play meaningful roles in managing the affairs of society.\n\n\n"}
