{"id": "7691988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7691988", "title": "Anthropological criminology", "text": "Anthropological criminology\n\nAnthropological criminology (sometimes referred to as criminal anthropology, literally a combination of the study of the human species and the study of criminals) is a field of offender profiling, based on perceived links between the nature of a crime and the personality or physical appearance of the offender. Although similar to physiognomy and phrenology, the term \"criminal anthropology\" is generally reserved for the works of the Italian school of criminology of the late 19th century (Cesare Lombroso, Enrico Ferri, Raffaele Garofalo). Lombroso thought that criminals were born with inferior physiological differences which were detectable. He popularized the notion of \"born criminal\" and thought that criminality was an atavism or hereditary disposition. His central idea was to locate crime completely within the individual and utterly divorce it from the surrounding social conditions and structures. A founder of the Positivist school of criminology, Lombroso opposed the social positivism developed by the Chicago school and environmental criminology.\n\nOn the other hand, Alphonse Bertillon (1853–1914) created a mugshot identification system for criminals prior to the invention of fingerprinting. Hans Gross (1847–1915), leading worker in the field of criminology was also involved in the development of the theory.\n\nThe theory of anthropological criminology was influenced heavily by the ideas of Charles Darwin (1809–1882). However, the influences came mainly from philosophy derived from Darwin's theory of evolution, specifically that some species were morally superior to others. This idea was in fact spawned by Social Darwinism, but nevertheless formed a critical part of anthropological criminology. The work of Cesare Lombroso was continued by Social Darwinists in the United States between 1881 and 1911.\n\nIn the 19th century, Cesare Lombroso and his followers, performed autopsies on criminals and declared that they had discovered similarities between the physiologies of the bodies and those of \"primitive humans\", monkeys and apes. Most of these similarities involved receding foreheads, height, head shape and size, and based on these Lombroso postulated the theory of the ‘born criminal’. Lombroso also declared that the female offender was worse than the male, as they had strong masculine characteristics.\n\nLombroso outlined 14 physiognomic characteristics which he and his followers believed to be common in all criminals: unusually short or tall height; small head, but large face; fleshy lips, but thin upper lip; protuberances (bumps) on head, in back of head and around ear; wrinkles on forehead and face; large sinus cavities or bumpy face; tattoos on body; receding hairline; bumps on head, particularly above left ear; large incisors; bushy eyebrows, tending to meet across nose; large eye sockets, but deep-set eyes; beaked or flat nose; strong jaw line; small and sloping forehead; small or weak chin; thin neck; sloping shoulders, but large chest; large, protruding ears; long arms; high cheek bones; pointy or snubbed fingers or toes.\n\nLombroso published several works regarding his work, \"L'Uomo Delinquente\", \"L'Homme Criminel (The Criminal Man)\", \"The Female Offender\" (original titled \"Criminal Woman, the Prostitute, and the Normal Woman\") and \"Criminal Man, According to the Classification of Cesare Lombroso\".\n\nDuring Lombroso's life, British scientist Charles Buckman Goring (1870–1919) was also working in the same area, and concluded that there were no noticeable physiological differences between law-abiding people and those who committed crimes. Maurice Parmelee, seen as the founder of modern criminology in America, also began to reject the theory of anthropological criminology in 1911, which led to its eventual withdrawal from the field of accepted criminology research.\n\nDespite general rejection of Lombroso's theories, anthropological criminology still finds a place of sort in modern criminal profiling. Historically (particularly in the 1930s) criminal anthropology had been associated somewhat with eugenics as the idea of a physiological flaw in the human race was often associated with plans to remove such flaws. This was found particularly in America, with the American Eugenics Movement between 1907 and 1939, and the Anti-miscegenation laws, and also in Germany during the Third Reich where 250,000 mentally disabled Germans were killed.\n\nCriminal anthropology, and the closely related study of Physiognomy, have also found their way into studies of social psychology and forensic psychology. Studies into the nature of twins also combines aspects of criminal anthropology, as some studies reveal that identical twins share a likelihood of criminal activities more so than non-identical twins. Lombroso's theories are also found in studies of Galvanic skin response and XYY chromosome syndrome.\n\n"}
{"id": "44661257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44661257", "title": "Art market", "text": "Art market\n\nThe art market is represented by a marketplace of buyers and sellers trading in the commodities, services, and works-of-art commonly associated with the various arts. The art market is also concerned with the production of new art which enters the art market. The art market is an example of one type of marketplace, among many different types of markets which occur in economics. In particular, the art market has many similarities with other marketplaces where buyers and sellers meet, as well as significant distinguishing factors indicative of its differences from other types of markets in economics.\n\nThe art market operates in an economic model that considers more than supply and demand: it is a hybrid type of prediction market where art is bought and sold for values based not only on a work's perceived cultural value, but on both its past monetary value as well as its predicted future value. The market has been described as one where producers don't make work primarily for sale, where buyers often have no idea of the value of what they buy, and where middlemen routinely claim reimbursement for sales of things they have never seen to buyers they have never dealt with. Moreover, the market is not transparent; private sales data is not systematically available and private sales represent about half of market transactions.\n\nUnlike the volumes in the securities market where millions of people and firms participate in buying and selling financial interests, or the commodities market where measures of raw or primary products are exchanged using standardized contracts, art market activity largely follows the demands of a more limited array of private collectors, museums, and large corporate interests as the principal market participants. Corporate collectors, however, can have a disparately large market impact, for instance, \"Spear's\" reported in 2015 that British Rail began investing in art for its pension fund beginning in 1974 (prior to privatization), spending about £40M or approximately 3% of its funds on art, before selling those assets between 1987–1999. British Rail's efforts realized profits, particularly due to the Impressionist portfolio, but the collection was liquidated because it came to be seen as an illegitimate investment area, particularly as alternative investments became available. Also, because original artworks are not fungible like stocks, they have valuation challenges not similarly affecting securities, with dynamics of what Karpik calls singularities.\n\nThus, because the art market's participants are far more limited in number than the securities or commodities markets, because artworks are not fungible, and because art valuation relies to a great extent on the advice and enthusiasm of a variety of specialized market analysts, these limitations each in turn dictate the size of the market and increase the risk that some items may be over or undervalued.\n\nThe art market moves in cycles with activity generally peaking in the spring and autumn when the major auction houses traditionally schedule auctions, and results in the market being seasonal rather than ongoing. While private sales take place all year, those sales are often not publicized as auctions are and thus do not affect the market until they become known.\n\nArt valuations made for an autumn auction may be unrealistic for the following spring auction season because fortunes in the financial markets during one season can affect the art market in the following season, and equity markets do significantly impact the art market. Volatility in the financial markets often causes volatility in the art market as happened in the contraction of the art market during the 2008-2009 recession when sales at Sotheby's, Christie's, and Phillips de Pury & Company were less than half the previous year: November 2008, $803.3 million compared to November 2007, $1.75 billion; and between 2000 and 2003 when the annual volume of art works sold at auction dropped 36%. In other instances, the art market can fare reasonably well despite volatility in the stock market such as happened from January 1997 through May 2004 when the average quarterly fluctuation in the Artprice Global Index was two to three times smaller than the same statistic for the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500.\n\nAs art market participants' fortunes wax and wane in the financial markets, buying power evolves and affects participants' ability to afford highly valued works, resulting in new buyers and sellers entering, leaving, or re-entering the market, and an artwork sold to offset losses in the financial market might be sold for substantially more or substantially less than its last at auction. In the late 1980s during the stock-market boom, the art market expanded in turn with prices soaring to new heights, and investment firms took a greater interest in the art market and began to study it in-depth. Concurrently, the previously non-transparent art market became more accessible via the increasing availability of indices and online data although researchers discovered biased price estimates in the auction houses.\n\nArt sometimes has transient fashionability that also can affect its value: what sells well for a time may be supplanted in the market by new styles and ideas in short order. For instance, in the spring of 2008 a collector offered over $80 million for Jeff Koons' stainless-steel \"Rabbit\", and yet a year later, of four works in the fall auctions at Christie's and Sotheby's in New York, only two of his pieces sold well and one failed to sell entirely. In 2011, Christie's sold Koons' \"Balloon Flower\" sculpture for $16.9 million.\n\nThe art market as a whole is affected by its two main parts: the primary art market, where new art comes to the market for the first time, and the secondary market, for existing art that has been sold at least once before. Once a work is sold on the primary market it enters the secondary market, and the prices for which it sold in the primary market have a direct bearing on the work's value in the secondary market. Supply and demand affect the secondary market more than the primary market because works new to the market, mainly contemporary art, have no market history for predictive analysis and thus valuation of such work is more difficult, and more speculative. Gallery, dealer, consultant, and agent promotion as well as collectors acting as alpha consumers (trend-setters) are the forces at work in valuing primary market works.\n\nAs with blue-chip stocks, works by \"blue-chip\" or well-known artists are generally valued more highly than works by unknown artists since it is hard to predict how an unknown artist's work will sell, or whether it will sell at all. High barriers to market entry for artists create scarcity in the supply and demand portion of the market, in turn driving up prices and raising questions of efficiency. While a high market entry barrier may result in having a smaller pool of artwork producers in the auction-level portion of the market, and in greater market predictability by virtue of that smaller pool and thus more reliable valuation measures, its axiomatic effect is of lesser artistic diversity negatively impacting the size of the buyer pool. For this reason, gallerists and art dealers consider what types of works are currently in vogue before deciding to represent a new artist and are highly selective in those choices in order to maintain a level of quality that is saleable. All these concerns are in play when gallerists set prices for emerging artists at a much lower level than for established artists.\n\nWith the 2007–2012 global financial crisis, the art market faced criticism for its lack of transparency, its Byzantine valuation methods, and a perceived lack of ethical behavior enabled by structural inadequacies in the market itself. In response, a 2009 debate occurred between valuation-setting members of the art market on the proposition that \"the art market is less ethical than the stock market\". At the end of the debate the audience determined that those debating in agreement with the proposition won the debate. Of particular note in the debate was the identification of \"chandelier bidding\" as a practice perceived as ethically questionable. The debaters described \"chandelier bidding\" as bids from the chandelier, or bids from an unknown source, meaning both the bidding by the auction houses on behalf of the sellers whose items the houses are auctioning (a conflict of interest), and bidding by unidentified bidders having no intention of buying but bidding in order to drive prices up, all practiced because the auction houses keep secret from bidders a seller's reserve price.\n\nIn 2011, also in response to criticism on the lack of market transparency and counterarguments that more transparency would ruin the market, \"The Art Newspaper\" in association with the Art Dealers Association of America convened an Art Industry Summit panel discussion between major art market decision makers, where panelists discussed whether there was a need for more transparency. The panelists argued over whether auction houses have built-in conflicts of interest by representing sellers with secret reserves, while at the same time representing to buyers initial valuations on those works at auction time. The debate also included the issue of first and third-party guaranteed bids, and whether sellers' reserve prices should be disclosed so that participants no longer bid on an object they have no chance of buying. In response to criticisms regarding chandelier bidding and unidentified third-party guaranteed bids, Christie's International chairman Edward Dolman countered that, without a secret reserve, illegal cartels of bidders would know in advance information that could facilitate their manipulation of the market and corruption of final valuation by selling price at auction.\n\nWith the art market's weaknesses (especially lack of transparency and conflicts of interests) becoming better known, serious external conversations about market regulation have begun among major market players; for example, the \"Financial Times\" noted that in early 2015, participants at the January World Economic Forum meeting attended a lunch seminar where the speaker warned that the global art market needs to be regulated because of systemic weaknesses which enable inside information trading, tax evasion, and money laundering.\n\nIn terms of academic research, there is work on the opacity of price formation in finance and economics.\n\nThe late 1980s were a boom period for art auction houses. However, in early 1990, the market collapsed. The US overtook the EU as the world's largest art market with a global share of 47 per cent by 2001. Ranking second, the UK's world market share hovers around 25 per cent. In continental Europe, France was the market leader while in Asia, Hong Kong continues its dominance. France’s share of the art market has been progressively eroded since the 1950s, when it was the dominant location and sales at Drouot surpassed those of Sotheby’s and Christie’s combined. In 2004, the global fine art market turnover was estimated at almost billion. Art auction sales reached a record billion in 2007, fueled by speculative bidding for artists such as Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons, and Richard Prince. The recent rise of the Chinese art market, both in terms of the size of its domestic sales and the international significance of its buyers, has, combined with a rich cultural heritage of art and antiques, produced a huge domestic market and ended the duopoly held by London and New York for over 50 years.\n\nChristie's and Sotheby's are the leading auction venues. In 2002, LVMH acquired Swiss art advisory firm de Pury & Luxembourg and merged it with Phillips to form Phillips de Pury & Company, with the aim of breaking the duopoly at the top of the market.\n\nFine art auctions are generally held separately for Impressionist and Modern art as well as for Post-war and Contemporary Art. Pablo Picasso's works remain the most coveted lot as of 2004. In 2008 just over million of art by Damien Hirst was sold at auction, a world record for a living artist; however in 2009, Hirst’s annual auction sales had shrunk by 93%.\n\n\"Estimates\" often reflect the consignor's ambitions as much as the auction specialist's considered opinion. They do not reflect commissions. To secure consignments, auction houses concede high estimates to suit the requirements of art owners. Before an auction, interested buyers typically turn for advice to the auction house specialist who quotes the estimate and often recommends going beyond in order to secure the item.\n\nAuction houses operate contractually on behalf of sellers of goods, charging sellers a fixed commission (fee) amounting to a percentage of the “hammer price” for which a lot is sold. Christie's published its commissions in September 1995, with its fees ranging from 20% on the least expensive lots to 2% on lots sold for over m; Sotheby's followed suit. For Phillips de Pury & Company, final prices include commission of 25% of the first 20% of the next to million, and 12% of the rest, with estimates not reflecting commissions.\nObjects sold are also subject to a further fee called the \"buyer's premium\", 15% being typical, with the term implying that by virtue of selling an object, the auction house performs a service for the buyer subject to remuneration. Thus, both the seller and the buyer of an object or lot sold by the major auction houses pay a fee. First implemented in 1975 by Christie's, the assessment of a buyer's premium is one of several auction-house practices to which art dealers object.\n\nBeginning in 2014, Christie's charged 2 percent of the hammer price of a work that meets or exceeds its high estimate. The fee does not apply to online only sales.\n\nAn auction house may offer a guaranteed selling price, or \"guaranteed minimum\", a practice designed to give sellers confidence to consign works and to give potential bidders reassurance that there are others willing to buy an item. Auction houses have offered guarantees since the early 1970s to encourage collectors to sell their artworks: \"The Art Newspaper\" reported that guarantees were first introduced in 1971 at Sotheby’s, when 47 Kandinskys and other works from the Guggenheim Museum were offered with a guaranteed minimum; similar arrangements followed in 1972 and 1973 for the Ritter and Scull collections. A guaranteed amount is generally close to the lower estimate, with the seller and the auction house sharing any amount exceeding the guaranteed minimum. In autumn 2008 when the market turned sour, Christie's and Sotheby's had to pay out at least million on works for which they guaranteed a minimum price but which failed to sell. In order to reduce their exposure to such losses, boost the market, and reduce volatility, the main auction houses now prefer that third parties take on this financial risk via \"third-party guarantees\" or \"irrevocable bids\": using this practice the auction houses sell a work to a third party for a minimum price prior to the auction and this selling price then becomes the “reserve” below which the artwork will not be sold. If bidding for specified works stops at the minimum price, which remains undisclosed, the \"third party\" acquires the lot; if bidding exceeds the reserve, the third party splits any profit from its sale with the consignor and with the auction house, the percentage going to each party varying with the deal. These proportions, never disclosed to the public, are negotiated before an auction and specified in the contract signed by the auction house and the third party.\n\nIn May 1999, Teo Spiller sold a web art project Megatronix to Ljubljana Municipal Museum, which was by the New York Times announced as the first sell of an Internet art net.art.\n\nIn 2003, Sotheby's abandoned its partnership with eBay after it lost millions through its various attempts to sell fine art over the internet.\nThe art market can also be used to understand what “counts” as part of art history. Art dealers and auctioneers organize material for distribution to collectors. Two of the largest, and oldest, art auction houses are Sotheby's and Christie's, and each hold frequent sales of great antiquities and art objects.\n\nIn addition to upstanding practices, a black market exists for great art, which is closely tied to art theft and art forgery. No auction houses or dealers admit openly to participating in the black market because of its illegality, but exposés suggest widespread problems in the field. Because demand for art objects is high, and security in many parts of the world is low, a thriving trade in illicit antiquities acquired through looting also exists. Although the art community nearly universally condemns looting because it results in destruction of archeological sites, looted art paradoxically remains omnipresent. Warfare is correlated with such looting, as is demonstrated by the recent archaeological looting in Iraq.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2230235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2230235", "title": "Asian American studies", "text": "Asian American studies\n\nAsian American Studies is an academic discipline which critically examines the history, experiences, culture, and policies relevant to Asian Americans. It is closely related to other Ethnic Studies disciplines, such as African American Studies, Latino/a Studies, and Native American Studies. \n\nAsian American Studies appeared as a field of intellectual inquiry in the late 1960s as a result of strikes by the Third World Liberation Front, a group of students of color at San Francisco State University and at the University of California, Berkeley, which demanded that college classroom instruction include the histories of people of color in the United States told from their perspectives. The demand for Ethnic Studies was a critical response to the Eurocentric bias in university curriculum. As a result, a College of Ethnic Studies (the only such \"college\" at any American university at the time) became established at San Francisco State University with American Indian Studies, Asian American Studies, Africana Studies, and Latino/a Studies as its four units, and four ethnic studies programs became established at the University of California, Berkeley. The Association for Asian American Studies, a professional organization designed to promote teaching and research in the field, was established in 1979.\n\nDrawing from numerous disciplines such as sociology, history, literature, political science, and gender studies, Asian American Studies scholars consider a variety of perspectives and employ diverse analytical tools in their work. Unlike \"Asian\" Studies which focuses on the history, culture, religion, etc. of Asian people living in Asia, Asian American Studies is interested in the history, culture, experiences, of Asians living in the United States.\n\nAcademic programs in Asian American Studies provide students with the opportunity to examine the history of Asian-Americans, which includes topics such as immigration and race-based exclusion policies. \n\nAsian American Studies provides an academic avenue for addressing issues of racial oppression, capitalism at home, and imperialism abroad. \n\nThe discourse also includes studies on how first- and second-generation Asian Americans deal with adjustment and assimilation, especially on their Americanization and aggressive pursuit of higher education and prestigious occupations in a society that still discriminates against them.\n\nAsian American Studies focuses on the identities, historical and contemporary experiences of individuals and groups in the United States. Concepts and issues that are crucial to this interdisciplinary curriculum include: Orientalism, diaspora, Asian American masculinity, Asian American femininity, cultural politics, and media representation.\n\n\nMajor Asian American Studies programs in California include those at UC Berkeley, UC San Diego, UC Santa Barbara, UC Irvine, UC Davis, San Francisco State University (SFSU), California State University, Long Beach, California State University, Northridge, California State University, Fullerton, City College of San Francisco, University of Southern California, The Claremont Colleges, and at UCLA.\n\nOutside of California, major programs include University of Washington, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, University of Maryland, College Park, University of Colorado, Hunter College, Cornell University, Binghamton University, Duke University and Columbia University. Other rising programs include Arizona State University, New York University, Northwestern University, University of Pennsylvania and University of Minnesota. Currently, several universities, including University of North Carolina, University of Virginia, Syracuse University, and many others are in the process of developing Asian American Studies departments. \n\nMaster of Arts in Asian American Studies programs are available at UCLA and SFSU.\n\nAt the time of its founding in 1987, the Asian American Studies Program at Cornell University was the first such program in the Ivy League and on the east coast. Today it has four core faculty members in the humanities and social sciences in a variety of departments and colleges. This cross-college, university-wide position accommodates the extensive teaching and research interests of the Program's faculty and reflects the breadth of the vibrant field of Asian American Studies in general. In the classroom, in scholarship, and through campus and community advocacy, the Program is committed to examining the histories and experiences; identities, social and community formations; politics; and contemporary concerns of people of Asian ancestry in the United States and other parts of the Americas.\n\nOn the East Coast, the State University of New York at Stony Brook created an Asian & Asian American Studies Department after a 52 million dollar donation by Charles B. Wang (the founder of Computer Associates). The Charles B. Wang Center is designed as a vital space for multi-disciplinary and multicultural dialogues. The building was officially presented to Stony Brook University by Charles B. Wang on October 22, 2002. It was the largest single private gift ever received by the State University of New York 64-campus system. The Wang Center is used for conferences, art exhibits, film festivals, lectures, seminars, and performances. It is open to all Stony Brook students, faculty, and staff as well as the surrounding community.\n\nHunter College, City University of New York, located in the Upper East Side in Manhattan is home to the only Asian American Studies Program in the CUNY system. The program was established in 1993 through student and faculty activism, with Peter Kwong as the inaugural director. Despite offering the largest number of Asian American Studies courses in New York City, Hunter College does not have an Asian American Studies department nor does it offer an Asian American Studies major. In 2006, when the program was under threat of being cut, student activists formed The Coalition for the Revitalization of Asian American Studies at Hunter to fight to keep Asian American Studies. The students succeeded in saving the minor program, and they continue to fight for an Asian American Studies major and department. \n\nQueens College, City University of New York, located in the neighborhood of Flushing in New York City, is home to the Asian/American Center. It was established to conduct research with community needs in mind. It serves as a hub for research into Asian American issues, particularly focusing on the Asian diaspora in the New York area, and offers a minor in Asian American Community Studies (AACS).\n\n"}
{"id": "14115009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14115009", "title": "Bokuseki", "text": "Bokuseki\n\nBokuseki (墨跡) is a Japanese term meaning \"ink trace\", and refers to a form of Japanese calligraphy (Shodo) and more specifically a style of Zenga developed by Zen monks. Bokuseki is often characterized by bold, assertive, and often abstract brush strokes meant to demonstrate the calligrapher’s pure state of mind (see Samadhi). The aim in making Bokuseki is to represent ones single-moment awareness by brushing each word or passage with a single breath, ultimately realizing Zen and manifesting ones Zazen practice into physical and artistic action. Fundamentally Bokuseki is a reflection of one's spontaneous action (see: Buddha-nature, katsu) free from one’s superficial or rationally oriented mind.\n\n"}
{"id": "1008869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1008869", "title": "Bricolage", "text": "Bricolage\n\nIn the arts, bricolage (French for \"DIY\" or \"do-it-yourself projects\") is the construction or creation of a work from a diverse range of things that happen to be available, or a work created by mixed media.\n\nThe term \"bricolage\" has also been used in many other fields, including anthropology, philosophy, critical theory, education, computer software, and business.\n\n\"Bricolage\" is a French loanword that means the process of improvisation in a human endeavor. The word is derived from the French verb \"bricoler\" (\"to tinker\"), with the English term DIY (\"Do-it-yourself\") being the closest equivalent of the contemporary French usage. In both languages, \"bricolage\" also denotes any works or products of DIY endeavors.\n\nInstrumental bricolage in music includes the use of found objects as instruments, such as:\n\n\nStylistic bricolage is the inclusion of common musical devices with new uses. Shuker writes, \"Punk best emphasized such stylistic bricolage\".\n\nMusical bricolage flourishes in music of sub-cultures where: \n\nUnlike other bricolage fields, the intimate knowledge of resources is not necessary. Many punk musicians, for instance, are not musically trained, because they believe training can discourage creativity in preference for accuracy. Also, careful observation and listening is not necessary, it is common in spontaneous music to welcome 'errors' and disharmony. Like other bricolage fields, bricolage music still values trusting one's ideas and self-correcting structures such as targeted audiences.\n\nIn art, bricolage is a technique or creative mode, where works are constructed from various materials available or on hand, and is seen as a characteristic of many postmodern works.\n\nThese materials may be mass-produced or \"junk\". See also: Merz, polystylism, collage, assemblage.\n\nBricolage can also be applied to theatrical forms of improvisation, where the main strategy is to use the environment and materials at hand. The environment is the stage and the materials are often pantomimed. The use of the stage and the imaginary materials are all made up on the spot, so the materials which are at hand are actually things that the players know from past experiences (i.e. an improvisation of ordering fast food: One player would start with the common phrase \"How may I help you?\").\n\nBricolage is also applied in interior design, through blending styles and accessorizing spaces with what is \"on hand\". Many designers use bricolage to come up with innovative and unique ideas.\n\nBricolage is considered the jumbled effect produced by the close proximity of buildings from different periods and in different architectural styles.\n\nIt is also a term that is admiringly applied to the architectural work of Le Corbusier, by Colin Rowe and Fred Koetter in their book \"Collage City\", suggesting that he assembled ideas from found objects of the history of architecture. This, in contrast to someone like Mies Van der Rohe, whom they called a \"hedgehog\", for being overly focused on a narrow concept.\n\nIn literature, bricolage is affected by intertextuality, the shaping of a text's meanings by reference to other texts.\n\nIn cultural studies bricolage is used to mean the processes by which people acquire objects from across social divisions to create new cultural identities. In particular, it is a feature of subcultures such as the punk movement. Here, objects that possess one meaning (or no meaning) in the dominant culture are acquired and given a new, often subversive meaning. For example, the safety pin became a form of decoration in punk culture.\n\nThe term \"psychological bricolage\" is used to explain the mental processes through which an individual develops novel solutions to problems by making use of previously unrelated knowledge or ideas they already possess. \nThe term, introduced by Jeffrey Sanchez-Burks, Matthew J. Karlesky and Fiona Lee of the University of Michigan, draws from two separate disciplines. The first, “social bricolage,” was introduced by cultural anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss in 1962. Lévi-Strauss was interested in how societies create novel solutions by using resources that already exist in the collective social consciousness. The second, \"creative cognition,” is an intra-psychic approach to studying how individuals retrieve and recombine knowledge in new ways. Psychological bricolage, therefore, refers to the cognitive processes that enable individuals to retrieve and recombine previously unrelated knowledge they already possess. Psychological bricolage is an intra-individual process akin to Karl E. Weick’s notion of bricolage in organizations, which is akin to Lévi-Strauss' notion of bricolage in societies.\n\nIn his book \"The Savage Mind\" (1962, English translation 1966), French anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss used \"bricolage\" to describe the characteristic patterns of mythological thought. In his description it is opposed to the engineers' creative thinking, which proceeds from goals to means. Mythical thought, according to Lévi-Strauss, attempts to re-use available materials in order to solve new problems.\n\nJacques Derrida extends this notion to any discourse. \"If one calls \"bricolage\" the necessity of borrowing one's concept from the text of a heritage which is more or less coherent or ruined, it must be said that every discourse is \"bricoleur\".\"\n\nGilles Deleuze and Félix Guattari, in their 1972 book \"Anti-Oedipus\", identify \"bricolage\" as the characteristic mode of production of the schizophrenic producer.\n\nIn the discussion of constructionism, Seymour Papert discusses two styles of solving problems. Contrary to the analytical style of solving problems, he describes bricolage as a way to learn and solve problems by trying, testing, playing around.\n\nJoe L. Kincheloe and Shirley R. Steinberg have used the term bricolage in educational research to denote the use of multiperspectival research methods. In Kincheloe's conception of the research bricolage, diverse theoretical traditions are employed in a broader critical theoretical/critical pedagogical context to lay the foundation for a transformative mode of multimethodological inquiry. Using these multiple frameworks and methodologies, researchers are empowered to produce more rigorous and praxiological insights into socio-political and educational phenomena.\n\nKincheloe and Steinberg theorize a critical multilogical epistemology and critical connected ontology to ground the research bricolage. These philosophical notions provide the research bricolage with a sophisticated understanding of the complexity of knowledge production and the interrelated complexity of both researcher positionality and phenomena in the world. Such complexity demands a more rigorous mode of research that is capable of dealing with the complications of socio-educational experience. Such a critical form of rigor avoids the reductionism of many monological, mimetic research orientations (see Kincheloe, 2001, 2005; Kincheloe & Berry, 2004; Steinberg, 2015; Kincheloe, McLaren, & Steinberg, 2012).\n\nIn information systems, bricolage is used by Claudio Ciborra to describe the way in which strategic information systems (SIS) can be built in order to maintain successful competitive advantage over a longer period of time than standard SIS. By valuing tinkering and allowing SIS to evolve from the bottom-up, rather than implementing it from the top-down, the firm will end up with something that is deeply rooted in the organisational culture that is specific to that firm and is much less easily imitated.\n\nIn her book \"Life on the Screen\" (1995), Sherry Turkle discusses the concept of bricolage as it applies to problem solving in code projects and workspace productivity. She advocates the \"bricoleur style\" of programming as a valid and underexamined alternative to what she describes as the conventional structured \"planner\" approach. In this style of coding, the programmer works without an exhaustive preliminary specification, opting instead for a step-by-step growth and re-evaluation process. In her essay \"Epistemological Pluralism\", Turkle writes: \"The bricoleur resembles the painter who stands back between brushstrokes, looks at the canvas, and only after this contemplation, decides what to do next.\"\n\nThe visual arts is a field in which individuals often integrate a variety of knowledge sets in order to produce inventive work. To reach this stage, artists read print materials across a wide array of disciplines, as well as information from their own social identities. For instance, the artist Shirin Neshat has integrated her identities as an Iranian exile and a woman in order to make complex, creative and critical bodies of work. This willingness to integrate diverse knowledge sets enables artists with multiple identities to fully leverage their knowledge sets. This is demonstrated by Jeffrey Sanchez-Burks, Chi-Ying Chen and Fiona Lee, who found that individuals were shown to exhibit greater levels of innovation in tasks related to their cultural identities when they successfully integrated those identities.\n\nKarl Weick identifies the following requirements for successful bricolage in organizations.\n\nNasim Nicholas Taleb mentions it in his book \"Antifragile\".\n\nIn his essay \"Subculture: The Meaning of Style\", Dick Hebdige discusses how an individual can be identified as a bricoleur when they \"appropriated another range of commodities by placing them in a symbolic ensemble which served to erase or subvert their original straight meanings\". The fashion industry uses bricolage-like styles by incorporating items typically utilized for other purposes. For example, candy wrappers are woven together to produce a purse. The movie \"Zoolander\" parodies this concept with \"Derelicte\", a line of clothing made from trash.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103075", "title": "Comedy club", "text": "Comedy club\n\nA comedy club is a venue—typically a nightclub, bar, casino, or restaurant—where people watch or listen to performances, including stand-up comedians, improvisational comedians, impersonators, impressionists, magicians, ventriloquists, and other comedy acts. The term \"comedy club\" usually refers to venues that feature stand-up comedy, as distinguished from improvisational theatres, which host improv or sketch comedy, and variety clubs (which may also host musical acts).\n\nComedy clubs are usually broken down by comedians into \"A rooms\", \"B rooms\", and \"C rooms\":\n"}
{"id": "3110733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3110733", "title": "Courtroom Workgroup", "text": "Courtroom Workgroup\n\nIn The United States criminal justice system, a Courtroom Workgroup is an informal arrangement between a criminal prosecutor, criminal defense attorney, and the judicial officer. This foundational concept in the academic discipline of criminal justice recharacterizes the seemingly adversarial courtroom participants as collaborators in \"doing justice.\" The courtroom workgroup was proposed by Eisenstein and Jacob in 1977 to explain their observations of the ways courts, especially lower level courts, actually come to decisions.\n\nBecause the courtroom workgroup deviates from the public consensus of how justice works, it has developed a deviant set of rules to continue its work and facilitate daily life for its participants. The academic theory of the courtroom workgroup has four cornerstone concepts that recognize this fact: Speed, Pragmatic Cynicism, Collegiality, and Secrecy. Efficient courtroom workgroups seek to process cases rather than dispense justice. This has been confirmed to greater and lesser extents in different courts. Defendants are assumed to be guilty. The procedural merits of the case are the true determinative factors of an outcome. Prosecutors and defense attorneys engage in a comparison of charges against possible procedural flaws and possible defenses to arrive at the going rate for a crime. These factors are used to determine how much punishment the plea bargain will offer. For example, group relationships and the desire to \"maintain\" a healthy working relationship are important to group members. The workings of the courtroom group and the \"going rate\" for given crimes are not matters for public disclosure. Estimates can be given to clients, but usually couched in terms of the prosecution's willingness to negotiate. (Summarized by O'Connor, T.R., 2005)\n\nThe courtroom workgroup is a mechanism for prosecutorial discretion. Various techniques are used to convince the defendant that the evidence against him or her is overwhelming. “Charge stacking” is a process by which police and prosecutors create a case with numerous charges or numerous instances of the same charge to convince the defendant that the risk of not pleading guilty is intolerable. The defendant may be convinced to plead guilty to a few of the charges in return for not being prosecuted for the remaining charges.\n\nThe courtroom workgroup is, in some sense, a response to a lack of resources for public defenders. Defense attorneys in public defender offices often do not have sufficient time to prepare a case in detail for all of their clients. Further, they often do not have the budget to fully investigate the facts of a case through either staff or private investigators. They often must rely solely on police reports for such information. In some jurisdictions, clients do not meet their attorneys until they are in court. Typically, public defenders will meet briefly with clients in holding facilities or jails. The defense attorney defends his or her client by seeking less punishment. Huemann (1977) indicates that many defense attorneys feel pressured to keep up with their caseloads. This pressure can manifest in the courtroom through rebukes by the judge for delays. Many subtle pressures combine to encourage participation in the courtroom workgroup.\n\nThe concept of a courtroom workgroup is associated with plea bargaining. The courtroom workgroup shows remarkable explanatory power in overburdened courts dealing with large caseloads. The courtroom workgroup model is best suited to explain jurisdictions where defense attorneys are more or less permanently assigned, but even occasionally appointed lawyers can participate in these practices. While many of the higher level prosecutions still follow the adversarial model, there is evidence that lower-level proceedings follow the courtroom workgroup model. Boland, Brady, Tyson, & Bassler (1983) indicate that approximately 90 percent of criminal cases are settled by plea bargain. This figure appears to be stable over the last twenty years (Rainville & Reaves, 2003). Some collaborative efforts on the part of the courtroom workgroup simply must be present to facilitate this high percentage of pleas.\n\n"}
{"id": "472872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472872", "title": "Cross-cultural studies", "text": "Cross-cultural studies\n\nCross-cultural studies, sometimes called holocultural studies or comparative studies, is a specialization in anthropology and sister sciences (sociology, psychology, economics, political science) that uses field data from many societies to examine the scope of human behavior and test hypotheses about human behavior and culture. Cross-cultural studies is the third form of cross-cultural comparisons. The first is comparison of case studies, the second is controlled comparison among variants of a common derivation, and the third is comparison within a sample of cases. Unlike comparative studies, which examines similar characteristics of a few societies, cross-cultural studies uses a sufficiently large sample so that statistical analysis can be made to show relationships or lack of relationships between the traits in question. These studies are surveys of ethnographic data.\n\nCross-cultural studies are applied widely in the social sciences, particularly in cultural anthropology and psychology.\n\nThe first cross-cultural studies were carried out by 19th-century anthropologists such as Edward Burnett Tylor and Lewis H. Morgan. One of Edward Tylor's first studies gave rise to the central statistical issue of cross-cultural studies: Galton's problem. In the recent decades historians and particularly historians of science started looking at the mechanism and networks by which knowledge, ideas, skills, instruments and books moved across cultures, generating new and fresh concepts concerning the order of things in nature. In \"Cross-Cultural Scientific Exchanges in the Eastern Mediterranean 1560–1660\" Avner Ben-Zaken has argued that cross-cultural exchanges take place at a cultural hazy locus where the margins of one culture overlaps the other, creating a \"mutually embraced zone\" where exchanges take place on mundane ways. From such a stimulating zone, ideas, styles, instruments and practices move onward to the cultural centers, urging them to renew and update cultural notions.\n\nThe modern era of cross-cultural studies began with George Murdock (1949). Murdock set up a number of foundational data sets, including the Human Relations Area Files, and the \"Ethnographic Atlas.\" Together with Douglas R. White, he developed the widely used Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, currently maintained by the open access electronic journal World Cultures.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "996149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=996149", "title": "Cultural system", "text": "Cultural system\n\nA cultural system, is the interaction of different elements in culture. While a cultural system is very different from a social system, sometimes both systems together are referred to as the sociocultural system.\n\nA major concern in the social sciences is the problem of order. One way that social order has been theorized is according to the degree of integration of cultural and social factors.\n\nTalcott Parsons, a major figure in sociology, who was the main originator of action theory in the early 20th century, based his sociological theory of action system is built up around a general theory of society, which is codified within a cybernetic model featuring four functional imperatives: adaptation, goal-attainment, integration, and pattern maintenance. The hierarchy of systems is, from least to most encompassing system, respectively, behavioral organism, personality system, social system, and cultural system as well. Ritzer and Goodman (2004) summarize Parsons view, \"Parsons saw these action systems acting at different levels of analysis, starting with the behavioral organism and building to the cultural system. He saw these levels hierarchically, with each of the lower levels providing the impetus for the higher levels, with the higher levels controlling the lower levels.\" In an article, late in life, Parsons maintained that the term \"functionalism\" was an inappropriate characterization of his theory.\n\nThe British Sociologist David Lockwood argued for a contrast between social content and social transmission in his work on social structure and agency. Noting that social systems were distinct in structure and transmission. Lockwood's conceptual distinction influenced Jürgen Habermas' discussion in the classic \"Legitimation Crises\", who made the now famous distinction between system integration and social integration of the lifeworld.\n\nMargaret Archer (2004) in a revised edition of her classic work \"Culture and Agency\", argues that the grand idea of a unified, integrated culture system, as advocated by early Anthropologists such as Bronisław Malinowski and later by Mary Douglas, is a myth. Archer reads this same myth through Pitirim Sorokin's influence and then Talcott Parsons' approach to cultural systems (2004:3). The myth of a unified, integrated cultural system was also advanced by Western Marxists such as by Antonio Gramsci through the theory of cultural hegemony through a dominant culture. Basic to these mistaken conceptions was the idea of culture as a community of meanings, which function independently in motivating social behavior. This combined two independent factors, community and meanings which can be investigated quasi-independently (2004:4)\n\nArcher, a proponent of critical realism, suggests that cultural factors can be objectively studied for the degree of compatibility (and that various aspects of cultural systems may be found to contradict each other in meaning and use). And, social or community factors in socialization may be studied in the context of the transmission of cultural factors by studying the social uniformity (or lack thereof) in the transmitted culture. Cultural systems are used (and inform society) both through idea systems and the structuring of social systems. To quote Archer in this regard:\n\nArcher notes that the opposite may be the case: low cultural logical consistency and high social consistency. Complex societies can include complex sociocultural systems that mix of cultural and social factors with various levels of contradiction and consistency.\n\nAccording to Burrowes (1996), in two recent approaches to the study of culture, in the 1980-1990s, the \"cultural studies\" and \"cultural indicators\" approaches, investigators explored the traditionally functionalist concern of \"cultural systems integration.\" These two approaches could be synthesized in the investigating cultural systems. Burrowes (1996) writes, \"If functionalism offers to this cross-fertilization a focus on the normative orders of society, the cultural indicators approach provides a rigorous methodology, and cultural studies caution a greater sensitivity to social hierarchies.\" Constrained by Merton's middle range theory [note: to be discussed here], the specification of cultural elements and social structures makes possible the investigation of specific cultural and social systems and their interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "58192248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58192248", "title": "Der Bäbu", "text": "Der Bäbu\n\nMarschner scored the opera for two piccolos and two flutes (not doubling), two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, three trombones, timpani, tamtam, and strings.\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "14269848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14269848", "title": "Destruction layer", "text": "Destruction layer\n\nA destruction layer is a stratum found in the excavation of an archaeological site showing evidence of the hiding and burial of valuables, the presence of widespread fire, mass murder, unburied corpses, loose weapons in public places, or other evidence of destruction, either by natural causes (for example earthquakes), or as a result of a military action.\n\nDestruction layers are often found associated with a change in subsequent pottery styles or material culture artefacts, indicating an invasion by a foreign people or intrusive element. Finding such destruction layers in a number of related sites may indicate a collapse of a state, especially if associated with an appearance of a markedly different culture in upper horizons.\n\nThe city of Troy shows two famous destruction layers, Level 2 (dated approximately 2200 BCE) and Level 7 (dated approximately 1200 BCE, and linked with the Trojan War). The destruction layers associated with Knossos in Crete was for a long time associated with the invasion of Archaeans led by Thesius, until it was proven by Michael Ventris that the Linear B syllabary was a form of early Greek language. The destruction of the cities of the Mycenaean Greece were for a long time associated with arrival of the Dorians, before closer excavation showed that these destructions were not contemporaneous, and in fact pre-dated the so-called \"Dorian invasions\" by a century or more. The volcanic explosion of Thera shows a destruction layer at the town of Akrotiri thought by some to have been the origins of the story of Atlantis. The cities of the Indus Valley Civilization, Mohenjo Daro and Harrappa show destruction layers associated with their subsequent abandonment, and for a long time this was attributed to Indo-Aryan invaders. The Hittite city of Hattusa and many sites of the Levant show a destruction layer at the end of the Bronze Age, as a part of the Bronze Age collapse, after which the sites were abandoned. Destruction layers form an important part of the study of Biblical archaeology.\n"}
{"id": "52813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52813", "title": "Dialectic", "text": "Dialectic\n\nDialectic or dialectics (, \"dialektikḗ\"; related to dialogue), also known as the dialectical method, is at base a discourse between two or more people holding different points of view about a subject but wishing to establish the truth through reasoned arguments. Dialectic resembles debate, but the concept excludes subjective elements such as emotional appeal and the modern pejorative sense of rhetoric. Dialectic may be contrasted with the didactic method, wherein one side of the conversation teaches the other. Dialectic is alternatively known as minor logic, as opposed to major logic or critique.\n\nWithin Hegelianism, the word \"dialectic\" has the specialised meaning of a contradiction between ideas that serves as the determining factor in their relationship. Dialectic comprises three stages of development: first, a thesis or statement of an idea, which gives rise to a second step, a reaction or antithesis that contradicts or negates the thesis, and third, the synthesis, a statement through which the differences between the two points is resolved. Dialectical materialism, a theory or set of theories produced mainly by Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, adapted the Hegelian dialectic into arguments regarding traditional materialism.\n\nDialectic tends to imply a \"process\" of evolution and so does not naturally fit within formal logic (see logic and dialectic). This process is particularly marked in Hegelian dialectic and even more so in Marxist dialectic which may rely on the evolution of ideas over longer time periods in the real world; dialectical logic attempts to address this.\n\nIn classical philosophy, dialectic () is a form of reasoning based upon dialogue of arguments and counter-arguments, advocating \"propositions\" (theses) and \"counter-propositions\" (antitheses). The outcome of such a dialectic might be the refutation of a relevant proposition, or of a synthesis, or a combination of the opposing assertions, or a qualitative improvement of the dialogue.\n\nMoreover, the term \"dialectic\" owes much of its prestige to its role in the philosophies of Socrates and Plato, in the Greek Classical period (5th to 4th centuries BCE). Aristotle said that it was the pre-Socratic philosopher Zeno of Elea who invented dialectic, of which the dialogues of Plato are the examples of the Socratic dialectical method.\n\nAccording to Kant, however, the ancient Greeks used the word \"dialectic\" to signify the logic of false appearance or semblance. To the Ancients, \"it was nothing but the logic of illusion. It was a sophistic art of giving to one's ignorance, indeed even to one's intentional tricks, the outward appearance of truth, by imitating the thorough, accurate method which logic always requires, and by using its topic as a cloak for every empty assertion.\"\n\nThe Socratic dialogues are a particular form of dialectic known as the method of elenchus (literally, \"refutation, scrutiny\") whereby a series of questions clarifies a more precise statement of a vague belief, logical consequences of that statement are explored, and a contradiction is discovered. The method is largely destructive, in that false belief is exposed and only constructive in that this exposure may lead to further search for truth. The detection of error does not amount to a proof of the antithesis; for example, a contradiction in the consequences of a definition of \"piety\" does not provide a correct definition. The principal aim of Socratic activity may be to improve the soul of the interlocutors, by freeing them from unrecognized errors; or indeed, by teaching them the spirit of inquiry.\n\nIn common cases, Socrates used enthymemes as the foundation of his argument.\n\nFor example, in the \"Euthyphro\", Socrates asks Euthyphro to provide a definition of piety. Euthyphro replies that the pious is that which is loved by the gods. But, Socrates also has Euthyphro agreeing that the gods are quarrelsome and their quarrels, like human quarrels, concern objects of love or hatred. Therefore, Socrates reasons, at least one thing exists that certain gods love but other gods hate. Again, Euthyphro agrees. Socrates concludes that if Euthyphro's definition of piety is acceptable, then there must exist at least one thing that is both pious and impious (as it is both loved and hated by the gods)—which Euthyphro admits is absurd. Thus, Euthyphro is brought to a realization by this dialectical method that his definition of piety is not sufficiently meaningful.\n\nFor example, in Plato's Gorgias, dialectic occurs between Socrates, the Sophist Gorgias, and two men, Polus and Callicles. Because Socrates' ultimate goal was to reach true knowledge, he was even willing to change his own views in order to arrive at the truth. The fundamental goal of dialectic, in this instance, was to establish a precise definition of the subject (in this case, rhetoric) and with the use of argumentation and questioning, make the subject even more precise. In the Gorgias, Socrates reaches the truth by asking a series of questions and in return, receiving short, clear answers.\nThere is another interpretation of the dialectic, as a method of intuition suggested in The Republic. Simon Blackburn writes that the dialectic in this sense is used to understand \"the total process of enlightenment, whereby the philosopher is educated so as to achieve knowledge of the supreme good, the Form of the Good\".\n\nAristotle stresses that rhetoric is closely related to dialectic. He offers several formulas to describe this affinity between the two disciplines: first of all, rhetoric is said to be a “counterpart” (antistrophos) to dialectic (Rhet. I.1, 1354a1); (ii) it is also called an “outgrowth” (paraphues ti) of dialectic and the study of character (Rhet. I.2, 1356a25f.); finally, Aristotle says that rhetoric is part of dialectic and resembles it (Rhet. I.2, 1356a30f.). In saying that rhetoric is a counterpart to dialectic, Aristotle obviously alludes to Plato's Gorgias (464bff.), where rhetoric is ironically defined as a counterpart to cookery in the soul. Since, in this passage, Plato uses the word ‘antistrophos’ to designate an analogy, it is likely that Aristotle wants to express a kind of analogy too: what dialectic is for the (private or academic) practice of attacking and maintaining an argument, rhetoric is for the (public) practice of defending oneself or accusing an opponent. The analogy to dialectic has important implications for the status of rhetoric. Plato argued in his Gorgias that rhetoric cannot be an art (technê), since it is not related to a definite subject, while real arts are defined by their specific subjects, as e.g. medicine or shoemaking are defined by their products, i.e., health and shoes.\n\nLogic, which could be considered to include dialectic, was one of the three liberal arts taught in medieval universities as part of the trivium; the other elements were rhetoric and grammar.\n\nBased mainly on Aristotle, the first medieval philosopher to work on dialectics was Boethius (480–524). After him, many scholastic philosophers also made use of dialectics in their works, such as Abelard, William of Sherwood, Garlandus Compotista, Walter Burley, Roger Swyneshed, William of Ockham, and Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThis dialectic (a \"quaestio disputata\") was formed as follows:\n\nThe concept of dialectics was given new life by Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (following Johann Gottlieb Fichte), whose dialectically synthetic model of nature and of history made it, as it were, a fundamental aspect of the nature of reality (instead of regarding the contradictions into which dialectics leads as a sign of the sterility of the dialectical method, as Immanuel Kant tended to do in his \"Critique of Pure Reason\"). In the mid-19th century, the concept of \"dialectic\" was appropriated by Karl Marx (see, for example, \"Das Kapital\", published in 1867) and Friedrich Engels and retooled in a dynamic, nonidealistic manner. It would also become a crucial part of later representations of Marxism as a philosophy of dialectical materialism. These representations often contrasted dramatically and led to vigorous debate among different Marxist groupings, leading some prominent Marxists to give up on the idea of dialectics completely.\n\nHegelian dialectic, usually presented in a threefold manner, was stated by Heinrich Moritz Chalybäus as comprising three dialectical stages of development: a thesis, giving rise to its reaction; an antithesis, which contradicts or negates the thesis; and the tension between the two being resolved by means of a synthesis. In more simplistic terms, one can consider it thus: problem → reaction → solution. Although this model is often named after Hegel, he himself never used that specific formulation. Hegel ascribed that terminology to Kant. Carrying on Kant's work, Fichte greatly elaborated on the synthesis model and popularized it.\n\nOn the other hand, Hegel did use a three-valued logical model that is very similar to the antithesis model, but Hegel's most usual terms were: Abstract-Negative-Concrete. Hegel used this writing model as a backbone to accompany his points in many of his works.\n\nThe formula, thesis-antithesis-synthesis, does not explain why the thesis requires an antithesis. However, the formula, abstract-negative-concrete, suggests a flaw, or perhaps an incompleteness, in any initial thesis—it is too abstract and lacks the negative of trial, error, and experience. For Hegel, the concrete, the synthesis, the absolute, must always pass through the phase of the negative, in the journey to completion, that is, mediation. This is the essence of what is popularly called Hegelian dialectics.\n\nAccording to the German philosopher Walter Kaufmann: Fichte introduced into German philosophy the three-step of thesis, antithesis, and synthesis, using these three terms. Schelling took up this terminology. \"Hegel did not.\" He never once used these three terms together to designate three stages in an argument or account in any of his books. And they do not help us understand his \"Phenomenology\", his \"Logic\", or his philosophy of history; they impede any open-minded comprehension of what he does by forcing it into a scheme which was available to him and which he deliberately spurned [...] The mechanical formalism [...] Hegel derides expressly and at some length in the preface to the \"Phenomenology\".\n\nKaufmann also cites Hegel's criticism of the triad model commonly misattributed to him, adding that \"the only place where Hegel uses the three terms together occurs in his lectures on the history of philosophy, on the last page but one of the section on Kant—where Hegel roundly reproaches Kant for having 'everywhere posited thesis, antithesis, synthesis'\".\n\nTo describe the activity of overcoming the negative, Hegel also often used the term \"Aufhebung\", variously translated into English as \"sublation\" or \"overcoming,\" to conceive of the working of the dialectic. Roughly, the term indicates preserving the useful portion of an idea, thing, society, etc., while moving beyond its limitations. (Jacques Derrida's preferred French translation of the term was \"relever\".)\n\nIn the \"Logic\", for instance, Hegel describes a dialectic of existence: first, existence must be posited as pure Being (\"Sein\"); but pure Being, upon examination, is found to be indistinguishable from Nothing (\"Nichts\"). When it is realized that what is coming into being is, at the same time, also returning to nothing (in life, for example, one's living is also a dying), both Being and Nothing are united as Becoming.\n\nAs in the Socratic dialectic, Hegel claimed to proceed by making implicit contradictions explicit: each stage of the process is the product of contradictions inherent or implicit in the preceding stage. For Hegel, the whole of history is one tremendous dialectic, major stages of which chart a progression from self-alienation as slavery to self-unification and realization as the rational constitutional state of free and equal citizens. The Hegelian dialectic cannot be mechanically applied for any chosen thesis. Critics argue that the selection of any antithesis, other than the logical negation of the thesis, is subjective. Then, if the logical negation is used as the antithesis, there is no rigorous way to derive a synthesis. In practice, when an antithesis is selected to suit the user's subjective purpose, the resulting \"contradictions\" are rhetorical, not logical, and the resulting synthesis is not rigorously defensible against a multitude of other possible syntheses. The problem with the Fichtean \"thesis–antithesis–synthesis\" model is that it implies that contradictions or negations come from outside of things. Hegel's point is that they are inherent in and internal to things. This conception of dialectics derives ultimately from Heraclitus.\n\nHegel stated that the purpose of dialectics is \"to study things in their own being and movement and thus to demonstrate the finitude of the partial categories of understanding.\"\n\nOne important dialectical principle for Hegel is the transition from quantity to quality, which he terms the Measure. The measure is the qualitative quantum, the quantum is the existence of quantity. \n\nAs an example, Hegel mentions the states of aggregation of water: \"Thus the temperature of water is, in the first place, a point of no consequence in respect of its liquidity: still with the increase or diminution of the temperature of the liquid water, there comes a point where this state of cohesion suffers a qualitative change, and the water is converted into steam or ice\". As other examples Hegel mentions the reaching of a point where a single additional grain makes a heap of wheat; or where the bald tail is produced, if we continue plucking out single hairs.\n\nAnother important principle for Hegel is the negation of the negation, which he also terms \"Aufhebung\" (sublation): Something is only what it is in its relation to another, but by the negation of the negation this something incorporates the other into itself. The dialectical movement involves two moments that negate each other, something and its other. As a result of the negation of the negation, \"something becomes its other; this other is itself something; therefore it likewise becomes an other, and so on ad infinitum\". Something in its passage into other only joins with itself, it is self-related. In becoming there are two moments: coming-to-be and ceasing-to-be: by sublation, i.e., negation of the negation, being passes over into nothing, it ceases to be, but something new shows up, is coming to be. What is sublated (\"aufgehoben\") on the one hand ceases to be and is put to an end, but on the other hand it is preserved and maintained. In dialectics, a totality transforms itself; it is self-related, then self-forgetful, relieving the original tension.\n\nMarxist dialectic is a form of Hegelian dialectic which applies to the study of historical materialism. It purports to be a reflection of the real world created by man. Dialectic would thus be a robust method under which one could examine personal, social, and economic behaviors. Marxist dialectic is the core foundation of the philosophy of dialectical materialism, which forms the basis of the ideas behind historical materialism.\n\nKarl Marx and Friedrich Engels proposed that Hegel's dialectic is too abstract: \n\nIn contradiction to Hegelian idealism, Marx presented his own dialectic method, which he claims to be \"direct opposite\" of Hegel's method: \n\nIn Marxism, the dialectical method of historical study became intertwined with historical materialism, the school of thought exemplified by the works of Marx, Engels, and Vladimir Lenin. In the USSR, under Joseph Stalin, Marxist dialectics became \"diamat\" (short for dialectical materialism), a theory emphasizing the primacy of the material way of life; social \"praxis\" over all forms of social consciousness; and the secondary, dependent character of the \"ideal\". The term \"dialectical materialism\" was coined by the 19th-century social theorist Joseph Dietzgen who used the theory to explain the nature of socialism and social development. The original populariser of Marxism in Russia, Georgi Plekhanov used the terms \"dialectical materialism\" and \"historical materialism\" interchangeably. For Lenin, the primary feature of Marx's \"dialectical materialism\" (Lenin's term) was its application of materialist philosophy to history and social sciences. Lenin's main input in the philosophy of dialectical materialism was his theory of reflection, which presented human consciousness as a dynamic reflection of the objective material world that fully shapes its contents and structure. Later, Stalin's works on the subject established a rigid and formalistic division of Marxist–Leninist theory in the dialectical materialism and historical materialism parts. While the first was supposed to be the key method and theory of the philosophy of nature, the second was the Soviet version of the philosophy of history.\n\nA dialectical method was fundamental to Marxist politics, e.g., the works of Karl Korsch, Georg Lukács and certain members of the Frankfurt School. Soviet academics, notably Evald Ilyenkov and Zaid Orudzhev, continued pursuing unorthodox philosophic study of Marxist dialectics; likewise in the West, notably the philosopher Bertell Ollman at New York University.\n\nFriedrich Engels proposed that Nature is dialectical, thus, in Anti-Dühring he said that the negation of negation is: \n\nIn \"Dialectics of Nature\", Engels said: \n\nMarxist dialectics is exemplified in \"Das Kapital\" (Capital), which outlines two central theories: (i) surplus value and (ii) the materialist conception of history; Marx explains dialectical materialism: \n\nClass struggle is the primary contradiction to be resolved by Marxist dialectics, because of its central role in the social and political lives of a society. Nonetheless, Marx and Marxists developed the concept of class struggle to comprehend the dialectical contradictions between mental and manual labor, and between town and country. Hence, philosophic contradiction is central to the development of dialectics the progress from quantity to quality, the acceleration of gradual social change; the negation of the initial development of the \"status quo\"; the negation of that negation; and the high-level recurrence of features of the original \"status quo\". In the USSR, Progress Publishers issued anthologies of dialectical materialism by Lenin, wherein he also quotes Marx and Engels: \n\nLenin describes his dialectical understanding of the concept of \"development\": \n\nDialectical naturalism is a term coined by American philosopher Murray Bookchin to describe the philosophical underpinnings of the political program of social ecology. Dialectical naturalism explores the complex interrelationship between social problems, and the direct consequences they have on the ecological impact of human society. Bookchin offered dialectical naturalism as a contrast to what he saw as the \"empyrean, basically antinaturalistic dialectical idealism\" of Hegel, and \"the wooden, often scientistic dialectical materialism of orthodox Marxists\".\n\nNeo-orthodoxy, in Europe also known as theology of crisis and dialectical theology, is an approach to theology in Protestantism that was developed in the aftermath of the First World War (1914–1918). It is characterized as a reaction against doctrines of 19th-century liberal theology and a more positive reevaluation of the teachings of the Reformation, much of which had been in decline (especially in western Europe) since the late 18th century. It is primarily associated with two Swiss professors and pastors, Karl Barth (1886–1968) and Emil Brunner (1899–1966), even though Barth himself expressed his unease in the use of the term.\n\nIn dialectical theology the difference and opposition between God and human beings is stressed in such a way that all human attempts at overcoming this opposition through moral, religious or philosophical idealism must be characterized as 'sin'. In the death of Christ humanity is negated and overcome, but this judgment also points forwards to the resurrection in which humanity is reestablished in Christ. For Barth this meant that only through God's 'no' to everything human can his 'yes' be perceived. Applied to traditional themes of Protestant theology, such as double predestination, this means that election and reprobation cannot be viewed as a quantitative limitation of God's action. Rather it must be seen as its \"qualitative definition\". As Christ bore the rejection as well as the election of God for all humanity, every person is subject to both aspects of God's double predestination.\n\nDialectics has become central to continental philosophy, but it plays no part in Anglo-American philosophy. In other words, on the continent of Europe, dialectics has entered intellectual culture as what might be called a legitimate part of thought and philosophy, whereas in America and Britain, the dialectic plays no discernible part in the intellectual culture, which instead tends toward positivism. A prime example of the European tradition is Jean-Paul Sartre's \"Critique of Dialectical Reason\", which is very different from the works of Popper, whose philosophy was for a time highly influential in the UK where he resided (see below). Sartre states:\n\nKarl Popper has attacked the dialectic repeatedly. In 1937, he wrote and delivered a paper entitled \"What Is Dialectic?\" in which he attacked the dialectical method for its willingness \"to put up with contradictions\". Popper concluded the essay with these words: \"The whole development of dialectic should be a warning against the dangers inherent in philosophical system-building. It should remind us that philosophy should not be made a basis for any sort of scientific system and that philosophers should be much more modest in their claims. One task which they can fulfill quite usefully is the study of the critical methods of science\" (Ibid., p. 335).\n\nIn chapter 12 of volume 2 of \"The Open Society and Its Enemies\" (1944; 5th rev. ed., 1966), Popper unleashed a famous attack on Hegelian dialectics in which he held that Hegel's thought (unjustly in the view of some philosophers, such as Walter Kaufmann) was to some degree responsible for facilitating the rise of fascism in Europe by encouraging and justifying irrationalism. In section 17 of his 1961 \"addenda\" to \"The Open Society\", entitled \"Facts, Standards and Truth: A Further Criticism of Relativism\", Popper refused to moderate his criticism of the Hegelian dialectic, arguing that it \"played a major role in the downfall of the liberal movement in Germany [...] by contributing to historicism and to an identification of might and right, encouraged totalitarian modes of thought. [...] [And] undermined and eventually lowered the traditional standards of intellectual responsibility and honesty\".\n\nThe philosopher of science and physicist Mario Bunge repeatedly criticized Hegelian and Marxian dialectics, calling them \"fuzzy and remote from science\" and a \"disastrous legacy\". He concluded: \"The so-called laws of dialectics, such as formulated by Engels (1940, 1954) and Lenin (1947, 1981), are false insofar as they are intelligible.\"\n\nIn the past few decades, European and American logicians have attempted to provide mathematical foundations for dialectical logic or argument. There had been pre-formal and partially-formal treatises on argument and dialectic, from authors such as Stephen Toulmin (\"The Uses of Argument\"), Nicholas Rescher (\"Dialectics\"), and van Eemeren and Grootendorst (pragma-dialectics). One can include the communities of informal logic and paraconsistent logic. However, building on theories of defeasible reasoning (see John L. Pollock), systems have been built that define well-formedness of arguments, rules governing the process of introducing arguments based on fixed assumptions, and rules for shifting burden. Many of these logics appear in the special area of artificial intelligence and law, though the computer scientists' interest in formalizing dialectic originates in a desire to build decision support and computer-supported collaborative work systems.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26384397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26384397", "title": "Dioscorus of Aphrodito", "text": "Dioscorus of Aphrodito\n\nFlavius Dioscorus ( \"Flauios Dioskoros\") lived during the 6th century A.D. in the village of Aphrodito, Egypt, and therefore is called by modern scholars Dioscorus of Aphrodito. Although he was an Egyptian, he composed poetry in Greek, the cultural language of the Byzantine Era. His poems are the oldest surviving poems written by the hand of a known poet. The manuscripts, which contain his corrections and revisions, were discovered on papyrus in 1905, and are now held in museums and libraries around the world. Dioscorus was also occupied in legal work, and legal documents and drafts involving him, his family, Aphroditans, and others were discovered along with his poetry. As an administrator of the village of Aphrodito, he composed petitions on behalf of its citizens, which are unique for their poetic and religious qualities. Dioscorus was a Christian (a Copt) and lived in a religiously active environment. The collection of Greek and Coptic papyri associated with Dioscorus and Aphrodito is one of the most important finds in the history of papyrology and has shed considerable light on the law and society of Byzantine Egypt.\n\nThe papyri of Dioscorus were discovered by accident in July 1905 in the village of Kom Ashkaw (also called Kom Ishgau, Kom Ishqaw, etc.), which was built above the ancient site of Aphrodito. An inhabitant was renovating his home when a wall collapsed and revealed a chasm below. Papyrus rolls and fragments were seen in the crevice, but by the time the Antiquities Service was notified and arrived, most of the papyrus was gone. During subsequent excavations, a large jar filled with papyrus was discovered in a Roman-style house. Important fragments of Athenian Comedy, both Old and New, were discovered among these papyri, including fragments of the famous comedy writer Menander. There were also fragments of Homer's Iliad and other literary works and reference works.\n\nMost importantly, the excavator Gustave Lefebvre unearthed an archive of sixth-century legal, business, and personal papers, and original poetry. These were turned over to the young scholar Jean Maspero, son of the Director of the Antiquities Service of Egypt, who edited and published the documents and poems in several journal articles and two volumes of the \"Catalogue général des antiquités égyptiennes du Musée du Caire: Papyrus grecs d’époque byzantine\" (Cairo 1911, 1913). Jean was killed in the battle at Vauquois on the Lorraine during World War I, and his father Gaston completed the third volume of Dioscorian papyri in 1916. Other Dioscorian papyri, obtained by antiquities dealers through sales and clandestine excavations, were published in Florence, London, Paris, Strasbourg, Princeton, Ann Arbor, the Vatican, etc.\n\nThe village of Kom Ashkaw is in Middle Egypt, south of Cairo and north of Luxor. It was originally an Egyptian city, but after Alexander the Great conquered Egypt in 332 B.C., it was given the Greek name \"Aphroditopolis\" (“The City of Aphrodite”) and was made the capital city of its \"nome\" (an administrative district, like a US county). Before the 6th century, however, Aphroditopolis lost its status as a city, and the capital of the \"nome\" was moved across the Nile River to Antaeopolis. The village of Aphrodito and the city of Antaeopolis were part of a larger, merged administrative district called the Thebaid, which was under the jurisdiction of a \"doux\", appointed by the Byzantine Emperor. The \"doux\" had his administrative center in Antinoopolis on the east bank of the Nile River.\n\nAphrodito was situated in an environment that was highly poetic and religious. Nonnus, the most influential poet of the Early Byzantine Era (A.D. 300–700), had come from Panopolis, 42 km. southeast of Aphrodito. Other poets from the Thebaid had not only become celebrities—such as Musaeus Grammaticus, Colluthus, and Christodorus—but also were part of a poetic revolution of that time. These poets, though Egyptians, wrote their verses in the Greek dialect of Homer, who had composed his Iliad and Odyssey more than a thousand years before them. Perhaps one of the reasons for this movement was to usurp the pagan vocabulary and style of the most honored ancient poet for Christian purposes. Dioscorus continued and developed this revolution by writing encomiastic poems (poems of praise) in an Homeric style. The community was also active religiously. According to the New Testament, Egypt was the first home of young Jesus and his family. And according to Patristic literature, Egypt was the birthplace of Christian monasticism. In Northern Egypt, the areas of Nitria, Kellia, and Wadi Natrun contained large monastic centers that attracted devout followers from both the Eastern and Western halves of the Byzantine Empire. In southern Egypt, one of the first Christian monasteries was established at Pbow, 127 km. southeast of Aphrodito. Less than 40 km. south of Aphrodito was the White Monastery, founded by the vigorous Coptic monk Shenoute. The father of Dioscorus himself, Apollos, established and later entered his own monastery. In fact, Aphrodito and its vicinity “boasted over thirty churches and nearly forty monasteries.”\n\nThere is no surviving record for the early years of Dioscorus. His father Apollos was an entrepreneur and local official. The commonly accepted date for the birth of Dioscorus is around A.D. 520. Although there is no evidence, it is likely that Dioscorus went to school in Alexandria, where one of his teachers might have been the Neoplatonic philosopher John Philoponus. Although Alexandria was not the most prominent place for a legal education – that was the city of Beirut – young men did travel there for rhetorical training preliminary to the study of law. These included the celebrated poet Agathias, a contemporary of Dioscorus, who at an early age published a successful collection of poems called the Cycle and later became the center of a circle of prominent poets in Constantinople.\n\nBack in Aphrodito, Dioscorus married, had children, and pursued a career similar to his father's: acquiring, leasing out, and managing property, and helping in the administration of the village. His first dated appearance in the papyrus is 543. Dioscorus had the assistant of the \"defensor civitatis\" of Antaeopolis examine the damage done by a shepherd and his flock to a field of crops, which was owned by the Monastery of Apa Sourous but managed by Dioscorus.\n\nDioscorus also became engaged in legal work. In 546/7, after his father Apollos died, Dioscorus wrote a formal petition to Emperor Justinian and a formal explanation to Empress Theodora about tax conflicts affecting Aphrodito. The village was under the special patronage of the Empress, and had been granted the status of \"autopragia\". This meant that the village could collect its own public taxes and deliver them directly to the imperial treasury. Aphrodito was not under the jurisdiction of the pagarch, stationed in Antaeopolis, who handled the public taxes for the rest of the \"nome\". Dioscorus's petition and explanation to the imperial palace described the pagarch's violations of their special tax status, including theft of the collected tax money.\n\nThe communications to Constantinople seem to have had little effect, and in 551 (three years after the death of Theodora), Dioscorus travelled with a contingency of Aphroditans to Constantinople to present the problem to the Emperor directly. Dioscorus may have spent three years in the capital of the Byzantine Empire. In poetry, the city was very active. Not only was Agathias now writing there, but also Paul the Silentiary and Romanus the Melodist. In respect to the Aphroditans' tax problems, Dioscorus was able to obtain an imperial rescript, three copies of which have survived in his archive. The Emperor instructs the Duke of the Thebaid to investigate and, if justified, to stop the aggressions of the pagarch. There is no evidence of further tax violations by the pagarch until after the death of Justinian in 565.\n\nIn 565/6 Dioscorus left Aphrodito for Antinoopolis, the capital city of the Thebaid and the residence of the \"doux\". He remained there for about seven years. His motivation for the move is nowhere made clear. But surmising from the surviving documents, one can conclude that he was attracted by the opportunity to advance his legal career in the proximity of the Duke and likewise was compelled by the increasing violence of the pagarch against Aphrodito and his own family. The legal documents from that period show that Dioscorus wrote the final will for the Surgeon General (Phoebammon), arbitrated in family property disputes, composed marriage and divorce contracts, and continued writing petitions about the offenses of the pagarch. One such petition, P.Cair.Masp. I 67002, describes how a group of Aphroditans on their way to the annual cattle market were ambushed. They were eventually put into a prison in Antaeopolis, under the control of the pagarch Menas, where they were tortured and robbed and their animals were seized. Menas and his men then attacked the village of Aphrodito itself: he blocked the irrigation, extorted money, burned down homes, and violated the nuns. All these crimes were committed in the name of collecting the public taxes, although Aphrodito had never failed a payment and Menas had no right to collect them. A formal explanation, P.Lond. V 1677, describes the attacks by Menas on Dioscorus himself and his family. He seized property owned by Dioscorus and transferred it to his assistants, leaving Dioscorus with only the tax liability. Menas proceeded to pillage the home of Dioscorus's brother-in-law and seized his land too, reducing him and his family to poverty. He then arrested Dioscorus's own son.\n\nBefore May 574, Dioscorus left Antinoopolis. The reason for his departure is not explained. It might have been related to domestic affairs, to his career, or to the changed situation in Constantinople. The violent crimes against Aphrodito and Dioscorus (described above) were committed under the reign of Justin II, who had launched a savage persecution of Christians that did not adhere to Chalcedonian dogmas, including Egyptian Copts. But Justin went completely insane and abdicated, and in 574, Tiberius and Empress Sophia, the wife of Justin, took over the management of the Byzantine Empire.\n\nBack home in Aphrodito, it seems that Dioscorus withdrew from legal affairs and administrative responsibilities. Much of his poetry was composed during his stay in Antinoopolis or after he had returned to Aphrodito. His documents now focus on mundane, rural activities. His last dated document, a land lease written by his hand in an account book, is April 5, 585.\n\nDioscorus might have recited his poems and circulated them locally, but there is no evidence that they were ever published during his lifetime. Jean Maspero published the first collection of Dioscorian poems in 1911: “Un dernier poète grec d’Égypte: Dioscore, fils d’Apollôs.” This journal article included the texts of 13 poems, French translations, and an analysis of the style. Then between 1911 and 1916, Jean and Gaston Maspero republished the poems along with Dioscorian documents in three volumes of \"Papyrus grecs d'époque byzantine\". These poems were all part of the papyrus collection owned by the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. In 1962, Ernst Heitsch published 29 Dioscorian poems that were among papyrus fragments held in a variety of museums and libraries. For over thirty-five years, this was the authoritative edition. The most comprehensive edition at the present time is by Jean-Luc Fournet, who in 1999 published 51 Dioscorian poems and fragments (including 2 that he considered of dubious authenticity). In addition to the texts and commentaries offered by Maspero, Heitsch, Fournet, and the initial editors of other poems, a comprehensive study of his poetry was published by Leslie MacCoull in 1988: \"Dioscorus of Aphrodito: His Work and His World\" (Berkeley). Clement Kuehn published a reinterpretation of his poetry in 1995: \"Channels of Imperishable Fire: The Beginnings of Christian Mystical Poetry and Dioscorus of Aphrodito\" (New York).\n\nThe reactions by modern readers to his poetry have varied widely. The papyrologists and historians that first examined them were not impressed. Influenced by their backgrounds in Classical poetry, they compared the Dioscorian verses primarily to Classical standards. The most frequent objection was that his verses were obscure: the editors thought that the lines did not make sense – or at least, were not saying what the editors expected them to say. A more positive assessment was offered by Leslie MacCoull, who insisted that a reader must take Dioscorus’s Coptic background into consideration when reading the poetry. Many of the poems seemed to be praising unknown dignitaries – including an Emperor and several Dukes – and some papyrologists concluded that Dioscorus wrote the poems to get favors from government administrators (whom the papyrologists vaguely and inconsistently identified). Clement Kuehn, however, proposed that the poems be viewed not from a Classical, Hellenistic, or even a strictly Egyptian perspective, but through a lens of Byzantine culture and spirituality, in which Dioscorus and the Thebaid were so deeply immersed. Kuehn demonstrated that the poems fit neatly and masterfully into the allegorical style that was pervasive in the pictoral art and literature of the Early Byzantine Era. That is: Dioscorus, influenced by allegorical commentaries on the Homeric epics and Bible, and by the allegorical icons and church art of the 6th century, was praising Christ, Old Testament patriarchs, and the saints in heaven as if they were the Emperor, kings, and dignitaries in a Byzantine court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47802272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47802272", "title": "Edgelands", "text": "Edgelands\n\nEdgelands are the transitional, liminal areas of space to be found on the boundaries of country and town - with the spread of urbanisation, an increasingly important facet of the twenty-first century world.\n\nThe concept of Edgelands was introduced by Marion Shoard in 2002, to cover the disorganised but often fertile hinterland between planned town and over-managed country. However a century and a half earlier, Victor Hugo had already highlighted the existence of what he called \"bastard countryside...ugly but bizarre, made up of two different natures, which surrounds certain great cities\"; while Richard Jeffries similarly explored the London edgeland in \"Nature near London\" (1883).\nAlice Coleman (Kings College London, dept geography) in 2nd Land Use Survey of Great Britain, refers to \"rurban fringe\". Indicating a similar landscape but with negative overtones.\n\nNevertheless it was only in the last decades of the twentieth century - as a distinct realm of Nature increasingly disappeared beneath the commodifying impact of globalising late capitalism - that the significance of the unstructured borderlands between organised town and organised country, part man-made, part natural, both for wildlife and for human exploration, came into fuller focus. Psychogeography charted the London orbital, while bombsites, canal banks and brownfield sites were documented in poetry and prose, film and photography; and the borderlands as an untapped, transgressive resource became almost the object of a new cult.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1571749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571749", "title": "Ethnic studies", "text": "Ethnic studies\n\nEthnic studies, in the United States, is the interdisciplinary study of difference—chiefly race, ethnicity, and nation, but also sexuality, gender, and other such markings—and power, as expressed by the state, by civil society, and by individuals. Ethnic studies is an academic field that spans the humanities and the social sciences, it emerged as an academic field in the second half of the 20th century partly in response to charges that traditional social science and humanities disciplines such as anthropology, history, literature, sociology, political science, cultural studies, and area studies which were conceived from an inherently Eurocentric perspective. Its origin, then, lies in the civil rights era, when ethnic studies was originally conceived to re-frame the way that specific disciplines had told the stories, histories, struggles and triumphs of people of color on what was seen to be their own terms. In recent years, it has broadened its focus to include questions of representation, racialization, racial formation theory, and more determinedly interdisciplinary topics and approaches.\n\nIn the United States, the field of ethnic studies evolved out of the Civil Rights Movement during the 1960s and early 1970s, which contributed to growing self-awareness and radicalization of people of color such as African-Americans, Asian Americans, Latino Americans, and American Indians. Ethnic studies departments were established on college campuses across the country and have grown to encompass African American Studies, Asian American Studies, Raza Studies, Chicano Studies, Mexican American Studies, and Native American Studies, as well as Jewish-American Studies and Italian-American Studies.\nThe first strike demanding the establishment of an Ethnic Studies department occurred in 1968, led by the Third World Liberation Front (TWLF), a joint effort of the Black Student Union, Latin American Students Organization, Asian American Political Alliance, Pilipino American Collegiate Endeavor, and Native American Students Union at San Francisco State University. This was the longest student strike in the nation's history, and resulted in the establishment of a School of Ethnic Studies. President S. I. Hayakawa ended the strike after taking a hardline approach,when he appointed Dr. James Hirabayashi the first dean of the School (now College) of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University, and increased recruiting and admissions of students of color in response to the strike's demands. In 1972, The National Association for Ethnic Studies was founded to foster interdisciplinary discussions for scholars and activists concerned with the national and international dimensions of ethnicity encouraging conversations related to anthropology, Africana Studies, Native Studies, Sociology and American Studies among other fields.\n\nMinority students at The University of California at Berkeley- united under their own Third World Liberation Front, the TWLF, initiated the second longest student strike in the history of this country on January 22, 1969. The groups involved were the Mexican American Student Confederation, Asian American Political Alliance, African American Student Union, and the Native American group. The four co-Chairmen of the TWLF were Ysidro Macias, Richard Aoki, Charlie Brown, and LaNada Means.\n\nThis strike at Berkeley was even more violent than the San Francisco State strike, in that more than five police departments, the California Highway Patrol, Alameda County Deputies, and finally, the California National Guard were ordered onto the Berkeley campus by Ronald Reagan in the effort to quash the strike. The excessive use of police force has been cited with promoting the strike by the alienation of non-striking students and faculty, who protested the continual presence of police on the Berkeley campus. The faculty union voted to join the strike on March 2, and two days later the Academic Senate called on the administration to grant an interim Department of Ethnic Studies. On March 7, 1969, President Hitch authorized the establishment of the first Ethnic Studies Department in the country, followed by the establishment of the nation's first College of Ethnic Studies at San Francisco State University on March 20, 1969. \n\nCourses in ethnic studies address perceptions that, because of the Eurocentric bias and racial and ethnic prejudice of those in power, American historians have systematically ignored or undervalued the roles of such ethnic minorities as Asian Americans, Blacks, Mexicans, Latinos and Native Americans. Ethnic studies also often encompasses issues of intersectionality, where gender, class, and sexuality also come into play. There are now hundreds of African American, Asian American, Mexican American and Chicano/Latino Studies departments in the US, approximately fifty Native American Studies departments, and a small number of comparative ethnic studies programs. College students, especially on the East Coast, continue to advocate for Ethnic Studies departments. The Ethnic Studies Coalition at Wellesley College, the Taskforce for Asian and Pacific American Studies at Harvard University, and CRAASH at Hunter College are among student organizations calling for increased institutional support for Ethnic Studies. Ethnic studies as an institutional discipline varies by location. For instance, whereas the Ethnic Studies Department at UC Berkeley comprises separate \"core group\" departments, the department at UC San Diego does not do so.\n\nWhile early ethnic studies scholarship focused on the repressed histories and identities of various groups in the U.S., the field of study has expanded to encompass transnationalism, comparative race Studies, and postmodernist/poststructuralist critiques. While pioneering thinkers relied on frameworks, theories and methodologies such as those found in the allied fields of sociology, history, literature and film, scholars in the field today utilize multidisciplinary as well as comparative perspectives, increasingly within an international or transnational context. Central to much Ethnic Studies scholarship is understanding how race, class, gender, sexuality, ability, and other categories of difference intersect to shape the lived experiences of people of color, what the legal scholar Kimberle Crenshaw calls intersectionality. \n\nMost recently, \"whiteness\" studies has been included as a popular site of inquiry in what is a traditionally academic field for studying the racial formation of communities of color. Instead of including whites as another additive component to ethnic studies, whiteness studies has instead focused on how the political and juridical category of white has been constructed and protected in relation to racial \"others\" and how it continues to shape the relationship between bodies of color and the State. As Ian Haney-Lopez articulates in \"White By Law: The Legal Construction of Race\", the law has functioned as the vehicle through which certain racialized groups have been included or excluded from the category of whiteness across time, and thus marked as inside or outside the national imaginary (read as white) and the privileges that result from this belonging. Important to whiteness studies, according to scholars such as Richard Dyer, is understanding how white bodies are both invisible and hypervisible, and how representations of whiteness in visual culture reflect and, in turn, shape a persistent commitment to white supremacy in the U.S. even as some claim the nation is currently a colorblind meritocracy. In addition to visual culture, space also reproduces and normalizes whiteness. The sociologist George Lipsitz argues that whiteness is a condition rather than a skin color, a structured advantage of accumulated privilege that resurfaces across time spatially and obscures the racism that continues to mark certain bodies as out of place and responsible for their own disadvantage. Such attention to geography is an example of the way ethnic studies scholars have taken up the study of race and ethnicity across almost all disciplines using various methodologies in the humanities and social sciences.\n\nIn general, an \"Ethnic Studies approach\" is loosely defined as any approach that emphasizes the cross-relational and intersectional study of different groups. George Lipsitz again is important here, in demonstrating how the project of anti-black racism defines the relationship between the white spatial imaginary and other communities of color. Thus the redlining of the 1930s that prevented upwardly mobile African Americans from moving into all-white neighborhoods also forced Latino and Asian bodies into certain spaces.\n\nEthnic studies exists in dialogue—and occasional tension—with a variety of related fields and disciplines.\n\nIn the case of traditional disciplines, ethnic studies often confronts resistance if not outright hostility to its mission. With many departments clinging to the ideal of objective and detached scholarship, the field is generally seen as a more politicized (and therefore, for some, a more troubling) form of academic inquiry. This hostility reflects, in some cases, a disinterest in the diversification of subject areas and the preservation of historically prominent fields. In the case of interdisciplinary fields, as ethnic studies has moved from a study of specific racial and ethnic groups towards the scrutiny of power dynamics, it has grown closer to fields like African American studies, Asian American studies, Native American studies, Latin@ studies, and American studies. Even more recently, ethnic studies has grown philosophically and politically closer to LGTBQ studies.\n\n\"Ethnic Studies\" is often housed within departments or units with many different names. Teaching units often have a range of different names—Critical Ethnic Studies, Comparative American Cultures, Ethnic Studies, or American Studies and Ethnicity—for curricula and faculty who are gathered together under the same set of academic interests. A wide variety of curricula are employed in the service of each of these rubrics. Occasionally, the gap between American Studies and Ethnic Studies can be productively bridged, especially in departments where the bulk of faculty focus on race and ethnicity, difference and power. But that bridgework can be troublesome, obscuring one foci and sharpening the emphasis on another.\n\nAs a consequence of this great variation, though, ethnic studies needs to be understood within its specific institutional context. And, despite considerable financial (and often political) pressure to consolidate or eliminate ethnic studies within American Studies—or to house Native American studies, Latin@ studies, and Asian American studies within either ethnic studies or American Studies—the relationships between these fields should be considered within each institution's governing eco-system.\n\nThe National Association for Ethnic Studies was founded in 1972 by several scholars who wanted to study race through an interdisciplinary approach. It was initially named the National Association of Interdisciplinary Studies for Native-American, Black, Chicano, Puerto Rican, and Asian Americans. The organization was officially renamed in 1985. It is the oldest ethnic studies association in the United States.\n\nFrom its founding, the organization has strived to promote scholarship, research, and curriculum design for its members. The organization hosts an annual conference.\n\nNAES also publishes the Ethnic Studies Review, a peer-reviewed journal for scholarship in ethnic studies.\n\nThe Critical Ethnic Studies Association began with its first conference in March 2011 at the University of California Riverside, Critical Ethnic Studies and the Future of Genocide: Settler colonialism/Heteropatriarchy/White Supremacy. This prompted the people who had organized and partaken in the conference to form the association. The second conference then took place in September 2013 at the University of Illinois Chicago and it was themed, Decolonizing Future Intellectual Legacies and Activist Practices. The third conference took place from April 30-May 2015 at York University in Toronto and it is titled, Sovereignties and Colonialisms: Resisting Racism, Extraction and Dispossession.\n\nIn some instances, ethnic studies has become entrapped within and similar to the mandates of liberal multiculturalism, which relies on politics beholden to US nation-building and capitalist imperatives. Ethnic studies is in a difficult position, because as it gets more legitimizes within the academy, it has frequently done so by distancing itself from the very social movements that were the triggers for its creation. On the other hand, ethnic studies departments have always existed on the margins of the academic industrial complex, and become further marginalized through funding cuts due to the 2008 global economic crisis. Instead of just dismissing or wholly embracing identitarian nationalism, CESA seeks to construct an open dialogue around issues like white supremacy, settler colonialism, capitalism, and heteropatriarchy, militarism, occupation, indigenous erasure, neocolonialism, anti-immigration anti-Islam, etc. in order to expand the parameters and capacities of ethnic studies.\n\nCESA's goal is not to romanticize all movements or dictate a specific relationship between scholars and activists. Instead, it questions the emphasis of professionalization within ethnic studies, the politics of the academic industrial complex, or the engagement of larger movements for social transformation. It recognizes that at times Ethnic Studies has been complicit in neutralizing the university, rather than questioning the university's ideologies actions, knowledge, and power. It works to situate the university as a point of contention, as a location among many for political struggles. CESA invites participation from all types of people: scholars, students, activists, arts, media makers, and educators of all fields, generations, and disciplines. The Critical Ethnic Studies Association was founded as a transnational, interdisciplinary, and un-disciplinary association of scholars, activists, students, artists, media makers, educators, and others who are directly concerned with interrogating the limitations of ethnic studies in order to better engage the historical stakes of the field. It organizes projects and programs to reimagine ethnic studies and its future through new interventions, both scholarly and activist based. They aim to develop an approach to scholarship, institution building, and activism animated by the spirit of the decolonial, antiracist, and other global liberationist movements that enabled the creation of Ethnic Studies in the first place. It hopes that this approach will continue to inform its political and intellectual projects.\n\nThere is a huge emphasis on counteracting institutional marginalization, revisiting the ideas that prompted the creation of ethnic studies, and to create new conversations that challenge US hegemony in traditional ethnic studies. Their goals include establishing an interdisciplinary network of scholars and activists stimulating debate on critical ethnic studies, providing forums such as the biannual conference or dialogues thought seminars, social media, etc. There is also a focus on publishing a journal, \"Critical Ethnic Studies\", for new scholarships, and to facilitate dialogues that is critical and constructive between activist and academics.\n\nUnless noted otherwise, each school's respective program is titled as \"Ethnic Studies\". \n\nCentral Washington University Ethnic Studies minor\nArizona\n\nCalifornia\n\nColorado\n\nConnecticut\n\nDistrict of Columbia\n\nHawai'i\n\nIdaho\n\nIowa\n\nIllinois\n\nKansas\n\nMassachusetts\n\nMichigan\nMinnesota\n\nNebraska\n\nNew Hampshire\n\nNew York\n\nOhio\n\nOregon\n\nPennsylvania\n\nRhode Island\n\nTexas\n\nThailand\n\nUtah\n\nVermont\n\nWashington\n\nWisconsin\n\n\nWhile ethnic studies courses have had a presence throughout high schools in Southwest states, there have been attacks on the discipline in the past couple of years, with the state of California never fully enforcing such courses in its high schools. However, students and educators of school districts across Southern California are pushing towards implementing ethnic studies courses into school requirements. The El Rancho Unified School District (ERUSD), which serves the area of Pico Rivera, became the first school district in California to require an ethnic studies class as part of its students' graduation requirement in 2014. The ethnic studies resolution in ERUSD was both drafted and proposed by ERUSD's board President, Aurora Villon and Vice President, Jose Lara and was presented as an effort to \"expose ... students to global perspectives and inclusion of diversity\". This graduation requirement for ERUSD high school students is expected to be fully implemented by the 2015–2016 academic school year.\n\nIn a similar move, Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) will also begin to require ethnic studies courses in its high schools and will include such courses in its A-G graduation requirements. In November 2014, the LAUSD board approved a resolution proposed by board members Bennett Kayser, George McKenna and Steve Zimmer. The ethnic studies curriculum will begin as a pilot program in at least five high schools. It is expected that by the 2017–2018 academic school year, every high school will offer at least one course in ethnic studies and the class would be compulsory by the time the class of 2019 graduates. While LAUSD board members proposed the resolution, many students took on the efforts by creating petitions and rallies in support of the ethnic studies resolution.\n\nThe New York State government has implemented the Dignity for All Students Act (DASA) which requires administrative, supervisory, and student service personnel to be trained in \"Harassment, Bullying, Cyber bullying, and Discrimination in Schools: Prevention and Intervention\". In this case, ethnic studies is framed through the lens of \"bullying\" as an challenge for minority students to get the most out of their education in a safe classroom environment. For the creators of DASA, bullying has the potential to disrupt a student's bodily and emotional safety.\n\nDASA aims to do the following:\n\n\nSee the section below titled \"Arizona ban.\"\n\n\n\nEthnic studies has always been opposed by different elements. Proponents of ethnic studies feel that this is a reactionary movement from the right. They note the rise of the conservative movement during the 1990s in the United States, in which the discipline came increasingly under attack. For proponents, the backlash is an attempt to preserve \"traditional values\" of Western culture, symbolized by the United States. For some critics, this is a slant by proponents to disparage criticism by false association to right wing ideology. They have no objection about African, Latino or Native American culture being legitimate topics of academic research. What they object to is the current state of ethnic studies which they see as characterized by excessive left wing political ideology, postmodernist relativism which, in their view, greatly undermined the scholarly validity of the research. However, ethnic studies is accused of promoting \"racial separatism\", \"linguistic isolation\" and \"racial preference\".\n\nIn 2005, Ward Churchill, a professor of ethnic studies at University of Colorado at Boulder, came under severe fire for an essay he wrote called \"On the Justice of Roosting Chickens\", in which he claimed that the September 11 attacks were a natural and unavoidable consequence of what he views as unlawful US policy, and referred to the \"technocratic corps\" working in the World Trade Center as \"little Eichmanns\". Conservative commentators used the Churchill affair to attack ethnic studies departments as enclaves of \"anti-Americanism\" which promote the idea of ethnic groups as \"victims\" in US society, and not places where serious scholarship is done.\n\nIn the face of such attacks, ethnic studies scholars are now faced with having to defend the field. In the media, this takes form of characterising the attack as right wing reactionary movement. For example, Orin Starn, a cultural anthropologist and specialist in Native American Studies at Duke University, says: \"The United States is a very diverse country, and an advocate would say we teach kids to understand multiculturalism and diversity, and these are tools that can be used in law, government, business and teaching, which are fields graduates go into. It promotes thinking about diversity, globalization, how we do business and how we work with nonprofits.\"\n\nIn reaction to criticisms that ethnic studies academics undermine the study of a unified American history and culture or that ethnic studies are simply a \"colored\" version of American Studies, defenders point out that ethnic studies come out of the historically repressed and denied presence of groups within the U.S. knowledge-production, literature and epistemology. Efforts to merge ethnic studies with American studies have been met with fierce opposition as was the case at UC Berkeley. While the field is already decades old, the ongoing creation of new ethnic studies departments is fraught with controversy. Administrators at Columbia University attempted to placate student protests for the creation of an Ethnic Studies Department in 1996 by offering American Studies as a compromise.\n\nOn May 11, 2010, Arizona Governor Jan Brewer signed House Bill 2281 (also known as HB 2281 and A.R.S. §15–112), which prohibits a school district or charter school from including in its program of instruction any courses or classes that\nBut the law must still allow:\n\nComing off the heels of SB 1070, Superintendent of Public Instruction Tom Horne was adamant about cutting Mexican-American Studies in the Tucson Unified School District. He devised HB 2281 under the belief that the program was teaching \"destructive ethnic chauvinism and that Mexican American students are oppressed\". In January 2011, Horne reported TUSD to be out of compliance with the law. In June of that year, the Arizona Education Department paid $110,000 to perform an audit on the TUSD's program, which reported \"no observable evidence was present to suggest that any classroom within the Tucson Unified School District is in direct violation of the law.\" John Huppenthal (elected Superintendent as Horne became Attorney General) ordered the audit as part of his campaign promise to \"Stop La Raza\", but when the audit contradicted his own personal findings of noncompliance, he discredited it. Despite a formal appeal issued on June 22, 2011 by TUSD to Huppenthal, Judge Lewis Kowal backed the Superintendent's decision and ruled the district out of compliance in December, 2011. On January 10, 2012 the TUSD board voted to cut the program after Huppenthal threatened to withhold 10% of the district's annual funding. Numerous books related to the Mexican-American Studies program were found in violation of the law and have been stored in district storehouses, including Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\", Paolo Freire's \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed\", and Bill Bigelow's \"\"Rethinking Columbus: The Next 500 Years\".\n\nSupporters of MAS see HB 2281 as another attack on the Hispanic population of Arizona. This is due partly to the fact that none of the other three ethnic studies programs were cut. Support for the ethnic studies programs subsequently came from scholars, community activist groups, etc. For example, The Curriculum Audit of the Mexican American Studies Department refuted all of the violations under House Bill 2281. The audit instead recommended that the courses be implemented further, given the positive impacts of the courses on the students. In addition to the defense of the ethnic studies department, the UN Charter of Human Rights challenges the bill as a violation of fundamental human, constitutional, and educational rights (Kunnie 2010). A 2011 documentary, Precious Knowledge directed by Ari Palos and produced by Eren McGinnis for Dos Vatos Productions, argues that while 48% of Hispanic students drop out, TUSD's program had become a model of national success, with 93% of enrolled students graduating and 85% going on to college. The film shows a 165-mile community run from Tucson to Phoenix in protest of the state's decision, as well as student-led marches and stand-ins. \nIn one instance, students overtook a board meeting by chaining themselves to the board members' chairs. A student protest group, UNIDOS (United Non-Discriminatory Individuals Demanding Our Studies), has remained active speaking out before legislators and school board members on behalf of the program. In a separate case, two students and 11 teachers sued the state, contending that the law is unconstitutional. The teachers, however, have been denied standing in the lawsuit as public employees.\n\nThe Mexican American Studies course was first brought under attack after the Deputy Superintendent of Public Education gave a speech to students, countering an allegation that \"Republicans hate Latinos.\" The students walked out of the speech, and Tom Horne, the Superintendent, blamed the rudeness of the students on the teachers from their Mexican American Studies courses. He called for removal of the courses. When his call was not answered, he made an effort for a bill to be put into law banning Mexican American Studies courses.\n\nHouse Bill 2281, which prohibited the Mexican American Studies courses, was approved in December 2010. In an effort to enforce the bill, the district court gave the Superintendent of the school district the right to withhold funding to schools that continue to teach the ethnic studies course. Judge Kowal ruled the course “biased, political, and emotionally charged,” and upheld both the bill and the withholding of funding from schools.\n\nAn appeal was filed in October 2010. The initial appeal was challenging House Bill 2281 for violation of First Amendment (for viewpoint discrimination) and Fourteenth Amendment (for void-for-vagueness) rights. This initial appeal was filed by 10 teachers, the director of the Mexican American Studies program, and 3 students and their parents. Once the students graduated, 2 dropped their appeals, and the teachers and program director were dismissed for want of standing in January 2012. This left one student and her father on the appeal.\n\nIn March 2013, the appeals court ruled only in favor of the plaintiffs on the grounds that there was a First Amendment overbreadth violation to House Bill 2281. The plaintiffs decided to further appeal the case.\n\nOn July 7, 2015, the appeal on the ban of the Mexican American Studies, \"Maya Arce vs Huppenthal\", reached a federal appeals court. Overseen by Judge Rakoff, the court reversed part of what the district court had ruled on banning the course. Judge Rakoff looked at the 4 categories (listed above) that constitute which classes are prohibited.\n\nRakoff's statement said that House Bill 2281 was created with the Mexican American Studies course in mind. Since the Mexican American studies course was the only course in Arizona to be banned, it became clear that the bill had targeted the one course. This led the court to find the bill to be partially unconstitutional as it did not require similar Mexican American Studies courses outside of the Tucson Unified School District to cease teaching the courses. The bill also did not ban African American Studies courses that were being taught.\n\nRakoff's final ruling affirmed part of the bill to be unconstitutional regarding the plaintiff's First Amendment right. However, Rakoff upheld the district court's ruling that the bill is not overbroad. Rakoff sent part of the appeal back to the district court to review the claim that the bill is discriminatory.\n\nIn August 2017, a different federal judge found that the bill was motivated by discriminatory intent, and struck down the ban on ethnic studies as unconstitutional. The judge felt that the ban had been passed \"not for a legitimate educational purpose, but for an invidious discriminatory racial purpose and a politically partisan purpose.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30530623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30530623", "title": "Ethnocinema", "text": "Ethnocinema\n\nEthnocinema, from Jean Rouch’s \"cine-ethnography\" and \"ethno-fictions\", is an emerging practice of intercultural filmmaking being defined and extended by Melbourne, Australia-based writer and arts educator, Anne Harris, and others. Originally derived from the discipline of anthropology, ethnocinema is one form of ethnographic filmmaking that prioritises mutuality, collaboration and social change. The practice's ethos claims that the role of anthropologists, and other cultural, media and educational researchers, must adapt to changing communities, transnational identities and new notions of representation for the 21st century.\n\nEthno-cinematographers have also been associated with American historian James Clifford who has asserted that “all ethnographic representations are partial truths”. Collaborative ethnographic film and video projects are created with the intention of going beyond \"preserving\", \"empowering\" or \"giving voice\" to marginalised cultures, ethnicities, communities or individuals. According to theorists, such voices already have agency and share community or agendas with ethnocinematic filmmakers. Ethnocinematic films primarily document \"relationships\" between filmmakers from different cultures, or subcultures, who now share common space of a political, philosophical, geographical or virtual nature.\nEthno-cinematographers include Jean Rouch, Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and, indigenous filmmakers such as Australian Essie Coffey who collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works.\n\nTobing Rony identifies three modalities in early ethnographic representation including “ethnographic inscription” (Regnault), “taxidermic mode” (Flaherty’s \"Nanook\"), and “self-reflexive” (Rouch’s films of the 1950s). Of these, Rouch’s films are closest to being the forerunners of contemporary ethnocinema. Many film theorists and ethnohistorians have helped to define an evolving ethnographic film in the late 20th century, among them American Bill Nichols.\n\nEthnocinema is typical of a shift toward destabilizing traditional notions of representation, both in the West/North and in cultures and communities which had historically been the subjects of such films, and in which indigenous and diasporic peoples are taking control of their own representations, or working (as in ethnocinema) in intercultural collaboration. In addition to Rouch, this includes the work of such ethnographers and intercultural filmmakers as Trinh T. Minh-ha, Harald Prins, David and Judith MacDougall, Faye Ginsburg, Timothy Asch and others. More recently, indigenous filmmakers such as Essie Coffey (Australia) are collaborating interculturally to create ethnocinematic works. Working against the observational cinema tradition, these filmmakers are all acknowledging and deconstructing Minh-ha’s observation that “Everywhere we go, we become someone’s private zoo”, and theorists like Harris continue to draw on her work.\n\nOther examples of early attempts to define ethnocinema include the 1972 \"ethnocinematic experiment\" of Sol Worth and John Adair documented in \"American Indians and the ethnocinematic complex: From native participation to production control\", in which seven co-participants of Navajo heritage were given video cameras and asked to make films which were ‘Indian’; these films, however, were framed by essentialising notions of Other and did not seek to go beyond the researcher/researched dichotomy. Tobing Rony (1996) and Sam Pack (2000) consider developments in Indigenous media in relation to the anthropological notion of “native authenticity” and why such essentialising notions are increasingly irrelevant in the 21st century’s ethnocinematic context. Yet the ability to truly collaborate in ethnographic research remains a contentious notion in anthropological and other circles, as ethnographic documentary scholar Jay Ruby asserts; what he calls \"Ethnographic Cinema\" must, he claims “be the work of academically educated and academically employed socio-cultural anthropologists”. By Ruby’s reckoning, what is emerging as ethnocinema has almost nothing to do with ethnographic films. By this definition, even Jean Rouch doesn’t qualify.\n\nConversely, Rouch encouraged the potential of ethnographic film as a “celebration of a relationship” between filmmaker and imaged, in which the “rapport and participation” between both parties enhances any end-product that is collectively achieved. Loizos’s claim (like Ruby’s) that contemporary filmmakers blur the lines between \"authentic\" ethnography and general documentary seems increasingly out of place. Traditional ethnographic filmmaking as a tool of anthropological researchers seeking to bring the stories of “distant peoples to audiences in North America and Europe” is increasingly outmoded in a culture of YouTube and social networking sites screaming for video content.\n\nThe confusion continues. By 2006, there are still scant references to ethnocinema and they frequently conflict. One online blog characterises a Burmese festival as “a surrealist anti-documentary, with no voice-over, odd visual juxtapositions, and none of the quasi-academic tone that afflicts so much \"official ethno cinema\"”. An abstract for an academic paper on the ritual branding of Andean cattle in Peru refers to the paper as an “ethnocinematographical study in which we reinterpret, with and in the film” the acts which they have recorded filmically, using the video cameras as “observation instruments”, none of which characterizes contemporary ethnocinematic work.\n\nSeveral recent European film festivals list among their offerings the category of ethnocinema, without giving examples or defining the term. Still other contemporary film festivals appear to use the terms \"ethnographic\" and \"ethnocinematic\" interchangeably, which only adds to the confusion. In 2001, \"Notes From the Underground\", Goran Gocić’s insider look at the filmmaker Emir Kusturica, appeared in which he discusses what he alternatively calls \"ethno-cinema\" and then just \"ethno\". A \"Modern Language Association Review\" article opined, \"The appeal of Kusturica's films … is that of \"ethno\" cinema, a cinema rooted in local traditions but expressed in \"Western\" form. This liberal political engagement with exotic subject matter is nonetheless, argues Gocić, an empowerment of the marginal.\"\n\nand from a far less favourable online book review:\nhe invests considerably more time to embracing instead his own recurring but vague references to 'ethno-cinema' as a base context from which Kusturica is operating (and by which Gocic seems to mean to have it both ways: indulging in exoticism and critiquing others' supposed essentializing). The only specific examples he offers to define this category are a handful of big budget Hollywood films involving Native Americans.\"\n\nGocić himself says that, “inside film history itself, ethno cinema is the most exciting cinematic concept that the world has had to offer in the past two decades: aesthetically, it is difficult to argue against”. However, throughout the text his attempts to define ethnocinema contradict and obscure any practical working definition. Gocić identifies \"ethno\" as having been around since the 1950s and as being typified by a sense of the “local”, including local motifs, but frequently made for a Western audience. Surprisingly, only nine pages later he locates the birth of \"ethno cinema\" “in the late 1970s and early 1980s solely judging by the Cannes winners, which were Italian at the end of the 1970s”.\n\nGocić does attempt to characterise and define his version of \"ethno cinema\" with the following: “nostalgia,” (as a search for the “‘lost ‘authenticity’ of primitivism”), “intertextuality, openness and subjectivity (as postmodern characteristics), incredulity (or denial of ideology), and ‘double coding' or unexpected, surrealist, incongruous elements”.\n\nEthnocinema, then, suggests that the voices/images of \"women/natives/others\" have something in common, and have agency in contributing to ethnographic film, whether independently or collaboratively, interculturally or intra-culturally. Current attempts to offer a working definition of ethnocinema may share more with the more recent movement of intercultural cinema which emerged around 1990. Laura Marks identifies this emergence as connected to three main factors: “the rise of multiculturalism … availability of funding … and an intellectual climate characterised by the disintegration of master narratives and a growing conceptualisation of knowledge as partial and contested”. Whatever its filmic and academic antecedents, ethnocinema is emerging, and – as Rouch has repeatedly shown us – \"the other cannot be denied\" as his/her image and means of production transforms.\n\nIn ethnocinema there is the belief that in the relationship which emerges through the shared project, both self and Other are understood and represented in newly constructed ways. One way of disrupting traditional ethnographic documentary voyeurism is in making transparent the intercultural relationship normally shrouded behind the scenes. Foster’s contention that controlling the means of production is \"foregrounding subjectivity\", is limited. It presumes a one-way relationship between the content and construction of all ethnographic films (including ethnocinematic ones), and assumes that by creating the films the subject is empowered and the gaze is recast. It ignores the complex relationship between reception and production, and classifies films created by marginalised filmmakers as more authentic, or even automatically transgressive in a dominant culture. This cannot be assumed, either in content or reception. We have moved well beyond orientalism and the temporary inability of the Other to represent her or himself, so that \"they must therefore be represented by others\", but similarly it cannot be assumed that self-representation is automatically \"authentic\" or an end in itself. In ethnocinema, relationship and process always take precedence over formal considerations. Obviously, to achieve a wide viewing audience, formal concerns cannot be completely ignored, but these aesthetic concerns are addressed \"together\" in the co-creation of the films. In ethnocinema, there is no perception of a conflict between its ethnographic and popular culture characteristics. It remains ethnographic because it is grounded in cultural specificity, which is not essentialist and can be always-changing. It does not seek to \"document\" a culture, as in ethnocinema culture is understood to be varied, diverse and always emerging.\n\nIn \"Picturing Culture: Explorations of Film and Anthropology\", Ruby calls for places where “critical standards are debated and canons develop”, and the need for ethnographic filmmakers to generate a set of critical standards analogous to those for written ethnographies. Harris agrees, and says that standards are needed, but diverges from Ruby’s definition in two important ways: firstly as a call to ethnocinematic filmmakers (whether academic or non-academic) that films included in this category must prioritise a post-colonial collaborative relationship between makers and imaged; and secondly, that Ruby’s so-called “marketplace considerations” need not pollute the product which is made. Ruby proposed in 2008 that “anthropologists should simply relinquish the term ethnographic to professional documentary filmmakers and seek another term to characterize their efforts”; while Harris proposes that ethnographic is being superseded by \"ethnocinematic\" filmmaking.\n"}
{"id": "53476644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53476644", "title": "Fabula crepidata", "text": "Fabula crepidata\n\nA fabula crepidata or fabula cothurnata is a Latin tragedy with Greek subjects. The genre probably originated in adaptations of Greek tragedy (hence the names, coming from \"crepida\" = \"sandal\" and \"cothurnus\") beginning in the early third century B.C. Only nine have survived intact, all by Seneca. Of the plays written by Lucius Livius Andronicus, Gnaeus Naevius, Quintus Ennius, Marcus Pacuvius, Lucius Accius, and others, only titles, small fragments, and occasionally brief summaries are left. Ovid's \"Medea\" also did not survive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56027886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56027886", "title": "Family resemblance (anthropology)", "text": "Family resemblance (anthropology)\n\nFamily resemblance refers to physical similarities shared between close relatives, especially between parents and children and between siblings. In psychology, the similarities of personality are also observed.\n\nHeritability, defined as a measure of family resemblance, causes traits to be genetically passed from parents to offspring (heredity), allowing evolutionarily advantageous traits to persist through generations. Despite sharing parents, siblings do not inherit identical genes, making studies on identical twins (who have identical DNA) especially effective at analyzing the role genetics play in phenotypic similarity. Studies have found that generational resemblance of many phenotypic traits results from the inheritance of multiples genes that collectively influence a trait (additive genetic variance). There is evidence of heritability in personality traits. For example, one study found that approximately half of personality differences in high-school aged fraternal and identical twins were due to genetic variation - and another study suggests that no one personality trait is more heritable than another.\n\nFamily resemblance is also shaped by environmental factors, temperature, light, nutrition, exposure to drugs, the time that different family members spend in shared and non-shared environments, are examples of factors found to influence phenotype. Phenotypes found to be largely environmentally determined in humans include personality, height, and weight. Twin studies have shown that more than half of the variation in a few major aspects of personality are environmentally determined, and that environmental factors even affect traits like immune response and how children handle stress. Additionally, anomalous findings, such as second-degree relatives of alcoholics, showing surprising similarities to them have led some researchers’ attempts in generating better models that account for the environmental impacts on influences like cultural inheritance, family structure and head of household, which have been shown to influence family resemblance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18949848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949848", "title": "Fan fiction", "text": "Fan fiction\n\nFan fiction or fanfiction (also abbreviated to fan fic, fanfic, fic or ff) is fiction about characters or settings from an original work of fiction, created by fans of that work rather than by its creator. Fans may maintain the creator's characters and settings or add their own. It is a popular form of fan labor, particularly since the advent of the Internet.\n\nFan fiction is rarely commissioned or authorized by the original work's creator or publisher and is rarely professionally published. It may or may not infringe on the original author's copyright, depending on the jurisdiction and on such questions as for whether or not it qualifies as \"fair use\" (see Legal issues with fan fiction). Attitudes of authors and copyright owners of original works to fan fiction have ranged from indifference to encouragement to rejection. Copyright owners have occasionally responded with legal action.\n\nThe term \"fan fiction\" came into use in the 20th century as copyright laws began to delineate between stories using established characters that were authorized by the copyright holder and those that were unauthorized. For earlier works with similar characteristics, see unofficial sequel or pastiche.\n\nFan fiction is defined by being both related to its subject's canonical fictional universe (often referred to as \"canon\") and simultaneously existing outside it. Most fan fiction writers assume that their work is read primarily by other fans, and therefore presume that their readers have knowledge of the canon universe (created by a professional writer) in which their works are based.\n\nThe term \"fan fiction\" has been attested in print as early as 1939; in this earliest known citation, it is used in a disparaging way to refer to amateurish science fiction (as opposed to \"pro fiction\"). The term also appears in the 1944 \"Fancyclopedia\", an encyclopedia of fandom jargon. It is defined there as \"fiction about fans, or sometimes about pros, and occasionally bringing in some famous characters from [science fiction] stories\". The book also mentions that the term is \"[s]ometimes improperly used to mean fan science fiction, that is, ordinary fantasy published in a fan magazine\".\n\nThe modern phenomenon of fan fiction as an expression of fandom and fan interaction was popularized and defined via \"Star Trek\" fandom and their fanzines published in the 1960s. The first \"Star Trek\" fanzine, \"Spockanalia\" (1967), contained some fan fiction; many others followed its example. These fanzines were produced via offset printing and mimeography, and mailed to other fans or sold at science fiction conventions for a small fee to help recoup costs. Unlike other aspects of fandom, women dominated fan fiction authoring; 83% of \"Star Trek\" fan fiction authors were female by 1970, and 90% by 1973. One scholar states that fan fiction \"fill[s] the need of a mostly female audience for fictional narratives that expand the boundary of the official source products offered on the television and movie screen.\"\n\nFan fiction has become more popular and widespread since the advent of the World Wide Web; according to one estimate, fan fiction comprises one third of all content about books on the Web. In addition to traditional fanzines and conventions, Usenet group electronic mailing lists were established for fan fiction as well as fan discussion. Online, searchable fan fiction archives were also established. The online archives were initially non-commercial hand-tended and fandom- or topic-specific. These archives were followed by non-commercial automated databases. In 1998, the not-for-profit site FanFiction.Net came online, which allowed anyone to upload content in any fandom. The ability to self-publish fan fiction at an easily accessible common archive that did not require insider knowledge to join, and the ability to review the stories directly on the site, became popular quite quickly.\nOne popular example of modern fan fiction is E. L. James' \"Fifty Shades of Grey\". This series was originally written as fan fiction for the \"Twilight\" series of books and movies and played off the characters of Bella and Edward. In order to not infringe on copyright issues, James changed the character names to Anna and Christian for the purposes of her novels, which is a practice known as 'pulling-to-publish'. Anna Todd's 2013 fan fiction \"After\" about the English boy band One Direction secured a book and movie deal with renamed characters in 2014.\n\nOn May 22, 2013, the online retailer Amazon.com established a new publishing service, Kindle Worlds. This service would enable fan fiction stories of certain licensed media properties to be sold in the Kindle Store with terms including 35% of net sales for works of 10,000 words or more and 20% for short fiction ranging from 5000 to 10,000 words. However, this arrangement includes restrictions on content, copyright violations, poor document formatting and/or using misleading titles.\n\nA similar trend in Japan also began appearing around the 1960s and 1970s, where independently published manga and novels, known as \"dōjinshi\", are frequently published by dōjin circles; many of these dōjinshi are based on existing manga, anime, and video game franchises. Manga authors like Shotaro Ishinomori and Fujiko Fujio formed dōjin groups such as Fujio's . At this time, dōjin groups were used by artists to make a professional debut. This changed in the coming decades with dōjin groups forming as school clubs and the like. This culminated in 1975 with the Comiket in Tokyo.\n\nIn addition to the \"regular\" list of genres, which for fanfiction are usually determined by the work they're based on, there are a few genres that are closely associated with fanfic. Often, they also overlap. The genres include:\n\nA story with an angsty mood centered on a character/characters who are brooding, sad, or in anguish.\n\nCharacters set in a universe other than their own canonical one.\n\nWorks featuring characters, items, or setpieces from multiple fandoms.\n\nStories which are considerably grimmer and/or more depressing than the original, often in deliberate contrast to the canonical work(s). Not all stories tagged as \"dark\" count as darkfic. This is sometimes done with fandoms which are meant to be light-hearted or for children.\n\nA counterpart to darkfic, or perhaps its supergenre, fix-fic or more commonly known as \"fix-it\", refers to stories which rewrite canonical events that the author disliked, often because they were depressing or incomprehensible.\n\nA story designed to be happy, and nothing else. The plot is usually less relevant in these types of works, as the main focus is to be cheerful. WAFF is short for \"Warm And Fuzzy Feelings,\" and the two terms are quite similar in usage.\n\nWorks blending two settings, and sometimes their casts, into a cohesive whole.\n\nA story in which a character is put through a traumatizing experience in order to be comforted.\n\nA story in which one of the characters is sent back in time, getting a second chance with knowledge of the original plot. Named after the movie \"Peggy Sue Got Married\", in which this happens to the titular character. \"Groundhog Day\" is an example of this happening repeatedly. Refers to both the story and the character in this situation. Not related to Mary Sue.\n\nRebuild fiction that heavily features critical thinking skills and deductive reasoning. Also popularized by \"Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality\".\n\nA subtype of fix-fic, wherein aspects of the setting and/or characters are rewritten to be more cohesive. Named for the \"Rebuild of Evangelion\" series, which originally qualified, and popularized by \"Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality\".\n\nA genre of fanfiction in which a version of the author is transported to, or discovers they are inside, the world the fanfiction is based on. Almost always written in the first person. Fanfictions of this type are often also fix-fics.\n\nInstead of a single fictional universe, the inserted author is taken to many in a row, and must usually solve some problem or complete some challenge in each place before moving on. Gaining new powers and occasionally companions from each world is common.\n\nA variant of romance, focused on exploring a relationship between two or more characters from the original fandom(s). It has several subgenres, including Slash (which focuses on homosexual pairings, usually of the male variety), Femslash/Femmeslash/Yuri (same as Slash, but exclusively female/female), Crossover Shipping, which focuses on a romance between characters from multiple fandoms, and \"friendshipping\", which focuses on platonic relationships.\n\nA subcategory of shipping; describes romantic couples in mundane domestic situations such as picking out curtains.\n\nSmut is sexually explicit or pornographic writing. This could refer to a small portion of a story, or in its entirety. The terms \"lemon\" and \"lime\" are often used to allude to the upcoming sexual scene.\n\nSongfic, also known as a song fic or a song-fic, is a genre of fan fiction that features a fictional work interspersed with the lyrics of a relevant song. The term is a portmanteau of \"song\" and \"fiction\"; as such, one might also see the genre referred to as \"songfiction\". As many lyrics are under copyright, whether songfics are a violation of that copyright law is a subject of debate. Some fan fiction websites, such as FanFiction.Net, have barred authors from posting songfics with lyrics outside the public domain.\n\nIn an essay in \"Music, Sound, and Silence in Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", University of Sydney professor Catherine Driscoll commented that the genre was \"one of the least distinguished modes of fan production\" and that \"within fan fiction excessive attachment to or foregrounding of popular music is itself dismissed as immature and derivative\".\n\nVent refers to literature written by an author under duress or for therapeutic purposes, normally to calm themselves following a stressful or upsetting situation.\n\nAn abbreviation of \"author's note\". Author's notes can be written at any point during a fanfiction (in some cases interrupting the flow of the piece by appearing within the body of a fanfiction), but are typically found directly before the beginning of a fanfiction or after it has concluded, and also at the starts or ends of chapters if the story is updated periodically. A/N's are used to convey direct messages from the author to the reader regarding the piece.\n\nCanon is the original story. This means anything related to the original source including the plot, settings, and character developments.\n\nDisclaimers are author's notes typically informing readers about who deserves credit for the original source material, and often containing pseudo-legal language disavowing any intent of copyright infringement or alluding to fair use. Such \"disclaimers\" are legally ineffective and based on misunderstandings of copyright law, particularly confusion between illegal copyright infringement and unethical plagiarism.\n\nA fandom is a group of fans of a particular work of fiction (e.g. novel, film, television show or video game). Members of a fandom are typically interested in even minor details of the plot/characters of their fandom and often spend a significant portion of their time and energy involved with their interest, that is why most fanfictions are written by members of a particular fandom(s).\n\nA female/male that is a part of one or more fandoms. Furthermore, the term fangirling/fanboying refers to a moment where a person \"geeks out\" or gets quite excited about a fandom.\n\nFanon is an idea that is widely believed to be true among fans, but is unconfirmed, preventing it from being labelled as canon. Fanon may refer to a whole interpretation of the original work, or to specific details within it.\n\nHeadcanon is a fan's personal, idiosyncratic interpretation of canon, such as the backstory of a character, or the nature of relationships between characters. It may represent a teasing out of subtext present in the canon, or it may directly contradict canon. If many other fans share this interpretation, it may become fanon.\n\nAlso of note is the concept of the \"Mary Sue\", a term credited as originating in \"Star Trek\" fan fiction that has crossed over to the mainstream, at least among editors and writers. In early \"Trek\" fan fiction, a common plot was that of a minor member of the USS \"Enterprise\"s crew saving the life of Captain Kirk or Mister Spock, often being rewarded with a sexual relationship as a result. The term \"Mary Sue\", originating in a parody of stories in this wish fulfillment genre, thus tends to refer to an idealized or fictional character lacking flaws, often representing the author.\n\nAn abbreviation of the term \"one true pairing\", where the author or reader ships (wishes for a romantic relationship between) certain characters from a fandom. Additionally, OTPs are also subsetted as OT3s, which reference the reader's one true bonding with three people; this number can be changed to refer to larger bondings.\n\nAn abbreviation of \"real person fanfiction\". Describes fanfiction-like works written about real people, usually celebrities, instead of fictional characters.\n\nAn abbreviation of self-insert, usually referring to either a story in the eponymous genre or to the author avatar within one.\n\nAn abbreviation of \"trigger warning\". Trigger warnings are meant to warn people of content in fics that could be harmful or \"triggering\" to those who have dealt with situations such as abuse. Fan fiction is tagged using various TWs so that readers may prepare for or avoid certain content. Sometimes CW, an abbreviation of \"content warning\", is used instead of or in addition to a TW. Trigger warnings are usually inserted when the subject matter of a work deals with things issues like drug abuse, mental illness, abuse, or extreme violence.\n\nReviews can be given by both anonymous and registered users of most sites, and sites are often programmed to notify the author of new feedback, making them a common way for readers and authors online to communicate directly. This system is intended for a type of bond between the reader and the writer, as well as helping the author improve their writing skills through constructive criticism, enabling their to produce a better work next time. Occasionally, unmoderated review systems are abused to send flames, spam, or trolling messages. As a result, the author of the story can either disable or enable anonymous reviews, depending on their preference. Internet fan fiction gives young writers a wider audience for their literary efforts than ever before, resulting in improved literacy.\n\nFan fiction is a derivative work under United States copyright law.\n\nSome argue that fan fiction does not fall under fair use. The 2009 ruling by United States District Court judge Deborah A. Batts, permanently prohibiting publication in the United States of a book by Ryan Cassidy, a Swedish writer whose protagonist is a 76-year-old version of Holden Caulfield of \"The Catcher in the Rye\", may be seen as upholding this position regarding publishing fan fiction, as the judge stated, \"To the extent Defendants contend that 60 Years and the character of Mr. C direct parodied comment or criticism at \"Catcher\" or Holden Caulfield, as opposed to Salinger himself, the Court finds such contentions to be post-hoc rationalizations employed through vague generalizations about the alleged naivety of the original, rather than reasonably perceivable parody.\"\n\nOthers such as the Organization for Transformative Works uphold the legality of non-profit fan fiction under the fair use doctrine, as it is a creative, transformative process.\n\nIn 1981, Lucasfilm Ltd. sent out a letter to several fanzine publishers, asserting Lucasfilm's copyright to all \"Star Wars\" characters and insisting that no fanzine publish pornography. The letter also alluded to possible legal action that could be taken against fanzines that did not comply.\n\nThe Harry Potter Lexicon is one case where the encyclopedia-like website about everything in the Harry Potter series, moved towards publishing and commercializing the Lexicon as a supplementary and complementary source of information to the series. Rowling and her publishers levied a lawsuit against the website creator, Steven Vander Ark, and the publishing company, RDR Books, for a breach of copyright. While the lawsuit did conclude in Vander Ark's favor, the main issue in contention was the majority of the Lexicon copied a majority of the Series' material and does not transform enough of the material to be held separately from the series itself.\n\nWhile the HP Lexicon case is an example of Western culture treatment of fan fiction and copyright law, in China, Harry Potter fan fiction is less addressed in legal conflicts but is used as a cultural and educational tool between Western and Chinese cultures. More specifically, while there are a number of \"fake\" Harry Potter books in China, most of these books are treated as addressing concepts and issues found in Chinese culture. This transformative usage of Harry Potter in fan fiction is mainly from the desire to enhance and express value to Chinese tradition and culture.\n\nSome prominent authors have given their blessings to fan fiction, notably J.K. Rowling. Rowling said she was \"flattered\" that people wanted to write their own stories based on her fictional characters. Similarly, Stephenie Meyer has put links on her website to fan fiction sites about her characters from the \"Twilight\" series. The \"Fifty Shades\" trilogy was developed from a \"Twilight\" fan fiction originally titled \"Master of the Universe\" and published episodically on fan-fiction websites under the pen name \"Snowqueen's Icedragon\". The piece featured characters named after Stephenie Meyer's characters in \"Twilight\", Edward Cullen and Bella Swan.\n\nAs an example of changing views on the subject, author Orson Scott Card (best known for the \"Enders Game\" series) once stated on his website, \"to write fiction using my characters is morally identical to moving into my house without invitation and throwing out my family.\" He changed his mind completely and since has assisted fan fiction contests, arguing to the \"Wall Street Journal\" that \"Every piece of fan fiction is an ad for my book. What kind of idiot would I be to want that to disappear?\"\n\nHowever, Anne Rice has consistently and aggressively prevented fan fiction based on any of her fictional characters (mostly those from her famous \"Interview with the Vampire\" and its sequels in \"The Vampire Chronicles\"). She, along with Anne McCaffrey (whose stance has been changed by her son, Todd McCaffrey, since her death) and Raymond Feist, have asked to have any fiction related to their series removed from FanFiction.Net. George R.R. Martin, who was selected by \"Time\" magazine as one of the \"2011 Time 100\" and is most famous for his epic fantasy series, \"A Song of Ice and Fire\", is also strongly opposed to fan fiction, believing it to be copyright infringement and a bad exercise for aspiring writers. Sharon Lee and Steve Miller, creators of the Liaden universe, strongly oppose fan fiction written in their universe, Lee saying that \"Nobody else is going to get it right. This may sound rude and elitist, but honestly, it's not easy for us to get it right sometimes, and we've been living with these characters...for a very long time.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11725949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11725949", "title": "Feminization (sociology)", "text": "Feminization (sociology)\n\nIn sociology, feminization is the shift in gender roles and sex roles in a society, group, or organization towards a focus upon the feminine. It can also mean the incorporation of women into a group or a profession that was once dominated by men. \n\n\nDefining the term \"feminization\" can be complicated due to its meaning being unstable, as it can be portrayed as either a social process or as a critique of a process. Feminization has two basic meanings. The first concerns a person who was not initially feminine but becomes feminine later in their life through the perceptions of both the individual and those around them. According to gender theorist Judith Butler, a person's gender is not solely an act of will or self-description, as it is also shaped by the people who describe, categorize, and treat the person according to their own perceptions of their gender. The second meaning of the term feminization describes when a person who originally had feminine qualities begins to incorporate more feminine attributes into their personality in some way, shape, or form. The term has often been used to describe females, however over time it shifted to where the term can be used to describe the process of someone or something becoming more feminine by adopting feminine qualities.\n\nWomen are more likely than men to live below the poverty line, a phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty. The 2015 poverty rates for men and women in the U.S. were 10% and 15% respectively. Women are less likely to pursue advanced degrees and tend to have low paying jobs. It has been argued that even with the same level of education and occupational role, women earn much less than men, although other sources have disputed the idea of a wage gap in American society.\n\nFeminization of the labor force in present day associations is inescapable in that females make up half of the labor force and the revelation of them as a potential profitable asset. Post war there has been almost a movement of women flowing into the workforce in the North America and Europe economies with women making considerable advances in balancing the workforce when comparing women and men's job status and pay rates. \n\nFeminists of the modern day living wage movement began in Baltimore, Maryland in the early 1990's right in the very heart and depths of the struggling urban poor. Around this same time, Baltimore churches became involved in providing the poor with needed social services. Even though national prosperity and rising stock markets seemed to be showing growth, more and more full-time workers were relying on soup kitchens, low-income housing assistance, and thrift store purchases for clothing. Their jobs did not pay enough to keep families above the poverty line. Whole communities became known as the \"working poverty.\"\n"}
{"id": "729001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=729001", "title": "Flip-flop (politics)", "text": "Flip-flop (politics)\n\nA \"flip-flop\" (used mostly in the United States), U-turn (used in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Pakistan), or backflip (used in Australia and New Zealand) is a sudden real or apparent change of policy or opinion by a public official, sometimes while trying to claim that both positions are consistent with each other. Often it will occur during the period prior to or following an election in order to maximize the candidate's popularity.\n\nIn his \"On Language\" column in \"The New York Times\", William Safire wrote in 1988 that \"flip-flop\" has a long history as a synonym for \"somersault\". (He cited George Lorimer in 1902: \"...when a fellow's turning flip-flops up among the clouds, he's naturally going to have the farmers gaping at him.\") In the late 19th century, a US politician was called \"the Florida flopper\" by an opponent, Safire noted. The \"fl\" sound appearing twice is an indication of ridicule, he wrote. Citing grammarian Randolph Quirk, Safire pointed out that the doubling of the sound is also a feature in other two-word phrases used to disparage the actions or words of others, including \"mumbo jumbo\", \"wishy-washy\", and higgledy-piggledy\".\n\nIn the archives of \"The New York Times\", which go back to 1851, the earliest unequivocal mention of \"flip-flop\" as a change in someone's opinion, is in an October 23, 1890, report of a campaign speech in New York City. John W. Goff, candidate for district attorney, said of one of his opponents: \"I would like to hear Mr. Nicoll explain his great flip-flop, for three years ago, you know, as the Republican candidate for District Attorney, he bitterly denounced Tammany as a party run by bosses and in the interest of bossism... Nicoll, who three years ago was denouncing Tammany, is its candidate to-day.\"\n\nThe term was also used in 1967, when a \"New York Times\" editorial and \"Times\" columnist Tom Wicker used it in commenting on different events. It was also in the 1976 election, when President Gerald Ford used the phrase against his opponent Jimmy Carter. In the 1988 U.S. presidential election, Michael Dukakis used the term against opponent Richard Gephardt, saying, \"There's a flip-flopper over here\" about Gephardt.\n\nThe term also was used extensively in the 2004 U.S. presidential election campaign. It was used by critics as a catch-phrase attack on John Kerry, claiming he was \"flip-flopping\" his stance on several issues, including the ongoing war in Iraq. Famously, on March 16, 2004, during an appearance at Marshall University Kerry tried to explain his vote for an $87 billion supplemental appropriation for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan by telling the crowd, \"I actually did vote for the $87 billion, before I voted against it.\" After the remark became controversial, he explained that he had supported an earlier Democratic measure that would have paid for the $87 billion in war funding by reducing Bush's tax cuts.\n\nFactCheck stated that \"Kerry has never wavered from his support for giving Bush authority to use force in Iraq, nor has he changed his position that he, as President, would not have gone to war without greater international support.\"\n\nThe term \"U-turn\" in the United Kingdom was famously applied to Edward Heath, the prime minister of the United Kingdom from 1970 to 1974. Prior to the 1970 general election, the Conservative Party compiled a manifesto that highlighted free-market economic policies. Heath abandoned such policies when his government nationalised Rolls-Royce (hence the actual \"U-turn\"). The Conservative government was later attacked for such a move because nationalisation was seen (by the Thatcher era) as antithetical to Conservative beliefs. This later led to one of Margaret Thatcher's most famous phrases: \"you turn [U-turn] if you want to. The lady's not for turning\". The Conservatives would adopt the free market under her.\n\nThe circumstances surrounding the flip-flop and its larger context can be crucial factors in whether or not a politician is hurt or helped more by a change in position. \"Long hailed as a conservative champion, Ronald Reagan could shrug off his support of a tax increase in 1982 to curb the budget deficits his 1981 tax cut had exacerbated,\" according to an analysis of flip-flopping in \"The New York Times\". \"Long suspect on the Republican right, George [H. W.] Bush faced a crippling 1992 primary challenge after abandoning his 'no new taxes' campaign pledge in the White House.\"\n\nKerry's perceived equivocation on the Iraq war damaged his 2004 campaign, according to both Democratic and Republican political operatives. \"It spoke to a pattern of calculation and indecisiveness that make him look like a weak commander in chief compared to [George W.] Bush\", said Jonathan Prince, a strategist for 2008 presidential candidate John Edwards, Kerry's running mate in 2004. In the 2008 primary season, Edwards simply stated that \"I was wrong\" when he had voted in the U.S. Senate to authorize the Iraq War. \"Progressives loved it because it was taking responsibility, not abdicating it,\" according to Prince.\n\nUnited States commentator Jim Geraghty has written that politicians need to be allowed some leeway in changing their minds as the result of changing conditions. \"I actually think that a candidate can even change his position in response to a changing political environment, as long as they're honest about it. 'The votes just aren't there, public support isn't there, so I have to put this proposal on the back burner for a while,' is a perfectly legitimate response to a difficult position.\" The same general point was made in 1988 by \"New York Times\" editorial columnist Tom Wicker, writing shortly after Dukakis' charge against Gephardt. Wicker commented that the accusation was not necessarily fair: \"What's wrong with a Presidential candidate changing his position – though his opponents call it 'flip-flopping' – in order to improve his chances of winning? Nothing's wrong with it [...] unless the flipper [...] denies having done it,\" Wicker added that the charge can be \"a tortured or dishonest interpretation of an opponent's record\".\n\n\"[T]here's a difference between changing your policy position and breaking a promise,\" John Dickerson, wrote in \"Slate\" online magazine. \"Breaking a promise is a problem of a higher order than changing a policy position. Our mothers told us not to break promises [...]\"\n\nJames Pethokoukis, the \"money and politics blogger\" for \"U.S. News & World Report\" online, referring to 2008 presidential candidate John McCain, noted that in changing a position a candidate can \"trot out that famous John Maynard Keynes line, 'When the facts change, I change my mind. What do you do, sir?'\" The Keynes quote also has been mentioned by other commentators with regard to flip-flops, including James Broder, in a 2007 article in the \"International Herald-Tribune\".\n\nOutside politics the use of the term is not as pejorative. A scientist or mathematician can often obtain some experimental results or logical proofs which causes one to flip flop on a previously held belief. Example: \"I always assumed that there was an infinity, that all infinite numbers were equal, but I have flip flopped on that since I saw Georg Cantor's proof.\" Lewis Eigen, in his essay on the cultural difference between politics and scientists, observes, \"To the scientist, failure to flip-flop in the face of contradictory evidence is irrational and dangerous behavior. And scientists will often flip-flop at almost light speed. Often it takes only a single observation to flip-flop thousands of scientifically learned people.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "42780405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42780405", "title": "Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights", "text": "Geneva Academy of International Humanitarian Law and Human Rights\n\nThe Geneva Academy of international Humanitarian Law and Human Rights () is a postgraduate joint center (between the University of Geneva and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies) located in Geneva, Switzerland. The faculty includes professors from both founding institutions and guest professors from major universities .\n\nThe alumni include many actors of the humanitarian world, executives of various organizations across the world and foreign affairs executives. The school has a diverse student body of a cosmopolitan character due to its 80 percent intake of international students. It is located on the shores of the Lake Geneva (lac Léman) blocks from the United Nations headquarters in Europe, and the Palace of Nations as well as the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies.\n\nIt is located in the Villa Moynier building, built in 1847 and owned by Gustave Moynier, co-founder of the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nFrom August 2014 to August 2018, the Geneva Academy was directed by Professor Robert Roth. In August 2018, Professor Marco Sassòli became the new Director of the Geneva Academy. He has been Professor of International Law at the University of Geneva Law Faculty since 2004 and has been teaching IHL at the Geneva Academy since this time. He is Associate Professor at the University of Quebec in Montreal (Canada), Commissioner of the International Commission of Jurists and Special Advisor (pro bono) on IHL to the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, and has previously worked for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) as Deputy Head of its Legal Division in Geneva and Head of Delegation in the field.\n\nThe Geneva Academy offers three master's programmes: \n\nThe Geneva Academy offers a range of training and short courses for professionals on legal issues related to armed conflicts, human rights protection, transitional justice and international criminal justice.\n\nThe Geneva Academy conducts legal research and policy studies in the fields of international law in armed conflict, human rights protection, transitional justice, international criminal justice, weapons law, or economic, social and cultural rights.\n\nCurrent research projects include the protection of persons with disabilities during and following armed conflicts, human rights responsibilities and armed non-state actors, human rights and gender equality in the context of business activities, or the rights of peasants. \n\nThe Geneva Academy also runs the online platform Rule of Law in Armed Conflicts (RULAC) that systematically qualifies situations of armed violence using the definition of armed conflict under international humanitarian law. \n\nThe Geneva Academy is home to the Swiss Chair of International Humanitarian Law, currently held by Noam Lubell, Professor of International Law of Armed Conflict, in the School of Law, University of Essex, UK. and the Human Rights Chair, currently held by Professor Nils Melzer, UN Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.\n\nThe Geneva Academy is headquartered at the Villa Moynier, a historic villa surrounded by a beautiful park with a view of Lake Geneva and Mont Blanc. It was the property of Gustave Moynier, the first President of the ICRC. It later housed the League of Nations in 1926 and served as headquarters for the ICRC between 1933 and 1946. Villa Moynier forms part of the Graduate Institute’s Campus de la paix and is five minutes’ walk from the Maison de la paix.\n\n"}
{"id": "45580833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45580833", "title": "Geometric morphometrics in anthropology", "text": "Geometric morphometrics in anthropology\n\nThe study of geometric morphometrics in anthropology has made a major impact on the field of morphometrics by aiding in some of the technological and methodological advancements. Geometric morphometrics is an approach that studies shape using Cartesian landmark and semilandmark coordinates that are capable of capturing morphologically distinct shape variables. The landmarks can be analyzed using various statistical techniques separate from size, position, and orientation so that the only variables being observed are based on morphology. Geometric morphometrics is used to observe variation in numerous formats, especially those pertaining to evolutionary and biological processes, which can be used to help explore the answers to a lot of questions in physical anthropology. Geometric morphometrics is part of a larger subfield in anthropology, which has more recently been named virtual anthropology. Virtual anthropology looks at virtual morphology, the use of virtual copies of specimens to perform various quantitative analyses on shape (such as geometric morphometrics) and form...\n\nThe field of geometric morphometrics grew out of the accumulation of improvements of methods and approaches over several decades beginning with Francis Galton (1822-1911). Galton was a polymath and the president of the Anthropological Institute of Great Britain. In 1907 he invented a way to quantify facial shapes using a base-line registration approach for shape comparisons. This was later adapted by Fred Bookstein and termed “two-point coordinates” or “Bookstein-shape coordinates”.\n\nIn the 1940s, D’Arcy Wentworth Thompson (biologist and mathematician, 1860-1948) looked at ways to quantify that could be attached to biological shape based on developmental and evolutionary theories. This led to the first branch of multivariate morphometrics, which emphasized matrix manipulations involving variables. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, Fred Bookstein (currently a professor of Anthropology at the University of Vienna) began using Cartesian transformations and David George Kendall (statistician, 1918-2007) showed that figures that hold the same shape can be treated as separate points in a geometric space. Finally, in 1996, Leslie Marcus (paleontologist, 1930-2002) convinced colleagues to use morphometrics on the famous Ötzi skeleton, which helped expose the importance of the applications of these methods.\n\nTraditional morphometrics is the study of morphological variations between or within groups using multivariate statistical tools. Shape is defined by collecting and analyzing length measurements, counts, ratios, and angles. The statistical tools are able to quantify the covariation within and between samples. Some of the typical statistical tools used for traditional morphometrics are: principal components, factor analysis, canonical variate, and discriminant function analysis. It is also possible to study allometry, which is the observed change in shape when there is change in size. However, there are problems pertaining to size correction since linear distance is highly correlated with size. There have been multiple methods put forth to correct for this correlation, but these methods disagree and can end up with different results using the same dataset. Another problem is linear distances are not always defined by the same landmarks making it difficult to use for comparative purposes. For shape analysis itself, which is the goal of morphometrics, the biggest downside to traditional morphometrics is that it does not capture the complete variation of shape in space, which is what the measurements are supposed to be based on. For example, if one tried to compare the length and width for an oval and tear drop shape with the same dimensions they would be deemed as the same using traditional morphometrics. Geometric morphometrics tries to correct these problems by capturing more variability in shape.\n\nThere is a basic structure to successfully performing and completing every geometric morphometric study:\n\nThe first step is to define your landmark set. Landmarks have to be anatomically recognizable and the same for all specimens in the study. Landmarks should be selected to properly capture the shape trying to be observed and capable of being replicated. The sample size should be roughly three times the amount of landmarks chosen and they must be recorded in the same order for every specimen.\n\nSemilandmarks, also called sliding landmarks, are used when the location of a landmark along a curvature might not be identifiable or repeatable. Semilandmarks were created in order to take landmark based geometric morphometrics to the next step by capturing the shape of difficult areas such as smooth curves and surfaces. In order to obtain a semilandmark, the curvature still has to start and end on definable landmarks, capture observed morphology, remain homologous across specimens in the same steps seen above for regular landmarks, be equal in number, and equally distant apart. When this approach was first proposed, Bookstein suggested gaining semilandmarks by densely sampling landmarks along the surface in a mesh and slowly thinning out the landmarks until the desired curvature was obtained. Newer landmark programs aid in the process but there are still some steps that must be taken in order for the semilandmarks to be the same across the whole sample. Semilandmarks are not placed on the actual curve or surface but on tangent vectors to the curve or tangent planes to the surface. The sliding of semilandmarks in new programs is performed by either selecting a specimen to be the model specimen for the rest of the specimens or using a computational sample mean from tangent vectors. Semilandmarks are automatically placed in most programs when the observer chooses a starting and ending point on definable landmarks and sliding the semilandmarks between them until the shape is captured. The semilandmarks are then mapped onto the rest of the specimens in the sample. Since shape will differ between specimens, the observer has to manually go through and make sure the landmarks and semilandmarks are on the surface for the rest of the specimens. If not they must be moved to touch the surface, but this process still maintains the correct location. There is still room for improvement to these methods but this is the most consistent option at the moment. Once mapped on, these semilandmarks can be treated just like landmarks for statistical analysis.\n\nThis is a different approach to data collection than using landmarks and semilandmarks. In this approach, deformation grids are used to capture the morphological shape differences and changes. The general idea is that shape variations can be recorded from one specimen to another based on the distortion of a grid. Bookstein proposed the use of a thin-plate spline (TPS) interpolation, which is a computed deformation grid that calculates a mapping function between two individuals that measures point differences. Basically, the TPS interpolation has a template computed grid that is applied to specimens and the differences in shape can be read from the different deformations of the template. The TPS can be used for both two- and three-dimensional data, but has proved less effective for visualizing three-dimensional differences, but it can easily be applied to the pixels of an image or volumetric data from CT or MRI scans.\n\nLandmark and semilandmark coordinates can be recorded on each specimen, but size, orientation, and position can vary for each of those specimens adding in variables that distract from the analysis of shape. This can be fixed by using superimposition, with generalized procrusted analysis (GPA) being the most common application. GPA removes the variation of size, orientation, and position by superimposing the landmarks in a common coordinate system. The landmarks for all specimens are optimally translated, rotated, and scaled based on a least-squared estimation. The first step is translation and rotation to minimize the squared and summed differences (squared Procrustes distance) between landmarks on each specimen. Then the landmarks are individually scaled to the same unit Centroid size. Centroid size is the square root of the sum of squared distances of the landmarks in configuration to their mean location. The translation, rotation, and scaling bring the landmark configurations for all specimens into a common coordinate system so that the only differing variables are based on shape alone. The new superimposed landmarks can now be analyzed in multivariate statistical analyses.\n\nIn general, principal components analysis is used to construct overarching variables that take the place of multiple correlated variables in order to reveal the underlying structure of the dataset. This is helpful in geometric morphometrics where a large set of landmarks can create correlated relationships that might be difficult to differentiate without reducing them in order to look at the overall variability in the data. Reducing the number of variables is also necessary because the number of variables being observed and analyzed should not exceed sample size. Principal component scores are computed through an eigendecomposition of a sample’s covariance matrix and rotates the data to preserve procrustes distances. In other words, a principal components analysis preserves the shape variables that were scaled, rotated, and translated during the generalize procrustes analysis. The resulting principal component scores project the shape variables onto low-dimensional space based on eigenvectors. The scores can be plotted various ways to look at the shape variables, such as scatterplots. It is important to explore what shape variables are being observed to make sure the principal components being analyzed are pertinent to the questions being asked. Although the components might show shape variables not relevant to the question at hand, it is perfectly acceptable to leave those components out any further analysis for a specific project.\n\nPartial least squares is similar the principal components analysis in the fact that it reduces the number of variables being observed so patterns are more easily observed in the data, but it uses a linear regression model. PLS is an approach that looks at two or more sets of variables measured on the same specimens and extracts the linear combinations that best represent the pattern of covariance across the sets. The linear combinations will optimally describe the covariances and provide a low-dimensional output to compare the different sets. With the highest shape variation covariance, mean shape, and the other shape covariances that exists among the sets, this approach is ideal for looking at the significance of group differences. PLS has been used a lot in studies that look at things such as sexual dimorphism, or other general morphological differences found at the population, subspecies, and species level. It has also been used to look at functional, environmental, or behavioral differences that could influence the found shape covariance between sets\n\nMultiple or multivariate regression is an approach to look at the relationship between several independent or predictor variables and a dependent or influential variable. It is best used in geometric morphometrics when analyzing shape variables based on an external influence. For example, it can be used in studies with attached functional or environmental variables like age or the development over time in certain environments. The multivariate regression of shape based on the logarithm of centroid size (square root of the sum of squared distances of landmarks) is ideal for allometric studies. Allometry is the analysis of shape based on the biological parameters of growth and size. This approach is not affected by the number of dependent shape variables or their covariance, so the results of regression coefficients can be seen as a deformation in shape.\n\nThe human brain is unique from other species based on the size of the visual cortex, temporal lobe, and parietal cortex, and increased gyrification (folds of the brain). There have been many questions as to why these changes occurred and how they contributed to cognition and behavior, which are important questions in human evolution. Geometric morphometrics has been used to explore some of these questions using virtual endocasts (casts of the inside of the cranium) to gather information since brain tissue does not preserve in the fossil record. Geometric morphometrics can reveal small shape differences between brains such as differences between modern humans and Neanderthals whose brains were similar in size. Neubauer and colleagues looked at the endocasts of chimpanzees and modern humans to observe brain growth using 3D landmarks and semilandmarks. They found that there is an early “globularization phase” in human brain development that shows expansion of the parietal and cerebellar areas, which does not occur in chimpanzees. Gunz and colleagues extended the study further and found that the “globularization phase” does not occur in Neanderthals and instead Neanderthal brain growth is more similar to chimpanzees. This difference could point to some important changes in the human brain that led to different organization and cognitive functions\n\nThere have been many debates on the relationships between Middle Pleistocene hominin crania from Eurasia and Africa because they display a mosaic of both primitive and derived traits. Studies on cranial morphology for these specimens have created arguments that Eurasian fossils from the Middle Pleistocene are a transition between \"Homo erectus\" and later hominins like Neanderthals and modern humans. However, there are two sides to the argument with one side saying that the European and African fossils are from a single taxon while others say that the Neanderthal lineage should be included. Harvati and colleagues decided to attempt to quantify the craniofacial features of Neanderthals and European Middle Pleistocene fossils using 3D landmarks to try to add to the debate. They found that some features were more Neanderthal like while others were primitive and likely from the Middle Pleistocene African hominins, so the argument could still go either way. Freidline and colleagues further added to the debate by looking at both adult and subadult crania of modern and Pleistocene hominins using 3D landmarks and semilandmarks. They found similarities in facial morphology between Middle Pleistocene fossils from Europe and Africa and a divide in facial morphology during the Pleistocene based on time period. The study also found that some characteristics separating Neanderthals from Middle Pleistocene hominins, like the size of the nasal aperture and degree of midfacial prognathism, might be due to allometric differences\n\nCrania can be used to classify ancestry and sex to aid in forensic contexts such as crime scenes and mass fatalities. In 2010, Ross and colleagues were provided federal funds by the U.S. Department of Justice to compile data for population specific classification criteria using geometric morphometrics. Their aim was to create an extensive population database from 3D landmarks on human crania, to develop and validate population specific procedures for classification of unknown individuals, and develop software to use in forensic identification. They placed 3D landmarks on 75 craniofacial landmarks from European, African, and Hispanic populations of about 1000 individuals with a Microscribe digitizer. The software they developed, called 3D-ID, can classify unknown individuals into probable sex and ancestry, and allows for fragmentary and damaged specimens to be used. A copy of the full manuscript can be found here: Geometric Morphometric Tools for the Classification of Human Skulls\n\nGeometric morphometrics can also be used to capture the slight shape variations found in postcranial bones of the human body such as \"os coxae\". Bierry and colleagues used 3D CT reconstructions of modern adult pelvic bones for 104 individuals to look at the shape of the obturator foramen. After a normalization technique to take out the factor of size, they outlined the obturator foramen with landmarks and semilandmarks to capture its shape. They chose the obturator foramen because it tends to be oval in males and triangular in females. The results show a classification accuracy of 88.5% for males and 80.8% for females using a Discriminant Fourier Analysis. Another study done by Gonzalez and colleagues used geometric morphometrics to capture the complete shape of the ilium and ischiopubic ramus. They placed landmarks and semilandmarks on 2D photographic images of 121 left pelvic bones from a collection of undocumented skeletons at the Museu Anthropológico de Coimbra in Portugal. Since the pelvic bones were of unknown origin, they used a K-means Cluster Analysis to determine a sex category before performing a Discriminant Function analysis. The results had a classification accuracy for the greater sciatic notch of 90.9% and the ischiopubic ramus at 93.4 to 90.1%\n\nThe books listed below are the standard suggestions for anyone who wants to obtain a comprehensive understanding of morphometrics (referred to by colors):\n\n-The Red Book: Bookstein, F. L., B. Chernoff, R. Elder, J. Humphries, G. Smith, and R. Strauss. 1985. Morphometrics in Evolutionary Biology\n\n-The Blue Book: Rohlf, F. J. and F. L. Bookstein (eds.). 1990. Proceedings of the Michigan Morphometrics Workshop\n\n-The Orange Book: Bookstein, F. L. 1991. Morphometric Tools for Landmark Data. Geometry and Biology\n\n-The Black Book: Marcus, L. F., E. Bello, A. García-Valdecasas (eds.). 1993. Contributions to Morphometrics\n\n-The Green Book: Zelditch, M. L., D. L. Swiderski, H. D. Sheets, and W. L. Fink. 2004. Geometric Morphometrics for biologists: A Primer\n\n2D Equipment\n\n3D Equipment\n\n"}
{"id": "2659806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2659806", "title": "Glasgow Chronology", "text": "Glasgow Chronology\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology is a proposed revision of the Egyptian chronology of ancient Egypt. It was first formulated between the years 1978 and 1982 by a working group following the Glasgow Conference of Society for Interdisciplinary Studies (SIS, a non-profit organization advocating serious academic analysis of the writings of Immanuel Velikovsky and other catastrophists).\n\nThis chronology placed the Eighteenth dynasty of Egypt some five hundred years later than the conventional chronology of Egypt.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology was initially presented at an SIS conference, held in 1978 in Glasgow and entitled \"Ages in Chaos?\". Flaws were pointed out in it almost immediately, and by the 1980s its original proponents had all abandoned it, in favour of other chronologies.\n\nThe Glasgow Chronology accepted all the character identifications proposed by Velikovsky in \"Ages in Chaos\" (1952). Thus Hatshepsut, who visited the Divine Land, was equated with the Queen of Sheba, who visited Solomon in Jerusalem, whilst Thutmose III, who followed Hatshepsut, was equated with Shishak, who plundered the Jerusalem temple after the death of Solomon. Velikovsky therefore reduced the age of the Eighteenth Dynasty by five centuries. However, in his subsequently published \"Ramses II and his Time\" (1978), he brought the Nineteenth dynasty down by roughly seven centuries, thus opening a two-century gap between the Eighteenth and Nineteenth dynasties. Despite the Glasgow Chronology intent of reducing the age of the Nineteenth dynasty by five centuries and allowing it to naturally follow from the Eighteenth dynasty, its original proponents concluded that it was historically insupportable.\n\n"}
{"id": "22900852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22900852", "title": "History of art criticism", "text": "History of art criticism\n\nThe history of art criticism, as part of art history, is the study of objects of art in their historical development and stylistic contexts, i.e. genre, design, format, and style, which include aesthetic considerations. This includes the \"major\" arts of painting, sculpture, and architecture as well as the \"minor\" arts of ceramics, furniture, and other decorative objects.\n\nAs a term, the history of art history (also history of art) encompasses several methods of studying and assessing the visual arts; in common usage referring to works of art and architecture. Aspects of the discipline overlap. As the art historian Ernst Gombrich once observed, \"the field of art history [is] much like Caesar's Gaul, divided in three parts inhabited by three different, though not necessarily hostile tribes: (i) the connoisseurs, (ii) the critics, and (iii) the academic art historians\".\n\nAs a discipline, the history of art criticism is distinguished from art criticism, which is concerned with establishing a relative artistic value upon individual works with respect to others of comparable style, or sanctioning an entire style or movement from the standpoint of its history and of its major scholars. It is also distinguished from art theory or \"philosophy of art\", which is concerned with the fundamental nature of art. One branch of this area of study is aesthetics, which includes investigating the enigma of the sublime and determining the essence of beauty. Technically, art history is not these things, because the art historian uses historical method to answer the questions: How did the artist come to create the work?, Who were the patrons?, Who were his or her teachers?, Who was the audience?, Who were his or her disciples?, What historical forces shaped the artist's oeuvre, and How did he or she and the creation, in turn, affect the course of artistic, political, and social events? It is, however, questionable whether many questions of this kind can be answered satisfactorily without also considering basic questions about the nature of art. Unfortunately the current disciplinary gap between art history and the philosophy of art (aesthetics) often hinders this.\n\nThe history of art criticism is not only a biographical endeavor. The history of art criticism often roots its studies in the scrutiny of individual objects. It attempt to answer in historically specific ways, questions such as: What are key features of this style?, What meaning did this object convey?, How does it function visually?, Did the artist meet their goals well?, What symbols are involved?, and Does it function discursively?\n\nThe historical backbone of the discipline is a celebratory chronology of beautiful creations commissioned by public or religious bodies or wealthy individuals in western Europe. Such a \"canon\" remains prominent, as indicated by the selection of objects present in art history textbooks. Nonetheless, since the 20th century there has been an effort to re-define the discipline to be more inclusive of non-Western art, art made by women, and vernacular creativity.\n\nThe history of art criticism as we know it in the 21st century began in the 19th century but has precedents that date to the ancient world. Like the analysis of historical trends in politics, literature, and the sciences, the discipline benefits from the clarity and portability of the written word, but art historians also rely on formal analysis, semiotics, psychoanalysis and iconography. Advances in photographic reproduction and printing techniques after World War II increased the ability of reproductions of artworks. Such technologies have helped to advance the discipline in profound ways, as they have enabled easy comparisons of objects. The study of visual art thus described, can be a practice that involves understanding context, form, and social significance.\n\nArt historians, in performing their assessment within the history of art criticism, employ a number of methods in their research into the ontology and history of objects.\n\nPractitioners of art criticism often examine work in the context of its time. At best, this is done in a manner which respects its creator's motivations and imperatives; with consideration of the desires and prejudices of its patrons and sponsors; with a comparative analysis of themes and approaches of the creator's colleagues and teachers; and with consideration of iconography and symbolism. In short, this approach examines the work of art in the context of the world within which it was created.\n\nPractitioners of art criticism also often examine work through an analysis of form; that is, the creator's use of line, shape, color, texture, and composition. This approach examines how the artist uses a two-dimensional picture plane or the three dimensions of sculptural or architectural space to create his or her art. The way these individual elements are employed results in representational or non-representational art. Is the artist imitating an object or image found in nature? If so, it is representational. The closer the art hews to perfect imitation, the more the art is \"realistic\". Is the artist not imitating, but instead relying on symbolism, or in an important way striving to capture nature's essence, rather than copy it directly? If so the art is non-representational—also called abstract. Realism and abstraction exist on a continuum. Impressionism is an example of a representational style that was not directly imitative, but strove to create an \"impression\" of nature. If the work is not representational and is an expression of the artist's feelings, longings and aspirations, or is a search for ideals of beauty and form, the work is non-representational or a work of expressionism.\n\nAn iconographical analysis is one which focuses on particular design elements of an object. Through a close reading of such elements, it is possible to trace their lineage, and with it draw conclusions regarding the origins and trajectory of these motifs. In turn, it is possible to make any number of observations regarding the social, cultural, economic, and aesthetic values of those responsible for producing the object.\n\nMany practitioners of art criticism use critical theory to frame their inquiries into objects. Theory is most often used when dealing with more recent objects, those from the late 19th century onward. Critical theory in art history is often borrowed from literary scholars, and it involves the application of a non-artistic analytical framework to the study of art objects. Feminist, Marxist, critical race, queer, and postcolonial theories are all well established in the discipline. As in literary studies, there is an interest among scholars in nature and the environment, but the direction that this will take in the discipline has yet to be determined.\n\nMore recently, media and digital technology introduced possibilities of visual, spatial and experiential analyses. The relevant forms vary from movies, to interactive forms, including virtual environments, augmented environments, situated media, networked media, etc. The methods enabled by such techniques are in active development and promise to include qualitative approaches that can emphasize narrative, dramatic, emotional and ludic characteristics of history and art.\n\nThe earliest surviving writing on art that can be classified as art history or art criticism are the passages in Pliny the Elder's \"Natural History\" (c. AD 77-79), concerning the development of Greek sculpture and painting. From them it is possible to trace the ideas of Xenokrates of Sicyon (c. 280 BC), a Greek sculptor who was perhaps the first art historian. Pliny's work, while mainly an encyclopaedia of the sciences, has thus been influential from the Renaissance onwards. (Passages about techniques used by the painter Apelles c. (332-329 BC), have been especially well-known.) Similar, though independent, developments occurred in the 6th century China, where a canon of worthy artists was established by writers in the scholar-official class. These writers, being necessarily proficient in calligraphy, were artists themselves. The artists are described in the \"Six Principles of Painting\" formulated by Xie He.\n\nWhile personal reminiscences of art and artists have long been written and read (see Lorenzo Ghiberti \"Commentarii,\" for the best early example), it was Giorgio Vasari, the Tuscan painter, sculptor and author of the \"Lives of the Painters\", who wrote the first true \"history\" of art. He emphasized art's progression and development, which was a milestone in this field. His was a personal and a historical account, featuring biographies of individual Italian artists, many of whom were his contemporaries and personal acquaintances. The most renowned of these was Michelangelo, and Vasari's account is enlightening, though biased in places.\n\nVasari's ideas about art were enormously influential, and served as a model for many, including in the north of Europe Karel van Mander's \"Schilder-boeck\" and Joachim von Sandrart's \"Teutsche Akademie\". Vasari's approach held sway until the 18th century, when criticism was leveled at his biographical account of history.\n\nScholars such as Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717–1768), criticised Vasari's \"cult\" of artistic personality, and they argued that the real emphasis in the study of art should be the views of the learned beholder and not the unique viewpoint of the charismatic artist. Winckelmann's writings thus were the beginnings of art criticism. His two most notable works that introduced the concept of art criticism were \"Gedanken über die Nachahmung der griechischen Werke in der Malerei und Bildhauerkunst, published in 1755, shortly before he left for Rome (Fuseli published an English translation in 1765 under the title Reflections on the Painting and Sculpture of the Greeks), and Geschichte der Kunst des Altertums (History of Art in Antiquity), published in 1764 (this is the first occurrence of the phrase ‘history of art’ in the title of a book)\". Winckelmann critiqued the artistic excesses of Baroque and Rococo forms, and was instrumental in reforming taste in favor of the more sober Neoclassicism. Jacob Burckhardt (1818–1897), one of the founders of art history, noted that Winckelmann was 'the first to distinguish between the periods of ancient art and to link the history of style with world history'. From Winckelmann until the mid-20th century, the field of art history was dominated by German-speaking academics. Winckelmann's work thus marked the entry of art history into the high-philosophical discourse of German culture.\n\nWinckelmann was read avidly by Johann Wolfgang Goethe and Friedrich Schiller, both of whom began to write on the history of art, and his account of the Laocoon occasioned a response by Lessing. The emergence of art as a major subject of philosophical speculation was solidified by the appearance of Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Judgment\" in 1790, and was furthered by Hegel's \"Lectures on Aesthetics\". Hegel's philosophy served as the direct inspiration for Karl Schnaase's work. Schnaase's \"Niederländische Briefe\" established the theoretical foundations for art history as an autonomous discipline, and his \"Geschichte der bildenden Künste\", one of the first historical surveys of the history of art from antiquity to the Renaissance, facilitated the teaching of art history in German-speaking universities. Schnaase's survey was published contemporaneously with a similar work by Franz Theodor Kugler.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin (1864–1945), who studied under Burckhardt in Basel, is the \"father\" of modern art history. Wölfflin taught at the universities of Berlin, Basel, Munich, and Zurich. A number of students went on to distinguished careers in art history, including Jakob Rosenberg and Frida Schottmuller. He introduced a scientific approach to the history of art, focusing on three concepts. Firstly, he attempted to study art using psychology, particularly by applying the work of Wilhelm Wundt. He argued, among other things, that art and architecture are good if they resemble the human body. For example, houses were good if their façades looked like faces. Secondly, he introduced the idea of studying art through comparison. By comparing individual paintings to each other, he was able to make distinctions of style. His book \"Renaissance and Baroque\" developed this idea, and was the first to show how these stylistic periods differed from one another. In contrast to Giorgio Vasari, Wölfflin was uninterested in the biographies of artists. In fact he proposed the creation of an \"art history without names.\" Finally, he studied art based on ideas of nationhood. He was particularly interested in whether there was an inherently \"Italian\" and an inherently \"German\" style. This last interest was most fully articulated in his monograph on the German artist Albrecht Dürer.\n\nContemporaneous with Wölfflin's career, a major school of art-historical thought developed at the University of Vienna. The first generation of the Vienna School was dominated by Alois Riegl and Franz Wickhoff, both students of Moritz Thausing, and was characterized by a tendency to reassess neglected or disparaged periods in the history of art. Riegl and Wickhoff both wrote extensively on the art of late antiquity, which before them had been considered as a period of decline from the classical ideal. Riegl also contributed to the revaluation of the Baroque.\n\nThe next generation of professors at Vienna included Max Dvořák, Julius von Schlosser, Hans Tietze, Karl Maria Swoboda, and Josef Strzygowski. A number of the most important twentieth-century art historians, including Ernst Gombrich, received their degrees at Vienna at this time. The term \"Second Vienna School\" (or \"New Vienna School\") usually refers to the following generation of Viennese scholars, including Hans Sedlmayr, Otto Pächt, and Guido Kaschnitz von Weinberg. These scholars began in the 1930s to return to the work of the first generation, particularly to Riegl and his concept of \"Kunstwollen\", and attempted to develop it into a full-blown art-historical methodology. Sedlmayr, in particular, rejected the minute study of iconography, patronage, and other approaches grounded in historical context, preferring instead to concentrate on the aesthetic qualities of a work of art. As a result, the Second Vienna School gained a reputation for unrestrained and irresponsible formalism, and was furthermore colored by Sedlmayr's overt racism and membership in the Nazi party. This latter tendency was, however, by no means shared by all members of the school; Pächt, for example, was himself Jewish, and was forced to leave Vienna in the 1930s.\n\nOur 21st-century understanding of the symbolic content of art comes from a group of scholars who gathered in Hamburg in the 1920s. The most prominent among them were Erwin Panofsky, Aby Warburg, and Fritz Saxl. Together they developed much of the vocabulary that continues to be used in the 21st century by art historians. \"Iconography\"—with roots meaning \"symbols from writing\" refers to subject matter of art derived from written sources—especially scripture and mythology. \"Iconology\" is a broader term that referred to all symbolism, whether derived from a specific text or not. Today art historians sometimes use these terms interchangeably.\n\nPanofsky, in his early work, also developed the theories of Riegl, but became eventually more preoccupied with iconography, and in particular with the transmission of themes related to classical antiquity in the Middle Ages and Renaissance. In this respect his interests coincided with those of Warburg, the son of a wealthy family who had assembled an impressive library in Hamburg devoted to the study of the classical tradition in later art and culture. Under Saxl's auspices, this library was developed into a research institute, affiliated with the University of Hamburg, where Panofsky taught.\n\nWarburg died in 1929, and in the 1930s Saxl and Panofsky, both Jewish, were forced to leave Hamburg. Saxl settled in London, bringing Warburg's library with him and establishing the Warburg Institute. Panofsky settled in Princeton at the Institute for Advanced Study. In this respect they were part of an extraordinary influx of German art historians into the English-speaking academy in the 1930s. These scholars were largely responsible for establishing art history as a legitimate field of study in the English-speaking world, and the influence of Panofsky's methodology, in particular, determined the course of American art history for a generation.\n\nHeinrich Wölfflin was not the only scholar to invoke psychological theories in the study of art. Psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud wrote a book on the artist Leonardo da Vinci, in which he used Leonardo's paintings to interrogate the artist's psyche and sexual orientation. Freud inferred from his analysis that Leonardo was probably homosexual.\n\nThough the use of posthumous material to perform psychoanalysis is controversial among art historians, especially since the sexual mores of Leonardo's time and Freud's are different, it is often attempted. One of the best-known psychoanalytic scholars is Laurie Schneider Adams, who wrote a popular textbook, \"Art Across Time\", and a book \"Art and Psychoanalysis\".\n\nAn unsuspecting turn for the history of art criticism came in 1914 when Sigmund Freud published a psychoanalytical interpretation of Michelangelo’s Moses titled Der Moses des Michelangelo as one of the first psychology based analyses on a work of art. Freud first published this work shortly after reading Vasari’s \"Lives\". For unknown purposes, Freud originally published the article anonymously.\n\nCarl Jung also applied psychoanalytic theory to art. C.G. Jung was a Swiss psychiatrist, an influential thinker, and founder of analytical psychology. Jung's approach to psychology emphasized understanding the psyche through exploring the worlds of dreams, art, mythology, world religion and philosophy. Much of his life's work was spent exploring Eastern and Western philosophy, alchemy, astrology, sociology, as well as literature and the arts. His most notable contributions include his concept of the psychological archetype, the collective unconscious, and his theory of synchronicity. Jung believed that many experiences perceived as coincidence were not merely due to chance but, instead, suggested the manifestation of parallel events or circumstances reflecting this governing dynamic. He argued that a collective unconscious and archetypal imagery were detectable in art. His ideas were particularly popular among American Abstract expressionists in the 1940s and 1950s. His work inspired the surrealist concept of drawing imagery from dreams and the unconscious.\n\nJung emphasized the importance of balance and harmony. He cautioned that modern humans rely too heavily on science and logic and would benefit from integrating spirituality and appreciation of the unconscious realm. His work not only triggered analytical work by art historians, but it became an integral part of art-making. Jackson Pollock, for example, famously created a series of drawings to accompany his psychoanalytic sessions with his Jungian psychoanalyst, Dr. Joseph Henderson. Henderson who later published the drawings in a text devoted to Pollock's sessions realized how powerful the drawings were as a therapeutic tool.\n\nThe legacy of psychoanalysis in art history has been profound, and extends beyone Freud and Jung. The prominent feminist art historian Griselda Pollock, for example, draws upon psychoanalysis both in her reading into contemporary art and in her rereading of modernist art. With Griselda Pollock's reading of French feminist psychoanalysis and in particular the writings of Julia Kristeva and Bracha L. Ettinger, as with Rosalind Krauss readings of Jacques Lacan and Jean-François Lyotard and Catherine de Zegher's curatorial rereading of art, Feminist theory written in the fields of French feminism and Psychoanalysis has strongly informed the reframing of both men and women artists in art history.\n\nDuring the mid-20th century, art historians embraced social history by using critical approaches. The goal was to show how art interacts with power structures in society. One critical approach that art historians used was Marxism. Marxist art history attempted to show how art was tied to specific classes, how images contain information about the economy, and how images can make the status quo seem natural (ideology).\n\nPerhaps the best-known Marxist was Clement Greenberg, who came to prominence during the late 1930s with his essay \"Avant-Garde and Kitsch\". In the essay Greenberg claimed that the avant-garde arose in order to defend aesthetic standards from the decline of taste involved in consumer society, and seeing kitsch and art as opposites. Greenberg further claimed that avant-garde and Modernist art was a means to resist the leveling of culture produced by capitalist propaganda. Greenberg appropriated the German word 'kitsch' to describe this consumerism, although its connotations have since changed to a more affirmative notion of leftover materials of capitalist culture. Greenberg later became well known for examining the formal properties of modern art.\n\nMeyer Schapiro is one of the best-remembered Marxist art historians of the mid-20th century. Although he wrote about numerous time periods and themes in art, he is best remembered for his commentary on sculpture from the late Middle Ages and early Renaissance, at which time he saw evidence of capitalism emerging and feudalism declining.\n\nArnold Hauser wrote the first Marxist survey of Western Art, entitled \"The Social History of Art\". He attempted to show how class consciousness was reflected in major art periods. The book was controversial when published during the 1950s since it makes generalizations about entire eras, a strategy now called \"vulgar Marxism\".\n\nMarxist Art History was refined in the department of Art History at UCLA with scholars such as T.J. Clark, O.K. Werckmeister, David Kunzle, Theodor W. Adorno, and Max Horkheimer. T.J. Clark was the first art historian writing from a Marxist perspective to abandon vulgar Marxism. He wrote Marxist art histories of several impressionist and realist artists, including Gustave Courbet and Édouard Manet. These books focused closely on the political and economic climates in which the art was created.\n\nLinda Nochlin's essay \"Why have there been no great women artists?\" helped to ignite feminist art history during the 1970s and remains one of the most widely read essays about female artists. In it she applies a feminist critical framework to show systematic exclusion of women from art training. Nochlin argues that exclusion from practicing art as well as the canonical history of art was the consequence of cultural conditions which curtailed and restricted women from art producing fields. The few who did succeed were treated as anomalies and did not provide a model for subsequent success.Griselda Pollock is another prominent feminist art historian, whose use of psychoanalytic theory is described above. While feminist art history can focus on any time period and location, much attention has been given to the Modern era. Some of this scholarship centers on the feminist art movement, which referred specifically to the experience of women.\n\nAs opposed to iconography which seeks to identify meaning, semiotics is concerned with how meaning is created. Roland Barthes’s connoted and denoted meanings are paramount to this examination. In any particular work of art, an interpretation depends on the identification of denoted meaning—the recognition of a visual sign, and the connoted meaning—the instant cultural associations that come with recognition. The main concern of the semiotic art historian is to come up with ways to navigate and interpret connoted meaning.\n\nSemiotic art history seeks to uncover the codified meaning or meanings in an aesthetic object by examining its connectedness to a collective consciousness. Art historians do not commonly commit to any one particular brand of semiotics but rather construct an amalgamated version which they incorporate into their collection of analytical tools. For example, Meyer Schapiro borrowed Saussure’s differential meaning in effort to read signs as they exist within a system. According to Schapiro, to understand the meaning of frontality in a specific pictorial context, it must be differentiated from, or viewed in relation to, alternate possibilities such as a profile, or a three-quarter view. Schapiro combined this method with the work of Charles Sanders Peirce whose object, sign, and interpretant provided a structure for his approach. Alex Potts demonstrates the application of Peirce’s concepts to visual representation by examining them in relation to the Mona Lisa. By seeing the Mona Lisa, for example, as something beyond its materiality is to identify it as a sign. It is then recognized as referring to an object outside of itself, a woman, or Mona Lisa. The image does not seem to denote religious meaning and can therefore be assumed to be a portrait. This interpretation leads to a chain of possible interpretations: who was the sitter in relation to Leonardo? What significance did she have to him? Or, maybe she is an icon for all of womankind. This chain of interpretation, or “unlimited semiosis” is endless; the art historian’s job is to place boundaries on possible interpretations as much as it is to reveal new possibilities.\n\nSemiotics operates under the theory that an image can only be understood from the viewer’s perspective. The artist is supplanted by the viewer as the purveyor of meaning, even to the extent that an interpretation is still valid regardless of whether the creator had intended it. Rosalind Krauss espoused this concept in her essay “In the Name of Picasso.” She denounced the artist’s monopoly on meaning and insisted that meaning can only be derived after the work has been removed from its historical and social context. Mieke Bal argued similarly that meaning does not even exist until the image is observed by the viewer. It is only after acknowledging this that meaning can become opened up to other possibilities such as feminism or psychoanalysis.\n\nAspects of the subject which have come to the fore in recent decades include interest in the patronage and consumption of art, including the economics of the art market, the role of collectors, the intentions and aspirations of those commissioning works, and the reactions of contemporary and later viewers and owners. Museum studies, including the history of museum collecting and display, is now a specialized field of study, as is the history of collecting.\n\nScientific advances have made possible much more accurate investigation of the materials and techniques used to create works, especially infra-red and x-ray photographic techniques which have allowed many underdrawings of paintings to be seen again. Proper analysis of pigments used in paint is now possible, which has upset many attributions. Dendrochronology for panel paintings and radio-carbon dating for old objects in organic materials have allowed scientific methods of dating objects to confirm or upset dates derived from stylistic analysis or documentary evidence. The development of good colour photography, now held digitally and available on the internet or by other means, has transformed the study of many types of art, especially those covering objects existing in large numbers which are widely dispersed among collections, such as illuminated manuscripts and Persian miniatures, and many types of archaeological artworks.\n\nThe field of Art History is traditionally divided into specializations or concentrations based on eras and regions, with further sub-division based on media. Thus, someone might specialize in \"19th-century German architecture\" or in \"16th-century Tuscan sculpture.\" Sub-fields are often included under a specialization. For example, the Ancient Near East, Greece, Rome, and Egypt are all typically considered special concentrations of Ancient art. In some cases, these specializations may be closely allied (as Greece and Rome, for example), while in others such alliances are far less natural (Indian art versus Korean art, for example).\n\nNon-Western art is a relative newcomer to the Art Historical canon. Recent revisions of the semantic division between art and artifact have recast objects created in non-Western cultures in more aesthetic terms. Relative to those studying Ancient Rome or the Italian Renaissance, scholars specializing in Africa, the Ancient Americas and Asia are a growing minority.\n\nContemporary Art History refers to research into the period from the 1960s until today reflecting the break from the assumptions of modernism brought by artists of the neo-avant-garde and a continuity in contemporary art in terms of practice based on conceptualist and post-conceptualist practices.\n\nIn the United States, the most important art history organization is the College Art Association. It organizes an annual conference and publishes the \"Art Bulletin\" and \"Art Journal\". Similar organizations exist in other parts of the world, as well as for specializations, such as architectural history and Renaissance art history. In the UK, for example, the Association of Art Historians is the premiere organization, and it publishes a journal titled \"Art History\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6837951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6837951", "title": "Humanistic informatics", "text": "Humanistic informatics\n\nHumanistic Informatics (also known as Humanities informatics) is one of several names chosen for the study of the relationship between human culture and technology. The term is fairly common in Europe, but is little known in the English-speaking world, though Digital Humanities (also known as Humanities computing) is in many cases roughly equivalent. \n\nHumanistic informatics departments were generally started in the 1990s when universities rarely taught humanities-based approaches to the rapidly developing computerized society. For this reason, the field was quite broadly defined, and included courses in humanities computing, basic introductions to how computers work, historical developments of technology, technology and learning, digital art and literature and digital culture. Today several departments have declared more specialized areas of research, such as digital arts and culture at the University of Bergen, and socio-cultural communication with and without technology at the University of Aalborg.\n\nDigital Humanities is a primary topic, and there are several universities in the US and the UK that have Digital Arts and Humanities research and development centers. One aspect of Digital Humanities that will grow will be the intersection of new digital media and the humanities, particularly in the gaming industry which has developed both casual and serious gaming and game design strategies to foster learning in the humanities and all other academic disciplines. A key principle in all digital interactive media or games is the storyline; the narrative or quest or goal of the game is primary to both literary works and games. Characters and players go on the quest, and playing the game becomes the narrative. Game design principles, also relevant in literature and the fine arts, include visual literacy and empowering players/learners to align with great artitsts and writers who believe in the creative process.\n\n"}
{"id": "33485814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33485814", "title": "Institut für Dokumentologie und Editorik", "text": "Institut für Dokumentologie und Editorik\n\nThe Institut für Dokumentologie und Editorik (IDE - Institute for Documentology and Scholarly Editing) is a German association (with the legal status of \"Eingetragener Verein\") of researchers working on the application of digital methods to historical documents. Fields of interest include digitization, transcription, text encoding, textual criticism, critical scholarly editing, digital palaeography, and digital codicology. It was established in 2006 and has contributed in several ways to the field of digital humanities and has organized Summer Schools on a regular basis at various universities in Germany and Austria (Berlin, Chemnitz, Cologne, Rostock, Vienna). Most notably, the IDE publishes the series \"Schriften des Instituts für Dokumentologie und Editorik\" distributed in print and freely online. The IDE supports open access. The series is discussed and reviewed in German and international journals.\n\nSince July 2014 the IDE also publishes the open access journal \"RIDE: A Review Journal for Digital Editions and Resources\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2832774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832774", "title": "Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities", "text": "Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities\n\nThe Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities (IATH) is a research unit of the University of Virginia, USA. Its goal is to explore and develop information technology as a tool for scholarly humanities research. To that end, IATH provide Fellows with consulting, technical support, applications development, and networked publishing facilities. It cultivates partnerships and participate in humanities computing initiatives with libraries, publishers, information technology companies, scholarly organizations, and other groups residing at the intersection of computers and cultural heritage.\n\nThe research projects, essays, and documentation are the products of a collaboration between humanities and computer science research faculty, computer professionals, student assistants and project managers, and library faculty and staff. In many cases, this work is supported by private or federal funding agencies. In all cases, it is supported by the Fellows’ home departments; the College or School to which those departments belong; the University of Virginia Library; the Vice President for Research and Public Service; the Vice President and Chief Information Officer; the Provost; and the President of the University of Virginia.\n\nThe Institute for Advanced Technology in the Humanities was established at the University of Virginia in 1992, with a major grant from IBM and a multi-year commitment of support from the University.\n\nIATH’s founders are in humanities computing, digital scholarship, and academic administration. Beginning in 1992 a steering committee of scholars, including Edward Ayers, Alan Batson, Jerome McGann, Kendon Stubbs and William Wulf managed IATH. A search committee commissioned by the steering committee carried out the search for a director of the institute. John Unsworth was selected, and his term began September 1, 1993.\n\nIATH has generated over $10.7 million in grant funding and gifts in kind since it began operations. Much of this funding has come from Federal agencies and private foundations, and has gone to support faculty research and teaching across the University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39765668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39765668", "title": "Institute of Human Origins", "text": "Institute of Human Origins\n\nThe Institute of Human Origins (IHO) is a non-profit, multidisciplinary research organization dedicated to the recovery and analysis of the fossil evidence for human evolution. It was founded by the team of paleoanthropologists that discovered Lucy, and became affiliated with Arizona State University in 1997. In 2014, IHO received the single largest grant dedicated to the research of human origins.\n\nAfter finding Lucy during the \"surge of discoveries\" in the 1970s, Donald Johanson returned to Berkeley, California and founded the Institute of Human Origins with the mission of bridging social, earth, and life science approaches to the most important questions concerning the course, causes, and timing of events in the human career over deep time.\n\nLedi-Geraru is one of IHO's fieldwork sites in the fossil-rich Afar Region of Ethiopia. In 2013, graduate student Chalachew Seyoum discovered the lower mandible known as LD 350-1, the oldest fossil from the human genus Homo. The discovery pushed back evidence of the human genus Homo to 2.8 million years, ago, nearly a half-million years earlier than perviously known.\n\nOngoing IHO field work in Hadar, Ethiopia, where Lucy was found in 1974, addresses the evolution and ecology of Australopithecus (3.0–3.4 million years ago) and the origin of Homo and stone-tool making (2.3 million years ago). \nIn 2007, the field project opened ASU’s Hadar Field School, which educates American study abroad students in field methods in human origins research.\n\nSince joining IHO in 2001, Curtis Marean has directed the organization's Pinnacle Point fieldwork, which is currently working to produce and integrate a climate, environment, and paleoanthropological sequence for the final stage in human evolution. The focus of the Pinnacle Point excavations has been at Cave 13B (PP13B), where the fieldwork team has discovered early evidence of symbolic behavior. In 2009, the examination of worked silcrete stone from Pinnacle Point indicated that it was heat-treated, and is the oldest known example of such technology. Pinnacle Point also represents the oldest known occurrence of human consumption of shellfish, as well as an early use of ochre. These features indicate a sophisticated level of modern behaviors that had previously been associated with Upper Paleolithic of Europe. The discoveries here are key pieces of evidence supporting the early florescence of modern human behaviors in Africa.\n\nThe IHO Templeton Research Program is a collaborative inquiry into the evolutionary foundations of human uniqueness. The $4.9 million, three-year grant from the John Templeton Foundation is the largest of its type for human origins research, and will support 11 linked investigations of where, when, and how unique human capacities for complex cognition, cumulative culture, and large-scale cooperation emerged.\n\nAlexander Barbanell | Charles Brickman | Colleen Cookson | Robert Cookson | David Deniger | Martin Dobelle | Molly Dobelle | John Ellerman | Alejandra Escandon | Jay Greene | Thomas F. Hill | Donald Johanson | Thomas P. Jones III | Patrick Kenney | Bobby Ellen Kimbel | William H. Kimbel | David Koch | Ross Leventhal | Curtis Marean | Carolyn Lee (Susie) Marston | Rand Morimoto | Harry A. Papp | Arthur L. Pearce II | Herb Roskind | Laura Rosskind | Janet D. Sands | Edgar L. Sands | Peter Saucier | Carol Saucier | Bruce W. Schnitzer | Ridge Smidt | Ian Tattersall | Joan Travis | Sander van der Leeuw \n"}
{"id": "18763425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18763425", "title": "International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion", "text": "International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion\n\nThe International Association for the Cognitive Science of Religion (IACSR), founded in 2006, is a scholarly association dedicated to the promotion of the Cognitive Science of Religion. The IACSR is an interdisciplinary association, including scholars from a wide variety of disciplines in the human, social, natural and health sciences that are interested in the academic, scientific study of religious phenomena. The IACSR seeks to advance the naturalistic study of religion. It is strictly scientific and does not encourage or welcome those who are interested in dialogue between science and religion, attempt to find religion in science and science in religion, or attempt to validate religious or spiritual doctrines through cognitive science.\n\nThe IACSR supports the \"Electronic Archive for Religion & Cognition\" at the \"Centre for Religion & Cognition\", Groningen, the \"Journal of Cognition & Culture\" (Brill Publishers), and two book series, \"Scientific Studies of Religion: Inquiry and Explanation\" (Bloomsbury Academic), which was formerly the series \"Cognitive Science of Religion\" (AltaMira Press), and \"Religion, Cognition and Culture\" (Equinox Press).\n\nThe IACSR was founded in 2006, and the inaugural meeting took place in Aarhus University, in Denmark.\n\nFirst General Assembly: January 7, 2006, Aarhus University, Denmark.\n\nSecond General Assembly: May 30, 2008, Aarhus University, Denmark.\n\nThird General Assembly: August 16, 2010, University of Toronto, Canada.\n\nFourth General Assembly: June 25, 2012, Aarhus University, Denmark.\n\nFifth General Assembly: June 20, 2014, LEVYNA, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.\n\nSixth General Assembly: August 22, 2016, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.\n\nOther IACSR meetings:\n\nJuly 29, 2009, at the Free University of Amsterdam, in conjunction with the annual meeting of the Cognitive Science Society.\n\nPast President:\nJoseph Bulbulia, Maclaurin Goodfellow Chair, University of Auckland\n\nPresident:\nAnn Taves, Professor, Department of Religious Studies, University of California, Santa Barbara\n\nPresident Elect:\nDimitris Xygalatas, Assistant Professor, University of Connecticut\n\nSecretary General:\nJohn H. Shaver, Lecturer, University of Otago\n\nTreasurer:\nJustin Lane, Postdoctoral Fellow, Boston University\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38862518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38862518", "title": "Mediated quasi-interaction", "text": "Mediated quasi-interaction\n\nMediated quasi-interaction is a concept in communication science that describes a monological interaction between people, which is oriented towards an indefinite range of potential recipients. It involves a fundamental asymmetry between producers and receivers. Some examples of Mediated Quasi-Interaction are television, radio and newspapers and other forms of mass media.\n\nThe concept was developed by sociologist John Brookshire Thompson, a professor at the University of Cambridge and a fellow of Jesus College. The concept is first documented in his book “The Rise of Mediated Interaction”, which was published in 1995 in Cambridge, UK. Thompson developed a conceptual framework for the analysis of the forms of action and interaction created by the media. He wanted to focus the types of interactional situation created by the mass media. He also wanted the analytical framework to examine some of the interactional features of the social relationships established by the media.\n\nHe created the concept in part of his theory of interaction. The 3 steps theory consisted of Face-to-Face interaction, Mediated Interaction and Mediated Quasi-Interaction. Face-to- people share time and space, since they are co-present and mediated interaction the sending of the message and its reception are separated in time and space.\nThompson, 1995, Table 3.1\n\nMediated Quasi-interaction is monologicial in character and involves the production of symbolic forms for an indefinite range of potential recipients. Mediated Quasi-Interaction creates a certain kind of social situation in which individuals are linked together in a process of communication and symbolic exchange. It is a structured situation in which some individuals are engaged primarily in producing symbolic forms for others who are not physically present, while others are involved primarily in receiving symbolic forms produced to whom they cannot respond, but with whom they can form bonds of friendship, affection or loyalty.\n\nMediated quasi-interaction is based on social relations established by media of mass communications. With mass media being impossible to be genuine interactivity, Mediated quasi-interaction is simulated interaction. It is typical for the mass media to try to simulate interpersonal communication and to personalize their communication (ex. Call-ins). Another focus of Mediated Quasi-Interaction is also on its space-time constitution. It is described as a separation of contexts with extended availability in time and space.\n\nMediated Quasi-Interaction can also be combined with other interaction such as face-to-face. For example, people can sit in a room together and have a discussion while they are watching television. In a similar relation, a television program may involve face to face interaction with a panel and an audience, although the program remains primarily a form Mediated Quasi-Interaction.\n\n"}
{"id": "7613621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7613621", "title": "Ostforschung", "text": "Ostforschung\n\nOstforschung (, \"research on the east\") is a German term dating from the 18th century for the study of the areas to the east of the core German-speaking region.\n\nTraditional \"Ostforschung\" has fallen into disrepute with modern German historians as it often reflected Western European prejudices of the time towards Poles. The term \"Ostforschung\" itself remained in use in the names of some journals and institutes throughout the Cold War, but was replaced by more specific terms by the 1990s (e.g., the journal \"Zeitschrift für Ostforschung\", established in 1952, was renamed \"Zeitschrift für Ostmitteleuropa-Forschung\" in 1994).\n\nSince the 1990s, \"Ostforschung\" itself has become a subject of historical research.\n\n\"Ostforschung\" was also the name of a multidisciplinary organization set up before World War II by Nazi German chief propagandist Albert Brackmann supporting Nazi genocidal policies, ethnic cleansing and anti-semitism. Brackmann and several other Nazi and nationalist historians and anthropologists co-ordinated Nazi German research on Eastern Europe, mainly the Second Polish Republic. The research conducted by this organisation, as well as the Ahnenerbe, was instrumental in planning of ethnic cleansing and genocide of local non-German populations in Generalplan Ost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56337347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56337347", "title": "Out-of-home entertainment", "text": "Out-of-home entertainment\n\nOut-of-Home Entertainment (also OOHE or OHE) is a term coined by the amusement industry to collectively refer to experiences at regional attractions like theme parks and waterparks with their thrill rides and slides, and smaller community-based entertainment venues such as family entertainment and cultural venues.\n\nIn the US alone, there are nearly 30,000 attractions—theme and amusement parks, attractions, water parks, family entertainment centers, zoos, aquariums, science centers, museums, and resorts, producing a total nationwide economic impact of $219 billion in 2011, according to leading international industry association, International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions (IAAPA). The industry directly employs more than 1.3 million and indirectly generates 1 million jobs in the US, creating a total job impact of 2.3 million.\n\nIn recent years, the use of this term has gained acceptance with and been popularized by amusement industry players, industry associations, trade magazines and even securities analysts. This stems from the desire to distinguish between the social, competitive atmosphere and dedicated hardware found in location-based entertainment venues from at-home consumer-game entertainment, mobile entertainment or even augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR). The reality is that the lines are increasingly blurred with today's sophisticated consumers and emerging technologies.\n\nThis term is not to be confused with out-of-home media advertising as used by the advertising industry, although the convergence of digital out-of-home advertising and the digital out-of-home entertainment is producing innovations in retail and hospitality, steeped in fundamentals of social gaming experiences defined by the video amusement industry during the 70’s.\n\nDigital out-of-home entertainment (also DOE) is a sector that is understood by few but is a fast-growing technology sector with plenty of innovations transforming the sector. Its roots lie in the popularity of coin-operated arcade video games such as racing, fighting, Japanese imports, or pinball that Generation X will vividly recall with fond memories of countless hours of their youth spent in dimly-lit video-game rooms (popularly known as 'arcades').\n\nWhen Generation Y came along, an audience well-versed in digital gaming favored game consoles over arcade machines. So while video amusement remains an integral part of the popular culture fabric today, its relevancy is diminished and even perceived as 'dead' partly due to the lack of coverage by consumer-game media even as the amusement industry transformed itself and research and development investments continue to pour into the sector, evolving and growing the out-of-home, pay-to-play experience.\n\nIn 2011, the non-profit Digital Out-of-Home Interactive Entertainment Network Association was established to help \"define these amorphous groups that comprise this vibrant industry and illustrate how they all interact\" with groups spanning from \"family entertainment centers (FEC), location-based entertainment sites, visitor attractions, theme parks as well as retail, shopping malls and the hospitality sector – and not forgetting museums, heritage sites, schools\".\n\nMoviegoing is one of the most popular and affordable forms of out-of-home entertainment.\nOther classic and expanded forms of OOHE making up the DOE sector include:\n\nThe traditional FECs is a classic form of OOHE that is easily understood by the public. FECs are essentially a converged outgrowth of theme restaurants and the winning formula of combining food and entertainment as a business model has been around for more than 30 years. The first Dave & Buster's was opened in 1982 in Dallas, Texas after discovering this winning formula and is a highly-successful FEC chain today with their \"Eat, Drink, Play, Watch\" offerings. Chuck E. Cheese first opened a store in 1977 and became the public embodiment of the typical children's party room combined with a pizza restaurant and arcade. Other restaurants started to come round to seeing the importance of amusement games and \"anchor\" attractions (bowling alleys, miniature golf, laser tags, batting cages, roller skating rinks, etc.) to encourage dwell time of 1–2 hours and stimulating repeat visits.\n\nProbably known more by the blockbuster arcade video game titles they produced rather than by company names, these video game developers played a defining role in the birth of the video amusement industry. In 1972, Atari essentially created the first commercially successful video game \"Pong,\" marking the beginning of the coin-operated video game industry. In 1978, the first blockbuster arcade video game, \"Space Invaders\" was produced by Taito Corporation and ushered in the golden age of arcade video games. Namco (of \"Pac-Man\"'s fame), Nintendo (\"Donkey Kong\"), Konami (), Capcom (\"Street Fighters\"), Sega AM2 (\"Daytona\") are among some of the most notable video game developers that remain active today in the video amusement scene.\n\nVideo game publishers are also making inroads into the OOHE market by licensing iconic IPs (intellectual property) to experienced arcade game developers and manufacturers, such as the recent collaboration between Ubisoft and LAI Games to produce \"Virtual Rabbids: The Big Ride\", an attendant-free VR attraction based on the popular \"Rabbids\" franchise.\n\nA redemption game is an arcade amusement game involving skill that rewards the player (in gifts, tokens, etc.) proportionately to his or her score. (Merchandizers also fall in the redemption game category.) One of the most popular redemption games, \"Skee Ball\", has more than 100,000 Skee-Ball branded alley games in use worldwide by some estimates and continue to endure after more than a century. In 2016, BayTek Games (known for their hit game \"Big Bass Wheel\") bought the rights to \"Skee-Ball\" from Skee-Ball Amusement Games, Inc. Innovative Concepts in Entertainment (ICE), another reputable manufacturer, produced hit midway-style redemption games such as \"Down The Clown\" and \"Gold Fishin\". LAI Games (formerly part of the Leisure and Allied Industries Group which founded Timezone) produced hit games such as \"Stacker\" and \"Speed of Light,\" the latter in which was embedded in popular culture with its appearance in Nickelodeon TV show Game Shakers.\n\nOther notable players include Apple Industries, Inc., Coastal Amusements, Universal Space (UNIS), Adrenaline Amusements.\n\nAnother category of video amusement games are simulators. Raw Thrills, best known for developing arcade video games based on films such as \"Jurassic Park Arcade\" and \"AMC's The\" \"Walking Dead\" \"Arcade\", is a common name found in medium and larger-sized FECs. Other established companies in this category are Triotech, maker of \"Typhoon\" - a 3D arcade machine with 2 seats and delivers up to 2G Forces of acceleration, and CJ 4DPLEX with their \"Mini Rider 3D\" - a 2-seat simulator on an electric motion base with a choice of several 3D movies.\n"}
{"id": "9988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9988", "title": "Outline of entertainment", "text": "Outline of entertainment\n\nThe following outline provides an overview of and topical guide to entertainment and the entertainment industry:\n\nEntertainment is any activity which provides a diversion or permits people to amuse themselves in their leisure time, and may also provide fun, enjoyment, and laughter. People may create their own entertainment, such as when they spontaneously invent a game; participate actively in an activity they find entertaining, such as when they play sport as a hobby; or consume an entertainment product passively, such as when they attend a performance.\n\nThe entertainment industry (informally known as show business or show biz) is part of the tertiary sector of the economy and includes a large number of sub-industries devoted to entertainment. However, the term is often used in the mass media to describe the mass media companies that control the distribution and manufacture of mass media entertainment. In the popular parlance, the term \"show biz\" in particular connotes the commercially popular performing arts, especially musical theatre, vaudeville, comedy, film, and music. It applies to every aspect of entertainment including cinema, television, radio, theatre, and music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49769402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49769402", "title": "Paper abortion", "text": "Paper abortion\n\nPaper abortion, also known as a financial abortion or a statutory abort, is the proposed ability of the biological father, before the birth of the child, to opt out of any rights, privileges, and responsibilities toward the child, including financial support. By this means, before a child is born, a man would be able to absolve himself of both the privileges and demands of fatherhood.\n\nIn a 1996 article \"Abortion and Fathers' Rights,\" philosopher Steven Hales made an argument that presupposes the following assertions:\n\n\nHales contends that the conjunction of these three principles is prima facie inconsistent and that this inconsistency should be eradicated by firstly acknowledging that men have no absolute duty to provide material support for their children, and secondly by admitting that fathers have the right of refusal.\n\nLaurie Shrage, professor of philosophy and women’s and gender studies, questions whether men should be 'penalized for being sexually active', and she puts the subject in the perspective of feminists who had to fight the same idea with different gender portent, namely that consenting to sexual intercourse is not the same as consenting to parenthood. Furthermore, both men and children are punished, according to professor Shrage; children have to live with an absent father who never 'voluntarily' became a parent.\n\nAt most, according to Brake, men should be responsible for helping with the medical expenses and other costs of a pregnancy for which they are partly responsible.\n\nPaper abortion has met opposition by those who see it as an excuse for men to shirk their responsibilities as a father. Critics say that men should use birth control (either contraception or sterilization) or practice abstinence if they want to avoid the financial and personal responsibilities of fatherhood. Critics also argue that a father's paper abortion is different from a female abortion since a child is born. Thus the best interests of the child should weigh more than equal opportunity to deny parenthood.\n\nThe concept of a paper abortion was first introduced in Denmark in 2000 by the socioeconomicist Henrik Platz. He says that it is necessary from an egalitarian perspective, to ensure that women and men have equal rights under the law. According to a Gallup poll from 2014 and earlier polls, between 40% and 70% of Danes agree with legalizing paper abortion.\n\nSociologist Karen Sjørup, who conducted research on the topic argues that it would give women more freedom by allowing those who want to become mothers without having to share the rights and duties of parenthood with men an additional way to do so. She also suggests that it could decrease the abortion rate because it would prevent men who wished to avoid fatherhood from pressuring women to abort.\n\nAdvocates argue that just as women are able to choose whether to have a child or not, men should also be able to choose whether to assume paternity or not. Allowing men to have the opportunity to renounce the economic, social and legal responsibility for an unborn child during the first three months of pregnancy would give men and women as close to equal opportunities as possible.\n\nIn 2016, a regional branch of the Swedish Liberal Youth Party decided to support paper abortion for men until the 18th week of pregnancy, the time limit on abortions for women. The proposition was supported by some commentators, but not by the LYP's parent party.\n\n"}
{"id": "47584564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47584564", "title": "Patriarchy (book)", "text": "Patriarchy (book)\n\nPatriarchy is a 2007 book by V. Geetha, an academic activist and author on the subject of patriarchy in India. The book, written from the female perspective, is part of the \"Theorizing Feminism\" series published by Stree (an imprint of Bhatkal and Sen). Three editions have been published.\n\nIn India, patriarchy disrupts women's lives. According to Geetha, \"Sexual violence has been blamed on a patriarchal backlash where the term 'patriarchy' is often synonymous with 'tradition. Feminism has a long tradition of examining the concept of patriarchy, and the book attempts to demonstrate that the nature, effect, and meanings of male authority and power can only be understood through the idea of patriarchy.\n\n\"Patriarchy\" introduces readers to concepts in feminist theory involving patriarchy. According to Geetha, \"The book does not propound a theory of patriarchy; rather, it points to those areas of reality and traditions of knowledge that we might need to draw upon to define patriarchy. It indicates the need for theory-making, and shows how this may be done. Its intent is fundamentally pedagogical and is a beginners' text to help the reader consider patriarchy in all its aspects\".\n\nShe describes how knowledge about patriarchy cannot be easily separated from the feminist desire to generate such knowledge: \"By understanding patriarchy, the notions of production and reproduction are important concepts\". Geetha highlights unique aspects of Indian society, such as kinship structures and the caste system, to better understand patriarchy. According to the author, \"A woman's identity as a citizen and rights to equality are undercut by the fact of their gender\".\n\nGeetha theorizes that patriarchal power \"is not merely coercive ... Cultural and sexual norms constitute the everyday exercise of patriarchal power\". She also writes, \"Sexuality is a crucial link between caste and gender, so that marriage and sexual rules are not only set by caste, but also the notions of right pleasure are defined by it.\"\n\n\"Patriarchy\" has been widely cited in books and papers about feminism and gender studies, especially relative to India, and has been used at the university level.\n\n"}
{"id": "52102822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52102822", "title": "Political insult", "text": "Political insult\n\nPolitical insult refers to a statement from a politician about another one which contains disdainful purpose or notorious offense. They are not defined in any political protocol and moreover are strongly recommended not to be used in diplomatic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "37188627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37188627", "title": "Queer Crips", "text": "Queer Crips\n\nQueer Crips: Disabled Gay Men and Their Stories is a 2004 anthology edited by Bob Guter and John R. Killacky. The book is a collection of personal stories from gay men with disabilities. The stories are told through a variety of literary genres, including poetry, prose, and interviews. The book won the 2004 Lambda Literary Award for the Anthologies/Non-fiction category. Contributors to the book include gay men such as Greg Walloch, Kenny Fries, J. Quinn Brisben, and Eli Clare. After being turned down for publication by 30 publishers, the anthology was finally published by Harrington Park Press, an imprint of Haworth Press.\n\nThe \"Disability Studies Quarterly\", the publication of the Society for Disability Studies, wrote a review of \"Queer Crips\", stating that:\nWhile Queer Crips can definitely boast of well-crafted, gorgeous poetry, there are a few exceptions. Perhaps it is only a matter of taste, but some of the poetry is of the cathartic type without the \"craft\" elements of formal published poetry or the spectacle of a performance piece. However, what is great about including such poetry is that it elevates all expressions of feeling and, in a sense, truly captures the sharing of the soul that poetry is.\nIn the book \"Crip Theory: Cultural Signs of Queerness and Disability\", Robert McRuer notes that the stories in \"Queer Crips\" are \"nonheteronormative in their broadest sense\" and that it is \"striking how much the convergence of disability and homosexuality in \"Queer Crips\" appears to authorize erotic inventiveness and play\". McRuer further writes that the anthology implicitly draws a parallel between compulsory heterosexuality and \"compulsory able-bodiedness\".\n"}
{"id": "148979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148979", "title": "Queer theory", "text": "Queer theory\n\nQueer theory is a field of critical theory that emerged in the early 1990s out of the fields of queer studies and women's studies. Queer theory includes both queer readings of texts and the theorization of 'queerness' itself. Heavily influenced by the work of Lauren Berlant, Leo Bersani, Judith Butler, Lee Edelman, Jack Halberstam, and Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, queer theory builds both upon feminist challenges to the idea that gender is part of the essential self and upon gay/lesbian studies' close examination of the socially constructed nature of sexual acts and identities. Whereas gay/lesbian studies focused its inquiries into natural and unnatural behavior with respect to homosexual behavior, queer theory expands its focus to encompass any kind of sexual activity or identity that falls into normative and deviant categories. Italian feminist and film theorist Teresa de Lauretis coined the term \"queer theory\" for a conference she organized at the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1990 and a special issue of \"Differences: A Journal of Feminist Cultural Studies\" she edited based on that conference.\nThrough the context of heterosexuality being the origin and foundation of society's heteronormative stability, the concept of queerness focuses on, \"mismatches between sex, gender and desire\" Queerness has been associated most prominently with bisexual, lesbian and gay subjects, but its analytic framework also includes such topics as cross-dressing, intersex bodies and identities, gender ambiguity and gender-corrective surgery. Queer theory holds that individual sexuality is a fluid, fragmented, and dynamic collectivity of possible sexualities and it may vary at different points of his life. Its attempted debunking of stable (and correlated) sexes, genders, and sexualities develops out of the specifically lesbian and gay reworking of the post-structuralist figuring of identity as a constellation of multiple and unstable positions.\n\nQueer theory also examines the discourses of homosexuality developed in the last century in order to place the \"queer\" into historical context, deconstructing contemporary arguments both for and against this latest terminology.\n\nQueer theory is derived largely from post-structuralist theory, and deconstruction in particular. Starting in the 1970s, a range of authors brought deconstructionist critical approaches to bear on issues of sexual identity, and especially on the construction of Heteronormativity, i.e. the normalizing practices and institutions that privilege heterosexuality as fundamental in society and in turn discriminates those outside this stem of power, and focused to a large degree on non-heteronormative sexualities and sexual practices. In \"The Politics of Inside/Out\" Fuss asserts that the concept of “coming out” and being visible has been normalized while simultaneously contributing to the disappearance of queerness. By declaring oneself to be visible and “out” declares the ones who are not invisible. The theory was also influenced by the political agency, particularly the Anglo-American cultures in the HIV/AIDS activism of the 1980s and contemporary feminism in the early 1990s.\n\nQueer Theory's overarching goal is to be sought out as a lens or tool to deconstruct the existing monolithic ideals of social norms and taxonomies; as well as, how these norms came into being and why. The view is that these notions and norms are rigid organizing categories that do not sufficiently explain different attitudes, behaviors, or conditions of individual experiences. In addition, it analyzes the correlation between power distribution and identification while understanding the facets of oppression and privilege. Feminist and Queer Theory are seen as applicable concepts that provide a framework to explore these issues rather than as an identity to those in the community. Queer is an umbrella term for those not only deemed sexually deviant, but also used to describe those who feel marginalized as a result of standard social practices. It is a “site of permanent becoming” (Giffney, 2004).\n\nThe term \"queer theory\" was introduced in 1990, with Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, Judith Butler, Adrienne Rich and Diana Fuss (all largely following the work of Michel Foucault) being among its foundational proponents.\n\nAnnamarie Jagose wrote \"Queer Theory: An Introduction\" in 1996. Queer used to be a slang word for homosexuals and was used for homophobic abuse. Recently, this term has been used as an umbrella term for a coalition of sexual identities that are culturally marginalized, and at other times, to create discourse surrounding the budding theoretical model that primarily arose through more traditional lesbian and gay studies. According to Jagose (1996), \"Queer focuses on mismatches between sex, gender and desire. For most, queer has been prominently associated with those who identify as lesbian and gay. Unknown to many, queer is in association with more than just gay and lesbian, but also cross-dressing, hermaphroditism, gender ambiguity and gender-corrective surgery.\"\n\nIn addition, it is important to understand that Queer Theory is not predominantly about analyzing the binary of the homosexual and heterosexual. There is an abundance of identities in which Queer Theory not only recognizes but also breaks down in relation to other contributing factors like race, class, religion, etc.\n\n\"Queer is a product of specific cultural and theoretical pressures which increasingly structured debates (both within and outside the academy) about questions of lesbian and gay identity,\" but now, with the evolution of language, it is important to understand that the terms ‘gay’ and ‘lesbian’ are static, Eurocentric labels that fail to be universal when looking at a transnational scale. It is merely reductive to view Queer Theory as a byname for Gay and Lesbian studies when the two fields have stark differences.\n\nThe future of queer theory is rooted in the aspiration of the term being utilized to reference and question all deviations from normative, as well as serve as a foundation of interrogation of the normative. The desires that queer theory is centered in do not reference sexuality, however because the foundation of queer theory lies in the assessment and analysis of what is deemed normative and non-normative, sexuality intersects with the components that maintain the fundamentals of queer theory.\n\nQueer theorist Michael Warner attempts to provide a solid definition of a concept that typically circumvents categorical definitions: \"Social reflection carried out in such a manner tends to be creative, fragmentary, and defensive, and leaves us perpetually at a disadvantage. And it is easy to be misled by the utopian claims advanced in support of particular tactics. But the range and seriousness of the problems that are continually raised by queer practice indicate how much work remains to be done. Because the logic of the sexual order is so deeply embedded by now in an indescribably wide range of social institutions, and is embedded in the most standard accounts of the world, queer struggles aim not just at toleration or equal status but at challenging those institutions and accounts. Similarly, queer theorist Cathy Cohen highlights the limitations of a queer politics that attempts integration into “dominant institutions and normative social relationships” in order to centralize LGBTQ identity, and rather that it is necessary to affect the societal values and legislations that result in these oppressive institutions and relationships of power. The dawning realization that themes of homophobia and heterosexism may be read in almost any document of our culture means that we are only beginning to have an idea of how widespread those institutions and accounts are\".\n\nQueer theory explores and contests the categorization of gender and sexuality. If identities are not fixed, they cannot be categorized and labeled, because identities consist of many varied components, so categorization by one characteristic is incomplete, and there is an interval between what a subject \"does\" (role-taking) and what a subject \"is\" (the self). This opposition destabilizes identity categories, which are designed to identify the \"sexed subject\" and place individuals within a single restrictive sexual orientation.\n\n\"Queer\" marks both a continuity and a break with the notion of gayness emerging from gay liberationist and lesbian feminist models, such as Adrienne Rich's \"Compulsory Heterosexuality and Lesbian Existence\". \"Gay\" vs. \"queer\" fueled debates (both within and outside of academia) about LGBT identity. The independence of \"queer\" from \"gay\" came from the alignment of gay ideals with assimilationism and conservatism, while queer coincided with a radical approach. Assimilationists saw being nothing wrong with society; queer radicalism aspires to achieve nothing in reference to the status quo because societal acceptance is not essential because society is unacceptable.\n\nThere has been a long history of critical and anarchistic thinking about sexual and gender relations across many cultures. Josiah Flynt became one of the first sociologists to study homosexuality. Most recently, in the late 1970s and 1980s, social constructionists conceived of the sexual subject as a culturally dependent, historically specific product. Before the phrase \"queer theory\" was born, the term \"Queer Nation\" appeared on the cover of the short-lived lesbian/gay quarterly \"Outlook\" in the winter 1991 issues. Writers Allan Berube and Jeffrey Escoffier drove home the point that Queer Nation strove to embrace paradoxes in its political activism, and that the activism was taking new form and revolving around the issue of identity. Soon enough \"Outlook\" and \"Queer Nation\" stopped being published, however, there was a mini-gay renaissance going on during the 1980s and early 1990s. There were a number of significant outbursts of lesbian/gay political/cultural activity. Out of this emerged queer theory. Their work however did not arise out of the blue. Teresa de Lauretis is credited with coining the phrase \"queer theory\". It was at a working conference on lesbian and gay sexualities that was held at the University of California, Santa Cruz in February 1990 that de Lauretis first made mention of the phrase. She later introduced the phrase in a 1991 special issue of , entitled \"Queer Theory: Lesbian and Gay Sexualities.\" Similar to the description Berube and Escoffier used for Queer Nation, de Lauretis asserted that, \"queer unsettles and questions the genderedness of sexuality.\" Barely three years later, she abandoned the phrase « on the grounds that it had been taken over by those mainstream forces and institutions it was coined to resist ». Judith Butler's \"Gender Trouble\", Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick's \"Epistemology of the Closet\", and David Halperin's \"One Hundred Years of Homosexuality\" inspired other works. Teresa de Lauretis, Judith Butler, and Eve Sedgwick arranged much of the conceptual base for the emerging field in the 1990s. Along with other queer theorists, these three outlined a political hermeneutics, which emphasized representation. These scholars questioned whether people of varying sexual orientations had the same political goals, and whether those in the sexual minority felt that they could be represented along with others of different sexualities and orientations. \"While some critics insist that queer theory is apolitical word-smithery, de Lauretis, Butler, and Sedgwick take seriously the role that signs and symbols play in shaping the meanings and possibilities of our culture at the most basic level, including politics conventionally defined.\"\n\nQueer theory has increasingly been applied not just to contemporary sexualities and identities but also to practices and identities in earlier time periods. Examination of Renaissance culture and literature, for example, has generated significant scholarship in the past 20 years.\n\nQueer theory is grounded in gender and sexuality. Due to this association, a debate emerges as to whether sexual orientation is natural or essential to the person, as an essentialist believes, or if sexuality is a social construction and subject to change.\n\nThe essentialist feminists believed that genders \"have an essential nature (e.g. nurturing and caring versus being aggressive and selfish), as opposed to differing by a variety of accidental or contingent features brought about by social forces\". Due to this belief in the essential nature of a person, it is also natural to assume that a person's sexual preference would be natural and essential to a person's personality.\n\nSocial constructivism is a concept that proposes the realities we produce and the meanings we create are a result of social interaction; communicating and existing in a cultural context that conveys meaning to us. Our world is a product of continuous “claims making, labelling and other constitutive definitional processes”.\n\nFurthermore, queer theorists have offered the argument that there is no essential self at all, and that people exist not just as subjects but also as objects of the social world. In this way, an identity is not born but rather constructed through repeated performative actions that are in turn informed by existing social constructions of gender. By thus analyzing and understanding the ways in which gender is shared and historically constituted, the production of gender can occur differently and beyond a socially constructed binary upon which heterosexuality depends.\n\nQueer theory was originally associated with radical gay politics of ACT UP, OutRage! and other groups which embraced \"queer\" as an identity label that pointed to a separatist, non-assimilationist politics. Queer theory developed out of an examination of perceived limitations in the traditional identity politics of recognition and self-identity. In particular, queer theorists identified processes of consolidation or stabilization around some other identity labels (e.g. gay and lesbian); and construed queerness so as to resist this. Queer theory attempts to maintain a critique more than define a specific identity. These critiques are expressed through a whole range of notions in subfields such as ecotechnics within technology studies.\n\nAcknowledging the inevitable violence of identity politics, and having no stake in its own ideology, queer is less an identity than a critique of identity. However, it is in no position to imagine itself outside the circuit of problems energized by identity politics. Instead of defending itself against those criticisms that its operations attract, queer allows those criticisms to shape its – for now unimaginable – future directions. \"The term,\" writes Butler, \"will be revised, dispelled, rendered obsolete to the extent that it yields to the demands which resist the term precisely because of the exclusions by which it is mobilized.\" The mobilization of queer foregrounds the conditions of political representation, its intentions and effects, its resistance to and recovery by the existing networks of power.\n\nThe studies of Fuss anticipate queer theory. Fuss analyzes queer theory while surpassing the concept of identity politics to assert the nature in how to distinguish people who were not heterosexual from people who are without asserting the positionally of the two from the lens of a binary.\n\nEng, Halberstam and Esteban Munoz offer one of its latest incarnations in the aptly titled \"What is Queer about Queer studies now?\". Using Judith Butler's critique of sexual identity categories as a starting point, they work around a \"queer epistemology\" that explicitly opposes the sexual categories of Lesbian and Gay studies and lesbian and gay identity politics. They insist that the field of normalization is not limited to sexuality; social classifications such as gender, race and nationality constituted by a \"governing logic\" require an epistemological intervention through queer theory.\" \"So, the evolution of the queer begins with the problematization of sexual identity categories in Fuss (1996) and extends outward to a more general deconstruction of social ontology in contemporary queer theory.\" \n\n\"Edelman goes from deconstruction of the subject to a deconstructive psychoanalysis of the entire social order; the modern human fear of mortality produces defensive attempts to \"suture over the hole in the Symbolic Order.\" According to him, constructions of \"the homosexual\" are pitted against constructions of \"The Child\" in the modern West, wherein the former symbolizes the inevitability of mortality (do not procreate) and the latter an illusory continuity of the self with the social order (survives mortality through one's offspring). The constructs are animated by futuristic fantasy designed to evade mortality.\" \n\n\"Fuss, Eng. et al and Edelman represent a distinct moment in the development of queer theory. Whereas Fuss aims to discompose and render inert the reigning classifications of sexual identity, Eng. et al observe the extension of a deconstructive strategy to a wider field of normalization, while Edelman’s work takes not only the specter of \"the homosexual\", but the very notion of \"society\" as a manifestation of psychological distress requiring composition.\"\n\nQueer theorists focus on problems in classifying individuals as either male or female, even on a strictly biological basis. For example, the sex chromosomes (X and Y) may exist in atypical combinations (as in Klinefelter syndrome [XXY]). This complicates the use of genotype as a means to define exactly two distinct sexes. Intersex individuals may for various biological reasons have sexual characteristics that the dominant medical discourse regards as disordered.\n\nScientists who have written on the conceptual significance of intersex individuals include Anne Fausto-Sterling, Katrina Karkazis, Rebecca Jordan-Young, and Joan Roughgarden. While the medical literature focuses increasingly on genetics of intersex traits, and even their deselection, some scholars on the study of culture, such as Barbara Rogoff, argue that the traditional distinction between biology and culture as independent entities is overly simplistic, pointing to the ways in which biology and culture interact with one another.\n\nIntersex scholars and scientists who have written on intersex include Morgan Holmes, Georgiann Davis, Iain Morland and Janik Bastien-Charlebois, in each case focusing on more particular realities of the intersex experience. In his essay \"What Can Queer Theory Do for Intersex?\" Morland contrasts queer \"hedonic activism\" with an experience of post-surgical insensate intersex bodies to claim that \"queerness is characterized by the sensory interrelation of pleasure and shame\".\n\nIn Robert McRuer's \"Crip Theory,\" he mentions the intersection between disability theory and queer theory and how they are aided by their own association with each other and what is normal; for instance, the connection between upholding an able-bodied identity and heterosexuality. He argues that an able-bodied identity functions as more of a subconscious mentality of normality than heterosexuality. McRuer argues that there is a system that is established to distinguish those who are able-bodied from those who have disabilities; that distinction that was instituted the disability concept. Following that same dynamic, the subjection of homosexuality in relation to heterosexuality founded the basis of homosexuality. McRuer emphasizes how the intersecting of queer theory and disability theory would cultivate, “critically disabled spaces overlapping with the critically queer spaces that activists and scholars have shaped during recent decades, in which we can identify and challenge the ongoing consolidation of heterosexual, able-bodied hegemony.” The creation of Crip Theory by McRuer was not only built on neoliberism but also critically engages with the fundamentality of the term “disability” and the manner that it paradoxically operates. McRuer asserts the nature of which that queer theory and disability theory benefit each other. The functions of the concept of able-bodiedness is utilized as an additional tool to strengthen and maintain the concept of heterosexuality and heteronormativy.\n\nMuch of queer theory developed out of a response to the AIDS crisis, which promoted a renewal of radical activism, and the growing homophobia brought about by public responses to AIDS. Queer theory became occupied in part with what effects – put into circulation around the AIDS epidemic – necessitated and nurtured new forms of political organization, education and theorizing in \"queer\".\n\nTo examine the effects that HIV/AIDS has on queer theory is to look at the ways in which the status of the subject or individual is treated in the biomedical discourses that construct them.\n\n\nThe material effects of AIDS contested many cultural assumptions about identity, justice, desire and knowledge. One scholar claimed that AIDS challenged the health and immunity of Western epistemology: \"the psychic presence of AIDS signifies a collapse of identity and difference that refuses to be abjected from the systems of self-knowledge.\" (p. 292) Thus queer theory and AIDS become interconnected because each is articulated through a postmodernist understanding of the death of the subject and both understand identity as an ambivalent site.\n\nRichard Norton suggests that queer language evolved from structures and labels imposed by a mainstream culture.\n\nEarly discourse of queer theory involved leading theorists: Michel Foucault, Judith Butler, Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick and others. This discourse centered on the way that knowledge of sexuality was structured through the use of language. Michel Foucault writes in \"The History of Sexuality\", critiquing the idea of the “repressive hypothesis” that supposes from the 17th to the mid-20th century, sex was a private matter limited within a marriage between a husband and wife, and discourses of sex have been otherwise prohibited and repressed. As a result of this repression, people sought outlets to release sexual feelings, building their own discourses of sex and thus liberating themselves from the confines of a sexually repressive society. Foucault argues that the “repressive hypothesis” is a limiting attempt to connect open discourses of sex to personal liberation. This sort of narrative which views discourses of sex as revolutionary progress against a repressive system is dependent on the assumption that people of the past were sexually repressed; however, Foucault states that from the 17th to the mid-20th century the \"'repressive hypothesis\"' was an illusion, rather a suppression of western society's sexuality. In fact, discourse about sexuality flourished during this time period. Foucault argues,\n\n\"Western man has been drawn for three centuries to the task of telling everything concerning his sex;that since the classical age there has been a constant optimization and increasing valorization of the discourse on sex; and that this carefully analytical discourse was meant to yield multiple effects of displacement,intensification, reorientation and modification of desire itself. Not only were the boundaries of what one could say about sex enlarged, and men compelled to hear it said; but more important, discourse was connected to sex by a complex organization with varying effects, by a deployment that cannot be adequately explained merely by referring it to a law of prohibition. A censorship of sex? There was installed rather an apparatus for producing an ever greater quantity of discourse about sex, capable of functioning and taking effect in its very economy.\" \n\nFoucault says at this time there was a political, economic and technical excitement to talk about sex. Sex became a call for management procedures. It became a policing matter.\n\nHeteronormativity was the main focus of discourse, where heterosexuality was viewed as normal and any deviations, such as homosexuality, as abnormal or \"queer\". Even before the founding of \"queer theory\" the Modern Language Association (MLA) came together for a convention in 1973 for the first formal gay-studies seminar due to the rise of lesbian and gay writers and issues of gay and lesbian textuality. The convention was entitled \"Gay Literature: Teaching and Research.\" In 1981, the MLA established the Division of Gay Studies in Language and Literature.\n\nMany queer theorists have produced creative works that reflect theoretical perspectives in a wide variety of media. For example, science fiction authors such as Samuel R. Delany and Octavia Butler feature many values and themes from queer theory in their work. Patrick Califia's published fiction also draws heavily on concepts and ideas from queer theory. Some lesbian feminist novels written in the years immediately following Stonewall, such as \"Lover\" by Bertha Harris or \"Les Guérillères\" by Monique Wittig, can be said to anticipate the terms of later queer theory. Nuria Perpinya, a Catalan literary theorist, wrote \"A good mistake\", a novel about the awkward homosexuality in a London genetic engineering lab, between a young white man and a black scientist.\n\nIn film, the genre christened by B. Ruby Rich as New Queer Cinema in 1992 continues, as Queer Cinema, to draw heavily on the prevailing critical climate of queer theory; a good early example of this is the Jean Genet-inspired movie \"Poison\" by the director Todd Haynes. In fan fiction, the genre known as slash fiction rewrites straight or nonsexual relationships to be gay, bisexual, and queer in a sort of campy cultural appropriation. Ann Herendeen's \"Pride/Prejudice\", for example, narrates a steamy affair between Mr. Darcy and Mr. Bingley, the mutually devoted heroes of Jane Austen's much-adapted novel. And in music, some Queercore groups and zines could be said to reflect the values of queer theory.\n\nQueer theorists analyze texts and challenge the cultural notions of \"straight\" ideology; that is, does \"straight\" imply heterosexuality as normal or is everyone potentially gay? As Ryan states: \"It is only the laborious imprinting of heterosexual norms that cuts away those potentials and manufactures heterosexuality as the dominant sexual format.\" For example, Hollywood pursues the \"straight\" theme as being the dominant theme to outline what masculine is. This is particularly noticeable in gangster films, action films and westerns, which never have \"weak\" (read: homosexual) men playing the heroes, with the recent exception of the film \"Brokeback Mountain\". Queer theory looks at destabilizing and shifting the boundaries of these cultural constructions.\n\nNew Media artists have a long history of queer theory inspired works, including cyberfeminism works, porn films like \"I.K.U.\" which feature transgender cyborg hunters and \"Sharing is Sexy\", an \"open source porn laboratory\", using social software, creative commons licensing and netporn to explore queer sexualities beyond the male/female binary.\n\nWithin the LGBTQ community, there lies a distinguishing marker between those who just identify as LGBTQ and those who identify with both an oppressed race alongside being LGBTQ. In \"Punks, Bulldaggers, and Welfare Queens\", Cathy Cohen critiques modern day queer politics, arguing that lack of recognition of LGBTQ people who face other forms of oppression results in many queers not being supported or acknowledged by Queer politics. Cohen states: \"how do queer activists understand and relate politically to those whose same-sex sexual identities position them within the category of queer, but who hold other identities based on class, race and/or gender categories\". This pinpoints the idea she is attempting to make in that the politics of Queer do not encompass all of the Queer community but only those with the most privilege within the group: primarily upper class, white cisgender men. Since this is the case, how then, can a Person of Color who is also LGBTQ-identifying feel welcomed, supported, and represented if they are being cast aside? Cohen attempts to explain this by stating: \"'Unlike the early lesbian and gay movement, which had both ideological and practical links to the left, black activism and feminism, today's 'queer' politicos seem to operate in a historical and ideological vacuum. 'Queer' activists focus on 'queer' issues, and racism, sexual oppression and economic exploitation do not qualify, despite the fact that the majority of 'queers' are people of color, female or working class...\" This lack of recognition is leaving a hefty portion of the LGBTQ community unsupported in all of their endeavors, and it primarily gives aid to those who are LGBTQ and identify as white.\n\nThe concept was created out of the mentality that queerness equals deviance. It strives to display the error in assuming that everyone experiences one sole monolithic existence, which establishes the gay white male experience to be central to all other experiences, and that all other experiences derives from the gay white male experience. By institutions establishing and reinforcing the concept that there is a uniform experience that all people from one race endure, it maintains an environment centered on white discourse within the queer community that establishes a “false intimacy.” That false intimacy fails to provide queer youth of color with the support that is necessary to recognize and analyze the intersectionality of their being.\n\nAs a response to this oppression, many scholars and queer theorists use queer of color critique as a practice in both their academic work and personal activism. Queer of color critique seeks to recognize the intersectionality of oppressions and links different identity categories together as a way to disidentify with \"racialized heteronormativity and heteropatriarchy\".\n\nRacism has long been embedded within queer theory since the creation of the homosexual body and identity. Siobhan Sommerville's \"Scientific Racism and the Invention of the Homosexual Body\" discusses the invention of homosexuality among the scientific community as coming at about the same time as the reformulation of racial theories. According to Sommerville, when there were aggressive attempts to separate and classify bodies as black or white, there was also the classification of bodies as heterosexual or homosexual.\n\nHavelock Ellis, an English physician, writer, progressive intellectual and social reformer, suggested that homosexuality is not a crime, but a physiological abnormality; he believed that the \"invert\" was visually distinguishable from the \"normal\" body through anatomical markers (like the difference between male and female bodies).\n\nThis was the same as the ideas about the difference between racialized bodies. There was the idea that black and white women's bodies held major differences. Black women were often referred to as the \"Bushman race\": having strongly muscled posteriors, highly textured hair and other physical characteristics that were considered outside the boundaries of 'normal' female bodies (based on white beauty standards). W.H. Flower and James Murie constructed a site of racial difference by marking the sexual and reproductive anatomy of the African woman as \"peculiar.\" The characteristics of African American women were consistent with the medical characterizations of lesbians; such as having an \"unusually large clitoris.\" These supposed distinguishing characteristics further separated not only heterosexual people from queer people, but also white from black, and white homosexual bodies from queer people of color.\n\nRacism also exists within queer spaces. In \"Out There: The Topography of Race and Desire in the Global City\" Martin Manalansan focuses on the gay community in New York City, most specifically in Manhattan. According to Manalansan, New York City is known to be a gay Mecca. However, this portrayal, in focusing on Manhattan, centers white, middle/upper class men. The gay community in New York is known to be held exclusively in Manhattan, as this is the area that most people who are not from New York City know. People who are outside of the heart of Manhattan and the gay community there are, literally, \"out there\". Those who are of different races, gender, or class occupy different spaces and communities which seldom overlap.\n\nManalansan gives a detailed description of the topography of New York City in order to show the actual physical and cultural barriers that exists between the different boroughs and the gay communities that exist there. Outside of Manhattan, the gay communities are divided by cultural and racial barriers; the Latin, Asian, and Black gay communities do not overlap and are also physically distanced from each other. Space is inherently racialized. The racialized gay communities and spaces in New York City only further alienate queer people of color and make them less valued and validated in gay culture.\n\nCarly Thompsen's article \"In Plain(s) Sight: Rural LGBTQ Women and the Politics of Visibility\" also sheds light on racial issues within visibility politics. In this piece, Thomsen analyzes the estrangement between strategies and discourses of national lesbian and gay rights organizations and the strategies and discourses of LGBTQ women in the rural Midwest. She argues that it is crucial for rural queer studies to critique contemporary visibility politics. Due to the overemphasis of an essentially urban ethos, rural LBGTQ politics are usually overshadowed and ignored. This undermining of rural identities in LGBTQ politics is problematic for rural LGBTQ progress. She concludes that rural queer studies must be weary of right-seeking approaches to visibility politics because they indirectly allow the abjection of the rural. From this, Thompsen reflects on how LBGTQ visibility politics as a whole aid to the existence of, and even strengthen metronormativity by showing the dominance of urban communities over rural communities in gaining prominence in LGBTQ movements.\n\nJust as Thomsen argues against metronormative ideals of the global city as always the most progressive, comfortable and inclusive space for queer people. Emily Skidmore pushes back on metronormative assumption in her article \"Ralph Kerwineo's Queer Body: Narrating the Scales of Social Membership in the Early 20th Century\". Her work outlines the life of Ralph Kerwineo, a person born as a black woman, who moves from Chicago to early 20th century Milwaukee and passed as a Hispanic man in the then small town experiencing large influxes of immigrants. Skidmore analyzed newspaper stories of Kerwineo when his ex-girlfriend publicly accused him of being a woman.  She found that articles from local papers in Milwaukee were more accepting of Kerwineo's gender identity regardless of his racial identity (throughout the media outburst he variably identified as white, Latin, black and Native American) whereas national papers immediately jumped to accusations of Kerwineo's perversion and guilt. While Milwaukee papers empathized with him, emphasizing that he was always an upstanding member of society, and creating stories of women of color just trying to survive in a difficult situation, national news sources Kerwineo, linking racial, sexual, and gender deviance to paint a picture of incontestable guilt.  Skidmore uses this example to show that queer people have found acceptance and community in places other than global cities, showing that the specific social and racial dynamics of Milwaukee at that time provided a safer environment for Kerwineo. Thus, despite metronormative assumptions of national, or larger urban, spaces as queer utopias, their discourses around queer bodies can in fact be more intolerant of people with non-normative gender, sexual, and racial identities than other places.\n\nIsrael, in attempts to brand itself as a gay mecca, has been accused of pinkwashing. This is the main idea of the article: \"Israel's Gay Propaganda War\", written by Jasbir Puar, in which she highlights the hypocrisy of the Israeli state in branding itself as a gay mecca, attempting to show how progressive the state is despite its dehumanizing acts against the Palestinian people. In the midst of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, Israel has been accused of many violations of human rights against the Palestinian people, and has received an international reputation for being an imperial aggressor. Their response to this was to proclaim to the international community that they are more developed and essentially say: \"Israel is civilised, Palestinians are barbaric, homophobic, uncivilised, suicide-bombing fanatics. It produces Israel as the only gay-friendly country in an otherwise hostile region.\" What this entails is Israel is essentially oppressing Palestinians further through their use of gay-friendly propaganda, which also hides its own problems as state dealing with homophobia as well. What Puar tries to argue is that Israel uses this branding as a method to further justify their treatment of the Palestinian people, and she argues further that the image being portrayed towards Palestinians de-legitimizes those who identify as Queer who are Palestinian since Israel does not support the LGBTQ groups in Palestine, nor does it acknowledge their existence.\n\nIn \"Queer Injuries: The Racial Politics of 'Homophobic Hate Crime' in Germany\", Jin Haritaworn calls attention to the tradeoffs between the passing of Anti-Hate Crime legislation. In this piece, Haritaworn examines the problems with hate crime legislation in Germany and how racist views are still manifested in anti-hate crime laws and have racial ramifications. The move of LGBTQ activism into the judicial sphere enables police and military systems to reinvent themselves as the protector of minorities while police activity targeting racialized populations is reaching new heights. Additionally, these newly publicized and politicized subjectivities and embodiments still adhere to a specific neoliberal ideology and fantasy. Incorporating criminal justice analysis into sexual justice narratives, Haritaworn finds that internationally, LGBTQ anti-hate legislation still marginalizes and represses other minorities by forcing victim-perpetrator narratives that target certain groups.\n\nEmmanuel David researches transgender people—primarily trans women—in call centers in the Philippines. In these spaces, David finds that international corporations are integrating trans women into the workforce in a way that both requires them to perform gender labor and David partake in the neoliberal capitalist system as members of the periphery. In his article \"Purple-Collar Labor: Transgender Workers and Queer Value at Global Call Centers in the Philippines\", David outlines how transgender filipina call center workers are expected to keep morale up by performing in fashion shows, staying happy and joking around with their team members, all for the sake of worker productivity. He shows that trans women that do not uphold these standards or who are not extroverted in their work interactions are not as accepted in their gender identity as the trans women workers who are openly flamboyant and funny. This research highlights a portion of the queer community outside of the core, upper class, white, male, US urban population and pushes back on assumptions of 'Out There' being a space of intolerance, danger and conformity, but also highlights how queer bodies can be integrated into the global capitalist system and normalized in a place many readers might not expect.\n\nQueer and feminist theories, like other perspectives based on socially-based identities and gender, tend to overlap. Both of these theories are described as responses to the \"essentializing\" of gender and sexual identities, which lead to the oppression of those who do not conform to socially constructed gender norms. This highlights their similarity in the view that gender-related identity is socially constructed. There is thus an agreement that the oppression of women and sexual minority groups can be challenged by way of a self-constructive process that rejects the perceived inferiority of this group within the social order. While queer and feminist theories share several commonalities, this does not mean that they are easily commensurable, with some thinkers citing that they could even be an awkward pair.\n\nOne overlap of queer theory and feminist theory is through the recognition and influence of Judith Butler and Butler's cultivation of the relationship of gender and sexuality that has come to found the basis of queer theory concerns.  The analysis of society in relation to sexuality and gender, is a display of dominance that shows the way that biology is influenced by culture and society.\n\nA key difference between the queer and feminist theories involves their respective scope. Feminist theory is only concerned about the issues affecting women and women empowerment while the subjects of queer theory are diverse and include women, homosexuals, transsexuals, and those considered deviants. Queer theory is also distinguished from feminist theory in the sense that it asserts identity as a conceptual category, serving as \"a disciplinary apparatus that that pigeonholes the fluidity of the self into a politically docile normativity.\" The feminist position is that 'identity politics' is a political error that occurs once a standpoint gets overemphasized or naturalized.\n\nTypically, critics of queer theory are concerned that the approach obscures or glosses altogether the material conditions that underpin discourse. Tim Edwards argues that queer theory extrapolates too broadly from textual analysis in undertaking an examination of the social.\n\nAdam Green's critique is one approach to queer theory, that leans towards a sociological stance on the issue of sexuality; primarily and rather exc lusively, focusing on gay or lesbian subjects. Green argues that queer theory ignores the social and institutional conditions within which lesbians and gays live. For example, queer theory dismantles social contingency in some cases (homosexual subject positions) while recuperating social contingency in others (racialized subject positions). Thus, not all queer theoretical work is as faithful to its deconstructionist roots. Reflecting on this issue, Timothy Laurie suggests that \"the desire to resist norms in some contemporary queer scholarship can never be entirely reconciled with an equally important challenge, that of producing both adequate and dynamic descriptions of ordinary events\".\n\nQueer theory's commitment to deconstruction makes it nearly impossible to speak of a \"lesbian\" or \"gay\" subject, since all social categories are denaturalized and reduced to discourse. Thus, queer theory cannot be a framework for examining selves or subjectivities—including those that accrue by race and class—but rather, must restrict its analytic focus to discourse. Hence, sociology and queer theory are regarded as methodologically and epistemologically incommensurable frameworks by critics such as Adam Isaiah Green. Thus Green writes that, in an introductory section, Michael Warner (1990s) draws out the possibility of queer theory as a kind of critical intervention in social theory (radical deconstructionism); despite this, he weaves back and forth between the reification and deconstruction of sexual identity. Green argues that Warner begins the volume by invoking an ethnic identity politics, solidified around a specific social cleavage and a discussion of the importance of deconstructing notions of lesbian and gay identities; but, despite its radical deconstructionism, it constructs the queer subject or self in largely conventional terms: as lesbian and gay people bound by homophobic institutions and practices.\n\nSo, one of the leading volumes of queer theory engages the subject via conventional sociological epistemologies that conceive of subject positions constituted through systems of stratification and organized around shared experience and identity.\n\nIn other way, for Ian Barnard, any consideration of sexuality must include inextricability with racialized subjectivities. Adam Green argues that Barnard implicitly rejects the queer theoretical conceptions of sexuality on the grounds that such work fails to account for particularity of racialized sexualities. He reasons that the failure arises because queer theorists are themselves white, and therefore operate from the particularity of a white racial standpoint. Barnard aspires to recuperate an analysis of race in queer theory, proposing that the deconstructionist epistemology of queer theory can be used to decompose a white queerness (first) in order to recover a racialized queerness (second).\nThus, Adam Green argues that Barnard's attempt to bring social contingency into queer theory violates the core epistemological premise of queer theory; in fact, by proposing that queer theory capture racialized subject positions, Barnard reinstates what it means to be a person of colour. His critique of the white subject position of queer theorists is itself a testimony to the stability of the social order and the power of social categories to mark a particular kind of experience, of subjectivity and, in turn, of queer author. He backs down the road of a decidedly sociological analysis of subject position and the self.\nFinally, Jagose Green observes that Jagose aims toward an analysis of social cleavages, including those accruing by race and ethnicity. Thus, on the one, Jagose underscores the strong deconstructionist epistemological premise of the term queer and queer theory more generally. Yet, she goes on to analyze identities and sexualities \"inflected by heterosexuality, race, gender and ethnicity\".\nThus Adam Green states that by advocating the incorporation of social contingency in this way, Jagose offers neither the critical edge of queer theory nor the clarity of standpoint theory. However, on the topic of race, Jagose asserted that for a black lesbian, the thing of utmost importance is her lesbianism, rather than her race. Many gays and lesbians of color attacked this approach, accusing it of re-inscribing an essentially white identity into the heart of gay or lesbian identity (Jagose, 1996).\n\nThe criticism of queer theory can be divided in three main ideas:\n\nGreen's views suggest gay conservation and assimilation that derive from a more traditional perspective. His concerns regarding the potential loss of a critical edge by incorporating too much discourse on nonsexual identities is valid, however, theorists like Ruth Goldman and Cathy J. Cohen, think elsewise.\n\nIn Ruth Goldman's essay “Who Is That? Exploring Norms around Sexuality, Race, and Class in Queer Theory,\" she examines how rhetoric works to create a “normative discourse within queer theory” (169), and how that rhetoric serves to limit our perception of queer. In stark opposition to Green's critique, Goldman argues that in order to comply with queer theories intent to challenge the normal, it must provide a framework in which to challenge other oppressive norms that intersect with sexuality (i.e. racism, misogyny, classism, etc.). By acknowledging the intersection of multiple oppressions is to dismantle a single-issue framework, and thus, creating a platform for a more intensive analysis.\n\nTheorist Cathy J. Cohen offers a complex critique in \"Punks, Bulldaggers and Welfare Queens: The Radical Potential of Queer Politics\" that supports Goldman's ideology. Queerness, according to Cohen, provides conceptualizations that break the traditional binary visibility. Unlike single-identity-based frameworks—failing to serve those with multi-oppressed identities—queerness has the potential to unite these aspects of self to spark a more cohesive understanding of oppression. Yet Cohen expresses concerns surrounding the dichotomy between queer and heterosexual. This binary has created a misdirection of dialogue surrounding power dynamics. Thus an undercomplicated understanding of power has been sexually categorized: all heterosexuals are characterized as privileged and all queers are deemed as oppressed. As a result, queer politics have prioritized only one factor, sexuality as the primary lens through which they structure their action. Encouraging this method of thinking rejects others that are in or in-between the margins. Cohen states that to fully grasp the advantages of queer theory, ideals need to be further radicalized; as well as, push an intersectional lens when analyzing issues.\n\nGreen argues that queer is itself an identity category that some self-identified \"queer theorists\" and \"queer activists\" use to consolidate a subject-position outside of the normalizing regimes of gender and sexuality. These examples call into question the degree to which identity categories need be thought of as negative, in the evaluative sense of that term, as they underscore the self-determining potentials of the care of the self – an idea advanced first by Foucault in Volumes II and III of The History of Sexuality.\n\nThe role of queer theory, and specifically its replacement of historical and sociological scholarship on lesbian and gay people's lives with the theorising of lesbian and gay issues, and the displacement of gay and lesbian studies by gender and queer studies, has been criticised by activist and writer Larry Kramer. Kramer reports on a book by Richard Godbeer, a professor of history and gender studies at the University of Miami, called The Overflowing of Friendship. Kramer criticizes Godbeer's account of 18th century Colonial times. Kramer writes, \"Godbeer is hell-bent on convincing us that two men in Colonial America could have exceedingly obsessive and passionate relationships (he called them, variously, 'sentimental,' 'loving,' 'romantic') . . . [men would] spend many a night in bed together talking their hearts out, without the issue of sex arising in any way.\" Kramer does not agree with this theory and believes that the notion the same-sex sexual relationships and experiences existed. Relatedly, educator and writer John D’Emilio argues that gay identity has not always existed and the emergence of gay men and lesbian was rather a later development associated with the spread of capitalism in the 19th century. A capitalist system of free labor propagated in society and the independent unit of the nuclear family no longer became a necessary economical unit. As the family in turn took on a new role as an emotional and affective unit and separated from the world of work and production, the idea of sexuality separated from that of procreation. Sexuality, no longer bound by the imperative of reproduction, experienced a change and allowed people to think differently about desire, thus creating conditions allowing for the expression of homosexual behavior and the construction of a gay identity.\n\nAnother criticism is that queer theory, in part because it typically has recourse to a very technical jargon, is written by a narrow elite for that narrow elite. It is therefore class biased and also, in practice, only really known and referenced at universities and colleges (Malinowitz, 1993). In addition, those in a position of power, have access to modes of communication where they can express their interpretation, definitions and descriptions of topics, sometimes regardless of the accuracy. This persons of power are given “privileged act of naming.” As a result, this can obscure the perception of reality for those in institutionalized settings. Academia often neglects works of theory by women or men of color. This can be attributed to the fact that institutions have imposed standards of critical evaluations for what is a work of theory and what is not. These standards have led to appropriation of work that was deemed unfit and have created a stark exclusion of people who can access the material. This turns the mass public against the idea of understanding theory; an important aspect in relation to understanding practice. The institutionalization of queer theory has imposed a threat of taming and domesticating critical energy.\n\nAn initial criticism on queer theory is that precisely \"queer\" does not refer to any specific sexual status or gender object choice. For example, Halperin (1995) allows that straight persons may be \"queer,\" which some believe, robs gays and lesbians of the distinctiveness of what causes them to be marginalized. It desexualizes identity, when the issue is precisely about a sexual identity (Jagose, 1996). On the other hand, Michael Warner argues that the objective of queer is to challenge normalness not heterosexuality. This ties back into Cohen's point about the power dichotomy. Straight persons can be oppressed for behaviors that are seen as sexually deviant as well. One example is the “welfare queen,” a woman of color who is marginalized for her race, sexuality and gender—all identities which intersect to create this kind of oppression.\n\nThe critique of queer theory is not limited to the US. Queer theory was repeatedly criticized by the Vatican. Pope Francis spoke about \"ideological colonization\" by which he meant that queer theory, and more broadly critical gender studies, threatens traditional family and fertile heterosexuality. France was one of the first countries where this claim became widespread when catholic movements marched in the streets of Paris against the bill on gay marriage and adoption. Bruno Perreau in Queer Theory: The French Response has shown that this fear has deep historical roots in France. He argues that the rejection of queer theory expresses anxieties about national identity and minority politics. Minority groups could betray the nation and prefer transnational identities. Perreau maintains that queer theory shows that being part of a group requires the ability to critique one's own belonging. This is largely unbearable to reactionary movements, Perreau argues, all the more because queer theory is ironically largely based on French theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19417078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19417078", "title": "Reflective writing", "text": "Reflective writing\n\nReflective writing is an analytical practice in which the writer describes a real or imaginary scene, event, interaction, passing thought, memory, form, adding a personal reflection on the meaning of the item or incident, thought, feeling, emotion, or situation in his or her life. Many reflective writers keep in mind questions, such as \"What did I notice?\", \"How has this changed me?\" or \"What might I have done differently?\".\n\nThus, the focus is on writing that is not merely descriptive. The writer revisits the scene to note details and emotions, reflect on meaning, examine what went well or revealed a need for additional learning, and relate what transpired to the rest of life.\n\nReflective writing is also analyzing the event or idea (thinking in depth and from different perspectives, and trying to explain, often with reference to a model or theory from the subject.)\n"}
{"id": "16448388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16448388", "title": "Religious image", "text": "Religious image\n\nA religious image, sometimes called a votive image, is a work of visual art that is representational and has a religious purpose, subject or connection. All major historical religions have made some use of religious images, although their use is strictly controlled and often controversial in many religions, especially Abrahamic ones. General terms associated with religious images include cult image, a term for images, especially in sculpture which are or have been claimed to be the object of religious worship in their own right, and icon strictly a term for Eastern Orthodox religious images, but often used more widely, in and outside the area of religion.\n\nImages flourished within the Christian world, but by the 6th century, certain factions arose within the Eastern Church to challenge the use of icons, and in 726-30 they won Imperial support. The Iconoclasts actively destroyed icons in most public places, replacing them with the only religious depiction allowed, the cross. The Iconodules (those who favored the veneration of images), on the other hand, argued that icons had always been used by Christians and should continue to be allowed. They further argued that not only should the use of icons be permitted, it was necessary to the Christian faith as a testimony of the dogma of the Incarnation of Christ. Saint John Damascene argued:\n\n\"Of old God the incorporial and uncircumscribed was not depicted at all. But now that God has appeared in the flesh and lived among men, I make an image of the God who can be seen. I do not worship matter, but I worship the Creator of matter, who for my sake became material and deigned to dwell in matter, who through matter effected my salvation.\"\n\nFinally, after much debate at the Second Council of Nicaea, held in 787, the Iconodules, supported by the Empress, upheld the use of icons as an integral part of Christian tradition, and the Western Church, which had been almost totally unaffected by the dispute, confirmed this. According to the definition of the council, icons of Jesus are not intended to depict his divinity, but only the Incarnate Word. Saints are depicted because they reflect the grace of God, as depicted by their halos.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church fully ascribes to the teachings of the Seventh Ecumenical Council and celebrates the restoration of the use of icons after the period of Iconoclasm on the First Sunday of Great Lent. So important are the icons in Orthodox theology that the ceremony celebrating their restoration is known as the Triumph of Orthodoxy.\n\nIn the traditions of Eastern Christianity, only flat images or \"bas relief\" images are used (no more than 3/4 relief). Because the Eastern Church teaches that icons should represent the spiritual reality rather than the physical reality, the traditional style of Orthodox iconography was developed in which figures were stylized in a manner that emphasized their holiness rather than their humanity.\n\nTraditional icons differ from Western art in that they are not romantic or emotional, but call the viewer to \"sobriety\" (\"nipsis\"). The manner of depicting the face, and especially the eyes, is intended to produce in the viewer a sense of calm, devotion, and a desire for asceticism. Icons also differ from Western art in that they use inverse perspective (giving the impression that the icon itself is the source of light), and for this reason make very little use of shadow or highlight. The background of icons is usually covered with gold leaf to remind the viewer that the subject pictured is not earthly but otherworldly (gold being the closest earthly medium in which to signify heavenly glory).\n\nJesus and the Apostles are depicted wearing the robes of philosophers. The precise manner of depicting the face of Jesus and many of the saints is also fixed by tradition. Even the colours used in depicting the clothing of Jesus, the Virgin Mary, and other saints is fixed by tradition, with symbolic meaning attached to each color. Icons of Jesus depict him with a halo that displays three bars of a cross and the Greek letters which signify I AM (the Divine Name which God revealed to Moses at the Burning Bush). The halos of saints, even the Theotokos (Mother of God) are usually simple circles, filled with gold leaf. Over the centuries, painter's manuals have developed to help preserve the traditions and techniques of Orthodox iconography, one of the best-known is the manual from the Stroganov School of iconography in Russia. Despite these strict guidelines, the Orthodox iconographic style is not stilted, and the individual artist is always permitted to bring his own style and spiritual insight into his work, so long as he remains faithful to Sacred Tradition, and many icons display remarkable movement and depth.\n\nThe thoughtful use of symbolism allows the icon to present complex teaching in a simple way, making it possible to educate even the illiterate in theology. The interiors of Orthodox Churches are often completely covered in icons of Christ, Mary and the saints. Most are portrait figures in various conventional poses, but many narrative scenes are also depicted. It is not unusual in narrative icons for the same individual to be depicted more than one time.\n\nOrthodox Christians do not pray \"to\" icons; rather, they pray \"before\" them. An icon is a medium of communication, rather than a medium of art. Gazing at an icon is intended to help draw the worshipper into the heavenly kingdom. As with all of Orthodox theology, the purpose is \"theosis\" (mystical union with God).\n\nIcons are venerated by the faithful by bowing and kissing them. Traditionally, the faithful would not kiss the face of the one depicted on the icon, but rather the right hand or foot depicted on the icon. The composition of an icon is planned with this veneration in mind, and the iconographer will usually portray his subject so that the right hand is raised in blessing, or if it is the saint's full figure is depicted, the right foot is visible.\n\nIcons are also honored with incense and by burning lampadas (oil lamps) in front of them. Icons are carried in processions, and the bishop or priest may bless the people by holding an icon upright and making the sign of the cross with it over them.\n\nUntil the 13th century, icons followed a broadly similar pattern in West and East, although very few such early examples survive from either tradition. Western icons, which are not usually so termed, were largely patterned on Byzantine works, and equally conventional in composition and depiction. From this point on the Western tradition came slowly to allow the artist far more flexibility, and a more realistic approach to the figures.\n\nIn the 15th century the use of icons in the West was enormously increased by the introduction of prints on paper, mostly woodcuts which were produced in vast numbers. With the Reformation, after an initial uncertainty among early Lutherans, Protestants came down firmly against icon-like portraits, especially larger ones, even of Christ. Many Protestants found these idolatrous. Catholics maintained and even intensified the traditional use of icons, both printed and on paper, using the different styles of the Renaissance and Baroque. Popular Catholic imagery to a certain extent has remained attached to a Baroque style of about 1650, especially in Italy and Spain.\n\nIn the Church of England, the Royal Arms of the United Kingdom has been used like an icon, owing to its absence of human portraiture, as a representation of the sovereign as Head of the Church. It has been done in wood and stone as well as painted.\n\nImages of Hindu gods and goddesses use a rich symbolism. Some figures are blue-skinned (the color of heaven) or have multiple arms holding various symbols which depict aspects of the god.\n\nMuslims view sanctified icons as idols, and strictly forbid their worship, nor do they pray in front of one. However, the various divisions of Islam take different positions on the role of visual depictions of living (or once-living) creatures, including people. At one end of the spectrum, sects such as the Wahhabis totally ban drawings and photography. Some branches of Islam forbid only the former but allow the latter. The majority of Sunni Muslims permit both. Some Shia allow even the depiction of Muhammad and the twelve Imams, a position totally unacceptable to most Sunnis.\n\nIt is commonly thought that the Jews absolutely prohibit \"graven images\"; this, however, is not entirely true. There are numerous instances within the scriptures that describe the creation and use of images for religious purposes (the angels on the Ark of the Covenant, the bronze snake Moses mounted on a pole, etc.). What is important to note is that none of these are worshipped as God. Since God is incorporeal and has no form, He cannot be depicted. During the Late Antique period of Jewish history it is clear that restrictions on representation were relaxed considerably; for example, the synagogue at Dura Europas had large figurative wall paintings. It is also clear there was a tradition of painted scrolls, of which the Joshua Roll and the Utrecht Psalter are medieval Christian copies, none of the originals having survived. There are also many medieval illuminated manuscripts, especially of the Haggadah of Pesach (Passover).\n\nA unique Jewish tradition of animal iconography was developed in Eastern Europe, which included symbolic depictions of God's attributes and powers as various animal scenes and plant ornaments in the wooden synagogues in the Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth, as well as some mystical imagery on the gravestones. A part of the same imagery also appears on the Ashkenazic Shivisi - meditative images used for contemplation over God's name, not unlike the Eastern Mandalas.\n\nSome synagogue wall paintings contained over 80 various animals, including lions, unicorns, dragons, lion-headed mermaids, three hares, three intertwined fishes, Uroboros, elephants, deer, leopards, bears, foxes, wolves, squirrels, turkeys, ostriches and many others.\n\nGod himself was usually represented as a two-headed golden eagle in the center of the Sun, painted on the ceiling of the synagogue, and surrounded by the Zodiac circle. This system was based on the Kabbalistic symbolic tradition; unfortunately, the meaning of some forgotten symbols is hard to recover.\n\nThomas Hubka has traced the style of decorative painting in the wooden synagogues to the medieval Hebrew illuminated manuscripts of Ashkenazi Jewry, and its meaning to the Jewish mystical literature, such as the Zohar and the works of Rabbi Elazar Rokeach.\n"}
{"id": "26791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26791", "title": "Satire", "text": "Satire\n\nSatire is a genre of literature, and sometimes graphic and performing arts, in which vices, follies, abuses, and shortcomings are held up to ridicule, ideally with the intent of shaming individuals, corporations, government, or society itself into improvement. Although satire is usually meant to be humorous, its greater purpose is often constructive social criticism, using wit to draw attention to both particular and wider issues in society.\n\nA feature of satire is strong irony or sarcasm—\"in satire, irony is militant\"—but parody, burlesque, exaggeration, juxtaposition, comparison, analogy, and double entendre are all frequently used in satirical speech and writing. This \"militant\" irony or sarcasm often professes to approve of (or at least accept as natural) the very things the satirist wishes to attack.\n\nSatire is nowadays found in many artistic forms of expression, including internet memes, literature, plays, commentary, television shows, and media such as lyrics.\n\nThe word satire comes from the Latin word \"satur\" and the subsequent phrase \"lanx satura.\" \"Satur\" meant \"full\" but the juxtaposition with \"lanx\" shifted the meaning to \"miscellany or medley\": the expression \"lanx satura\" literally means \"a full dish of various kinds of fruits\".\n\nThe word \"satura\" as used by Quintilian, however, was used to denote only Roman verse satire, a strict genre that imposed hexameter form, a narrower genre than what would be later intended as \"satire\". Quintilian famously said that \"satura,\" that is a satire in hexameter verses, was a literary genre of wholly Roman origin (\"satura tota nostra est\"). He was aware of and commented on Greek satire, but at the time did not label it as such, although today the origin of satire is considered to be Aristophanes' Old Comedy. The first critic to use the term \"satire\" in the modern broader sense was Apuleius.\n\nTo Quintilian, the satire was a strict literary form, but the term soon escaped from the original narrow definition. Robert Elliott writes:\nThe word \"satire\" derives from \"satura\", and its origin was not influenced by the Greek mythological figure of the \"satyr\". In the 17th century, philologist Isaac Casaubon was the first to dispute the etymology of satire from satyr, contrary to the belief up to that time.\n\nLaughter is not an essential component of satire; in fact there are types of satire that are not meant to be \"funny\" at all. Conversely, not all humour, even on such topics as politics, religion or art is necessarily \"satirical\", even when it uses the satirical tools of irony, parody, and burlesque.\n\nEven light-hearted satire has a serious \"after-taste\": the organizers of the Ig Nobel Prize describe this as \"first make people laugh, and then make them think\".\n\nSatire and irony in some cases have been regarded as the most effective source to understand a society, the oldest form of social study. They provide the keenest insights into a group's collective psyche, reveal its deepest values and tastes, and the society's structures of power. Some authors have regarded satire as superior to non-comic and non-artistic disciplines like history or anthropology. In a prominent example from ancient Greece, philosopher Plato, when asked by a friend for a book to understand Athenian society, referred him to the plays of Aristophanes.\n\nHistorically, satire has satisfied the popular need to debunk and ridicule the leading figures in politics, economy, religion and other prominent realms of power. Satire confronts public discourse and the collective imaginary, playing as a public opinion counterweight to power (be it political, economic, religious, symbolic, or otherwise), by challenging leaders and authorities. For instance, it forces administrations to clarify, amend or establish their policies. Satire's job is to expose problems and contradictions, and it's not obligated to solve them. Karl Kraus set in the history of satire a prominent example of a satirist role as confronting public discourse.\n\nFor its nature and social role, satire has enjoyed in many societies a special freedom license to mock prominent individuals and institutions. The satiric impulse, and its ritualized expressions, carry out the function of resolving social tension. Institutions like the ritual clowns, by giving expression to the antisocial tendencies, represent a safety valve which re-establishes equilibrium and health in the collective imaginary, which are jeopardized by the repressive aspects of society.\n\nThe state of political satire in a given society reflects the tolerance or intolerance that characterizes it, and the state of civil liberties and human rights. Under totalitarian regimes any criticism of a political system, and especially satire, is suppressed. A typical example is the Soviet Union where the dissidents, such as Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn and Andrei Sakharov were under strong pressure from the government. While satire of everyday life in the USSR was allowed, the most prominent satirist being Arkady Raikin, political satire existed in the form of anecdotes that made fun of Soviet political leaders, especially Brezhnev, famous for his narrow-mindedness and love for awards and decorations.\n\nSatire is a diverse genre which is complex to classify and define, with a wide range of satiric \"modes\".\n\nSatirical literature can commonly be categorized as either Horatian, Juvenalian, or Menippean.\n\nHoratian satire, named for the Roman satirist Horace (65–8 BCE), playfully criticizes some social vice through gentle, mild, and light-hearted humour. Horace (Quintus Horatius Flaccus) wrote Satires to gently ridicule the dominant opinions and \"philosophical beliefs of ancient Rome and Greece\" (Rankin). Rather than writing in harsh or accusing tones, he addressed issues with humor and clever mockery. Horatian satire follows this same pattern of \"gently [ridiculing] the absurdities and follies of human beings\" (Drury). \nIt directs wit, exaggeration, and self-deprecating humour toward what it identifies as folly, rather than evil. Horatian satire's sympathetic tone is common in modern society.\nA Horatian satirist's goal is to heal the situation with smiles, rather than by anger. Horatian satire is a gentle reminder to take life less seriously and evokes a wry smile. A Horatian satirist makes fun of general human folly rather than engaging in specific or personal attacks. Shamekia Thomas suggests, \"In a work using Horatian satire, readers often laugh at the characters in the story who are the subject of mockery as well as themselves and society for behaving in those ways.\" Alexander Pope has been established as an author whose satire \"heals with morals what it hurts with wit\" (Green). Alexander Pope—and Horatian satire—attempt to teach.\n\nExamples:\n\nJuvenalian satire, named for the writings of the Roman satirist Juvenal (late first century – early second century AD), is more contemptuous and abrasive than the Horatian. Juvenal disagreed with the opinions of the public figures and institutions of the Republic and actively attacked them through his literature. \"He utilized the satirical tools of exaggeration and parody to make his targets appear monstrous and incompetent\" (Podzemny). Juvenal satire follows this same pattern of abrasively ridiculing societal structures. Juvenal also, unlike Horace, attacked public officials and governmental organizations through his satires, regarding their opinions as not just wrong, but evil.\n\nFollowing in this tradition, Juvenalian satire addresses perceived social evil through scorn, outrage, and savage ridicule. This form is often pessimistic, characterized by the use of irony, sarcasm, moral indignation and personal invective, with less emphasis on humor. Strongly polarized political satire can often be classified as Juvenalian.A Juvenal satirist's goal is generally to provoke some sort of political or societal change because he sees his opponent or object as evil or harmful. A Juvenal satirist mocks \"societal structure, power, and civilization\" (Thomas) by exaggerating the words or position of his opponent in order to jeopardize their opponent's reputation and/or power. Jonathan Swift has been established as an author who \"borrowed heavily from Juvenal's techniques in [his critique] of contemporary English society\" (Podzemny).\n\nExamples:\n\nSee Menippean satire.\nIn the history of theatre there has always been a conflict between engagement and disengagement on politics and relevant issue, between satire and grotesque on one side, and jest with teasing on the other. Max Eastman defined the spectrum of satire in terms of \"degrees of biting\", as ranging from satire proper at the hot-end, and \"kidding\" at the violet-end; Eastman adopted the term kidding to denote what is just satirical in form, but is not really firing at the target. Nobel laureate satirical playwright Dario Fo pointed out the difference between satire and teasing (\"sfottò\"). Teasing is the reactionary side of the comic; it limits itself to a shallow parody of physical appearance. The side-effect of teasing is that it humanizes and draws sympathy for the powerful individual towards which it is directed. Satire instead uses the comic to go against power and its oppressions, has a subversive character, and a moral dimension which draws judgement against its targets. Fo formulated an operational criterion to tell real satire from \"sfottò\", saying that real satire arouses an outraged and violent reaction, and that the more they try to stop you, the better is the job you are doing. Fo contends that, historically, people in positions of power have welcomed and encouraged good-humoured buffoonery, while modern day people in positions of power have tried to censor, ostracize and repress satire.\n\nTeasing (\"sfottò\") is an ancient form of simple buffoonery, a form of comedy without satire's subversive edge. Teasing includes light and affectionate parody, good-humoured mockery, simple one-dimensional poking fun, and benign spoofs. Teasing typically consists of an impersonation of someone monkeying around with his exterior attributes, tics, physical blemishes, voice and mannerisms, quirks, way of dressing and walking, and/or the phrases he typically repeats. By contrast, teasing never touches on the core issue, never makes a serious criticism judging the target with irony; it never harms the target's conduct, ideology and position of power; it never undermines the perception of his morality and cultural dimension. \"Sfottò\" directed towards a powerful individual makes him appear more human and draws sympathy towards him. Hermann Göring propagated jests and jokes against himself, with the aim of humanizing his image.\n\nTypes of satire can also be classified according to the topics it deals with. From the earliest times, at least since the plays of Aristophanes, the primary topics of literary satire have been politics, religion and sex. This is partly because these are the most pressing problems that affect anybody living in a society, and partly because these topics are usually taboo. Among these, politics in the broader sense is considered the pre-eminent topic of satire. Satire which targets the clergy is a type of political satire, while religious satire is that which targets religious beliefs. Satire on sex may overlap with blue comedy, off-color humor and dick jokes.\n\nScatology has a long literary association with satire, as it is a classical mode of the grotesque, the grotesque body and the satiric grotesque. Shit plays a fundamental role in satire because it symbolizes death, the turd being \"the ultimate dead object\". The satirical comparison of individuals or institutions with human excrement, exposes their \"inherent inertness, corruption and dead-likeness\". The ritual clowns of clown societies, like among the Pueblo Indians, have ceremonies with filth-eating. In other cultures, sin-eating is an apotropaic rite in which the sin-eater (also called filth-eater), by ingesting the food provided, takes \"upon himself the sins of the departed\". Satire about death overlaps with black humor and gallows humor.\n\nAnother classification by topics is the distinction between political satire, religious satire and satire of manners. Political satire is sometimes called topical satire, satire of manners is sometimes called satire of everyday life, and religious satire is sometimes called philosophical satire. Comedy of manners, sometimes also called satire of manners, criticizes mode of life of common people; political satire aims at behavior, manners of politicians, and vices of political systems. Historically, comedy of manners, which first appeared in British theater in 1620, has uncritically accepted the social code of the upper classes. Comedy in general accepts the rules of the social game, while satire subverts them.\n\nAnother analysis of satire is the spectrum of his possible tones: wit, ridicule, irony, sarcasm, cynicism, the sardonic and invective.\n\nSatire is found not only in written literary forms. In preliterate cultures it manifests itself in ritual and folk forms, as well as in trickster tales and oral poetry.\n\nIt appears also in graphic arts, music, sculpture, dance, cartoon strips, and graffiti. Examples are Dada sculptures, Pop Art works, music of Gilbert and Sullivan and Erik Satie, punk and rock music. In modern media culture, stand-up comedy is an enclave in which satire can be introduced into mass media, challenging mainstream discourse. Comedy roasts, mock festivals, and stand-up comedians in nightclubs and concerts are the modern forms of ancient satiric rituals.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of what we might call satire, The Satire of the Trades, is in Egyptian writing from the beginning of the 2nd millennium BC. The text's apparent readers are students, tired of studying. It argues that their lot as scribes is not only useful, but far superior to that of the ordinary man. Scholars such as Helck think that the context was meant to be serious.\n\nThe Papyrus Anastasi I (late 2nd millennium BC) contains a satirical letter which first praises the virtues of its recipient, but then mocks the reader's meagre knowledge and achievements.\n\nThe Greeks had no word for what later would be called \"satire\", although the terms cynicism and parody were used. Modern critics call the Greek playwright Aristophanes one of the best known early satirists: his plays are known for their critical political and societal commentary, particularly for the political satire by which he criticized the powerful Cleon (as in \"The Knights\"). He is also notable for the persecution he underwent. Aristophanes' plays turned upon images of filth and disease. His bawdy style was adopted by Greek dramatist-comedian Menander. His early play \"Drunkenness\" contains an attack on the politician Callimedon.\n\nThe oldest form of satire still in use is the Menippean satire by Menippus of Gadara. His own writings are lost. Examples from his admirers and imitators mix seriousness and mockery in dialogues and present parodies before a background of diatribe. As in the case of Aristophanes plays, menippean satire turned upon images of filth and disease.\n\nThe first Roman to discuss satire critically was Quintilian, who invented the term to describe the writings of Gaius Lucilius. The two most prominent and influential ancient Roman satirists are Horace and Juvenal, who wrote during the early days of the Roman Empire. Other important satirists in ancient Latin are Gaius Lucilius and Persius. \"Satire\" in their work is much wider than in the modern sense of the word, including fantastic and highly coloured humorous writing with little or no real mocking intent. When Horace criticized Augustus, he used veiled ironic terms. In contrast, Pliny reports that the 6th-century-BC poet Hipponax wrote \"satirae\" that were so cruel that the offended hanged themselves.\n\nIn the 2nd century AD, Lucian wrote \"True History\", a book satirizing the clearly unrealistic travelogues/adventures written by Ctesias, Iambulus, and Homer. He states that he was surprised they expected people to believe their lies, and stating that he, like they, has no actual knowledge or experience, but shall now tell lies as if he did. He goes on to describe a far more obviously extreme and unrealistic tale, involving interplanetary exploration, war among alien life forms, and life inside a 200 mile long whale back in the terrestrial ocean, all intended to make obvious the fallacies of books like \"Indica\" and \"The Odyssey\".\n\nMedieval Arabic poetry included the satiric genre \"hija\". Satire was introduced into Arabic prose literature by the Afro-Arab author Al-Jahiz in the 9th century. While dealing with serious topics in what are now known as anthropology, sociology and psychology, he introduced a satirical approach, \"based on the premise that, however serious the subject under review, it could be made more interesting and thus achieve greater effect, if only one leavened the lump of solemnity by the insertion of a few amusing anecdotes or by the throwing out of some witty or paradoxical observations. He was well aware that, in treating of new themes in his prose works, he would have to employ a vocabulary of a nature more familiar in \"hija\", satirical poetry.\" For example, in one of his zoological works, he satirized the preference for longer human penis size, writing: \"If the length of the penis were a sign of honor, then the mule would belong to the (honorable tribe of) Quraysh\". Another satirical story based on this preference was an \"Arabian Nights\" tale called \"Ali with the Large Member\".\n\nIn the 10th century, the writer Tha'alibi recorded satirical poetry written by the Arabic poets As-Salami and Abu Dulaf, with As-Salami praising Abu Dulaf's wide breadth of knowledge and then mocking his ability in all these subjects, and with Abu Dulaf responding back and satirizing As-Salami in return. An example of Arabic political satire included another 10th-century poet Jarir satirizing Farazdaq as \"a transgressor of the Sharia\" and later Arabic poets in turn using the term \"Farazdaq-like\" as a form of political satire.\n\nThe terms \"comedy\" and \"satire\" became synonymous after Aristotle's \"Poetics\" was translated into Arabic in the medieval Islamic world, where it was elaborated upon by Islamic philosophers and writers, such as Abu Bischr, his pupil Al-Farabi, Avicenna, and Averroes. Due to cultural differences, they disassociated comedy from Greek dramatic representation and instead identified it with Arabic poetic themes and forms, such as \"hija\" (satirical poetry). They viewed comedy as simply the \"art of reprehension\", and made no reference to light and cheerful events, or troubled beginnings and happy endings, associated with classical Greek comedy. After the Latin translations of the 12th century, the term \"comedy\" thus gained a new semantic meaning in Medieval literature.\n\nUbayd Zakani introduced satire in Persian literature during the 14th century. His work is noted for its satire and obscene verses, often political or bawdy, and often cited in debates involving homosexual practices. He wrote the \"Resaleh-ye Delgosha\", as well as \"Akhlaq al-Ashraf\" (\"Ethics of the Aristocracy\") and the famous humorous fable \"Masnavi Mush-O-Gorbeh\" (Mouse and Cat), which was a political satire. His non-satirical serious classical verses have also been regarded as very well written, in league with the other great works of Persian literature. Between 1905 and 1911, Bibi Khatoon Astarabadi and other Iranian writers wrote notable satires.\n\nIn the Early Middle Ages, examples of satire were the songs by Goliards or vagants now best known as an anthology called Carmina Burana and made famous as texts of a composition by the 20th-century composer Carl Orff. Satirical poetry is believed to have been popular, although little has survived. With the advent of the High Middle Ages and the birth of modern vernacular literature in the 12th century, it began to be used again, most notably by Chaucer. The disrespectful manner was considered \"unchristian\" and ignored, except for the moral satire, which mocked misbehaviour in Christian terms. Examples are \"Livre des Manières\" by (~1178), and some of Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\". Sometimes epic poetry (epos) was mocked, and even feudal society, but there was hardly a general interest in the genre.\n\nDirect social commentary via satire returned with a vengeance in the 16th century, when farcical texts such as the works of François Rabelais tackled more serious issues (and incurred the wrath of the crown as a result).\n\nTwo major satirists of Europe in the Renaissance were Giovanni Boccaccio and François Rabelais. Other examples of Renaissance satire include \"Till Eulenspiegel\", \"Reynard the Fox\", Sebastian Brant's \"Narrenschiff\" (1494), Erasmus's \"Moriae Encomium\" (1509), Thomas More's \"Utopia\" (1516), and \"Carajicomedia\" (1519).\n\nThe Elizabethan (i.e. 16th-century English) writers thought of satire as related to the notoriously rude, coarse and sharp satyr play. Elizabethan \"satire\" (typically in pamphlet form) therefore contains more straightforward abuse than subtle irony. The French Huguenot Isaac Casaubon pointed out in 1605 that satire in the Roman fashion was something altogether more civilised. Casaubon discovered and published Quintilian's writing and presented the original meaning of the term (satira, not satyr), and the sense of wittiness (reflecting the \"dishfull of fruits\") became more important again. Seventeenth-century English satire once again aimed at the \"amendment of vices\" (Dryden).\n\nIn the 1590s a new wave of verse satire broke with the publication of Hall's \"Virgidemiarum\", six books of verse satires targeting everything from literary fads to corrupt noblemen. Although Donne had already circulated satires in manuscript, Hall's was the first real attempt in English at verse satire on the Juvenalian model. The success of his work combined with a national mood of disillusion in the last years of Elizabeth's reign triggered an avalanche of satire—much of it less conscious of classical models than Hall's — until the fashion was brought to an abrupt stop by censorship.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment, an intellectual movement in the 17th and 18th centuries advocating rationality, produced a great revival of satire in Britain. This was fuelled by the rise of partisan politics, with the formalisation of the Tory and Whig parties—and also, in 1714, by the formation of the Scriblerus Club, which included Alexander Pope, Jonathan Swift, John Gay, John Arbuthnot, Robert Harley, Thomas Parnell, and Henry St John, 1st Viscount Bolingbroke. This club included several of the notable satirists of early-18th-century Britain. They focused their attention on Martinus Scriblerus, \"an invented learned fool... whose work they attributed all that was tedious, narrow-minded, and pedantic in contemporary scholarship\". In their hands astute and biting satire of institutions and individuals became a popular weapon. The turn to the 18th century was characterized by a switch from Horatian, soft, pseudo-satire, to biting \"juvenal\" satire.\n\nJonathan Swift was one of the greatest of Anglo-Irish satirists, and one of the first to practise modern journalistic satire. For instance, In his \"A Modest Proposal\" Swift suggests that Irish peasants be encouraged to sell their own children as food for the rich, as a solution to the \"problem\" of poverty. His purpose is of course to attack indifference to the plight of the desperately poor. In his book \"Gulliver's Travels\" he writes about the flaws in human society in general and English society in particular. John Dryden wrote an influential essay entitled \"A Discourse Concerning the Original and Progress of Satire\" that helped fix the definition of satire in the literary world. His satirical \"Mac Flecknoe\" was written in response to a rivalry with Thomas Shadwell and eventually inspired Alexander Pope to write his satirical \"The Rape of the Lock\". Other satirical works by Pope include the \"Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot\".\n\nAlexander Pope (b. May 21, 1688) was a satirist known for his Horatian satirist style and translation of the \"Iliad\". Famous throughout and after the long 18th century, Pope died in 1744. Pope, in his \"The Rape of the Lock\", is delicately chiding society in a sly but polished voice by holding up a mirror to the follies and vanities of the upper class. Pope does not actively attack the self-important pomp of the British aristocracy, but rather presents it in such a way that gives the reader a new perspective from which to easily view the actions in the story as foolish and ridiculous. A mockery of the upper class, more delicate and lyrical than brutal, Pope nonetheless is able to effectively illuminate the moral degradation of society to the public. \"The Rape of the Lock\" assimilates the masterful qualities of a heroic epic, such as the \"Iliad\", which Pope was translating at the time of writing \"The Rape of the Lock\". However, Pope applied these qualities satirically to a seemingly petty egotistical elitist quarrel to prove his point wryly.\n\nDaniel Defoe pursued a more journalistic type of satire, being famous for his \"The True-Born Englishman\" which mocks xenophobic patriotism, and \"The Shortest-Way with the Dissenters\"—advocating religious toleration by means of an ironical exaggeration of the highly intolerant attitudes of his time.\n\nThe pictorial satire of William Hogarth is a precursor to the development of political cartoons in 18th-century England. The medium developed under the direction of its greatest exponent, James Gillray from London. With his satirical works calling the king (George III), prime ministers and generals (especially Napoleon) to account, Gillray's wit and keen sense of the ridiculous made him the pre-eminent cartoonist of the era.\n\nEbenezer Cooke (1665–1732), author of \"The Sot-Weed Factor\" (1708), was among the first American colonialists to write literary satire. Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790) and others followed, using satire to shape an emerging nation's culture through its sense of the ridiculous.\n\nSeveral satiric papers competed for the public's attention in the Victorian era (1837–1901) and Edwardian period, such as \"Punch\" (1841) and \"Fun\" (1861).\n\nPerhaps the most enduring examples of Victorian satire, however, are to be found in the Savoy Operas of Gilbert and Sullivan. In fact, in \"The Yeomen of the Guard\", a jester is given lines that paint a very neat picture of the method and purpose of the satirist, and might almost be taken as a statement of Gilbert's own intent:\n\nNovelists such as Charles Dickens (1812-1870) often used passages of satiric writing in their treatment of social issues.\n\nContinuing the tradition of Swiftian journalistic satire, Sidney Godolphin Osborne (1808-1889) was the most prominent writer of scathing \"Letters to the Editor\" of the London Times. Famous in his day, he is now all but forgotten. His maternal grandfather William Eden, 1st Baron Auckland was considered to be a possible candidate for the authorship of the Junius letters. If this were true, we can read Osborne as following in his grandfather's satiric \"Letters to the Editor\" path. Osborne's satire was so bitter and biting that at one point he received a public censure from Parliament's then Home Secretary Sir James Graham. Osborne wrote mostly in the Juvenalian mode over a wide range of topics mostly centered on British government's and landlords' mistreatment of poor farm workers and field laborers. He bitterly opposed the New Poor Laws and was passionate on the subject of Great Britain's botched response to the Irish Famine and its mistreatment of soldiers during the Crimean War.\n\nLater in the nineteenth century, in the United States, Mark Twain (1835–1910) grew to become American's greatest satirist: his novel \"Huckleberry Finn\" (1884) is set in the antebellum South, where the moral values Twain wishes to promote are completely turned on their heads. His hero, Huck, is a rather simple but goodhearted lad who is ashamed of the \"sinful temptation\" that leads him to help a runaway slave. In fact his conscience, warped by the distorted moral world he has grown up in, often bothers him most when he is at his best. He is prepared to do good, believing it to be wrong.\n\nTwain's younger contemporary Ambrose Bierce (1842–1913) gained notoriety as a cynic, pessimist and black humorist with his dark, bitterly ironic stories, many set during the American Civil War, which satirized the limitations of human perception and reason. Bierce's most famous work of satire is probably \"The Devil's Dictionary\" (1906), in which the definitions mock cant, hypocrisy and received wisdom.\n\nKarl Kraus is considered the first major European satirist since Jonathan Swift. In 20th-century literature, satire was used by English authors such as Aldous Huxley (1930s) and George Orwell (1940s), which under the inspiration of Zamyatin's Russian 1921 novel \"We\", made serious and even frightening commentaries on the dangers of the sweeping social changes taking place throughout Europe. Many social critics of this same time in the United States, such as Dorothy Parker and H. L. Mencken, used satire as their main weapon, and Mencken in particular is noted for having said that \"one horse-laugh is worth ten thousand syllogisms\" in the persuasion of the public to accept a criticism. Novelist Sinclair Lewis was known for his satirical stories such as \"Main Street\" (1920), \"Babbitt\" (1922), \"Elmer Gantry\" (1927; dedicated by Lewis to H. L. Menchen), and \"It Can't Happen Here\" (1935), and his books often explored and satirized contemporary American values. The film \"The Great Dictator\" (1940) by Charlie Chaplin is itself a parody of Adolf Hitler; Chaplin later declared that he would have not made the film if he had known about the concentration camps.\nIn the United States 1950s, satire was introduced into American stand-up comedy most prominently by Lenny Bruce and Mort Sahl. As they challenged the taboos and conventional wisdom of the time, were ostracized by the mass media establishment as \"sick comedians\". In the same period, Paul Krassner's magazine \"The Realist\" began publication, to become immensely popular during the 1960s and early 1970s among people in the counterculture; it had articles and cartoons that were savage, biting satires of politicians such as Lyndon Johnson and Richard Nixon, the Vietnam War, the Cold War and the War on Drugs. This baton was also carried by the original National Lampoon magazine, edited by Doug Kenney and Henry Beard and featuring blistering satire written by Michael O'Donoghue, P.J. O'Rourke, and Tony Hendra, among others. Prominent satiric stand-up comedian George Carlin acknowledged the influence \"The Realist\" had in his 1970s conversion to a satiric comedian.\n\nA more humorous brand of satire enjoyed a renaissance in the UK in the early 1960s with the satire boom, led by such luminaries as Peter Cook, Alan Bennett, Jonathan Miller, and Dudley Moore, whose stage show \"Beyond the Fringe\" was a hit not only in Britain, but also in the United States. Other significant influences in 1960s British satire include David Frost, Eleanor Bron and the television program \"That Was The Week That Was\".\n\nJoseph Heller's most famous work, \"Catch-22\" (1961), satirizes bureaucracy and the military, and is frequently cited as one of the greatest literary works of the twentieth century. Departing from traditional Hollywood farce and screwball, director and comedian Jerry Lewis used satire in his self-directed films \"The Bellboy\" (1960), \"The Errand Boy\" (1961) and \"The Patsy\" (1964) to comment on celebrity and the star-making machinery of Hollywood.\nThe film \"Dr. Strangelove\" (1964) starring Peter Sellers was a popular satire on the Cold War.\n\nContemporary popular usage of the term \"satire\" is often very imprecise. While satire often uses caricature and parody, by no means all uses of these or other humorous devices are satiric. Refer to the careful definition of satire that heads this article.\nSatire is used on many UK television programmes, particularly popular panel shows and quiz shows such as \"Mock the Week\" (2005) and \"Have I Got News for You\" (1990–ongoing). It is found on radio quiz shows such as \"The News Quiz\" (1977–ongoing) and \"The Now Show\" (1998–ongoing). One of the most watched UK television shows of the 1980s and early 1990s, the puppet show \"Spitting Image\" was a satire of the royal family, politics, entertainment, sport and British culture of the era. Court Flunkey from \"Spitting Image\" is a caricature of James Gillray, intended as a homage to the father of political cartooning. Created by DMA Design in 1997, satire features prominently in the British video game series \"Grand Theft Auto\".\n\nThe television program \"South Park\" (1997–ongoing) relies almost exclusively on satire to address issues in American culture, with episodes addressing anti-Semitism, militant atheism, homophobia, environmentalism, corporate culture, political correctness and anti-Catholicism, among many other issues.\n\nAustralian Chris Lilley produces comedy art in the style of mockumentaries (\"\", \"Summer Heights High\", \"Angry Boys\") and his work is often described as complex social satire.\nStephen Colbert's television program, \"The Colbert Report\" (2005–14), is instructive in the methods of contemporary American satire. Colbert's character is an opinionated and self-righteous commentator who, in his TV interviews, interrupts people, points and wags his finger at them, and \"unwittingly\" uses a number of logical fallacies. In doing so, he demonstrates the principle of modern American political satire: the ridicule of the actions of politicians and other public figures by taking all their statements and purported beliefs to their furthest (supposedly) logical conclusion, thus revealing their perceived hypocrisy or absurdity.\n\nThe American sketch comedy television show \"Saturday Night Live\" is also known for its satirical impressions and parodies of prominent persons and politicians, among some of the most notable, their parodies of U.S. political figures Hillary Clinton and of Sarah Palin.\n\nOther political satire includes various political causes in the past, including the relatively successful Polish Beer-Lovers' Party and the joke political candidates Molly the Dog and Brian Miner.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a popular modern satirist is Sir Terry Pratchett, author of the internationally best-selling \"Discworld\" book series. One of the most well-known and controversial British satirists is Chris Morris, co-writer and director of \"Four Lions\".\n\nIn Canada, satire has become an important part of the comedy scene. Stephen Leacock was one of the best known early Canadian satirists, and in the early 20th century, he achieved fame by targeting the attitudes of small town life. In more recent years, Canada has had several prominent satirical television series and radio shows. Some, including \"CODCO\", \"The Royal Canadian Air Farce\", \"This Is That\", and \"This Hour Has 22 Minutes\" deal directly with current news stories and political figures, while others, like \"History Bites\" present contemporary social satire in the context of events and figures in history. The Canadian organization \"Canada News Network\" provides commentary on contemporary news events that are primarily Canadian in nature. Canadian songwriter Nancy White uses music as the vehicle for her satire, and her comic folk songs are regularly played on CBC Radio.\n\nCartoonists often use satire as well as straight humour. Al Capp's satirical comic strip \"Li'l Abner\" was censored in September 1947. The controversy, as reported in \"Time\", centred on Capp's portrayal of the US Senate. Said Edward Leech of Scripps-Howard, \"We don't think it is good editing or sound citizenship to picture the Senate as an assemblage of freaks and crooks... boobs and undesirables.\" Walt Kelly's \"Pogo\" was likewise censored in 1952 over his overt satire of Senator Joe McCarthy, caricatured in his comic strip as \"Simple J. Malarky\". Garry Trudeau, whose comic strip \"Doonesbury\" focuses on satire of the political system, and provides a trademark cynical view on national events. Trudeau exemplifies humour mixed with criticism. For example, the character Mark Slackmeyer lamented that because he was not legally married to his partner, he was deprived of the \"exquisite agony\" of experiencing a nasty and painful divorce like heterosexuals. This, of course, satirized the claim that gay unions would denigrate the sanctity of heterosexual marriage.\nLike some literary predecessors, many recent television satires contain strong elements of parody and caricature; for instance, the popular animated series \"The Simpsons\" and \"South Park\" both parody modern family and social life by taking their assumptions to the extreme; both have led to the creation of similar series. As well as the purely humorous effect of this sort of thing, they often strongly criticise various phenomena in politics, economic life, religion and many other aspects of society, and thus qualify as satirical. Due to their animated nature, these shows can easily use images of public figures and generally have greater freedom to do so than conventional shows using live actors.\n\nNews satire is also a very popular form of contemporary satire, appearing in as wide an array of formats as the news media itself: print (e.g. \"The Onion\", \"Canada News Network\", \"Private Eye\"), \"Not Your Homepage,\" radio (e.g. \"On the Hour\"), television (e.g. \"The Day Today\", \"The Daily Show\", \"Brass Eye\") and the web (e.g. Mindry.in, The Fruit Dish, Scunt News, Faking News, El Koshary Today, The Giant Napkin, Unconfirmed Sources and The \"Onion\"s website). Other satires are on the list of satirists and satires. Another internet-driven form of satire is to lampoon bad internet performers. An example of this is the Internet meme character Miranda Sings.\n\nIn an interview with \"Wikinews\", Sean Mills, President of \"The Onion\", said angry letters about their news parody always carried the same message. \"It's whatever affects that person\", said Mills. \"So it's like, 'I love it when you make a joke about murder or rape, but if you talk about cancer, well my brother has cancer and that's not funny to me.' Or someone else can say, 'Cancer's \"hilarious\", but don't talk about rape because my cousin got raped.' Those are rather extreme examples, but if it affects somebody personally, they tend to be more sensitive about it.\"\n\nZhou Libo, a comedian from Shanghai, is the most popular satirist in China. His humour has interested middle-class people and has sold out shows ever since his rise to fame.\n\nLiterary satire is usually written out of earlier satiric works, reprising previous conventions, commonplaces, stance, situations and tones of voice. Exaggeration is one of the most common satirical techniques. Contrarily diminution is also a satirical technique.\n\nFor its nature and social role, satire has enjoyed in many societies a special freedom license to mock prominent individuals and institutions. In Germany and Italy satire is protected by the constitution.\n\nSince satire belongs to the realm of art and artistic expression, it benefits from broader lawfulness limits than mere freedom of information of journalistic kind. In some countries a specific \"right to satire\" is recognized and its limits go beyond the \"right to report\" of journalism and even the \"right to criticize\". Satire benefits not only of the protection to freedom of speech, but also to that to culture, and that to scientific and artistic production.\n\nIn September 2017 The Juice Media received an e-mail from the Australian National Symbols Officer requesting that the use of a satirical logo, called the \"Coat of Harms\" based on the Australian Coat of Arms, no longer be used as they had received complaints from the members of the public. Coincidentally 5 days later a Bill was proposed to Australian parliament to amend the Criminal Code Act 1995. If successfully passed those found to be in breach of the new amendment can face 2–5 years imprisonment\n\nAs of June 2018, the Criminal Code Amendment (Impersonating a Commonwealth Body) Bill 2017 was before the Australian Senate with the third reading moved 10 May 2018.\n\nDescriptions of satire's biting effect on its target include 'venomous', 'cutting', 'stinging', vitriol. Because satire often combines anger and humor, as well as the fact that it addresses and calls into question many controversial issues, it can be profoundly disturbing.\n\nBecause it is essentially ironic or sarcastic, satire is often misunderstood. A typical misunderstanding is to confuse the satirist with his persona.\n\nCommon uncomprehending responses to satire include revulsion (accusations of poor taste, or that \"it's just not funny\" for instance) and the idea that the satirist actually does support the ideas, policies, or people he is attacking. For instance, at the time of its publication, many people misunderstood Swift's purpose in \"A Modest Proposal\", assuming it to be a serious recommendation of economically motivated cannibalism.\n\nSome critics of Mark Twain see \"Huckleberry Finn\" as racist and offensive, missing the point that its author clearly intended it to be satire (racism being in fact only one of a number of Mark Twain's known concerns attacked in \"Huckleberry Finn\"). This same misconception was suffered by the main character of the 1960s British television comedy satire \"Till Death Us Do Part\". The character of Alf Garnett (played by Warren Mitchell) was created to poke fun at the kind of narrow-minded, racist, little Englander that Garnett represented. Instead, his character became a sort of anti-hero to people who actually agreed with his views. (The same situation occurred with Archie Bunker in American TV show \"All in the Family\", a character derived directly from Garnett.)\n\nThe Australian satirical television comedy show \"The Chaser's War on Everything\" has suffered repeated attacks based on various perceived interpretations of the \"target\" of its attacks. The \"Make a Realistic Wish Foundation\" sketch (June 2009), which attacked in classical satiric fashion the heartlessness of people who are reluctant to donate to charities, was widely interpreted as an attack on the Make a Wish Foundation, or even the terminally ill children helped by that organisation. Prime Minister of the time Kevin Rudd stated that The Chaser team \"should hang their heads in shame\". He went on to say that \"I didn't see that but it's been described to me. ...But having a go at kids with a terminal illness is really beyond the pale, absolutely beyond the pale.\" Television station management suspended the show for two weeks and reduced the third season to eight episodes.\n\nThe romantic prejudice against satire is the belief spread by the romantic movement that satire is something unworthy of serious attention; this prejudice has held considerable influence to this day. Such prejudice extends to humour and everything that arouses laughter, which are often underestimated as frivolous and unworthy of serious study. For instance, humor is generally neglected as a topic of anthropological research and teaching.\n\nBecause satire criticises in an ironic, essentially indirect way, it frequently escapes censorship in a way more direct criticism might not. Periodically, however, it runs into serious opposition, and people in power who perceive themselves as attacked attempt to censor it or prosecute its practitioners. In a classic example, Aristophanes was persecuted by the demagogue Cleon.\n\nIn 1599, the Archbishop of Canterbury John Whitgift and the Bishop of London Richard Bancroft, whose offices had the function of licensing books for publication in England, issued a decree banning verse satire. The decree, now known as the Bishops' Ban of 1599, ordered the burning of certain volumes of satire by John Marston, Thomas Middleton, Joseph Hall, and others; it also required histories and plays to be specially approved by a member of the Queen's Privy Council, and it prohibited the future printing of satire in verse.\n\nThe motives for the ban are obscure, particularly since some of the books banned had been licensed by the same authorities less than a year earlier. Various scholars have argued that the target was obscenity, libel, or sedition. It seems likely that lingering anxiety about the Martin Marprelate controversy, in which the bishops themselves had employed satirists, played a role; both Thomas Nashe and Gabriel Harvey, two of the key figures in that controversy, suffered a complete ban on all their works. In the event, though, the ban was little enforced, even by the licensing authority itself.\n\nIn 2005, the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy caused global protests by offended Muslims and violent attacks with many fatalities in the Near East. It was not the first case of Muslim protests against criticism in the form of satire, but the Western world was surprised by the hostility of the reaction: Any country's flag in which a newspaper chose to publish the parodies was being burnt in a Near East country, then embassies were attacked, killing 139 people in mainly four countries; politicians throughout Europe agreed that satire was an aspect of the freedom of speech, and therefore to be a protected means of dialogue. Iran threatened to start an International Holocaust Cartoon Competition, which was immediately responded to by Jews with an Israeli Anti-Semitic Cartoons Contest.\n\nIn 2006 British comedian Sacha Baron Cohen released \"Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan\", a \"mockumentary\" that satirized everyone, from high society to frat boys. The film was criticized by many. Although Baron Cohen is Jewish, some complained that it was antisemitic, and the government of Kazakhstan boycotted the film. The film itself had been a reaction to a longer quarrel between the government and the comedian.\n\nIn 2008, popular South African cartoonist and satirist Jonathan Shapiro (who is published under the pen name Zapiro) came under fire for depicting then-president of the ANC Jacob Zuma in the act of undressing in preparation for the implied rape of 'Lady Justice' which is held down by Zuma loyalists. The cartoon was drawn in response to Zuma's efforts to duck corruption charges, and the controversy was heightened by the fact that Zuma was himself acquitted of rape in May 2006. In February 2009, the South African Broadcasting Corporation, viewed by some opposition parties as the mouthpiece of the governing ANC, shelved a satirical TV show created by Shapiro, and in May 2009 the broadcaster pulled a documentary about political satire (featuring Shapiro among others) for the second time, hours before scheduled broadcast. Apartheid South Africa also had a long history of censorship.\n\nOn December 29, 2009, Samsung sued Mike Breen, and the \"Korea Times\" for $1 million, claiming criminal defamation over a satirical column published on Christmas Day, 2009.\n\nOn April 29, 2015, the UK Independence Party (UKIP) requested Kent Police investigate the BBC, claiming that comments made about Party leader Nigel Farage by a panelist on the comedy show \"Have I Got News For You\" might hinder his chances of success in the general election (which would take place a week later), and claimed the BBC breached the Representation of the People Act. Kent Police rebuffed the request to open an investigation, and the BBC released a statement, \"Britain has a proud tradition of satire, and everyone knows that the contributors on \"Have I Got News for You\" regularly make jokes at the expense of politicians of all parties.\"\n\nSatire is occasionally prophetic: the jokes precede actual events. Among the eminent examples are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50265700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50265700", "title": "Sheldon Gosline", "text": "Sheldon Gosline\n\n\"'Sheldon Lee Gosline\" is an American Egyptologist who has extensively studied the ancient civilizations of the Far East. He is noted for proposing the existence of a developing literate civilization in southern China dating to the second millennium BCE.\n\nSheldon Lee Gosline began his professional education at the University of Pennsylvania, where he received a B.A. degrees in Oriental Studies and Art History in 1985. He later continued his studies at the University of Cambridge, where he received a B.A. degree 1988 and was awarded an M.A. degree in Oriental Studies in 1993.\nHe interrupted his stay at Cambridge to study at the University of Chicago, receiving an M.A. degree in Egyptology and Near Eastern Archaeology in 1992.\nAfter Cambridge he studied at University of Wisconsin-Madison. He received his Ph.D. in 2013 from University College London, where he researched at the Wellcome Trust Centre for the History of Medicine and the UCL Centre for the History of Medicine. His thesis concerned the intersection of business and medicine.\n\nGosline is owner of Shangri-La Publications Art Design and Shangrila Gifts based in Warren Center, PA.\n\nGosline has taught at Northeast Normal University, Changchun, China; and at UW-Madison. He was at Northeast Normal University through 2004. \nIn 2011, he moved to London to pursue a Ph.D. in the history of medicine, at University College London. Once he completed the degree, he returned to China to research the writing of the country’s minority groups. He was first a visiting professor at Minzu University of China and Tsinghua University, both in Beijing. Since 2015, he has taught medical humanities at Peking University. He is a member of several professional associations.\n\nHe states that he has become proficient in or conversant with nine contemporary or ancient languages.\n\nIN 2013 Gosline was shown some inscriptions found in Guangxi province and considered that several were based on the Indus script and Persian cuneiform. On a field trip to the area where they were found in 2014 he discovered what he considered evidence of further inscriptions made up of large rocks regularly spaced and what he called “a man-made platform of megalithic construction\" and something that “appeared to be a carved chair or throne.” Sitting on it he “sensed a harmony and that I was in the midst of an ancient time calculating device\". He returned to what he called an \"observatory complex\" with caver including royal burials in June 2014 with a group of researchers who examined the site and stated that “We confirmed most of the things I’d found as potential alignments, and we confirmed that there was artifact evidence in the area that showed human occupation.” He reported this in a talk to the New York Explorers Club later that year, saying that he believed he had found an unknown civilization. \n\nReports from Chinese researchers who accompanied him were less positive. Dr. Ye Xiaohong reported that \"Two suspected cave tombs are not man-made,\" \"No artificial traces were found on the huge stone in the suspected artificial remains, neither the suspected structures for observation nor the suspected ancient topographic maps\" and that what Gosline had interpreted as ancient writing on some rocks \"were certainly produced by natural force\". The Chinese researchers also surveyed the alignments that Gosline thought related to the chair (which they agreed was a natural water-created formation) and concluded that the stone could not have been used as part of an observatory. \n\nAnother Chinese researcher who was part of Gosline's group stated that \"Gosline proclaimed that he had found several megalithic sites including observatories, palaces, and ancient cave tombs，petro-glyphs and even plan maps at Gansang, Nadou, and Bupeng in Pingguo county, Guangxi\". The conclusion was that \"We have not found any artificial remains, artifacts, and occupation layer both at Nadou and Bupeng sites\" and that most of the \"scratches, the petro-glyphs and plan maps on the rocks called by Gosline, are natural\" with a few that might be artificial and needed microscopic examination. However they did believe that the \"Gansang site might have worked as an important settlement in Youjiang River Reach.\" Commenting on the engraved stones reported by Gosline, they commented that they seemed too new, that they were too intact with \"the whole texts just fit to the sizes of the planks\", that they lacked an archaeological context and that there were too few repetitions of characters.\n\nGosline’s observation that the newly discovered inscriptions seemed to include Persian cuneiform is unproven as of 2016.\n"}
{"id": "472914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472914", "title": "Stanford University School of Humanities and Sciences", "text": "Stanford University School of Humanities and Sciences\n\nThe Stanford University School of Humanities and Sciences is the heart of the undergraduate program and grants the majority of Stanford University's degrees. The School has 23 departments and\n20 interdisciplinary degree-granting programs. The School was officially created in 1948, from the merger of the Schools of Biological Sciences, Humanities, Physical Sciences, and Social Sciences. Those schools date from the mid-1920s when the university first organized individual departments into schools.\n\nThe school is divided into three divisions: Humanities and Arts, Natural Sciences, and Social Sciences.\n\n\nDivision of Literatures, Cultures, and Languages\n\n\nThe current Biology department was formed by merging Botany, Zoology, Entomology, and Physiology to form Biological Sciences. The name of this department was changed to Biology in 2009.\n\n\nStanford was set up with a Political Science department but that was almost immediately renamed Economics and Social Science. The forerunner of the current Political Science department was established in 1918.\n\nSociology and Anthropology were originally one department established in 1948. They split in 1957. Anthropology itself was split into Anthropological Sciences and Cultural and Social Anthropology from\n1999 to 2007 but merged again.\n\nNotable faculty in these departments other than those mentioned above include:\n\nAt times Stanford has required undergraduate students to take core courses in various subjects in the humanities and sciences. Some of the core courses include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51579143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51579143", "title": "The Burrard Street Journal", "text": "The Burrard Street Journal\n\nThe Burrard Street Journal (or BSJ) is an online satire news website based in Vancouver, BC.\n\nThe site gained notoriety in August 2016 after a number of websites reported a BSJ article about then President Obama moving to Canada as fact. \n\nMany other Burrard Street Journal articles and videos have been reported as real news. In July 2016, an article titled 'Trump Claims America Should Never Have Given Canada Its Independence' was shared over 9,000 times and in March 2016, an edited BSJ video reporting Donald Trump building a wall with Canada was shared over 50,000 times and has received 4.5 million views as of March 2018.\n\nAs a result of the BSJ's satire being copied and/or shared as real news, the website's founder, John Egan, has sent copyright infringement notices to more than 100 websites.\n"}
{"id": "13056154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13056154", "title": "Theatrum artis scribendi", "text": "Theatrum artis scribendi\n\nTheatrum Artis Scribendi is a book about calligraphy by Jodocus Hondius. The first edition was published in Amsterdam in 1594; a second edition was published in 1614 by his son, Johannes Janssonius. A facsimile, limited to 300 copies, was published in 1969 by Midland Publishers of the Netherlands. The facsimile was printed by N. Miedma and Co. of Leeuwarden and bound by Van Rijmenam N.V. in The Hague.\n\nTranslated from Latin, the title of the book is \"Theatre of the Art of Writing\". It is an anthology of handwriting specimens by Solomon Henrix, van den Velde, Felix Van Sambix, Curione, M. Martine, Beauchesne, Houthusius, P. Goos, Jacomina Hondius, Peter Bales and other scribes. The book opens with a four page typeset instruction in the art of writing, and is followed by a series of 42 copperplate engravings. Each engraving is a specimen of roman, italic, blackletter, or Hebrew letters, usually accompanied by ornamental swashes, surrounded by an ornate cartouche. Each plate, or series of plates, is signed by its creator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46451070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46451070", "title": "Wildenstein Institute", "text": "Wildenstein Institute\n\nThe Wildenstein Institute is a French art institute that publishes catalogues raisonnés and scholarly inventories. \n\nThe Institute was founded in 1970 by Daniel Wildenstein as the \"Fondation Wildenstein\", and it was renamed the Wildenstein Institute in 1990. It is an offshoot of the art dealing company (Wildenstein & Co.) owned by the Wildenstein family for five generations.\n\nIt houses the historic documents and photographic archives assembled by Nathan Wildenstein (the company founder) and his son Georges, which have been added to by subsequent generations. Daniel Wildenstein established the Wildenstein Index Number used by the Institute to identify paintings.\n\nIt publishes catalogues raisonnés and scholarly inventories of impressionists such as Monet, and other modern artists such as Gauguin. It describes itself as a center for research in art history. It is currently headed by Guy Wildenstein.\n\nThe Institute publishes a Monet catalogue raisonné and is regarded as the \"official\" authenticator of Monet paintings. Acceptance of a Monet by the Institute significantly increases the commercial value of a painting. The Institute controversially refused to authenticate \"Bords de la Seine à Argenteuil\" after an investigation by Fiona Bruce (a journalist) and Philip Mould (an art dealer and historian) in the BBC television programme \"Fake or Fortune?\", which first aired on 19 June 2011. The Institute has featured again on the programme, variously accepting and rejecting the team's efforts.\n\nIn 2011, a police raid discovered and seized 30 paintings valued at tens of millions of pounds from the Institute's Paris headquarters (see: Guy Wildenstein#Criticism).\n\n"}
{"id": "5694046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5694046", "title": "Women in philosophy", "text": "Women in philosophy\n\nWomen have engaged in philosophy throughout the field's history. While there were women philosophers since ancient times, and a relatively small number were accepted as philosophers during the ancient, medieval, modern and contemporary eras, particularly during the 20th and 21st century, almost no woman philosophers have entered the philosophical Western canon.\n\nIn ancient philosophy in the West, while academic philosophy was typically the domain of male philosophers such as Plato and Aristotle, female philosophers such as Hipparchia of Maroneia (active ca. 325 BC), Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th century BC) and Aspasia of Miletus (470–400 BC) were active during this period. Notable medieval philosophers include Hypatia (5th century), St. Hildegard of Bingen (1098-1179) and St. Catherine of Sienna (1347-1380). Notable modern philosophers included Mary Wollstonecraft (1759-1797) and Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810-1850). Influential contemporary philosophers include Susanne Langer (1895–1985), Hannah Arendt (1906–1975), Simone de Beauvoir (1908–1986), Mary Midgley (born 1919), Mary Warnock (born 1924), Julia Kristeva (born 1941), Patricia Churchland (born 1943) and Susan Haack (born 1945).\n\nIn the early 1800s, some colleges and universities in the UK and US began admitting women, giving rise to new generations of female academics. Nevertheless, U.S. Department of Education reports from the 1990s indicate that philosophy is one of the least proportionate fields in the humanities with respect to gender. Women make up as little as 17% of philosophy faculty in some studies. In 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" described the philosophy \"...discipline’s own long history of misogyny and sexual harassment\" of women students and professors. Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, stated in 2015 that women are \"...leaving philosophy after being harassed, assaulted, or retaliated against.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Canadian Philosophical Association claimed that there is gender imbalance and gender bias in the academic field of philosophy. In June 2013, a US sociology professor stated that \"out of all recent citations in four prestigious philosophy journals, female authors comprise just 3.6 percent of the total.\" The editors of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy have raised concerns about the underrepresentation of women philosophers, and they require editors and writers to ensure they represent the contributions of women philosophers. According to Eugene Sun Park, \"[p]hilosophy is predominantly white and predominantly male. This homogeneity exists in almost all aspects and at all levels of the discipline.\" Susan Price argues that the philosophical \"...canon remains dominated by white males—the discipline that...still hews to the myth that genius is tied to gender.\" According to Saul, \"[p]hilosophy, the oldest of the humanities, is also the malest (and the whitest). While other areas of the humanities are at or near gender parity, philosophy is actually more overwhelmingly male than even mathematics.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Canadian Philosophical Association claimed that \"...there is compelling evidence\" of \"...philosophy’s gender imbalance\" and \"bias and partiality in many of its theoretical products.\" In 1992, the association recommended that \"fifty percent of [philosophy]...positions should be filled by women.” In a 2008 article “Changing the Ideology and Culture of Philosophy: Not by Reason (Alone),” MIT philosophy professor Sally Haslanger stated that the top twenty graduate programs in philosophy in the US have from 4 percent to 36 percent women faculty. In June 2013, Duke University professor of sociology Kieran Healy stated that \"out of all recent citations in four prestigious philosophy journals, female authors comprise just 3.6 percent of the total.\" The editors of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy have raised concerns about the underrepresentation of women philosophers; as such, the encyclopedia “encourage[s] [their] authors, subject editors, and referees to help ensure that SEP entries do not overlook the work of women or indeed of members of underrepresented groups more generally.”\n\nIn 2014, philosophy professors Neven Sesardic and Rafael De Clercq published an article entitled \"Women in Philosophy: Problems with the Discrimination Hypothesis.\" The article states that a \"...number of philosophers attribute the underrepresentation of women in philosophy largely to bias against women or some kind of wrongful discrimination\". Evidence cited includes \"gender disparities that increase along the path from undergraduate student to full-time faculty member\"; \"anecdotal accounts of discrimination in philosophy\"; \"research on gender bias in the evaluation of manuscripts, grants, and curricula vitae in other academic disciplines\"; \"psychological research on implicit bias\"; \"psychological research on stereotype threat\" and the \"...relatively small number of articles written from a feminist perspective in leading philosophy journals\". Sesardic and De Clercq argue that \"proponents of the discrimination hypothesis, who include distinguished philosophers ...have tended to present evidence selectively.\"\n\nAmerican philosopher Sally Haslanger stated in 2008 that \"...it is very hard to find a place in philosophy that isn’t actively hostile towards women and minorities, or at least assumes that a successful philosopher should look and act like a (traditional, white) man.” Haslanger states that she experienced “occasions when a woman’s status in graduate school was questioned because she was married, or had a child (or had taken time off to have a child so was returning to philosophy as a ‘mature’ student), or was in a long-distance relationship\". American philosopher Martha Nussbaum, who completed a PhD in philosophy at Harvard University in 1975, alleges that she encountered a tremendous amount of discrimination during her studies at Harvard, including sexual harassment and problems getting childcare for her daughter.\n\nIn July 2015, British philosopher Mary Warnock addressed the issue of the representation of women in British university philosophy departments, where 25% of faculty are women. Warnock stated she is \"... against intervention, by quotas or otherwise, to increase women’s chances of employment\" in philosophy. She also argues that \"... there is nothing intrinsically harmful about this imbalance\" and she states that she does not \"...believe it shows a conscious bias against women.\" Philosopher Julian Baggini states that he believes that there is \"...little or no conscious discrimination against women in philosophy\". At the same time, Baggini states that there may be a \"...great deal of unconscious bias\" against women in philosophy, because philosophy generally does not address issues of gender or ethnicity.\n\nIn 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" described the philosophy \"...discipline’s own long history of misogyny and sexual harassment.\" On March 28, 2011, the blog \"New APPS\" published a post examining the allegations of persistent sexual harassment faced by women professors in philosophy, due largely to \"serial harassers\" continuing to work in the field despite widespread knowledge of their actions. The post proposed that, since institutional procedures seemed to have been ineffective at removing or punishing harassers, philosophers should socially shun known offenders. The story was subsequently featured at \"Inside Higher Ed\" and several blogs, including Gawker and Jezebel. In 2013, a series of posts on the blog \"What's it like to be a woman in philosophy?\" instigated a spate of mainstream media articles on the continued dominance of men in philosophy. Eric Schliesser, a professor of philosophy at Ghent University, said he believes that the \"...systematic pattern of exclusion of women in philosophy is, in part, due to the fact that my profession has allowed a culture of harassment, sexual predating, and bullying to be reproduced from one generation to the next.\"\nAccording to Heidi Lockwood, an associate professor of philosophy at Southern Connecticut State University, there is a \"...power “asymmetry” between professors and students – even graduate students\"; as well, she noted that \"...even when colleges and universities have blanket prohibitions against professor-student sexual relationships, as does Yale...institution-specific policies leave students vulnerable [to sexual advances from faculty] at conferences.\"\nAccording to an August 2013 article in \"Salon\", a tenured male University of Miami philosopher resigned after allegedly \"...sending emails to a [female] student in which he suggested that they have sex three times.\" Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, set up a blog for women philosophers in 2010. She received numerous allegations of sexual harassment by male philosophy faculty, including a \"job candidate who said she was sexually assaulted at the annual APA meeting where job interviews take place\", an \"undergraduate whose professor joked publicly about dripping hot wax on her nipples\" and a \"... lesbian who found herself suddenly invited, after she came out, to join in the sexualizing of her female colleagues.\" Saul states that philosophy departments failed to deal with the allegations. In 2013, the American Philosophical Association formed a committee to study the allegations of sexual harassment of women students and professors by male philosophy faculty. Saul states that one of the allegations was regarding a \"...distinguished visiting speaker whose first words are: “Show me a grad student I can fuck”.\" Saul states that women are \"...leaving philosophy after being harassed, assaulted, or retaliated against.\" In 2014, \"Inside Higher Education\" reported allegations that a Yale University philosophy professor had sexually harassed a woman; the \"alleged victim says she reported the professor to Yale, with no real result\".\nIn an interview with \"Inside Higher Ed\", the alleged victim stated that she \"...suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder that impedes everyday life, not only from the alleged attack but also from the “browbeating” she endured as she attempted to report the professor, again and again, to Yale officials.\"\n\nIn 1993, the American Philosophical Association's sexual harassment committee set out guidelines for addressing this issue in philosophy departments. The APA guidelines, which were revised in 2013, stated that:\n\nThere are few black women philosophers, which includes women of African and Caribbean ancestry, African-Americans and other individuals from the African diaspora. According to philosopher Sally Haslanger, the \"numbers of philosophers of color, especially women of color, is even more appalling\"; in a 2003 study, there \"...was insufficient data for any racial group of women other than white women to report.\" In the United States, the \"...representation of scholars of color is plausibly worse than in any other field in the academy, including not only physics, but also engineering.\" According to professor L.K. McPherson, there is a \"gross underrepresentation of blacks in philosophy.\" McPherson states that there is a \"...willful, not necessarily a conscious, preference among many members of the philosophy profession largely to maintain the status quo in terms of: the social group profiles of members; the dynamics of prestige and influence; and the areas and questions deemed properly or deeply 'philosophical.' None of this is good for black folk.\"\n\nThe first black woman in the US to do a PhD in philosophy was Joyce Mitchell Cook, who obtained her degree in 1965 from Yale University. LaVerne Shelton was also one of the earliest black women to receive a PhD in philosophy. Other notable women include Angela Davis, a political activist who specializes in writing about feminism, critical theory, Marxism, popular music, social consciousness, and the philosophy of punishment and prisons; Kathryn Gines, the founding director of the Collegium of Black Woman Philosophers, who specializes in continental philosophy, Africana philosophy, philosophy of race and Black feminist philosophy; Anita L. Allen, the first African-American woman to complete both a JD and a PhD in philosophy, who focuses on political and legal philosophy, and who in 2010 was appointed by President Obama to sit on the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues; and Adrian Piper, an analytical philosopher who received a PhD in philosophy from Harvard; Jaqueline Scott, who received a PhD in philosophy from Stanford University, and who specializes in Nietzsche, nineteenth-century philosophy, race theory and African-American philosophy.\n\nFew Asian women are recognized in contemporary Western philosophy. In a New York Times interview with George Yancy, Korean-American philosopher Emily S. Lee, assistant professor of philosophy at California State University, Fullerton, states, \"I wonder if some of my experiences occur from being Asian-American, in the ways people stereotypically assume that I must specialize in certain areas of philosophy or behave in specific ways, such as being quiet and subdued.\" She postulates that the social forces that stereotype and encourage Asian-Americans to enter more lucrative and secure fields (such as engineering or medicine) combined with influences within the field of philosophy discouraging Asian-American youths from continuing their study in the field has led to the extremely small population of Asian-American female philosophers. University of Washington philosophy professor Carole Lee's report in the American Philosophical Association's newsletter on Asian and Asian-American Philosophers and Philosophies suggests that Asian women face conflicting stereotypes, making it difficult for them to fit into the field of philosophy: \"Women are stereotyped as submissive rather than aggressive and as being bad at math: they lack both characteristics associated with philosophy.\" On the other had, \"Asian Americans are stereotyped as being mathematical; however, they are characterized in \"passive\" rather than aggressive terms.\" Philosopher David Kim offers the explanation that a lack of Asian American mentors in philosophy and \"derogation of philosophical thought that resonates with their identity\" may also contribute to the wide disparity.\n\nU.S. Department of Education reports indicate that philosophy is one of the least proportionate fields in the humanities with respect to gender. Although reports indicate that philosophy as a professional field is disproportionately male, no clear, unequivocal data exists on the number of women currently in philosophy, or indeed, on the number of men in philosophy, and it is debatable how to define what it means to be ‘in philosophy.’ This can variously be defined as the current number of Ph.D. holders in philosophy, the current number of women teaching philosophy in two- and four- year institutions of higher learning either/both full-time and/or part-time (no one data set exists which measures these), or the current number of living women with publications in philosophy. The lack of clear data makes it difficult to establish gender proportions, but the consensus among those who have tried to arrive at an estimate is that women make up between 17% and 30% of academically employed philosophers.\n\nThe National Center for Education Statistics' 2000 report, \"Salary, Promotion, and Tenure Status of Minority and Women Faculty in U.S. Colleges and Universities,\" estimates in Table 23 that the total number of \"History and Philosophy\" U.S. citizens and full-time faculty who primarily taught in 1992 was 19,000, of which 79% were men (i.e. 15,010 men in history and philosophy), 21% were women (3,990). They add, \"In fact, men were at least twice as likely as women to teach history and philosophy.\"\n\nIn their 1997 report, \"Characteristics and Attitudes of Instructional Faculty and Staff in the Humanities,\" NCES notes, that about \"one-half of full-time instructional faculty and staff in 4-year institutions in English and literature (47 percent) and foreign languages (50 percent) were female in the fall of 1992, compared with less than one-half of instructional faculty and staff in history (24 percent) and philosophy and religion (13 percent) (table 4).\" In this report they measure Philosophy and Religion in the same data set, and estimate the total number of full-time instructional Philosophy and Religion faculty and staff in 4-yr institutions to be 7,646. Of these, 87.3% are male (6675 men),\n12.7 are female (971 women). The 1997 report measures History Full-time instructional faculty and staff in 4-yr institutions to be 11,383; male:76.3 (8,686 men);\nfemale: 23.7 (2,697 women). The numbers of women in philosophy from the two studies are not easily comparable, but one rough method may be to subtract the number of women in history in the 1997 report from the number of women estimated to be in 'history and philosophy' in the 2000 report. Doing so suggests that as a rough estimate, 1,293 women are employed as instructors of philosophy.\n\nThe 1997 report indicates that a large portion of all humanities instructors are part-time. Part-time employees are disproportionately female but not majority female. Therefore, considerations of full-time employees only necessarily leave out data on many women working part-time to remain active in their field. In 2004, the percentage of Ph.D.s in philosophy, within the U.S., going to women reached a record high percentage: 33.3%, or 121 of the 363 doctorates awarded.\n\nMinorities and Philosophy (MAP) is an international movement of graduate and undergraduate students and faculty members in philosophy working on issues related to “the underrepresentation of women an minorities in philosophy.” MAP consists of chapters at universities around the world, and the format can vary from school to school. However, all chapters focus broadly on issues minorities face in the profession, philosophical issues regarding minorities, and work done by minority philosophers, as well as issues that are specific to that school’s philosophy department. MAP’s short-term goals include providing a space for students to discuss and work on these issues, and long-term goals include contributing to the culture of academic philosophy and increasing participation and recognition of minorities in philosophy. In recent years, MAP has fostered collaborative work between chapters, establishing \"connections between chapters that benefit both members and departments long-term,\" increased work on inclusive pedagogy, and organized efforts to bring philosophy into communities outside of university campuses, such as prisons and elementary schools.\n\nThe Committee on the Status of Women is a committee of the American Philosophical Association devoted to the assessment and reporting on the status of women in philosophy. It is currently chaired by Hilde Lindemann. In April 2007, the Committee on the Status of Women co-sponsored a session on the central question \"Why Are Women Only 21% of Philosophy\". At this session, Sharon Crasnow suggested that the low numbers of women in philosophy may be due to:\n\nThe Society for Women in Philosophy is a group created in 1972 that seeks to support and promote women in philosophy. It has a number of branches around the world, including in New York, the American Pacific, the United Kingdom and Canada. Each year, the society names one philosopher the distinguished woman philosopher of the year.\n\nHonorees include:\n\nThe blog Feminist Philosophers hosts the Gendered Conference Campaign, which works toward increasing the representation of women at philosophy conferences and in edited volumes. The blog states that \"all-male events and volumes help to perpetuate the stereotyping of philosophy as male. This in turn to contributes to implicit bias against women in philosophy...\"\n\nWhile there were women philosophers since the earliest times, and some were accepted as philosophers during their lives, almost no woman philosophers have entered the philosophical Western canon. Historians of philosophy are faced with two main problems. The first being the exclusion of women philosophers from history and philosophy texts, which leads to a lack of knowledge about women philosophers among philosophy students. The second problem deals with what the canonical philosophers had to say about philosophy and women's place in it. In the past twenty-five years there has been an exponential increase in feminist writing about the history of philosophy and what has been considered the philosophical canon. According to Eugene Sun Park, \"[p]hilosophy is predominantly white and predominantly male. This homogeneity exists in almost all aspects and at all levels of the discipline.\" According to Jennifer Saul, a professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, \"[p]hilosophy, the oldest of the humanities, is also the malest (and the whitest). While other areas of the humanities are at or near gender parity, philosophy is actually more overwhelmingly male than even mathematics.\"\n\nIn the May 13, 2015 issue of \"The Atlantic\", Susan Price notes that even though Kant's first work in 1747 cites Émilie Du Châtelet, a philosopher who was a \"...scholar of Newton, religion, science, and mathematics\", \"her work won’t be found in the 1,000-plus pages of the new edition of The Norton Introduction to Philosophy.\" The Norton Introduction does not name a female philosopher until the book begins to cover the mid-20th century. Scholars argue that women philosophers are also absent from the \"...other leading anthologies used in university classrooms.\" Price states that university philosophy anthologies do not usually mention 17th century women philosophers such as Margaret Cavendish, Anne Conway, and Lady Damaris Masham. Price argues that the philosophical \"...canon remains dominated by white males—the discipline that some say still hews to the myth that genius is tied to gender.\" Amy Ferrer, executive director of the American Philosophical Association, states that “...women have been systematically left out of the canon, and that women coming in have not been able to see how much influence women have had in the field.\" \"The Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", which as published in 1967, had \"...articles on over 900 philosophers, [but it] did not include an entry for Wollstonecraft, Arendt or de Beauvoir. \"[T]hese women philosophers were scarcely even marginal\" to the canon set out at the time.\n\nExplaining the very small number of women philosophers, American academic and social critic Camille Paglia (born 1947) argues that \"...women in general are less comfortable than men in inhabiting a highly austere, cold, analytical space, such as the one which philosophy involves. Women as a whole ...are more drawn to practical, personal matters. It is not that they inherently lack a talent or aptitude for philosophy or higher mathematics, but rather that they are more unwilling than men to devote their lives to a frigid space from which the natural and the human have been eliminated.\" Paglia claims that \"[t]oday's lack of major female philosophers is not due to lack of talent but to the collapse of philosophy\", because, in her view, philosophy \"... as traditionally practised may be a dead genre\" that \"belongs to a vanished age of much slower and rhetorically formal inquiry.\"\n\nSome of the earliest philosophers were women, such as Hipparchia of Maroneia (active ca. 325 BC), Arete of Cyrene (active 5th–4th century BC) and Aspasia of Miletus (470–400 BC). Aspasia appears in the philosophical writings of Plato, Xenophon, Aeschines Socraticus and Antisthenes. Some scholars argue that Plato was impressed by her intelligence and wit and based his character Diotima in the \"Symposium\" on her. Socrates attributes to the (possibly fictional) Diotima of Mantinea his lessons in the art of Eros (or philosophical searching). Plato's final views on women are highly contested, but the \"Republic\" suggests that women are equally capable of education, intellectual vision, and rule of the city.\n\nOther notable philosophers include:\n\nMedieval philosophy dates from the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century AD to the Renaissance in the 16th century. Hypatia (AD 350 – 370 to 415) was a Greek mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher in Egypt, then a part of the Eastern Roman Empire. She was the head of the Neoplatonic school at Alexandria, where she taught philosophy and astronomy.\n\nOther notable woman philosophers include:\n\nThe 17th century marks the beginning of the modern philosophy era, which ended in the early 20th century. During the 17th century, various women philosophers argued for the importance of education for women and two women philosophers influenced René Descartes and during the early part of the 18th century, two women philosophers commented on John Locke’s philosophy. Laura Bassi (1711–1778) was the first woman to earn a university chair in a scientific field. Olympe de Gouges (1748–1793) demanded that French women be given the same rights as men, a position also taken by Judith Sargent Murray (1751–1820) in her essay \"On the Equality of the Sexes\" and Mary Wollstonecraft in her essay \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792). During the 19th century, Harriet Martineau (1802–1876) criticized the state of women's education and Harriet Taylor Mill (1807–1858), Sarah Margaret Fuller (1810-1850) and Antoinette Brown Blackwell (1825–1921) called for women's rights. Charlotte Perkins Gilman (1860–1935) argued that women were oppressed by an androcentric culture. Near the start of the 20th century, Mary Whiton Calkins (1863–1930) was the first woman to become president of the American Philosophical Association. Women thinkers such as Emma Goldman (1869–1940), an anarchist, and\nRosa Luxemburg (1871–1919), a Marxist theorist, are known for their political views.\n\n\n\n\n\nContemporary philosophy is the present period in the history of Western philosophy beginning at the end of the 19th century with the professionalization of the discipline and the rise of analytic and continental philosophy. Some influential women philosophers from this period include:\n\nOther notable philosophers include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26916262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26916262", "title": "Women in the military in Europe", "text": "Women in the military in Europe\n\nEuropean countries have had varying policies that confine women and military service or the extent of their participation in the national armed services of their respective countries, especially combatant roles in armed conflicts or hostile environments. While most of the countries have always allowed women to participate in military activities involving no direct aggression with the enemy, most began seeing the value of servicewomen in the armed services during the First World War when they began losing unprecedented numbers of servicemen. In modern times many of the European countries now allow women to voluntarily pursue a career path or profession in the national armed services of their country as well as permit conscription equality, with minimal or no restrictions at all.\n\nWomen were employed in the Danish armed forces as early as 1934 with the Ground Observer Corps, Danish Women's Army Corps and Naval Corps in 1946 and the Women's Air Force since 1953. In 1962 the Danish parliament passed laws allowing women to volunteer in the regular Danish armed forces as long as they did not serve in units experiencing direct combat. 1971 saw the enlistment of women as non-commissioned officers, with military academies allowing women in 1974.\n\nIn 1978, based on the reports of studies on the topic, women were allowed to enlist in an all areas of the Danish armed forces, with combat trials in the eighties exploring the capabilities of women in combat. In 1998 laws were passed allowing women to sample military life in the same way as conscripted men, however without being completely open to conscription. Women in the Danish military come under the command of the Chief of Defense.\n\nAs with many nations with women in their armed forces, Denmark has different basic physical requirements for men and women in their armed forces, however the requirements for the more physically demanding jobs do not differ for either sex.\n\nThe Finnish Defense Forces does not conscript women. However, since 1995, women between 18 and 30 years of age have the possibility of voluntarily undertaking military service in the Defence Forces or in the Border Guard. Females serve under the same conditions as men, with the exception that during the first 45 days of service they have the option to leave the military without consequences. After that, they must complete the service which lasts 6, 9 or 12 months. After the service, the females face the same reserve obligations as the males who have done the obligatory military service. If the female in national service experiences a conscientious crisis which prevents her from fulfilling her military service or reserve obligations, she is ordered to the alternative civilian service, which lasts 12 months.\n\nAll services and units in the Finnish Defence Forces and the Finnish Border Guard accept females. In garrison environment, the females are lodged in separate rooms and are given separate toilet and bath facilities. In exercises and aboard ships, women are lodged with men. The women in national service are given an extra allowance of €0,40 per diem for sanitary articles and smallclothes. The females in military service are usually well motivated and some 60% of them receive either NCO or reserve officer training. Yearly, some 500 women complete the voluntary military service, while some 30,000 men complete the obligatory conscription.\nThe women who have completed the voluntary military service are eligible for further military employment. If they have at least NCO training, they can apply for career NCO positions or for officer training. These career paths have been open since 1996, when the first women completed the military service. In 2005, 32 female career officers were in service. The number of female warrant officers was 16 and the number of female specialist officers 7. In comparison, there were a total of 2.584 officers and 894 specialist officers in service. The women made up about 16% of the total career NCO cadre. However, most of these career NCOs were grandfathered former female enlistees who had not undertaken military service.\nThe history of women in the Finnish military is, however, far longer than just since 1995. During the Finnish Civil War, the Reds had several \"Naiskaarti\" (Women's Guard) units made of voluntary 16- to 35-year-old women, who were given rudimentary military training. The reactions on women in military were ambivalent during the Civil War. The fighting women of the Reds were shunned in the White propaganda but in the Red side propaganda they were admired and also compared to the \"amazons of old\". The White side founded their own female organization, Lotta Svärd in November 1918. While the \"Lottas\" were not front line fighting units per sé, as a paramilitary organization they handled several important second-line duties freeing men to the actual fighting service. A voluntary Lotta unit manned a searchlight battery of Finnish anti-aircraft artillery in defense of Helsinki in 1944. After the Continuation War, Lotta Svärd was declared a \"paramilitary organization\" and absolved in 1944.\n\nIn 1961, the Finnish Defence Forces started to enlist females for second-line duties. The duties available to women were radar operator, sea-control person, and C3 person. Most of the female enlisted served in coastal artillery and Finnish Air Force. The women enlisted all served in the rank of \"värvätty\" (enlisted), using a special female uniform. In 1994, the female enlisted were given the same status as military persons as the male enlisted. At the same time, the women who had undergone the voluntary military service received the possibility to be recruited for all military careers. In the beginning of the year 2007, the term enlisted (\"värvätty\") was changed to NCO (\"aliupseeri\") to better recognize the change in the duties of this personnel group. The female enlistees who had not undertaken military service were grandfathered. They remain in the rank of enlistee unless they complete the conscript NCO course.\n\nThe non-combat duties in Finnish Defence Forces peace-keeping operations opened to women in 1991. At first, the women without previous military training experienced rather large problems in the Finnish peace-keeping units, most remarkably in the Republic of Macedonia in the mid-1990s. Since the introduction of the voluntary military service, the women have mostly the same training as the men which has lessened the problems. Only a handful of women without military training, mostly nurses or social service personnel, are serving with the Finnish peace-keeping forces. All duties in Finnish foreign operations are open to women, provided they have the necessary military training.\n\nIn the 1800s, women in the French military were responsible for preparing meals for soldiers, and were called Cantinières. They sold food to soldiers beyond that which was given to them as rations. Cantinières had commissions from the administrators of the regiments, and they were required to be married to a soldier of the regiment. They served near the front lines on active campaigns, and some served for as long as 30 years.\n\nThe role of women in the French military grew in 1914 with the recruitment of women as medical personnel (Service de Santé des Armées). In 1939, they were authorized to enlist with the armed service branches, and in 1972 their status evolved to share the same ranks as those of men. Nonetheless, women are still not permitted to join the field combat units or to be aboard the submarines of the French navy.\n\nValérie André, a neurosurgeon, became the first woman in France to attain the rank of three-star general as Médecin Général Inspecteur. A veteran of the French Resistance, she served overseas in Indochina. During that period, she learned how to pilot a helicopter so that she could reach wounded soldiers who were trapped in the jungle. André is the first woman to have flown a helicopter in combat. She received many decorations for her achievements, including the highest rank of the Legion of Honour. She retired from active service in 1981. Many other French women were involved in the French Resistance.\n\nSince the creation of the Bundeswehr in 1955, Germany had employed one of the most conservative gender-policies of any NATO country. That was generally regarded as a reaction to the deployment of young women at the end of World War II. Though women were exempt from direct combat functions in accordance with Nazi-ideology, several hundred thousand German women, along with young boys and sometimes girls (as Flakhelfer), served in Luftwaffe artillery units; their flak shot down thousands of Allied warplanes.\n\nIn the year 1975 the first female medical officers were appointed in the \"Sanitätsdienst\" (Medical corps) of the Bundeswehr. Since 1994, two women, Verena von Weymarn and Erika Franke, attained the rank of \"Generalarzt\" (Surgeon General). But it was not until January 2001 that women first joined German combat units, following a court ruling by the European Court of Justice. The change in the law was prompted after a qualified female electronics technician argued her case to the European Court of Justice after her application to join the Maintenance-Recovery Service (Electronics) technical unit of the German Armed Forces was rejected in 1996, citing \"it is barred by German law for women to perform armed services\". The court ruled that preventing women from occupying combat roles in the armed forces was against sexual equality principles. 244 of the first 1,900 women who signed up following the law change were admitted on the first day of the new rules, the majority of them joining the army and air force. \nThere are no restrictions regarding the branch of service, and there are women serving in the \"Fallschirmjäger\" (paratrooper), aboard submarines and jet-fighter aircraft. Before the law change 4,400 women only occupied military medicine or military-band roles within the German armed forces. The new legislations initially did not receive full military support. A report on the subject commented that, regarding the older male soldiers, \"The way they see themselves as male fighters is shattered\". Like many countries who have accepted women into combat roles, Germany conducts special courses on preventing sexual harassment.\n\nAfter several years of experience the commotion inside the Bundeswehr has now remarkably decreased. Today women are regularly being sent to foreign deployments. As of January 2010 about 16,900 female soldiers serve in the Bundeswehr, representing a share of 9 percent of all troops except conscripted soldiers. The German Bundeswehr now expects the percentage of all female personnel to rise to about 15 percent in the middle-term future.\n\nIn 2007 the first woman in the German air force received her jet-fighter licence. A handful more are flying helicopters and transport planes.\n\nThe Defence (Amendment) (No. 2) Act, 1979, allowed women to join the Irish Defence Forces for the first time and was passed by the Oireachtas in 1979. There are no restrictions for women to the \"full range of operational and administrative duties.\" As of January 2010 the number of women in the Permanent Defence Forces is 565, 5.7 percent of the total.\n\nDuring World War II, the Italian Social Republic established the Female Volunteer Unit () as an auxiliary service and their soldiers were known as Female Auxiliary Unit (). The law that introduced this unit provided that its existence be limited to war periods. Its equivalent in Southern Italy during World War II, was the \"CAF\", , that was on the side of the Allies. This unit was also dismissed at the end of the war. Those who belonged to this unit were equivalent to sub-lieutenants and wore military uniforms made in Great Britain. In 1959, the Female Police unit () was established.\n\nIn 1981, Diadora Bussani was the first woman who asked to be admitted into the Italian Naval Academy of Livorno (). She was born in 1962 in Trieste and started to try to join the academy in 1981. After being excluded from the application, Italy's regional administrative court upheld the appeal; however, Italy's State Council overturned the judgment. The enlisting of a woman seemed to be legally feasible because of the Italian law Legge 1963 n. 66, which allowed the enrollment of women in public positions, but Italy's State Council excluded the military because of biological differences between male and female human bodies. When Diadora Bussani became famous and the case was well-known, the United States Navy symbolically granted her enlistment on 2 November 1982.\n\nVoluntary female military service was introduced in 1999 with the Italian law Legge 20 ottobre 1999 n. 380, which introduced the possibility of being admitted to the army for women. Italy was the last country among NATO members to allow women to deploy.\n\nNowadays women are present in all branches of Italian armed forces, including the police, and the Guardia di Finanza, and they are also employed for military missions abroad. Before the year 2000, women were employed in war only as voluntary nurses inside the organizations Croce Rossa Italiana and of Corpo delle infermiere volontarie dell'ACISMOM. 235º Reggimento fanteria \"Piceno\" is the training center for women inside the Italian army.\n\nWomen in Norway have been serving in military roles since 1938. During the Second World War both enlisted women and female officers served in all branches of the military. However, in 1947 political changes commanded that women only serve in civilian posts, with reservists allowing women to join in 1959.\n\nBetween 1977 and 1984, the Norwegian Parliament passed laws expanding the role of women in the Norwegian Armed Forces, and in 1985 equal opportunities legislation was applied to the military. \nIn 1995, Norway became the first country to allow women to serve on its military submarines\n\nIn a further step in favour of gender equality in the armed services, the Norwegian parliament voted, with a strong majority, the 14th of June 2014, a bill to extend compulsory military service to females from mid-2016. Norway is the first NATO member and first European country to make national service compulsory for both sexes. It will apply to all medically fit Norwegian citizens between age 19-44 born from 1997 onwards. Women born in 1997 and onwards will also be subject to conscription during wartime.\n\nAs of 2017, 1341 of the 11596 military personnel in the Norwegian military forces were women (12%). Of all the conscriped soldiers the same year, the female percentage was 23%. c\n\nOn 26 January 2017, major general Tonje Skinnarland became the first-ever appointed woman to be the head of the Royal Norwegian air force.\n\nWomen have taken part in the battles for independence against occupiers and invaders since at least the time of the Napoleonic Wars. During the occupation by the Nazis, 1939–1945, several thousand women took part in the resistance movement as members of the Home Army. The Germans were forced to establish special prisoner-of-war camps after the Warsaw Rising in 1944 to accommodate over a thousand women prisoners.\n\nIn April 1938 the law requiring compulsory military service for men included provisions for voluntary service of women in auxiliary roles, in the medical services, in the anti-aircraft artillery and in communications. In 1939 a Women's Military Training Organization was established under the command of Maria Wittek.\n\nIn present Poland a law passed April 6, 2004 requires all women with college nursing or veterinary degrees to register for compulsory service. In addition it allows women to volunteer and serve as professional personnel in all services of the army. As of June 30, 2007 there are 800 women in the army, of which 471 are officers, 308 non-commissioned officers and 21 other ranks, in addition 225 are in military training schools.\n\nThe first woman known to have enlisted in the Russian Army was Nadezhda Durova who, pretending to be a man, fought with distinction in the Napoleonic Wars. At that time, however, she was very much of a unique exception in an all-male army.\n\nDuring the First World War, heavy defeats led to the loss of millions of Russian Imperial soldiers. To psychologically energize morale Alexander Kerensky (leader of Russia of the Russian Provisional Government) ordered the creation of the Woman’s Death Battalion in May 1917. After three months of fighting, the size of this all-female unit fell from 2,000 to 250. In November 1917, the Bolsheviks dissolved the unit. Shortly after Russia became part of the Soviet Union (see above for the role of woman in Soviet military) till December 1991.\n\nThe current tally of woman in the Russian Army is standing at around 115,000 to 160,000, representing 10% of Russia’s military strength. They're not allowed in combat roles, however.\n\nThe Russian army runs the Miss Russian Army beauty contest for attractive female Russian soldiers. Colonel Gennady Dzyuba, of the Defense Ministry, said of the 2005 contest that \"Those who have served, especially in hot spots, know the importance of women in the armed forces.\"\n\nWomen had the legal right to serve in the Soviet Armed Forces throughout the post Second World War period, with many all-female units existing as far back as World War One. By the early 1990s, 100,000 women made up 3% of the Soviet Armed Forces.\nDuring the Second World War, the Soviet Union had a female military strength of over one million women who served as snipers, machine gunners, and tank crew members. Very few of these women, however, were ever promoted to officers.\n\nIn 1942 the Soviet Union formed three regiments of women combat pilots to fly night bombing missions over Germany, the 588th Night Bomber Regiment, later called the 46th Taman Guards Night Bomber Aviation Regiment. These women took part in regular harassment bombing against the Germans in Polikarpov Po-2 biplanes, and participated in the final onslaught against Berlin. The regiments, collectively known to the Germans as the \"Nachthexen\" (\"Night Witches\"), flew more than 24,000 sorties and won in total 23 Hero of the Soviet Union medals. Some of the most talented women pilots were assigned day fighter duties. \"Lily\" Litvak and Katya Budanova became fighter aces flying the Soviet Union's best fighter designs alongside men in day attacks. Both were killed in their aircraft. Meanwhile, in the ground combat role Lyudmila Pavlichenko, made 309 confirmed kills including 36 enemy snipers. Pavlichenko was one of the many female snipers of the Soviet Army.\n\nIn 1967, the Soviet Universal Military Duty Laws concluded that women offered the greater source of available combat soldiers during periods of large-scale mobilisation. Thus, several programs during the height of the cold war were set up to encourage women to enlist. Participation in military orientated youth programs and forced participation in the reserves for ex-servicewomen up to the age of 40 are some examples. Universities contained reservist officer training which accompanied a place in the reserves themselves.\n\nIn the Soviet Union civil universities, in addition to professional education, gave basic military training to the youth of both sexes. Many secondary schools in post-Soviet countries still have defense lessons, both for boys and girls.\n\nAlthough the Serbian combat forces were traditionally exclusively male (with exception of nurses and some other non-combat roles) there were some exceptions. Several women are known to have fought in the ranks in the Balkan Wars and the First World War, often by initially hiding their gender to work around the draft regulations. The most notable of them was Milunka Savić. In the Second World War Yugoslav partisan units accepted female volunteers as combatants as well as medical personnel. After the war the practice was abandoned, but was reintroduced recently with professionalisation of the army.\n\nIn Yugoslavia (including Serbia and other states), two million women were directly involved in non-combat support roles with Yugoslavia's partisans, and 100,000 served in the partisan army during World War II.\n\nIn the Military Articles of 1621, which organized the Swedish army, military men on all levels were explicitly allowed to bring their wives with them to war, as the wives were regarded to fill an important role as sutlers in the house hold organisation of the army: prostitutes, however, were banned. This regulation was kept until the Military Article of 1798, though the presence of women diminished after the end of the Great Northern War. In the Military Article of 1798, the only women allowed to accompany the army was the professional unmarried female sutlers, in Sweden named \"marketenterska\". Unofficially, however, there were females who served in the army posing as male the entire period, the most famous being Ulrika Eleonora Stålhammar.\n\nIn 1924, the Swedish Women's Voluntary Defence Service (Swedish: Riksförbundet Sveriges lottakårer, commonly known as Lottorna) was founded: it is an auxiliary defense organization of the Swedish Home Guard, a part of the Swedish Armed Forces.\n\nSince 1989 there are no gender restrictions in the Swedish military on access to military training or positions. They are allowed to serve in all parts of the military and in all positions, including combat.\n\nWhen Turkish history is examined, it is apparent that Turkish women have voluntarily taken tasks in the defence of their country, showing the same power and courage as men. Nene Hatun, whose monument has been erected in the city of Erzurum (Eastern Turkey) because of her gallant bravery during the Ottoman-Russian War, constitutes a very good example of this fact. Furthermore, the Independence War has taken its place in history with the unsurpassed heroism of Turkish women. Sabiha Gökçen was the first female combat pilot in the world, as well as the first Turkish female aviator. She was one of the eight adoptive children of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Throughout her career in the Turkish Air Force, Gökçen flew 22 different types of aircraft for more than 8,000 hours, 32 hours of which were active combat and bombardment missions. She was selected as the only female pilot for the poster of \"20 Greatest Aviators in History\" published by the United States Air Force in 1996.\n\nWomen personnel are being employed as officers in the Turkish Armed Forces today. The women officers serve together with the men under the same respective chains of command. The personnel policy regarding women in the Turkish Armed Forces is based on the principle of \"needing qualified women officers in suitable branches and ranks\" to keep pace with technological advancements in the 21st century. Women civilian personnel have been assigned to the headquarters staff, technical fields, and social services without sexual discrimination. Women officers serve in all branches except armour, infantry, and submarines. Assignments, promotions and training are considered on an equal basis with no gender bias.\n\nAs of the year 2005, the number of the female officers and NCOs in the Turkish Armed Forces is 1245.\n\nWomen may now join the British Armed forces in all roles except those whose \"primary duty is to close with and kill the enemy\": Infantry, Household Cavalry, Royal Armoured Corps, Royal Marines Commandos, RAF Regiment, Special Air Service and Special Boat Service. In addition medical reasons used to preclude service in the Royal Navy Submarine Service or as Mine Clearance Divers, but in May 2014 it was announced that three women had become the RN's first female submariners. They are however, permitted access to special force's support units, such as commando engineers and are cleared to join the Special Reconnaissance Regiment, a largely unknown branch of the United Kingdom Special Forces that does not bar women from joining.\n\nFemale personnel currently make up around 9% of the British armed forces. However, female combatants can be found throughout Britain’s military history.\n\nAn early example is Queen Boudica, who led warriors of the Iceni tribe against Roman forces occupying Britain around AD 62, her legacy being often quoted in support of arguments calling for the full opening up of the British Armed forces to women.\n\nIn the medieval period, Queens and noblewomen such as Ethelfleda of Mercia, Matilda of England, Isabella of France and Margaret of Anjou commanded armies in battle, although they did not fight themselves. Many women including Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine accompanied their husbands on Crusade. In the 16th century Mary, Queen of Scots, accompanied troops in several campaigns. Women continued to lead armies or organise the defense of castles in the absence of their male relatives until the close of the English Civil War. Charles I's consort, Henrietta Maria of France was the last English queen to command troops in battle in northern England in 1643.\n\nDuring the 1776 American War of Independence, it is estimated that over 5,000 women accompanied British forces. Many of these would have been the wives of high-ranking officers, with a large proportion being the wives of serving soldiers. While as much as possible women were left in the camp, they sometimes accompanied forces in their baggage trains serving as cooks or nurses, and were occasionally caught in combat and killed or taken prisoner. Similarly women accompanied men in ships of the Royal Navy, in combat being employed as powder monkeys or assisting surgeons.\n\nDuring World War I the British Women’s Army Auxiliary Corps was formed; Lieutenant-General H Lawson recommended using it in France in 1917. Sir Neville Macready, the Adjutant-General, supported the idea that women and men should be treated the same at the front. Women served in the British Army during World War One as cooks, medical staff and clerical staff, however women were not permitted to be officers, and there were many disputes over pay. In 1917 the Women's Royal Naval Service (WRNS) was formed, although then disbanded in 1919 It provided catering and administrative support, communications and electrician personnel.\n\nPrior to World War II, in 1938 the Auxiliary Territorial Service (ATS) was created, with 20,000 women serving in non-combat roles during the conflict as well as serving as military police. Some women took part in direct combat roles as part of mixed gender teams manning heavy anti-aircraft batteries and gun crews within Britain. Women members of the teams might sight and aim anti-aircraft guns and even give the command to fire, but the actual release of the trigger was always (officially at least) reserved for a male soldier. A number of women operated on active service in wartime Europe with special services, engaged in intelligence, sabotage and laison with local resistance groups. During the war, the First Aid Nursing Yeomanry was incorporated into the ATS. The WRNS was reformed at the outbreak of war in 1939, with an increased range of shore-based opportunities available.\n\nIn 1949 women were officially recognized as a permanent part of British Armed forces, although full combat roles were still available only to men. In this year, the Women's Royal Army Corps was created to replace the WAAC, and in 1950 the ranks were normalised with the ranks of men serving in the British Army.\n\nThe 1991 Gulf War marked the first deployment of British women in combat operations since 1945. Women were engaged in a broad range of support operations up to 8 km from the front line. In 1992 British Army units devoted only to women were disbanded, and women were distributed amongst the same units in which men served. During the 1990s an increasing number of roles were opened up to women including direct combat support roles in intelligence, artillery, engineering and signals. In 1991 seagoing opportunities were opened to WRNS personnel leading to the full integration of the WRNS with the Royal Navy in 1993. To date several female personnel have commanded small ships of the RN and a recently retired Commanding Officer of HM Naval Base, Clyde, Commodore Carolyn Stait, is a former WRNS Officer.\n\nThe seizure of Royal Navy sailor Faye Turney in 2007 by the naval forces of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard led to some media comment on the role of women and mothers in the armed forces.\n\nThe commander-in-chief of the British Armed Forces is a woman (Queen Elizabeth II) though her position is only nominal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57229568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57229568", "title": "Zutiste", "text": "Zutiste\n\nThe Zutistes or the Circle of Poets Zutiques was an informal group of French poets, painters and musicians who met at the Hôtel des Étrangers, at the corner of rue Racine and rue de l'École-de -Medicine, in Paris from September to October 1871.\n\nThe Zutistes were a fringe spin-off from a splinter group of Parnassians, known as the \"Nasty Fellows\" or \"Villains Bonshommes\", who formed a Parisian dining club at the close of the 1860s. Without having a formal manifesto, and taking their name from the French exclamation of baffled exasperation, \"Zut\", this informal gathering of artists known as the Zutistes gathered around the figure of the pianist Ernest Cabaner, who worked as a bartender/piano player at the hotel. Anarchic in spirit, they looked back regretfully to the atmosphere of the recently overthrown Paris Commune.\n\nA significant figure in the circle was Charles Cros, while other members were later better known, like Verlaine and Rimbaud.\n\nThe most significant trace of the movement came with the re-discovery in the Thirties of the Zutique Album, with some 101 literary entries accompanied by (sometimes pornographic) drawings.\n\nShot through with black humour, and riddled with parody and pastiche of contemporary styles and attitudes, the album is the best guide to the Circle's membership of some fourteen names.\n\nA central target of the Album's mockery was the recently successful Parnassian Francois Coppee, while other more established figures like José-Maria de Heredia and Leconte de Lisle were also in the line of fire.\n\nThis album is in the form of an in-quarto Italian, black hardback cover, about thirty sheets handwritten, the other pages remained blank.\n\nNostalgia for the circle persisted among its members long after its break-up, perhaps as early as the winter of 1871–1872: thus for example the young Zutiste Raoul Ponchon was one of only seven recipients of Rimbaud's \"A Season in Hell\"; Charles Cros in 1883 used \"zutique\" to name a new poetry circle; while (perhaps coincidentally) as late as in 1897 the claim would be made that \"man is by nature essentially 'zutique'\". \n\n"}
