{"id": "1653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653", "title": "Age of consent", "text": "Age of consent\n\nThe age of consent is the age below which a minor is considered to be legally incompetent to consent to sexual acts. Consequently, an adult who engages in sexual activity with a minor younger than the age of consent cannot claim that the sexual activity was consensual, and such sexual activity may be considered statutory rape. The person below the minimum age is regarded as the victim and their sex partner is regarded as the offender, unless both are underage. The purpose of setting an age of consent is to protect an underage person from sexual advances.\n\nThe term \"age of consent\" rarely appears in legal statutes. Generally, a law will instead establish the age below which it is illegal to engage in sexual activity with that person. It has sometimes been used with other meanings, such as the age at which a person becomes competent to consent to marriage, but the meaning given above is the one now generally understood. It should not be confused with other laws regarding age minimums including, but not limited to, the age of majority, age of criminal responsibility, voting age, drinking age, and driving age.\n\nAge of consent laws vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, though most jurisdictions set the age of consent in the range 14 to 18. The laws may also vary by the type of sexual act, the gender of the participants or other considerations, such as involving a position of trust; some jurisdictions may also make allowances for minors engaged in sexual acts with each other, rather than a single age. Charges and penalties resulting from a breach of these laws may range from a misdemeanor, such as \"corruption of a minor\", to what is popularly called \"statutory rape\".\n\nThere are many \"grey areas\" in this area of law, some regarding unspecific and untried legislation, others brought about by debates regarding changing societal attitudes, and others due to conflicts between federal and state laws. These factors all make age of consent an often confusing subject, and a topic of highly charged debates.\n\n\nIn traditional societies, the age of consent for a sexual union was a matter for the family to decide, or a tribal custom. In most cases, this coincided with signs of puberty, menstruation for a woman, and pubic hair for a man. The ancient Greek poet Hesiod in \"Works and Days\" (c. 700 BC) suggests that a man should marry around the age of thirty, and that he should take a wife who is five years past puberty.\n\nReliable data for ages at marriage is scarce. In England, for example, the only reliable data in the early modern period comes from property records made after death. Not only were the records relatively rare, but not all bothered to record the participants' ages, and it seems that the more complete the records are, the more likely they are to reveal young marriages. Modern historians have sometimes shown reluctance to accept evidence of young ages of marriage, dismissing it as a 'misreading' by a later copier of the records.\n\nIn the 12th century, Gratian, the influential founder of canon law in medieval Europe, accepted the age of puberty for marriage to be around twelve for girls and around fourteen for boys but acknowledged consent to be meaningful if both children were older than seven years of age. There were authorities that said that consent could take place earlier. Marriage would then be valid as long as neither of the two parties annulled the marital agreement before reaching puberty, or if they had already consummated the marriage. Judges sometimes honored marriages based on mutual consent at ages younger than seven: in contrast to established canon, there are recorded marriages of two- and three-year-olds.\n\nThe first \"recorded\" age-of-consent law dates from 1275 in England; as part of its provisions on rape, the Statute of Westminster 1275 made it a misdemeanor to \"ravish\" a \"maiden within age,\" whether with or without her consent. The phrase \"within age\" was later interpreted by jurist Sir Edward Coke (England, 17th century) as meaning the age of marriage, which at the time was twelve years of age.\n\nThe American colonies followed the English tradition, and the law was more of a guide. For example, Mary Hathaway (Virginia, 1689) was only nine when she was married to William Williams. Sir Edward Coke \"made it clear that the marriage of girls under 12 was normal, and the age at which a girl who was a wife was eligible for a dower from her husband's estate was 9 even though her husband be only four years old.\"\n\nIn the 16th century, a small number of Italian and German states set the minimum age for sexual intercourse for girls, setting it at twelve years. Towards the end of the 18th century, other European countries also began to enact similar laws. The first French Constitution of 1791 established the minimum age at eleven years. Portugal, Spain, Denmark and the Swiss cantons initially set the minimum age at ten to twelve years.\n\nAge of consent laws were, historically, difficult to follow and enforce: legal norms based on \"age\" were not, in general, common until the 19th century, because clear proof of exact age and precise date of birth were often unavailable.\n\nIn Christian societies, sex outside marriage was forbidden. Older children were themselves often punished for being complicit in sexual interaction with an adult. Western Christianity also deemed that children were born into the original sin, and, as such, were perceived as inherently immoral. Children had very few rights and were considered the chattel of the father. From the late 18th century, and especially in the 19th century, attitudes started to change. By the mid-19th century there was increased concern over child sexual abuse.\n\nA general shift in social and legal attitudes toward issues of sex occurred during the modern era. Attitudes on the appropriate age of permission for females to engage in sexual activity drifted toward adulthood. While ages from ten to thirteen years were typically regarded as acceptable ages for sexual consent in Western countries during the mid-19th century, by the end of the 19th century changing attitudes towards sexuality and childhood resulted in the raising of the age of consent.\n\nEnglish common law had traditionally set the age of consent within the range of ten to twelve years old, but the Offences Against the Person Act 1875 raised this to thirteen in Great Britain and Ireland. Early feminists of the Social Purity movement, such as Josephine Butler and others, instrumental in securing the repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts, began to turn towards the problem of child prostitution by the end of the 1870s. Sensational media revelations about the scourge of child prostitution in London in the 1880s then caused outrage among the respectable middle-classes, leading to pressure for the age of consent to be raised again.\n\nThe investigative journalist William Thomas Stead of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" was pivotal in exposing the problem of child prostitution in the London underworld through a publicity stunt. In 1885 he \"purchased\" one victim, Eliza Armstrong, the thirteen-year-old daughter of a chimney sweep, for five pounds and took her to a brothel where she was drugged. He then published a series of four exposés entitled \"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\", which shocked its readers with tales of child prostitution and the abduction, procurement, and sale of young English virgins to Continental \"pleasure palaces\". The \"Maiden Tribute\" was an instant sensation with the reading public, and Victorian society was thrown into an uproar about prostitution. Fearing riots on a national scale, the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt, pleaded in vain with Stead to cease publication of the articles. A wide variety of reform groups held protest meetings and marched together to Hyde Park demanding that the age of consent be raised. The government was forced to propose the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, which raised the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen and clamped down on prostitution.\n\nIn the United States, as late as the 1880s most states set the minimum age at ten to twelve (in Delaware, it was seven in 1895). Inspired by the \"Maiden Tribute\" articles, female reformers in the U.S. initiated their own campaign, which petitioned legislators to raise the legal minimum age to at least sixteen, with the ultimate goal to raise the age to eighteen. The campaign was successful, with almost all states raising the minimum age to sixteen to eighteen years by 1920.\n\nIn France, Portugal, Denmark, the Swiss cantons and other countries, the minimum age was raised to between thirteen and sixteen years in the following decades. Though the original arguments for raising the age of consent were based on morality, since then the \"raison d'être\" of the laws has changed to child welfare and a so-called right to childhood or innocence.\n\nIn France, under the Napoleonic Code, the age of consent was set in 1832 at eleven, and was raised to thirteen in 1863. It was increased to fifteen in 1945.\n\nIn Spain, it was set in 1822 at \"puberty age\", and changed to twelve in 1870, which was kept until 1999, when it became 13; and in 2015 it was raised to 16.\n\nIn the 21st century, concerns about child sex tourism and commercial sexual exploitation of children gained international prominence, and have resulted in legislative changes in several jurisdictions, as well as in the adoption of several international instruments.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse (Lanzarote, 25 October 2007), and the European Union's \"Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council\" of 13 December 2011 on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography were adopted.\n\nThe Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography came into force in 2002.\n\nThe Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, which came into force in 2003, prohibits commercial sexual exploitation of children.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (which came into force in 2008) also deals with commercial sexual exploitation of children.\n\nSeveral Western countries have raised their ages of consent recently. These include Canada (in 2008—from 14 to 16); and in Europe, Iceland (in 2007—from 14 to 15), Lithuania (in 2010—from 14 to 16), Croatia (in 2013—from 14 to 15), and Spain (in 2015—from 13 to 16).\n\nThe International Criminal Court Statute does not provide a specific age of consent in its rape/sexual violence statute, but makes reference to sexual acts committed against persons \"incapable of giving genuine consent\"; and the explicative footnote states, \"It is understood that a person may be incapable of giving genuine consent if affected by natural, induced or \"age-related incapacity\".\" (see note 51)\n\nSexual relations with a person under the age of consent is a crime in most countries, exceptions to this include, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia. Jurisdictions use a variety of terms for the offense, including \"child sexual abuse\", \"statutory rape\", \"illegal carnal knowledge\", \"corruption of a minor\", besides others.\n\nThe enforcement practices of age-of-consent laws vary depending on the social sensibilities of the particular culture (see above). Often, enforcement is not exercised to the letter of the law, with legal action being taken only when a sufficiently socially-unacceptable age gap exists between the two individuals, or if the perpetrator is in a position of power over the minor (e.g. a teacher, minister, or doctor). The sex of each participant can also influence perceptions of an individual's guilt and therefore enforcement.\n\nThe threshold age for engaging in sexual activity varies between jurisdictions (see above). Most jurisdictions have set a fixed age of consent. However, some jurisdictions permit sex with a person after the onset of their puberty, such as Yemen, but only in marriage. Ages can also vary based on the type of calendar used, such as the Lunar calendar, how birth dates in leap years are handled, or even the method by which birth date is calculated.\n\nThe age of consent is a legal barrier to the minor's ability to consent and therefore obtaining consent is not in general a defense to having sexual relations with a person under the prescribed age, for example:\n\n\nA growing number of countries have specific extraterritorial legislation that prosecutes their citizens in their homeland should they engage in illicit sexual conduct in a foreign country with children. In 2008, ECPAT reported that 44 countries had extraterritorial child sex legislation. For example, PROTECT Act of 2003, a federal United States law bans sexual activity by its citizens with foreigners or with U.S. citizens from another state, if the partner is under 18 and the activity is illegal under the federal, state, or local law. This applies in cases where any of the partners travels into or out of the United States, or from one state into another, for the purpose of an illegal sexual encounter.\n\nThere is debate as to whether the gender of those involved should lead to different treatment of the sexual encounter, in law or in practice. Traditionally, age of consent laws regarding vaginal intercourse were often meant to protect the chastity of unmarried girls. Many feminists and social campaigners in the 1970s have objected to the social importance of virginity, and have also attempted to change the stereotypes of female passivity and male aggression; demanding that the law protect children from exploitation regardless of their gender, rather than dealing with concerns of chastity. This has led to gender-neutral laws in many jurisdictions. On the other hand, there is an opposing view which argues that the act of vaginal intercourse is an \"unequal act\" for males and females, due to issues such as pregnancy, increased risk of STDs, and risk of physical injury if the girl is too young and not physically ready. In the US, in \"Michael M. v. Superior Ct.450 U.S. 464 (1981)\" it was ruled that the double standard of offering more legal protection to girls is valid because \"the Equal Protection Clause does not mean that the physiological differences between men and women must be disregarded\".\n\nTraditionally, many age of consent laws dealt primarily with men engaging in sexual acts with underage girls and boys (the latter acts often falling under sodomy and buggery laws). This means that in some legal systems, issues of women having sexual contact with underage partners were rarely acknowledged. For example, until 2000, in the UK, before the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000, there was no statutory age of consent for lesbian sex. In New Zealand, before 2005, there were no age of consent laws dealing with women having sex with underage boys. Previously, in Fiji, male offenders of child sexual abuse could receive up to life imprisonment, whilst female offenders would receive up to seven years. Situations like these have been attributed to societal views on traditional gender roles, and to constructs of male sexuality and female sexuality; according to E Martellozzo, \"[V]iewing females as perpetrators of sexual abuse goes against every stereotype that society has of women: women as mothers and caregivers and not as people who abuse and harm\". Alissa Nutting argues that women are not acknowledged as perpetrators of sex crimes because society does not accept that women have an autonomous sexuality of their own.\n\nThe age at which a person can be legally married can differ from the age of consent. In jurisdictions where the marriageable age is lower than the age of consent, those laws usually override the age of consent laws in the case of a married couple where one or both partners are below the age of consent. Some jurisdictions prohibit all sex outside of marriage irrespective of age, as in the case of Yemen.\n\nIn many countries, there are specific laws dealing with child prostitution.\n\nIn some countries, states, or other jurisdictions, the age of consent may be lower than the age at which a person can appear in pornographic images and films. In many jurisdictions, the minimum age for participation and even viewing such material is 18. As such, in some jurisdictions, films and images showing individuals under the age of 18, but above the age of consent, that meet the legal definition of child pornography are prohibited despite the fact that the sexual acts depicted are legal to engage in otherwise under that jurisdiction's age of consent laws. In those cases, it is only the filming of the sex act that is the crime as the act itself would not be considered a sex crime. For example, in the United States under federal law it is a crime to film minors below 18 in sexual acts, even in states where the age of consent is below 18. In those states, charges such as child pornography can be used to prosecute someone having sex with a minor, who could not be otherwise be prosecuted for statutory rape, provided they filmed or photographed the act.\n\nJailbait images can be differentiated from child pornography, as they do not feature minors before the onset of puberty, nor do they contain nudity. The images are, however, usually sexualized, often featuring tween or young teen girls in bikinis, skirts, underwear or lingerie. Whether or not these images are legal is debated. When questioned regarding their legality legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin stated he thought it was not illegal, though legal expert Sunny Hostin was more skeptical, describing jailbait images as \"borderline\" child pornography which may be illegal.\n\nThe human immune system continues to develop after puberty. The age of exposure has an influence upon if the immune system can fend off infections in general, and this is also true in the case of some sexually transmitted diseases. For example, a risk factor for HPV strains causing genital warts is sexual debut at a young age; if this extends to the cancer causing strains, then sexual debut at a young age would potentially also increase risk of persistence of HPV infections that cause the very HPV induced cancers that are being diagnosed in spiking numbers of relatively young people.\n\nAge-of-consent reform refers to the efforts of some individuals or groups, for different reasons, to alter or abolish age-of-consent laws. These efforts advocate five main positions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14654027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14654027", "title": "Apple Chill", "text": "Apple Chill\n\nApple Chill is a festival in North Carolina. The event takes place in late April. Food vendors, crafters and a kids zone attract more 10,000 people to the host city. The festival began in 1972 in Chapel Hill, where the name is a Spoonerism. It ran for over 30 years until 2006 when shootings forced the town to formally disband it. The nickname \"After Chill\" was used to describe the drinking and cruising that continued late into the night after the festival was over.\n\nFrom 2007 until 2010 the festival was held at the Roxboro Motorsports Dragway in Roxboro. Since 2011 the festival is held at the Fayetteville Motor Sports Park in Fayetteville, North Carolina. In 2015, the Apple Chill is being held at Roxboro Motorsports and the event is held the first Sunday in May each year. The Apple Chill was held in 2016 at Fayetteville Motorsports parkway on Sunday, May 8th. It was originally scheduled for the first Sunday in May but was rescheduled due to the anticipation of rain on Sunday, May 1st.\n\nThe main event features drag racing as well as a parade of brightly colored motorcycles and cars. Many Jazz and R&B acts conclude the event.\n"}
{"id": "310234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310234", "title": "Battery (crime)", "text": "Battery (crime)\n\nBattery is a criminal offense involving the unlawful physical acting upon a threat, distinct from assault which is the act of creating apprehension of such contact.\n\nBattery is a specific common law misdemeanor, although the term is used more generally to refer to any unlawful offensive physical contact with another person, and may be a misdemeanor or a felony, depending on the circumstances. Battery was defined at common law as \"any unlawful and or unwanted touching of the person of another by the aggressor, or by a substance put in motion by him.\" In most cases, battery is now governed by statutes, and its severity is determined by the law of the specific jurisdiction.\n\nSpecific rules regarding battery vary among different jurisdictions, but some elements remain constant across jurisdictions. Battery generally requires that:\n\n\nUnder the US Model Penal Code and in some jurisdictions, there is battery when the actor acts recklessly without specific intent of causing an offensive contact. Battery is typically classified as either simple or aggravated. Although battery typically occurs in the context of physical altercations, it may also occur under other circumstances, such as in medical cases where a doctor performs a non-consented medical procedure.\n\nBattery is not defined in the Canadian Criminal Code. Instead, the Code has an offense of assault, and assault causing bodily harm.\n\nBattery is a common law offence within England and Wales.\n\nAs with the majority of offences in the UK, it has two elements:\n\nThis offence is a crime against autonomy, with more violent crimes such as ABH and GBH being punishable under the Offences Against the Person Act 1861.\n\nAs such, even the slightest of touches can amount to an unlawful application of force. However, it is assumed that everyday encounters (such as making contact with others on public transportation) are consented to and not punishable.\n\nMuch confusion can come between the terms 'assault' and 'battery'. While in everyday use the term assault may be used to describe a physical attack, this is indeed a battery. An assault is causing someone to apprehend that you will commit a battery. This issue is so prevalent that the crime of sexual assault would be better labelled a sexual battery. This confusion stems from the fact that both assault and battery can be referred to as common assault.\n\nThere is no separate offence for a battery relating to domestic violence, however the introduction of the crime of \"controlling or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship\" in Section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015, has given rise to new sentencing guidelines that take into account significant aggravating factors such as abuse of trust, resulting in potentially longer sentences for acts of battery within the context of domestic violence.\n\nIn DPP v. Taylor, DPP v. Little, it was held that battery is a statutory offence, contrary to section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988. This decision was criticised in Haystead v. DPP where the Divisional court expressed the \"obiter\" opinion that battery remains a common law offence.\n\nTherefore, whilst it may be a better view that battery and assault have statutory penalties, rather than being statutory offences, it is still the case that until review by a higher court, DPP v Little is the preferred authority.\n\nIn England and Wales, it is a usually tried as a summary offence under section 39 of The Criminal Justice Act 1988. However, where section 40 applies, it can be an additional charge on an indictment.\n\nIt is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale, or both.\n\nSee Crown Prosecution Service Sentencing Manual for case law on sentencing.\n\nThere is an offence which could be (loosely) described as battery in Russia. Article 116 of the Russian Criminal Code provides that battery or similar violent actions which cause pain are an offence.\n\nThere is no distinct offence of battery in Scotland. The offence of assault includes acts that could be described as battery.\n\nIn the United States, criminal battery, or simple battery, is the use of force against another, resulting in harmful or offensive contact, including sexual contact. At common law, simple battery is a misdemeanor. The prosecutor must prove all three elements beyond a reasonable doubt:\n\n\nThe common-law elements serve as a basic template, but individual jurisdictions may alter them, and they may vary slightly from state to state. \n\nUnder modern statutory schemes, battery is often divided into grades that determine the severity of punishment. For example:\n\nIn the state of Kansas battery is defined as follows:\n\nThe law on battery in Louisiana reads:\n\nIn some jurisdictions, battery has recently been constructed to include directing bodily secretions (i.e., spitting) at another person without their permission. Some of those jurisdictions automatically elevate such a battery to the charge of aggravated battery. In some jurisdictions, the charge of criminal battery also requires evidence of a mental state (\"mens rea\"). The terminology used to refer to a particular offense can also vary by jurisdiction. Some jurisdictions, such as New York, refer to what, under the common law, would be battery as assault, and then use another term for the crime that would have been assault, such as menacing.\n\nThe overt behavior of an assault might be Person A advancing upon Person B by chasing after them and swinging a fist toward their head. The overt behavior of battery might be A actually striking B.\n\nBattery requires (1) a volitional act that (2) results in a harmful or offensive contact with another person and (3) is committed for the purpose of causing a harmful or offensive contact or under circumstances that render such contact substantially certain to occur or with a reckless disregard as to whether such contact will result. Assault is an attempted battery or the act of intentionally placing a person in apprehension of a harmful or offensive contact with their person.\n\nIn some places, assault is the threat of violence against another while aggravated assault is the threat with the clear and present ability and willingness to carry it out. Likewise, battery is undesired touching of another, while aggravated battery is touching of another with or without a tool or weapon with attempt to harm or restrain.\n\n"}
{"id": "2960481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960481", "title": "Charles Henry Parkhurst", "text": "Charles Henry Parkhurst\n\nCharles Henry Parkhurst (April 17, 1842 – September 8, 1933) was an American clergyman and social reformer, born in Framingham, Massachusetts. Although scholarly and reserved, he preached two sermons in 1892 in which he attacked the political corruption of New York City government. Backed by the evidence he collected, his statements led to both the exposure of Tammany Hall and to subsequent social and political reforms.\n\nHe was born on a farm on April 17, 1842 in Framingham, Massachusetts. Parkhurst did not attend a formal school until he was twelve. Despite this, he showed a strong interest in education and graduated from Amherst in 1866. He became principal of the high school in Amherst in 1867. He married Ellen Bodman on November 23, 1870, she being one of his former students. Parkhurst studied theology at Halle in 1869, and became a professor at the Williston Seminary in Easthampton, Massachusetts, in 1870–1871.\n\nAfter further studies in Leipzig in 1872–1873, he was ordained as a Presbyterian minister. He was pastor of a congregational church at Lenox, Massachusetts, from 1874 until 1880, when he was called to the Madison Square Presbyterian Church, New York City, where he served from 1880 to 1918.\n\nInterested in municipal affairs, Parkhurst was elected president of the New York Society for the Prevention of Crime in 1891, and he challenged the methods of the city police department. He inaugurated a campaign against the political and social corruption of Tammany Hall. The hall had begun innocently as a social club, but had drifted into politics and graft. It acquired a lock on elections in the city, and its bosses protected crime and vice in Manhattan and surrounding boroughs. Grand jury investigations were ineffective, despite the appeals of social reformers. Few in Parkhurst's congregation recognized that Tammany Hall, the police, and organized crime were interconnected.\n\nOn February 14, 1892, he challenged Tammany Hall from the pulpit. Pointing to the hall's political influence and their connection with the police, he noted that men fed upon the city while pretending to protect it saying,\n\nWhen the municipal grand jury asked him for hard evidence, Parkhurst personally hired a private detective and, with his friend John Erving, went to the streets in disguise to collect proof of the corruption. From the pulpit on March 13, 1892, he preached a sermon backed with documentation and affidavits. Parkhurst's campaign led to the appointment of the Lexow Committee to investigate conditions, and to the election of a reform mayor in 1894. Although Tammany Hall did publicly clean house, it remained influential on both the political front and in organized crime until the 1950s.\n\nParkhurst was opposed to women voting. He wrote:\n\nThat quality of feminine blatancy which is being at present so extensively advertised here and in England, that disposition toward self-exploitation indulged in by short-haired women and encouraged by long-haired men, is of a sort to chill and then freeze over those masculine impulses that seek restful and satisfying companionship in a member of the opposite sex.\n\nHis first wife, Ellen Bodman, died on May 28, 1921. He married Eleanor Marx on April 18, 1927, in Los Angeles.\n\nParkhurst died on September 8, 1933, by sleepwalking and walking off the porch roof in his Ventnor City, New Jersey, home.\n\nParkhurst was published in a number of magazines, and was the author of: \n\n"}
{"id": "9954363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9954363", "title": "Communal violence", "text": "Communal violence\n\nCommunal violence is a form of violence that is perpetrated across ethnic or communal lines, the violent parties feel solidarity for their respective groups, and victims are chosen based upon group membership. The term includes conflicts, riots and other forms of violence between communities of different religious faith or ethnic origins.\n\nUnited Nations Office on Drugs and Crime includes any conflict and form of violence between communities of different religious group, different sects or tribes of same religious group, clans, ethnic origins or national origin as communal violence. However, this excludes conflict between two individuals or two families.\n\nCommunal violence is found in Africa, the Americas, Asia, Europe and Australia.\n\nThe term was constructed by the British colonial authorities as it wrestled to manage violence between religious, ethnic and disparate groups in its colonies, particularly Africa and South Asia, in early 20th century.\n\nCommunal violence, in different parts of the world, is alternatively referred to as ethnic violence, non-State conflict, violent civil unrest, minorities unrest, mass racial violence, inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\nHuman history has experienced numerous episodes of communal violence. For example, in medieval Europe, Protestants clashed with Catholics, Christians clashed with Muslims while both perpetuated violence against Jews and Roma minorities. In 1561, Huguenots in Toulouse took out in a procession through the streets to express their solidarity for Protestant ideas. A few days later, the Catholics hunted down some of the leaders of the procession, beat them and burned them at the stake. In the French town of Pamiers, communal clashes were routine between Protestants and Catholics, such as during holy celebrations where the Catholics took out a procession with a statue of St. Anthony, sang and danced while they carried the statue around town. Local Protestants would year after year disrupt the festivities by throwing stones at the Catholics. In 1566, when the Catholic procession reached a Protestant neighborhood, the Protestants chanted \"kill, kill, kill !!\" and days of communal violence with numerous fatalities followed. In 1572, thousands of Protestants were killed by Catholics during communal violence in each of the following cities – Paris, Aix, Bordeaux, Bourges, Lyon, Meaux, Orleans, Rouen, Toulouse, and Troyes. In Switzerland, communal violence between the Reformation movement and Catholics marked the 16th century.\n\nThe Horn of Africa as well as West African regions have similar history of communal violence. Nigeria has seen centuries of communal violence between different ethnic groups particularly between Christian south and Islamic north. In 1964, after receiving independence from the British colonial rule, there were widespread communal violence in the ethnically diverse state of Zanzibar. The violent groups were Arabs and Africans, that expanded along religious lines, and the communal violence ultimately led to the overthrow of the Sultan of Zanzibar. Local radio announced the death of tens of thousands of \"stooges\", but later estimates for deaths from Zanzibar communal violence have varied from hundreds to 2,000-4,000 to as many as 20,000. In late 1960s and early 1970s, there were widespread communal violence against Kenyans and Asians in Uganda with waves of theft, physical and sexual violence, followed by expulsions by Idi Amin. Idi Amin mentioned his religion as justification for his actions and the violence. Coptic Christians have suffered communal violence in Egypt for decades, with frequency and magnitude increasing since 1920s.\n\n\nEast, South and Southeast Asia have recorded numerous instances of communal violence. For example, Singapore suffered a wave of communal violence in 20th century between Malays and Chinese. In Indian subcontinent, numerous 18th through 20th century records of the British colonial era mention communal violence between Hindus and Muslims, as well as Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, particularly during processions related to respective religious celebrations.\n\nThe frequency of communal violence in South Asia increased after the first partition of Bengal in 1905, where segregation, unequal political and economic rights were imposed on Hindus and Muslims by Lord Curzon, based on religion. The colonial rule was viewed by each side as favoring the other side, resulting in a wave of communal riots and 1911 reversal of Bengal partition and its re-unification. In 1919, after British General Dyer ordered his soldiers to fire on unarmed protestors inside a compound in Amritsar, killing 380 civilians, communal violence followed in India against British settlements. There were hundreds of incidents of communal violence between 1905 and 1947, many related to religious, political sovereignty questions including partition of India along religious lines into East Pakistan, West Pakistan and India. The 1946 to 1947 period saw some of the worst communal violence of 20th century, where waves of riots and violence killed between 100,000 and a million people, from Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Jain religions, particularly in cities and towns near the modern borders of India-Pakistan and India-Bangladesh. Examples of these communal violence include the so-called Direct Action Day, Noakhali riots and the Partition riots in Rawalpindi.\n\nThe 20th century witnessed inter-religious, intra-religious and ethnic communal violence in the Middle East, South Russia, Eastern Europe, Central Asia, South Asia and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe Indian law defines communal violence as, \"any act or series of acts, whether spontaneous or planned, resulting in injury or harm to the person and or property, knowingly directed against any person by virtue of his or her membership of any religious or linguistic minority, in any State in the Union of India, or Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes within the meaning of clauses (24) and (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution of India\".\n\nIn Indonesia, communal violence is defined as that is driven by a sense of religious, ethnic or tribal solidarity. The equivalence of tribalism to ethnicity was referred locally as \"kesukuan\". Communal violence in Indonesia includes numerous localized conflicts between various social groups found on its islands.\n\nIn Kenya, communal violence is defined as that violence that occurs between different community who identify themselves based on religion, tribes, language, sect, race and others. Typically this sense of community identity comes from birth and is inherited. Similar definition has been applied for 47 African countries, where during 1990–2010, about 7,200 instances of communal violence and inter-ethnic conflicts has been seen.\n\nColm Campbell has proposed, after studying the empirical data and sequence of events during communal violence in South Africa, Palestinian Territories and Northern Ireland, that communal violence typically follows when there is degradation of rule of law, the state fails to or is widely seen as unable to provide order, security and equal justice, which then leads to mass mobilization, followed by radicalization of anger among one or more communities, and ultimately violent mobilization. Targeted mass violence by a few from one community against innocent members of other community, suppression of complaints, refusal to prosecute, killing peaceful demonstrators, imprisonment of people of a single community while refusal to arrest members of other community in conflict, perceived or actual prisoner abuse by the state are often the greatest mobilizers of communal violence.\n\nResearch suggests that ethnic segregation may also cause communal violence. Empirically estimating the effect of segregation on the incidence of violence across 700 localities in Rift Valley Province of Kenya after the contested 2007–2008 general election, Kimuli Kahara finds that local ethnic segregation increases communal violence by decreasing interethnic trust rather than by making it easier to organize violence. Even if a small minority of individuals prefer to live in ethnically homogenous settings due to fear of other ethnic groups or otherwise, it can result in high degrees of ethnic segregation. Kahara argues that such ethnic segregation decreases the possibility of positive contact across ethnic lines. Integration and the resultant positive interethnic contact reduces prejudice by allowing individuals to correct false beliefs about members of other ethnic groups, improving intergroup relations consequently. Thus, segregation is correlated with low levels of interethnic trust. This widespread mistrust along ethnic lines explains the severity of communal violence by implying that when underlying mistrust is high, it is easier for extremists and elites to mobilize support for violence, and that where violence against members of other ethnic groups is supported by the public, perpetrators of such violence are less likely to face social sanctions.\n\nIn China, the communal violence in Xinjiang province is called ethnic violence. Communal violence and riots have also been called non-State conflict, violent civil or minorities unrest, mass racial violence, social or inter-communal violence and ethno-religious violence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7428842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7428842", "title": "Content format", "text": "Content format\n\nA content format is an encoded format for converting a specific type of data to displayable information. Content formats are used in recording and transmission to prepare data for observation or interpretation. This includes both analog and digitized content. Content formats may be recorded and read by either natural or manufactured tools and mechanisms.\n\nIn addition to converting data to information, a content format may include the encryption and/or scrambling of that information. Multiple content formats may be contained within a single section of a storage medium (e.g. track, disk sector, computer file, document, page, column) or transmitted via a single channel (e.g. wire, carrier wave) of a transmission medium. With multimedia, multiple tracks containing multiple content formats are presented simultaneously. Content formats may either be recorded in secondary signal processing methods such as a software container format (e.g. digital audio, digital video) or recorded in the primary format (e.g. spectrogram, pictogram). \n\nObservable data is often known as raw data, or raw content. A primary raw content format may be directly observable (e.g. image, sound, motion, smell, sensation) or physical data which only requires hardware to display it, such as a phonographic needle and diaphragm or a projector lamp and magnifying glass.\n\nThere has been a countless number of content formats throughout history. The following are examples of some common content formats and content format categories (covering: sensory experience, model, and language used for encoding information):\n"}
{"id": "47126428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47126428", "title": "Edward Vivian Birchall", "text": "Edward Vivian Birchall\n\nEdward Vivian Dearman Birchall (10 August 1884 – 10 August 1916), was an English philanthropist who died of wounds at the Battle of the Somme. He left a legacy of £1000 for the promotion of voluntary services. The money was used to help create, in 1919, the National Council of Social Services. It later became the National Council for Voluntary Organisations, an umbrella body for charities in England.\n\nHe was born on 10 August 1884 at Bowden Hall, Upton St Leonards, Gloucestershire, the son of Dearman and Emily Jowitt Birchall.\n\nBirchall was a captain in the 1/1st Buckinghamshire Battalion. He died on 10 August 1916 and is buried in France, at Étaples Military Cemetery near Boulogne.\n"}
{"id": "30469468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30469468", "title": "Ethnic history", "text": "Ethnic history\n\nEthnic history is a branch of social history that studies ethnic groups and immigrants. Barman (2007) argues that the field allows historians to use alternate models of interpretation, unite qualitative and quantitative data, apply sociological models to historical patterns, examine more deeply macro-level policies and decisions, and, especially, empathize with the ethnic groups under study.\n\nEthnic history is especially important in the U.S. and Canada. Oscar Handlin (b. 1915), the director of scores of PhD dissertations at Harvard University was an important pioneer and sponsor of ethnic historiography. Handlin's Pulitzer-prize-winning interpretation, \"The Uprooted\" (1951) was highly influential.\n\nMajor encyclopedias have helped define the field; Handler sponsored one published by Harvard University Press in 1980 that received wide media attention because it tied in with an American interest in their roots. \n\nPerin (1983) looks at the historiography of Canadian ethnic history and finds two alternative methodologies. One is more static and emphasizes how closely immigrant cultures replicate the Old World. This approach tends to be filiopietistic. The alternative approach has been influenced by the recent historiography on labor, urban, and family history. It sees the immigrant community as an essentially North American phenomenon and integrates it into the mainstream of Canadian culture.\n\nMcDonald (2007) identifies five main areas of interest for scholarship on U.S. ethnic history: the origins and meaning of ethnicity, particularly the issue of whether it is inherited or invented; the origins of ethnic diversity (such as conquest, immigration, involuntary migration); models of ethnic adaptation (especially the Melting Pot, mosaic, salad bowl and kaleidoscope metaphors); ethnic incorporation into the social, economic, and political fabric of the receiving country; and minority group survival strategies, including responses to competing forms of allegiance like class and gender.\n\nMuch research is done by reading the letters immigrants wrote to relatives back home, often comparing the advantages and disadvantages of their new lives.\n\nA significant trend has been to integrate ethnic history with other new historiographical tendencies, such as Atlantic history, labor history or women's history.\n\nThe Immigration and Ethnic History Society was formed in 1965 and publishes a journal for libraries and its 829 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10947484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10947484", "title": "Female slavery in the United States", "text": "Female slavery in the United States\n\nThe institution of slavery in North America existed from the earliest years of the colonial period until 1865 when the Thirteenth Amendment permanently abolished slavery throughout the entire United States. It was also abolished among the sovereign Indian tribes in Indian Territory by new peace treaties which the US required after the war.\n\nFor most of the seventeenth and part of the eighteenth centuries, male slaves outnumbered female slaves, making the two groups' experiences in the colonies distinct. Living and working in a wide range of circumstances and regions, African-American women and men encountered diverse experiences of enslavement. With increasing numbers of imported African women, as well as those born into slavery in the colonies, slave sex ratios leveled out between 1730 and 1750. \"The uniqueness of the African-American female's situation is that she stands at the crossroads of two of the most well-developed ideologies in America, that regarding women and that regarding the Negro.\" Living both female and black identities, enslaved African women faced both racism and sexism.\n\nFrom 1700 to 1740 an estimated number of 43,000 slaves were imported into Virginia, and almost all but 4,000 were imported directly from Africa. Recent scholarship suggests that the number of women and men imported in this period was more or less equal and included a high number of children. As most were from West Africa, its cultures were central in mid- to late- eighteenth-century slave life in Virginia. African values were prevalent and West African women's cultures had strong representations. Some prevalent cultural representations were the deep and powerful bonds between mother and child, and among women within the larger female community. Among the Igbo ethnic group in particular (from present-day Nigeria), which comprised between one-third and one-half of incoming slaves in the early eighteenth century, female authority (the omu) \"ruled on a wide variety of issues of important to women in particular and the community as a whole.\" The Igbo represented one group of people brought to the Chesapeake, but in general, Africans came from an extremely diverse range of cultural backgrounds. All came from worlds where women's communities were strong, and were introduced into a patriarchal and violently racist and exploitative society; white men typically characterized all black women as passionately sexual, to justify their sexual abuse and miscegenation.\n\nVirginia girls, much less black girls, were not educated, and most were illiterate. African and African American female slaves occupied a broad range of positions. The southern colonies were majorly agrarian societies and enslaved women provided labor in the fields, planting and doing chores, but mostly in the domestic sphere, nursing, taking care of children, cooking, laundering, etc.\n\nHistorian Ira Berlin distinguished between \"slave societies\" and \"societies with slaves.\" New England was considered to be a society with slaves, dependent on maritime trade and diversified agriculture, in contrast to the slave societies of the south, which were \"socially, economically, and politically dependent on slave labor, had a large enslaved population, and allowed masters extensive power over their slaves unchecked by the law.\" New England had a small slave population and masters thought of themselves as patriarchs with the duty to protect, guide, and care for their slaves. Enslaved women in New England had greater opportunity to seek freedom than in other regions because of \"the New England legal system, the frequency of manumission by owners, and chances for hiring out, especially among enslaved men, who seized the opportunity to earn enough money to purchase a wife and children.\"\n\nEnslaved women largely occupied traditional \"women's work\" roles and were often hired out by the day. They worked mainly as maids, in the kitchen, the barn, and the garden. They did menial and servile tasks: polished family silver or furniture, helped with clothes and hair, drew baths, barbered the men, and completed menial domestic chores like sweeping, emptying chamber pots, carrying gallons of water a day, washing the dishes, brewing, looking after young children and the elderly, cooking and baking, milking the cows, feeding the chickens, spinning, knitting, carding, sewing, and laundering. Their daily work was less demanding than the field labor of enslaved women in other regions. Nonetheless enslaved women in New England worked hard, often under poor living conditions and malnutrition. \"As a result of heavy work, poor housing conditions, and inadequate diet, the average black woman did not live past forty.\"\n\nEnslaved women were given to white women as gifts from their husbands, and as wedding and Christmas gifts. The idea that New England masters treated their slaves with greater kindness in comparison to southern slave-owners is a myth. They had little mobility freedom and lacked access to education and any training. \"The record of slaves who were branded by their owners, had their ears nailed, fled, committed suicide, suffered the dissolution of their families, or were sold secretly to new owners in Barbados in the last days of the Revolutionary War before they become worthless seems sufficient to refute the myth of kindly masters. They lashed out at their slaves when they were angry, filled with rage, or had convenient access to horsewhip.\" Female slaves were sometimes forced by their masters into sexual relationships with enslaved men for the purpose of forced breeding. It was also not uncommon for enslaved women to be raped and in some cases impregnated by their masters.\n\nNo matter where they lived, slaves endured hard and demeaning lives, but labor in the southern colonies was most severe. The southern colonies were slave societies; they were \"socially, economically, and politically dependent on slave labor, had a large enslaved population, and allowed masters extensive power over their slaves unchecked by the law.\" Plantations were the economic power structure of the South, and male and female slave labor was its foundation. Early on, slaves in the South worked primarily in agriculture, on farms and plantations growing indigo, rice, and tobacco; cotton became a major crop after the 1790s. Female slaves worked in a wide variety of capacities. They were expected to do field work as well as have children, and in this way increase the slave population. In the years before the American Revolution, the female slave population grew mainly as a result of natural increase and not importation. \"Once slaveholders realized that the reproductive function of the female slave could yield a profit, the manipulation of procreative sexual relations became an integral part of the sexual exploitation of female slaves.\" Many slave women raised their children without much assistance from males. Enslaved women were counted on not only to do their house and field work, but also to bear, nourish, and rear the children whom slaveholders sought to continually replenish their labor force. As houseslaves, women were domestic servants: cooking, sewing, acting as maids, and rearing the planter's children. Later on they were used in many factories, instrumental in the development of the United States, where they were kept at lower maintenance costs.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War (1775–83) enslaved women served on both sides, the Loyalist army as well as the Patriots', as nurses, laundresses, and cooks. But as historian Carol Berkin writes, \"African American loyalties were to their own future, not to Congress or to king.\" Enslaved women could be found in army camps and as camp followers. They worked building roads, constructing fortifications, and laundering uniforms, \"but they remained slaves rather than refugees. Masters usually hired these women out to the military, sometimes hiring out their children as well.\" Enslaved women could also be found working in the shops, homes, fields, and plantations of every American colony. It is estimated that by 1770, there were more than 47,000 enslaved blacks in the northern colonies, almost 20,000 of them in New York. More than 320,000 slaves worked in the Chesapeake colonies, making 37 percent of the population of the region African or African American. Over 187,000 of these slaves were in Virginia. In the Lower South there were more than 92,000 slaves. South Carolina alone had over 75,000 slaves, and by 1770 planters there were importing 4,000 Africans a year. In many counties in the Lower South, the slave population outnumbered the white.\n\nAlthough service in the military did not guarantee enslaved people their freedom, black men had the opportunity to escape slavery by enlisting in the army. During the disruption of war, both men and women ran away. Men were more likely to escape, as pregnant women, mothers, and women who nursed their elderly parents or friends seldom abandoned those who depended on them. So many slaves deserted their plantations in South Carolina, that there were not enough field hands to plant or harvest crops. As food grew scarce, the blacks who remained behind suffered from starvation or enemy attack. The British issued certificates of manumission to more than 914 women as reward for serving in the Loyalist army. But many women who had won their freedom lost it again \"through violence and trickery and the venality of men entrusted with their care.\" Others who managed to secure their freedom faced racial prejudice, discrimination, and poverty. When loyalist plantations were captured, enslaved women were often taken and sold for the soldiers' profit. The British did keep promises to black slaves, evacuating them along with troops in the closing days of the war, and resettling more than 3,000 Black Loyalists in Nova Scotia, and others in the Caribbean, and England. In 1792 it established Freetown, in what is now Sierra Leone, as a colony for Poor Blacks from London, as well as Black Loyalists from Canada who wanted to relocate.\n\nOne of the most well-known voices for freedom around the Revolutionary era was Phillis Wheatley of Massachusetts. She was a slave for most of her life but was given freedom by her master. Educated in Latin, Greek, and English, Wheatley wrote a collection of poems which asserted that Africans, as children of God just like Europeans, deserved respect and freedom.\n\nIn 1777, Vermont drafted a state constitution that prohibited the institution of slavery. In 1780 Massachusetts a state judge declared slavery to be unconstitutional according to the state's new bill of rights, which declared \"all men...free and equal.\" Slavery effectively ended in Massachusetts with this ruling in a freedom suit by Quock Walker. This led to an increase of enslaved men and women suing for their freedom in New England. Also in 1780 in Pennsylvania, the legislature enacted \"a gradual emancipation law that directly connected the ideals of the Revolution with the rights of the African Americans to freedom.\" In the South, the immediate legacy of the Revolution was increased manumission by slaveholders in the first two decades after the war. But, the invention of the cotton gin enabled widespread cultivation of short-staple cotton, and with the opening up of southwestern lands to cotton and sugar production, demand for slaves increased. Legislatures made emancipation difficult to gain, and they passed harsher laws regulating African-American lives.\n\nAs historian Deborah Gray White explains, \"Black in a white society, slave in a free society, woman in a society ruled by men, female slaves had the least formal power and were perhaps the most vulnerable group of Americans.\"\n\nThe mother-daughter relationship was often the most enduring and cherished within the African-American complex of relations. Relatively few women were runaways, and when they did run, they sometimes escaped with their children. Historian Martha Saxton writes about enslaved mothers' experiences in St. Louis in the antebellum period: \"In Marion County, north of St. Louis, a slave trader bought three small children from an owner, but the children's mother killed them all and herself rather than let them be taken away. A St. Louis trader took a crying baby from its mother, both on their way to be sold, and made a gift of it to a white woman standing nearby because its noise was bothering him.\" Another way these generational connections can be seen, is through song. Often songs about slavery and women's experiences during their enslavement were passed down through generations. African-American Women Work Songs are historical snapshots of lived experience and survival. Songs speak of families being torn apart and the emotional turmoil that enslaved women were put through by slavery. Songs add the legacy of oral tradition that fosters generational knowledge about historical periods. \nLittle girls as young as seven were frequently sold away from their mothers: \n\"Mary Bell was hired out by the year to take care of three children starting when she was seven. John Mullanphy noted that he had living with him a four-year-old mulatto girl, whom he willed to the Sisters of Charity in the event of his death. George Morton sold his daughter Ellen 'a certain Mulatto girl a slave about fourteen years of age named Sally, being the child of a certain Negro woman named Ann'.\" In 1854 Georgia was the first and only state to pass a law that put conditions of sales that separated mothers and their children. Children under five could not be sold away from their mothers, \"unless such division cannot in any wise be [e]ffected without such separation.'\"\nSlave girls in North America often worked within the domestic sphere, providing household help. White families sought the help of a \"girl\", an \"all-purpose tool\" in family life. Although the word \"girl\" applied to any working female without children, slaves were preferred because in the long run they cost less. These enslaved girls were usually very young, anywhere from nine years of age to their mid-teens. Heavy household work was assigned to the \"girl\" and was therefore stigmatized as \"negroes’\" work. A \"girl\" was an essential source of help to white families, rural and urban, middle class and aspiring. She provided freedom for daughters to devote themselves to their self-development and relieved mothers from exhausting labor, while requiring no financial or emotional maintenance, \"no empathy.\"\n\nIn antebellum America, as in the past (from the initial African-European contact in North America), black women were deemed to be governed by their libidos and portrayed as \"Jezebel character[s]...in every way the counterimage of the mid-nineteenth-century ideal of the Victorian lady.\"\n\nEnslaved women in every state of the antebellum union considered freedom, but it was a livelier hope in the North than in most of the South. Many slaves sought their freedom through self-purchase, the legal system of freedom suits, and as runaways, sometimes resulting in the separation of children and parents. \"Unfinished childhoods and brutal separations punctuated the lives of most African American girls, and mothers dreamed of freedom that would not impose more losses on their daughters.\"\n\nAfter the Revolution, Southern plantation owners imported a massive number of new slaves from Africa and the Caribbean until the United States banned the import of slaves in 1808. More importantly, more than one million slaves were transported in a forced migration in the domestic slave trade, from the Upper South to the Deep South, most by slave traders—either overland where they were held for days in chained coffles, or by the coastwise trade and ships. The majority of slaves in the Deep South, men and women, worked on cotton plantations. Cotton was the leading cash crop during this time, but slaves also worked on rice, corn, sugarcane, and tobacco plantations, clearing new land, digging ditches, cutting and hauling wood, slaughtering livestock, and making repairs to buildings and tools. Black women also cared for their children and managed the bulk of the housework and domestic chores. Living with the dual burdens of racism and sexism, enslaved women in the South held roles within the family and community that contrasted sharply with more traditional or upper class American women's roles.\n\nYoung girls generally started working well before boys, with many working before age seven. Although field work was traditionally considered to be \"men's work,\" different estimates conclude that between 63-80 percent of women worked in the fields. Adult female work depended greatly upon plantation size. On small farms, women and men performed similar tasks, while on larger plantations, males were given more physically demanding work. Few of the chores performed by enslaved women took them off the plantation. Therefore they were less mobile than enslaved men, who often assisted their masters in the transportation of crops, supplies, and other materials, and were often hired out as artisans and craftsmen. Women also worked in the domestic sphere as servants, cooks, seamstresses, and nurses. Although a female slave's labor in the field superseded childrearing in importance, the responsibilities of childbearing and childcare greatly circumscribed the life of an enslaved woman. This also explains why female slaves were less likely to run away than men.\n\nMany female slaves were the object of severe sexual exploitation; often bearing the children of their white masters, master's sons, or overseers. Black women were prohibited from defending themselves against any type of abuse, including sexual, at the hands of white men. If a slave attempted to defend herself, she was often subjected to further beatings by the master or even by the mistress.\nThe black female, woman or child, was forced into sexual relationships for the white slave master's pleasure and profit; attempting to keep the slave population growing by his own doing, and not by importing more slaves from Africa. Even Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, is believed to have fathered six mixed-race children (four survived to adulthood) with one of his female slaves, Sally Hemings, a woman of three-quarters European ancestry and half-sister to his late wife, who served as the widower's concubine for more than two decades. In the case of Harriet Ann Jacobs, author of \"Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,\" her master, Dr. James Norcom, had sexually harassed her for years. Even after she had two children of her own, he threatened to sell them if she denied his sexual advances.\n\nSlavery was abolished in the United States in 1865, with the ratification of the 13th Amendment. The decree offered enslaved men a path to freedom through military service. However it wasn't until the Act of 1861 where women found their freedom as they were no longer declared property of the Confederates in the south. In 1868, the 14th Amendment extended citizenship rights to African Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11104696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11104696", "title": "Figure and ground (media)", "text": "Figure and ground (media)\n\nFigure and ground is a concept drawn from Gestalt psychology by media theorist Marshall McLuhan in the early 1970s. This concept underpins the meaning of his famous phrase, \"The medium is the message\". The concept was an approach to what was called \"perceptual organization.\" He began to use the terms figure and ground as a way \"to describe the parts of a situation\" and \"to help explain his ideas about media and human communication.\" The concept was later employed to explain how a communications technology, the medium or \"figure\", necessarily operates through its context, or \"ground\".\n\nTo McLuhan, \"‘figure’ refers to something that jumps out at us, something that grabs our attention, [whereas] ‘ground’ refers to something that supports or contextualizes a situation and is usually an area of unattention.\" When we first experience a new image or sensation, there are certain aspects of the object that grab our attention and engage us and certain aspects that we unintentionally ignore. We should not focus on just the \"figure\" or the \"ground\" though, as McLuhan believed that both were equally as important to understanding the full meaning of the situation. \"This distinction between that which is perceived and that which is blocked out in order to focus perception is central for McLuhan.\"\n\nMcLuhan used different words to describe the figure/ground relationship, sometimes using content for figure and environment or, more often, medium for ground.\n\n\"McLuhan looked at media through a figure/ground relationship.\" To him, people tended to focus on only specific parts of the media, and disregard other parts. \"To examine the total effect of any medium, McLuhan pointed out that we need to look at both figure AND ground, and their relationship to one another.\" He believed that \"only focusing on the ‘content’ of the media was like looking at figures without examining their ground.\" \"The ground, or environment, is not a passive container, but active processes that influence the relationships between all of the elements in it.\"\n\nMcLuhan believed that to fully grasp the impact of a new technology in regard to figure (medium) and ground (context), one must understand that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. Neither piece is definitive without the other. His \"Understanding Media\" explores different grounds as they are structured by different media including print, radio, and television.\n\nAl Held, a well-known artist, exemplifies this idea in one of his paintings. The work is called The Big N and it \"provides us with an introduction to the concepts of figure and ground.\" Looking at a glance, you might draw your attention to the black triangles. \"Once you were given the name of the painting, however, the frame became linked to the figures, and an 'N' suddenly appeared.\" In understanding the work, it is important to look at the bigger picture. Al Held’s painting is well-known for its display of framing, or context, and its importance to the meaning of the overall situation. If either the frame or the painting itself were to change, the interpretation of the work might shift. Pertaining to media, we must look at both the figure and the ground to \"understand [its] effects.\" The ground which media creates gives a context for human communication, and thus \"directs human action in unique and important ways.\"\n\nMcLuhan argued that we must study media in their historical context, particularly in relation to those technologies that preceded them. The present environment, itself made up of the effects of previous technologies, gives rise to new technologies, which, in turn, further shapes societies and individuals.\n\nFurthermore, all technologies have embedded within them their own assumptions about time and space. Again, the message conveyed by the medium can only be understood if the medium is concurrently analyzed with the environment in which it is used — and which, simultaneously, it effectively creates. McLuhan believed that an examination of the figure-ground relationship can offer a critical commentary on culture and society.\n\nAlternately, the idea of \"figure\" can also refer to content of a particular medium, while \"ground\" refers to the medium itself. McLuhan's aphorism \"The medium is the message\" can thus be read as an attempt to draw attention away from a preoccupation with the figure/message to a consideration of the importance of the ground/medium.\n\nFigure-ground (perception)\n"}
{"id": "3509435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509435", "title": "Forward-looking statement", "text": "Forward-looking statement\n\nIn United States business law, a forward-looking statement or safe harbor statement is a statement that cannot sustain itself as merely a historical fact. A forward-looking statement predicts, projects, or uses future events as expectations or possibilities. These statements can often be misleading, as they can be mistaken for factual statements, while they are actually speculation. According to United States Code 15 Section 78u-5, a forward-looking statement may include future economic performance such as revenues or income, plans for future operations, or use of a report written by an outside reviewer.\n\nUnder U.S. law, section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, businesses must comply to standards of communication that limit risk factors. These acts were put into place partially to protect investors from ambiguous language, preventing them from making a poorly informed investment decision based on speculative statements.\n\nThe Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a \"safe harbor\" for certain forward-looking statements. Businesses usually include a form of a disclaimer that states that any instance of a forward-looking statement found in their material is only true at the time it was written, and they further claim that they are under no obligation to update such written statements if conditions change or that unexpected occurrences happen to affect the statement afterwards. Such forward-looking statements, however, must be identifiable by the use of certain prescribed words. This act allows companies to make speculative statements based on current market trends or research directions without fear of major repercussion, while ensuring that potential investors are informed of the speculative nature of the statements.\n\nSentences and phrases are forward-looking statements when they include any tense from present to future or similar inflection. Words like \"believe\", \"estimate\", \"anticipate\", \"plan\", \"predict\", \"may\", \"hope\", \"can\", \"will\", \"should\", \"expect\", \"intend\", \"is designed to\", \"with the intent\", \"potential\", the negative of these words or such other variations thereon or comparable terminology, may indicate forward-looking statements, but their absence does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking.\n\nBelow are some hypothetical examples of forward-looking statements:\n\nAn example of a safe harbour statement that is generally given during earnings release of a company (oracle - http://investor.oracle.com/files/events/2010/safe-harbor-080331.pdf):\n\nOur discussion may include predictions, estimates or other information that might be considered forward-looking. While these forward-looking statements represent our current judgment on what the future holds, they are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this presentation. Please keep in mind that we are not obligating ourselves to revise or publicly release the results of any revision to these forward-looking statements in light of new information or future events. Throughout today’s discussion, we will attempt to present some important factors relating to our business that may affect our predictions. You should also review our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q for a more complete discussion of these factors and other risks, particularly under the heading “Risk Factors.” A PDF copy of our press release and financial tables which include a GAAP to non-GAAP reconciliation can be viewed and downloaded on the Oracle Investor Relations website at\nOracle.com/investor.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22579001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22579001", "title": "Gender differences in social network service use", "text": "Gender differences in social network service use\n\nMen and women use social network services (SNSs) differently and with different frequencies. In general, several researchers have found that women tend to use SNSs more than men and for different and more social purposes.\n\nTechnologies, including communications technologies, have a long history of shaping and being shaped by the gender of their users. Although technologies used to perform housework have an apparent historical connection to gender in many cultures, a more ready connection to SNSs may be drawn with telephones as a communications technology readily and widely available in the home. Telephone use has long had gendered connections ranging from the widespread assumption that women simply talk more than men, and the employment of women as telephone operators. In particular, young women have been closely associated with extensive and trivial use of the telephone for purely social purposes. Similarly, women's use of and influence on the development of computers has been trivialized while significant developments in computers have been masculinized. Thus the idea that there may be both real and perceived differences in how men and women use SNSs – and that those uses may shape the SNSs – is neither new nor surprising and has historical analogues.\n\nThere is historical and contemporary evidence that current fears about young girls' online safety have historical antecedents such as telegraphs and telephones. Further, in many cases those historical reactions resulted in restrictions of girls' use of technology to protect them from predators, molesters, and other criminals threatening their innocence. Like current fears focused on computer use, particularly SNSs and other communication media, these fears are most intense when the medium enters the home. These fears have the potential to – at least temporarily – overwhelm the positive and empowering uses of these technologies. These historical fears are echoed in contemporary media accounts of youths' use of SNSs.\n\nFinally, the histories of some SNSs themselves have ties with gender. For example, gay men were one of the earliest groups to join and use the early SNS Friendster.\n\nMany studies have found that women are more likely to use either specific SNSs such as Facebook or MySpace or SNSs in general. In 2015, 73% of online men and 80% of online women used social networking sites. The gap in gender differences has become less apparent in LinkedIn. In 2015 about 26 percent of online men and 25% of online women used the business-and employee-oriented networking site.\n\nResearchers who have examined the gender of users of multiple SNSs have found contradictory results. Hargittai's groundbreaking 2007 study examining race, gender, and other differences between undergraduate college student users of SNSs found that women were not only more likely to have used SNSes than men but that they were also more likely to have used many different services, including Facebook, MySpace, and Friendster; these differences persisted in several models and analyses. Although she only surveyed students at one institution – the University of Illinois at Chicago – Hargittai selected that institution intentionally as \"an ideal location for studies of how different kinds of people use online sites and services.\" In contrast, data collected by the Pew Internet & American Life Project found that men were more likely to have multiple SNS profiles. Although the sample sizes of the two surveys are comparable – 1,650 Internet users in the Pew survey compared with 1,060 in Hargittai's survey – the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population.\n\nIn general, women seem to use SNSs more to explicitly foster social connections. A study conducted by Pew research centers found that women were more avid users of social media. In November 2010, the gap between men and women was as high as 15%. Female participants in a multi-stage study conducted in 2007 to discover the motivations of Facebook users scored higher on scales for social connection and posting of photographs. Studies have also been conducted on the differences between females and males with regards to blogging. The Pew Research Center found that younger females are more likely blog than males their own age, even males that are older than them. Similarly, in a study of blogs maintained in MySpace, women were found to be more likely to not only write blogs but also write about family, romantic relationships, friendships, and health in those blogs. A study of Swedish SNS users found that women were more likely to have expressions of friendship, specifically in the areas of (a) publishing photos of their friends, (b) specifically naming their best friends, and (c) writing poems to and about their friends. Women were also more likely to have expressions related to family relationships and romantic relationships. One of the key findings of this research is that those men who do have expressions of romantic relationships in their profile had expressions just as strong as the women. However, the researcher speculated that this may be in part due to a desire to publicly express heterosexual behaviors and mannerisms instead of merely expressing romantic feelings.\n\nA large-scale study of gender differences in MySpace found that both men and women tended to have a majority of female Friends, and both men and women tended to have a majority of female \"Top\" Friends in the site.\nA later study found women to author disproportionately many (public) comments in MySpace,\nbut an investigation into the role of emotion in public MySpace comments found that women both give and receive stronger positive emotion.\nIt was hypothesised that women are simply more effective at using social networking sites because they are better able to harness positive emotion.\n\nA study focused on the influence of gender and personality on individuals’ use of online social networking websites such as Facebook, reported that men use social networking sites with the intention of forming new relationships, whereas, women use them more for relationship maintenance. (Muscanell and Guadagno, 2012)\nIn addition to this, women are more likely to use Facebook or MySpace to compare themselves to others and also to search for information. Men, however, are more likely to look at other people's profiles with in the intention to find friends. (Haferkamp et al., 2012) \n\nPrivacy has been the primary topic of many studies of SNS users, and many of these studies have found differences between male and female SNS users, although some studies have found results contradictory to those found in other studies.\n\nSome researchers have found that women are more protective of their personal information and more likely to have private profiles. Other researchers have found that women are less likely to post some types of information. Acquisti and Gross found that women in their sample were less likely to reveal their sexual orientation, personal address, or cell phone number. This is similar to Pew Internet & American Life research of children users of SNSs that found that boys and girls presented different views of privacy and behaviors, with girls being more concerned about and restrictive of information such as city, town, last name, and cell phone number that could be used to locate them. At least one group of researchers has found that women are less likely to share information that \"identifies them directly – last name, cell phone number, and address or home phone number,\" linking that resistance to women's greater concerns about \"cyberstalking\", \"cyberbullying\", and security problems.\n\nDespite these concerns about privacy, researchers have found that women are more likely to maintain up-to-date photos of themselves. Further, Kolek and Saunders found in their sample of college student Facebook users that women were more likely to not only post a photograph of themselves in their profile but that they were more likely to have a publicly viewable Facebook account (a contradictory finding compared to many other studies), post photos, and post photo albums.\n\nWomen were more likely to have: (a) a publicly viewable Facebook account, (b) more photo albums, (c) more photos, (d) a photo of themselves as their profile picture, (e) positive references to alcohol, partying, or drugs, and (f) more positive references to or about the institution or institution-related activities. In general, women were more likely to disclose information about themselves in their Facebook profile, with the primary exception of sharing their telephone number. Similarly, female respondents to Strano's study were more likely to keep their profile photo recent and choose a photo that made them appear attractive, happy, and fun-loving. Citing several examples, Strano opined that there may also be a difference in how men and women Facebook users display and interpret profile photos depicting relationships.\n\nPrivacy has also been a concern for the SnapChat app, which allows you to send messages either text or photo or video which then disappear. One study has shown that security is not a major concern for the majority of users and that most do not use Snapchat to send sensitive content (although up to 25% may do so experimentally). As part of their research almost no statistically significant gender differences were found.\n\nCyberbullying\n\nPast research carried out to investigate if there are any gender differences in cyber-bulling has found that boys commit more cyber verbal bullying, cyber forgery and more violence based on hidden identity or presenting themselves as other person. (Sincek 2014).\n\nAlthough men and women users of SNSs exhibit different behavior and motivations, they share some similarities. For example, one study that examined the veracity of information shared on SNSs by college students found that men and women were as likely to \"provide accurate and complete information about their birthday, schedule of classes, partner's name, AIM, or political views.\"\n\nIn contradiction to several of the studies described above that found that women are more likely to be SNS users, at least one very reputable study has found that men and women are equally likely to be SNS users. Data gathered in December 2008 by the Pew Internet & American Life Project showed that the SNS users in their sample were equally divided among men and women. As mentioned above, the data from the Pew survey are newer and arguably more representative of the entire adult United States population than the data in much of the previously described research.\n\nSome studies have found that traditional gender roles are present in SNSs, with men in this study conforming to traditional views of masculinity and the women to traditional views of femininity. Qualitative work with college student SNS users by Martínez Alemán and Wartman and Managgo \"et al.\" have found similar results for both Facebook and MySpace users. Moreover, the work by Managgo \"et al.\" discovered not only traditional gender roles and images but sexualisation of women users of MySpace. Similarly, research into the impact of comments in the profile of a Facebook users on that user's perceived attractiveness revealed a \"sexual double standard\", wherein negative statements resulted in male profile owners being judged more attractive and female profile owners less attractive. Finally, at least one study has found that men and women SNS users both left textual clues about their gender.\n\nIn February 2014, Facebook announced the vast expansion of options for choosing gender identities to list on profiles, ranging to up to 56 gender identity choices. In August 2014, Facebook followed up with allowing gender-neutral relationship identities for identifying family members.\n\n"}
{"id": "47751830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751830", "title": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention", "text": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention\n\nGreen Dot Bystander Intervention is a bystander education approach that aims to prevent violence with the help of bystanders. It is built on the premise that violence can be measurably and systematically reduced within a community. Bystander intervention as a way of violence prevention programs are becoming popular within society. Its mission is to reduce power based-violence by being a proactive bystander and a reactive bystander.\n\nThe Green Dot Bystander Intervention Program was founded by Dr. Dorothy Edwards. The program trains people about sexual assault and domestic violence on college campuses, primary and secondary schools, and communities. It develops and offers training for sexual assault and domestic violence. The method teaches students to intervene by using the 3 D's: Direct, Delegating the responsibility to others, and creating a Distraction to defuse a potentially dangerous situation. As described by Green Dot an example of this is in a situation at a party, intervening could mean that instead of calling out an inebriated student, an individual can create a distraction by \"accidentally\" spilling their drink on a potential aggressor.\n\nDr. Dorothy Edwards is the founder of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program. Prior to creating the program Dorothy Edwards worked as the University of Kentucky's Violence Intervention and Prevention Director where she discovered that individuals were not sure how to respond when witnessing a potential sexual assault. In her first year of running the program she trained 10 individuals, but by the time she left the University of Kentucky she was training 3,500 students and volunteers. The initiative led by Dr. Edwards was supported by a new focus on bystanders in The White House. Green Dot, Bringing in the Bystander, and Coaching Boys Into Men are preventative bystander programs that have begun to make cultural changes.\n\nTitle IX of the 1972 Education Amendment is a tool meant to combat campus violence. The law requires colleges and universities to fight gender-based violence, harassment, and respond to the needs of survivors promoting equal educational access.\n\nSexual violence in schools and on campuses is a pressing civil rights issue. According to the National Women's Law Center students who suffer from sexual assault and harassment are deprived the liberty of equal education. A majority of sexual assaults involving college students also involve drugs and alcohol. A female or male who is incapacitated due to drugs and alcohol is legally incapable of giving consent and someone who has sex with an incapacitated person can be prosecuted for rape.\n\nThe goal of Green Dot is to implement a bystander intervention strategy that prevents and reduces power-based personal violence. Power-based violence includes: sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, child abuse, elder abuse, and bullying. The curriculum is created from the concepts and lessons learned through research and theory across disciplines including: violence against women, diffusion of innovation, public health, social networking, psychology, bystander dynamics, perpetration, and marketing/advertising.\n\nA Green Dot is a behavior, choice, or action that promotes safety for everyone. It communicates intolerance for sexual violence, dating violence, and stalking. The goal is to promote safety on college campuses.\n\nGreen Dot develops programs, strategies, curriculum, and training courses designed to address power-based personal violence across environments. Training strategies include: strategic planning, bystander mobilization, communication, and coalition building. The program provides training courses for leadership and professionals that focus on the core areas necessary for successful implementation of the program.\n\nThe Green Dot bystander program uses four training modules to educate bystanders on their impact. \n\nThe heart of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program are the 3 D's: direct, distract, and delegate. Direct interaction with the potential perpetrator or victim can be used to address concern. Through Distraction a bystander can create a diversion to diffuse the potentially problematic situation. Lastly, through delegation a bystander can ask for someone else to help intervene in the situation. The 3 D's work in situations of high risk to act as reactive Green Dots.\n\nExamples of proactive Green Dots are creating social media campaigns, checking-in with friends, promoting awareness, and hosting green dot sports games.\n\nExamples of reactive Green Dots include: \"directly\" confronting a situation, \"distracting\" by changing the conversation and the energy of the interaction or by distracting the individuals, or \"delegating\" by finding someone who will be more successful in fixing the problem (bar tender, other friends, police offer, etc.)\n\nAnn Coker at the University of Kentucky's Center for Research on Violence Against Women (CRVAW) led a study pertaining to the effectiveness at Green Dots' reduction of sexual violence. In the study, CRVAW found a greater than 50% reduction in the self-reported frequency of sexual violence perpetration by students at schools that received Green Dot training. The CRVAW study also found a 40% reduction in self-reported frequency of total violence perpetration including sexual violence, sexual harassment, stalking, and dating violence. Ann Coker, and the CRVAW team identify violence prevention as a public health priority.\n\nA recent study of 2,504 college undergraduate students between 18 and 24 looked at the impact of bystander intervention on college campuses. The study found that 46% of the students surveyed had heard a Green Dot speech on their college campus. Out of the sample size surveyed, only 14% had received active bystander training in the past two years. Students trained in Green Dot bystander intervention reported engaging in significantly more bystander behaviors and observing more self-reported active bystander behaviors compared to non-trained students. Those receiving bystander intervention training appeared to report more active bystander behaviors than those simply hearing a Green Dot speech, and both intervention groups reported more observed and active bystander behaviors than non-exposed students.\n"}
{"id": "21387252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21387252", "title": "Harringay Online", "text": "Harringay Online\n\nHarringay Online is a hyperlocal social network based in the neighbourhood of Harringay, north London.\n\nStarted on 1 July 2007, Harringay Online was one of the first neighbourhood websites to be set up using social media technology. It was established with the stated aim of strengthening the community in the neighbourhood of Harringay in the north London Borough of Haringey. The site aims to achieve a blend of web-based and real world neighbourhood interactions.\n\nHarringay Online explains its aims as achieving four main outcomes:\n\n\nThe site's main structure is:\n\nThe site is a well used local site and receives between 1500 and 3000 unique users per day. An email update is circulated weekly to all members.\n\nHarringay Online is regularly referenced around the world as an exemplary, community-led, hyperlocal website, being referred to recently by Urban Initiatives as \"the gold standard for community websites\". It has been recognised by two national awards and was awarded a Judge's Special Commendation by the Prime Minister in the UK's 2008 Catalyst Awards. In June 2009 it was highly commended in the National eWell-Being Awards.\n\nIn 2010 it was a focus for the UK-based study on local websites, the \"Online Neighnourhood Networks Study\"\n\nWith a stated target population of 22,500, by 2018, it had signed over 12,500 members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "401331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401331", "title": "Index of civics articles", "text": "Index of civics articles\n\nCivics is usually considered a branch of applied ethics. Within any given political tradition or ethical tradition, \"civics\" refers to education in the obligations and the rights of the citizens under that tradition. Topics in civics include:\n\nAbortion, legal and moral issues --\nAdoption --\nAdultery --\nArbitration --\nAnimal Testing --\n\nCrime --\nCivic education --\nCapital punishment --\nConstitution --\n\nDefamation --\nDivorce --\nDental --\n\nEconomics\n\nGood faith --\nGrandisitation\n\nHate speech --\n\nIllegitimacy --\nImmigration --\nIndividual rights --\nInformed consent --\n\nMediation --\nMischief --\nMistake --\nMoral rights --\n\nNatural law --\n\nObscenity --\n\nPaternity --\nPersonal property --\nPolitics--\nProduct liability --\nProperty --\nPublic education--\nPublic domain --\nPublic property --\n\nRights --\nRape --\nReligion --\n\nSanctions (law) --\nSexual harassment --\nSlander --\nSocial control --\n\n"}
{"id": "273856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=273856", "title": "Industrial society", "text": "Industrial society\n\nIn sociology, an industrial society is a society driven by the use of technology to enable mass production, supporting a large population with a high capacity for division of labour. Such a structure developed in the Western world in the period of time following the Industrial Revolution, and replaced the agrarian societies of the pre-modern, pre-industrial age. Industrial societies are generally mass societies, and may be succeeded by an information society. They are often contrasted with traditional societies.\n\nIndustrial societies use external energy sources, such as fossil fuels, to increase the rate and scale of production. The production of food is shifted to large commercial farms where the products of industry, such as combine harvesters and fossil fuel based fertilizers, are used to decrease required human labor while increasing production. No longer needed for the production of food, excess labor is moved into these factories where mechanization is utilized to further increase efficiency. As populations grow, and mechanization is further refined, often to the level of automation, many workers shift to expanding service industries.\n\nIndustrial society makes urbanization desirable, in part so that workers can be closer to centers of production, and the service industry can provide labor to workers and those that benefit financially from them, in exchange for a piece of production profits with which they can buy goods. This leads to the rise of very large cities and surrounding suburban areas with a high rate of economic activity.\n\nThese urban centers require the input of external energy sources in order to overcome the diminishing returns of agricultural consolidation, due partially to the lack of nearby arable land, associated transportation and storage costs, and are otherwise unsustainable. This makes the reliable availability of the needed energy resources high priority in industrial government policies.\n\nSome theoreticians (namely Ulrich Beck, Anthony Giddens, and Manuel Castells) argue that we are located in the middle of a transformation or transition from industrial societies to post-industrial societies. The triggering technology for the change from an agricultural to an industrial organisation was steam power, allowing mass production and reducing the agricultural work necessary. Thus, many industrial cities have been built around rivers. Identified as catalyst or trigger for the transition to post-modern or informational society is global information technology.\n\nSome, such as Theodore Kaczynski, have argued that an industrialized society leads to psychological pain and that citizens must actively work to return to a more primitive society. His essay, \"Industrial Society and Its Future\", describes different political factions and laments the direction of technology and the modern world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "71394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=71394", "title": "Jane Jacobs", "text": "Jane Jacobs\n\nJane Jacobs (\"née\" Butzner; May 4, 1916 – April 25, 2006) was an American-Canadian journalist, author, and activist who influenced urban studies, sociology, and economics. Her book \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" (1961) argued that urban renewal did not respect the needs of city-dwellers. It also introduced the sociological concepts \"eyes on the street\" and \"social capital\".\n\nJacobs organized grassroots efforts to protect neighborhoods from \"slum clearance\", in particular Robert Moses' plans to overhaul her own Greenwich Village neighborhood. She was instrumental in the eventual cancellation of the Lower Manhattan Expressway, which would have passed directly through SoHo and Little Italy. She was arrested in 1968 for inciting a crowd at a public hearing on that project. After moving to Toronto in 1968, she joined the opposition to the Spadina Expressway and the associated network of expressways in Toronto planned, and under construction.\n\nAs a mother and a writer who criticized experts in the male-dominated field of urban planning, Jacobs endured scorn from established figures. She did not have a college degree or any formal training in urban planning, and her lack of credentials was seized upon as grounds for criticism.\n\nJacobs was born Jane Butzner in Scranton, Pennsylvania, the daughter of Bess Robison Butzner, a former teacher and nurse and John Decker Butzner, a physician. They were a Protestant family in a heavily Roman Catholic town. Her brother, John Decker Butzner, Jr., served as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. After graduation from Scranton High School, she worked for a year as the unpaid assistant to the women's page editor at the \"Scranton Tribune\".\n\nIn 1935, during the Great Depression, she moved to New York City with her sister Betty. Jane Butzner took an immediate liking to Manhattan's Greenwich Village, which did not conform to the city's grid structure. The sisters soon moved there from Brooklyn.\n\nDuring her early years in the city, Jacobs held a variety of jobs working as a stenographer and freelance writer, writing about working districts in the city. These experiences, she later said, \"gave me more of a notion of what was going on in the city and what business was like, what work was like.\" Her first job was for a trade magazine as a secretary, then an editor. She sold articles to the \"Sunday Herald Tribune\", \"Cue\" magazine, and \"Vogue\".\n\nShe studied at Columbia University's School of General Studies for two years, taking courses in geology, zoology, law, political science, and economics. About the freedom to pursue study across her wide-ranging interests, she said:\n\nFor the first time I liked school and for the first time I made good marks. This was almost my undoing because after I had garnered, statistically, a certain number of credits I became the property of Barnard College at Columbia, and once I was the property of Barnard I had to take, it seemed, what Barnard wanted me to take, not what I wanted to learn. Fortunately my high-school marks had been so bad that Barnard decided I could not belong to it and I was therefore allowed to continue getting an education.\n\nAfter attending Columbia University's School of General Studies for two years, Butzner found a job at \"Iron Age\" magazine. Her 1943 article on economic decline in Scranton was well-publicized and led the Murray Corporation of America to locate a warplane factory there. Encouraged by this success, Butzner petitioned the War Production Board to support more operations in Scranton. Experiencing job discrimination at \"Iron Age\", she also advocated for equal pay for women and for the right of workers to unionize.\n\nShe became a feature writer for the Office of War Information, and then a reporter for \"Amerika\", a publication of the U.S. State Department. While working there she met Robert Hyde Jacobs Jr., a Columbia-educated architect who was designing warplanes for Grumman. They married in 1944. Together they had a daughter, Burgin, and two sons, James and Ned. They bought a three-story building at 555 Hudson St. Jane continued to write for \"Amerika\" after the war, while Robert left Grumman and resumed work as an architect.\n\nThe Jacobses rejected the rapidly growing suburbs as \"parasitic\", choosing to remain in Greenwich Village. They renovated their house, in the middle of a mixed residential and commercial area, and created a garden in the backyard.\n\nWorking for the State Department during the McCarthy era, Jacobs received a questionnaire about her political beliefs and loyalties. Jacobs was anti-communist, and had left the Federal Workers Union because of its apparent communist sympathies. Nevertheless, she was pro-union and purportedly appreciated the writing of Saul Alinsky; therefore she was under suspicion. On March 25, 1952, Jacobs delivered her response to Conrad E. Snow, chairman of the Loyalty Security Board at the United States Department of State. In her foreword to her answer, she said:\n\nThe other threat to the security of our tradition, I believe, lies at home. It is the current fear of radical ideas and of people who propound them. I do not agree with the extremists of either the left or the right, but I think they should be allowed to speak and to publish, both because they themselves have, and ought to have, rights, and once their rights are gone, the rights of the rest of us are hardly safe ...\n\nJacobs left \"Amerika\" in 1952 when it announced its relocation to Washington, D.C. She found a well-paying job at \"Architectural Forum\", published by Henry Luce of Time Inc. After early success on the job, Jacobs began to take assignments on urban planning and \"urban blight\". In 1954, she was assigned to cover a development in Philadelphia designed by Edmund Bacon. Although her editors expected a positive story, Jacobs criticized Bacon's project, reacting against its lack of concern for the poor African Americans who were directly affected. When Bacon showed Jacobs examples of undeveloped and developed blocks, she determined that \"development\" seemed to end community life on the street. When Jacobs returned to the offices of \"Architectural Forum\", she began to question the 1950s consensus on urban planning.\n\nIn 1955, Jacobs met William Kirk, an Episcopal minister who worked in East Harlem. Kirk came to the \"Architectural Forum\" offices to describe the impact that \"revitalization\" had on East Harlem, and he introduced Jacobs to the neighborhood.\n\nIn 1956, Jacobs delivered a lecture at Harvard University, standing in for Douglas Haskell of \"Architectural Forum\". She addressed leading architects, urban planners, and intellectuals (including Lewis Mumford), speaking on the topic of East Harlem. She urged this audience to \"respect – in the deepest sense – strips of chaos that have a weird wisdom of their own not yet encompassed in our concept of urban order.\" Contrary to her expectations, the talk was received with enthusiasm, but it also marked her as a threat to established urban planners, real estate owners, and developers. \"Architectural Forum\" printed the speech that year, along with photographs of East Harlem.\n\nAfter reading her Harvard speech, William H. Whyte invited Jacobs to write an article for \"Fortune magazine\". The resulting piece, \"Downtown Is for People\", appeared in a 1958 issue of \"Fortune\", and marked her first public criticism of Robert Moses. Her criticism of the Lincoln Center was not popular with supporters of urban renewal at \"Architectural Forum\" and \"Fortune\". C.D. Jackson, the publisher of \"Fortune\", was outraged and demanded of Whyte over the phone: \"Who is this crazy dame?\"\n\nThe \"Fortune\" article brought Jacobs to the attention of Chadbourne Gilpatric, then associate director of the Humanities Division at the Rockefeller Foundation. The foundation had moved aggressively into urban topics, with a recent award to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for studies of urban aesthetics that would culminate in the publication of Kevin A. Lynch's \"Image of the City\". In May 1958, Gilpatric invited Jacobs to begin serving as a reviewer for grant proposals. Later that year, the Rockefeller Foundation awarded a grant to Jacobs to produce a critical study of city planning and urban life in the U.S. (From the mid-1950s to the mid-1960s, the foundation's Humanities Division sponsored an \"Urban Design Studies\" research program, of which Jacobs was the best known grantee.) Gilpatric encouraged Jacobs to \"explor[e] the field of urban design to look for ideas and actions which may improve thinking on how the design of cities might better serve urban life, including cultural and humane value.\" Affiliating with The New School (then called The New School for Social Research), she spent three years conducting research and writing drafts. In 1961, Random House published the result: \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\".\n\n\"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" remains one of the most influential books in the history of American city planning. She coined the terms \"social capital\", \"mixed primary uses\", and \"eyes on the street\", which were adopted professionally in urban design, sociology, and other fields. Jacobs painted a devastating picture of the profession of city planning, labeling it a pseudoscience. This angered the male-dominated urban planning profession. Jacobs was criticized as a \"militant dame\" and a \"housewife\": an amateur who had no right to interfere with an established discipline. The book was criticized from the left for leaving out race and accepting gentrification.\n\nIn 1962 she resigned her position at \"Architectural Forum\" to become a full-time author and mother. In other political activities she became an opponent of the Vietnam War, marched on the Pentagon in October 1967 and criticized the construction of the World Trade Center as a disaster for Manhattan's waterfront.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s, Jacobs' home neighborhood of Greenwich Village was being transformed by City and State efforts to build housing (see, for example, Jacobs' fight to build the West Village Houses in lieu of large apartment houses), private developers, the expansion of New York University (NYU), and by the urban renewal plans of Robert Moses. Moses' plan, funded as \"slum clearance\" by Title I of the Housing Act of 1949, also called for several blocks to be razed and replaced with upscale high-rises. The plan forced 132 families out of their homes and displaced 1,000 small businesses—the result was Washington Square Village.\nAs part of his efforts to revitalize the area, Moses proposed the extension of Fifth Avenue through Washington Square Park in 1935. In the face of community opposition, Moses shelved the project, but revived the idea in the 1950s. Moses argued that the Fifth Avenue extension would improve the flow of traffic through the neighborhood and provide access to the planned Lower Manhattan Expressway (LOMEX), which would connect the Manhattan Bridge and Williamsburg Bridge with the Holland Tunnel.\n\nIn response, local activist Shirley Hayes created the \"Committee to Save Washington Square Park\", a coalition of dozens of local neighborhood groups that opposed the roadway extension. Raymond S. Rubinow eventually took over the organization, changing its name to the \"Joint Emergency Committee to Close Washington Square to Traffic.\" Jacobs had joined the committee under Hayes, but took a more prominent role under Rubinow, reaching out to media outlets such as \"The Village Voice\", which provided more sympathetic coverage than \"The New York Times\". The committee gained the support of Margaret Mead, Eleanor Roosevelt, Lewis Mumford, Charles Abrams, and William H. Whyte, as well as Carmine De Sapio, Greenwich Village resident and influential Democratic leader. De Sapio's involvement proved decisive. On June 25, 1958, the city closed Washington Square Park to traffic, and the joint committee held a ribbon tying (not cutting) ceremony.\n\nPlans for LOMEX expressway continued despite growing community opposition in areas such as Little Italy. In the 1960s, Jacobs chaired the Joint Committee to Stop the Lower Manhattan Expressway. \"The New York Times\" was sympathetic to Moses, while \"The Village Voice\" covered community rallies and advocated against the expressway. Jacobs continued to fight the expressway when plans resurfaced in 1962, 1965, and 1968, and she became a local hero for her opposition to the project. She was arrested by a plainclothes police officer on April 10, 1968, at a public hearing during which the crowd had charged the stage and destroyed the stenographer's notes. She was accused of inciting a riot, criminal mischief, and obstructing public administration. After months of trials conducted in New York City (to which Jacobs commuted from Toronto), her charge was reduced to disorderly conduct.\n\n\"\" devoted an hour of the eight-part, seventeen-and-a-half-hour series to the battle between Moses and Jacobs. Robert Caro's biography of Moses, \"The Power Broker\", gives only passing mention to this event, despite Jacobs's strong influence on Caro. In 2017, Caro told an interviewer about the difficulty in cutting more than 300,000 words from his initial manuscript: \"The section that I wrote on Jane Jacobs disappeared. To this day, when someone says: \"There's hardly a mention of Jane Jacobs,\" I think, \"but I wrote a lot about her.\" Every time I'm asked about that, I have this sick feeling.\"\n\nSoon after her arrest in 1968, Jacobs moved to Toronto, eventually settling at 69 Albany Avenue in The Annex from 1971 until her death in 2006. She decided to leave the U.S. in part because she opposed the Vietnam War, she worried about the fate of her two draft-age sons, and she did not want to continue fighting the NYC government. She and her husband chose Toronto because it was pleasant and offered employment opportunities, and they moved to an area of Toronto that included so many Americans avoiding the draft it was called the \"American ghetto\".\n\nShe quickly became a leading figure in her new city and helped stop the proposed Spadina Expressway. A frequent theme of her work was to ask whether we are building cities for people or for cars. She was arrested twice during demonstrations. She also had considerable influence on the regeneration of the St. Lawrence neighborhood, a housing project regarded as a major success. She became a Canadian citizen in 1974, and she later told writer James Howard Kunstler that dual citizenship was not possible at the time, implying that her U.S. citizenship was lost.\n\nIn 1980, she offered an urbanistic perspective on Quebec's sovereignty in her book \"The Question of Separatism: Quebec and the Struggle over Separation\". Jacobs was an advocate of a Province of Toronto to separate the city proper from Ontario. Jacobs said, \"Cities, to thrive in the twenty-first century, must separate themselves politically from their surrounding areas.\" \n\nShe was selected to be an officer of the Order of Canada in 1996 for her seminal writings and thought-provoking commentaries on urban development. The community and urban sociology section of the American Sociological Association awarded her its Outstanding Lifetime Contribution award in 2002. In 1997, the city government of Toronto sponsored a conference entitled \"Jane Jacobs: Ideas That Matter\", which led to a book by the same name. At the end of the conference, the Jane Jacobs Prize was created. It includes an annual stipend of $5,000 for three years to be given to \"celebrate Toronto's original, unsung heroes – by seeking out citizens who are engaged in activities that contribute to the city's vitality\".\nJacobs never shied away from expressing her political support for specific candidates. She opposed the 1997 amalgamation of the cities of Metro Toronto, fearing that individual neighbourhoods would have less power with the new structure. She backed an ecologist, Tooker Gomberg, who lost Toronto's 2000 mayoralty race, and was an adviser to David Miller's successful mayoral campaign in 2003, at a time when he was seen as a longshot. During the mayoral campaign, Jacobs helped lobby against the construction of a bridge to join the city waterfront to Toronto City Centre Airport (TCCA). Following the election, the Toronto city council's earlier decision to approve the bridge was reversed and bridge construction project was stopped. TCCA did upgrade the ferry service and the airport was still in operation as of 2018. In lieu of the bridge, a pedestrian tunnel broke ground in March 2012. The tunnel opened on July 30, 2015.\n\nJacobs also was active in a campaign against a plan of Royal St. George's College (an established school very close to Jacobs' residence in Toronto's Annex district) to reconfigure its facilities. Jacobs suggested not only that the redesign be stopped, but also, that the school be forced from the neighborhood entirely. Although Toronto council initially rejected the school's plans, the decision later was reversed – and the project was given the go-ahead by the Ontario Municipal Board (OMB) when opponents failed to produce credible witnesses and tried to withdraw from the case during the hearing.\n\nShe also had an influence on Vancouver's urban planning. Jacobs has been called \"the mother of Vancouverism\", referring to that city's use of her \"density done well\" philosophy.\n\nJacobs died in Toronto Western Hospital aged 89, on April 25, 2006, apparently, of a stroke. She was survived by a brother, James Butzner (d. 2009); her two sons, James and Ned of Vancouver, and a daughter, Burgin Jacobs; by two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Upon her death her family's statement noted: \"What's important is not that she died but that she lived, and that her life's work has greatly influenced the way we think. Please remember her by reading her books and implementing her ideas\".\n\nJacobs is credited, along with Lewis Mumford, with inspiring the New Urbanist movement. She has been characterized as a major influence on decentralist and radical centrist thought. She discussed her legacy in an interview with \"Reason magazine\".\n\nWhile Jacobs saw her greatest legacy to be her contributions to economic theory, it is in the realm of urban planning that she has had her most extensive impact. Her observations about the ways in which cities function revolutionized the urban planning profession and discredited many accepted planning models that dominated mid-century planning. The influential Harvard Economist Edward Glaeser, known for his work on urban studies, acknowledged that Jane Jacobs (1960s) had been prescient in attacking Moses for \"replacing well-functioning neighborhoods with Le Corbusier-inspired towers.\" Glaeser agreed that these housing projects proved to be Moses' greatest failures, \"Moses spent millions and evicted tens of thousands to create buildings that became centers of crime, poverty, and despair.\"\n\nShe also was famous for introducing concepts such as the \"Ballet of the Sidewalk\" and \"Eyes on the Street\", a reference to what would later be known as natural surveillance. The concept had a huge influence on planners and architects such as Oscar Newman, who operationalized the idea through a series of studies that would culminate in his defensible space theory. Jacobs's and Newman's work would go on to affect American housing policy through the HOPE VI Program, an effort by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development to demolish the high-rise public housing projects so reviled by Jacobs, and to replace them with low-rise, mixed-income housing.\n\nThroughout her life, she fought to alter the way in which city development was approached. By arguing that cities were living beings and ecosystems, she advocated ideas such as \"mixed use\" development and bottom-up planning. Furthermore, her harsh criticisms of \"slum clearing\" and \"high-rise housing\" projects were instrumental in discrediting these once universally-supported planning practices.\n\nJacobs is remembered as being an advocate for the mindful development of cities, and for leaving \"a legacy of empowerment for citizens to trust their common sense and become advocates for their place\".\n\nDespite the fact that Jacobs mainly focused on New York, her arguments have been identified as universal. For instance, her opposition against the demolition of urban neighbourhoods for projects of urban renewal had \"special resonance\" in Melbourne, Australia. In Melbourne in the 1960s, resident associations fought against large-scale high-rise housing projects of the Housing Commission of Victoria, which they argued had little regard for the impact on local communities.\n\nJacobs fought an uphill battle against dominant trends of planning despite the United States remaining very much a suburban nation, the work of Jacobs has contributed to city living being rehabilitated and revitalized. Because of her ideas, today, many distressed urban neighbourhoods are more likely to be gentrified than cleared for redevelopment.\n\nSamuel R. Delany's book \"Times Square Red, Times Square Blue\" relies heavily on \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" in its analysis of the nature of social relations within the realm of urban studies.\n\nAfter Jacobs' death in April 2006, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg announced a Jane Jacobs Day, held on June 28, 2006. The City of Toronto proclaimed her birthday the following year, May 4, 2007, as Jane Jacobs Day.\n\nIn connection with Jane Jacobs Day in Toronto, two dozen free neighborhood walks in the city were offered that weekend (May 5, 2007) as an active memorial to Jacobs, and were dubbed Jane's Walks. A Jane's Walk event was later held in New York on September 29 and 30, 2007. In 2008, the event spread to eight cities and towns throughout Canada, and by 2016, Jane's Walks were taking place in 212 cities in 36 countries, on six continents. The interpretive walks typically apply ideas Jacobs identified or espoused to local areas, which are explored on foot and sometimes by bicycle. The walks normally take place in early May, on or close to her May 4 birthday. Walks are organized and led by local volunteers, coordinated by a headquarters office in Toronto. There are more than 200 walks offered in Toronto, alone, in 2016, taking place May 6, 7 and 8.\n\nIn 2016, to mark the 100th anniversary of Jacobs' birth, a Toronto gallery is staging \"Jane at Home\", an exhibition running from April 29 to May 8. Curated by Jane's son, Jim Jacobs, it offers glimpses of her home life, where she also worked. Her Toronto living room is represented, based on the one at her Albany Avenue house in The Annex, where she often spoke with noted thinkers and political leaders including Marshall McLuhan, Paul Martin, and the Queen of the Netherlands. On display are her typewriter, original manuscripts, rediscovered photographs demonstrating her distinctive styles, and personal mementos. The exhibit includes furniture from previous homes in New York (her dining room is set up) and from Scranton, Pennsylvania.\n\nIn 2007, the Municipal Art Society of New York partnered with the Rockefeller Foundation to host an exhibit focusing on \"Jane Jacobs and the Future of New York,\" which opened at the society in September that year. The exhibit aimed to educate the public on her writings and activism and used tools to encourage new generations to become active in issues involving their own neighborhoods. An accompanying exhibit publication includes essays and articles by such architecture critics, artists, activists, and journalists as Malcolm Gladwell, Reverend Billy, Robert Neuwirth, Tom Wolfe, Thomas de Monchaux, and William McDonough. Many of these contributors participated in a series of panel discussions on \"Jane Jacobs and the Future of New York\".\n\nAs a tribute to Jacobs, the Rockefeller Foundation, which had awarded Jacobs grants in the 1950s and 1960s, announced on February 9, 2007, the creation of the Jane Jacobs Medal, \"to recognize individuals who have made a significant contribution to thinking about urban design, specifically in New York City\". Recipients:\n\nThe Canadian Urban Institute offers an award in Jacobs' name, the Jane Jacobs Lifetime Achievement Award, to recognize a person \"who has had significant impact on the health of their region consistent with Jane Jacob's belief that successful cities foster a place-based, community-centred approach.\"\n\nThe 2011 winner was Eberhard Zeidler, while his daughter, Margie Zeidler, won the 2015 award. In 2012, Anne Golden took the prize \"for her long-standing leadership in public policy, her academic work and her varied leadership experience in business, not-for-profit and government sectors.\" William (Bill) Teron accepted the 2013 award \"for his influential career in public policy and passionate advocacy for quality design and commitment to development in the Ottawa area.\" In 2014, Jack Diamond was recognized for his \"contribution to improving the built form and advocacy for cities and the future of the Greater Toronto Area.\"\n\n\nJacobs received the second Vincent Scully Prize from the National Building Museum in 2000.\n\nJacobs is the subject of the 2017 movie Citizen Jane: Battle for the City (NYT review), which depicts her victories over Robert Moses and her philosophy of urban design.\n\nThe planners and developers she fought in order to preserve the West Village were among those who initially criticised her ideas. Robert Moses has generally been identified as her archrival during this period. Since then, Jacobs' ideas have been analysed many times, often in regard to the outcomes that their influences have produced.\n\nIn places such as the West Village, the factors that she argued would maintain economic and cultural diversity have led instead to gentrification and some of the most expensive real estate in the world. Her family's conversion of an old candy shop into a home is an example of the gentrifying trend that would continue under the influence of Jacobs's ideas.\n\nGentrification also was caused, however, by \"the completely unexpected influx of affluent residents back into the inner city\". The extent to which her ideas facilitated this phenomenon was at the time unimaginable. For example, she advocated the preservation of older buildings specifically because their lack of economic value made them affordable for poor people. In this respect, she saw them as \"guarantors of social diversity\" (Klemek, 2011:76). That many of these older structures have increased in economic value solely due to their age was implausible in 1961. Issues of gentrification have dominated criticism of Jane Jacobs' planning ideas.\n\nHer concepts have also been criticized more broadly. Economist Tyler Cowen has criticized her ideas for not addressing problems of scale or infrastructure, and suggests that economists disagree with some of her approaches to development. For example, although her ideas of planning were praised at times as \"universal\", they are now thought inapplicable when a city grows from one million to ten million (as has happened many times in developing nations). Such arguments suggest that the ideas apply only to cities with similar issues to those of New York, where Jacobs developed many of her ideas.\n\nJane Jacobs spent her life studying cities. Her books include:\n\n\"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" is her single-most influential book and possibly the most influential book on urban planning and cities. Published in 1961, this book was widely read by both planning professionals and the general public; the book is a strong critique of the urban renewal policies of the 1950s, which, she claimed, destroyed communities and created isolated, unnatural urban spaces. Jacobs advocated the abolition of zoning laws and restoration of free markets in land, which would result in dense, mixed-use neighborhoods and frequently cited New York City's Greenwich Village as an example of a vibrant urban community.\n\nRobert Caro has cited it as the strongest influence on \"The Power Broker\", his Pulitzer-winning biography of Robert Moses, though Caro does not mention Jacobs by name even once in the book despite Jacobs' battles with Moses over his proposed Lower Manhattan Expressway. Caro reportedly cut a chapter about Jacobs due to his book's length.\n\nBeyond the practical lessons in city design and planning that \"Death and Life\" offers, the theoretical underpinnings of the work challenge the modern development mindset. Jane Jacobs defends her positions with common sense and anecdotes.\n\nThe thesis of this book is that cities are the primary drivers of economic development. Her main argument is that explosive economic growth derives from urban import replacement. Import replacement occurs when a city begins to produce goods locally that it formerly imported, e.g., Tokyo bicycle factories replacing Tokyo bicycle importers in the 1800s. Jacobs claims that import replacement builds up local infrastructure, skills, and production. Jacobs also claims that the increased production is subsequently exported to other cities, giving those other cities a new opportunity to engage in import replacement, thus producing a positive cycle of growth.\n\nIn an interview with Bill Steigerwald in \"Reason Magazine\", Jacobs said that if she is remembered for being a great intellectual she will be remembered not for her work concerning city planning, but for the discovery of import replacement. Critics erroneously claim that her ideas parrot the idea of import substitution advanced earlier by scholars such as Andre Gunder Frank. Import substitution was a national economic theory implying that if a nation substituted its imports with national production the nation would become wealthier, whereas Jacob's idea is entirely about cities and could be called urban import substitution. However, even this would lead to confusion since in practice, import substitution in India and Latin America were government subsidized and mandated, whereas Jacobs' concept of import replacement is a free market process of discovery and division of labor within a city.\n\nIn the second part of the book Jacobs argues that cities preceded agriculture. She argues that in cities trade in wild animals and grains allowed for the initial division of labor necessary for the discovery of husbandry and agriculture; these discoveries then moved out of the city due to land competition. Another interpretation of history, generally and erroneously considered to be contradictory to Jacobs' is supported by Marxist archaeologist Vere Gordon Childe and in recent times by another historical materialist Charles Keith Maisels These writers argue that agriculture preceded cities. The apparent opposition between Childe and Jacobs theories rests in their definition of 'city,' 'civilization,' or 'urban.' Childe, like other materialists such as Maisels or Henri Lefebvre defines 'urban' or 'civilization' as Synoecism—as a literate, socially stratified, monolithic political community, whereas, as one can see from \"The Economy of Cities\" or from \"Cities and the Wealth of Nations\", Jacobs defines the city purely along the lines of geographically dense trade giving way to entrepreneurial discovery and subsequent improvements in the division of labor. Without the requirements of literacy, monumental building, or the signs of specialized civil and armed forces, 'cities' can be accurately be interpreted to exists thousands of years before when Childe and Maisels place them. However, Jacobs' definition is supposition, since 'city' is defined simply as a large town or \"a large human settlement\" indicating permanence. The earliest remains of mankind uncovered by archaeologists do not give us more information other than they were hunter-gatherers as there is no evidence yet of farming or settlement, implying nomadic lifestyles until further discoveries are found.\n\n\"The Question of Separatism\" incorporated and expanded Jacobs' presentation of the 1979 Massey Lectures, entitled \"Canadian Cities and Sovereignty-Association\". It was published in 1980 and reprinted in 2011 with a previously-unpublished 2005 interview with Robin Philpot on the subject in which she evokes the relative overlooking of that book among her usual readership. This was in fact the first time she was requested to discuss it in an interview. Columnist Richard Gwyn advanced that while not openly criticizing her, English-speaking Canadians readers thought she did not understood how Canadian politics worked and that she was not being helpful in a time of distress for national unity (the 1980 referendum was just defeated by a vote of 60%). \"The Question of Separatism\" was also not mentioned in the bibliography of her 2006 obituary in \"The Globe and Mail\".\n\nJacobs' book advances the view that Quebec's eventual independence is best for Montreal, Toronto, the rest of Canada, and the world; and that such independence can be achieved peacefully. As precedent, she cites Norway's secession from Sweden and how it enriched both nations. The origins of the contemporary secessionist-movement in the Quiet Revolution are examined, along with Canada's historical reliance on natural resources and foreign-owned manufacturing for its own economic development. Jacobs asserts that such an approach is colonial and hence backward, citing by example Canada buying its skis and furniture from Norway or Norwegian-owned factories in Canada, the latter procedure being a product of Canadian tariffs designed specifically to foster such factories. The relevant public views of René Lévesque, Claude Ryan, and then Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau are also critically analyzed, an example being their failure to recognize that two respective, independent currencies are essential to the success of an independent Quebec and a smaller resultant Canada, an issue that is central to her book. Jacobs stresses the need for Montreal to continue developing its leadership of Québécois culture, but that such a need can ultimately never be fulfilled by Montreal's increasing tendencies toward regional-city status, tendencies foretelling economic, political, and cultural subservience to English-speaking Toronto. Such an outcome, Jacobs believed, would in the long run doom Quebec's independence as much as it would hinder Canada's own future. She concludes with her observation that the popular equating of political secession with political and economic failure is the result of the Enlightenment, which perceived nature as a force for \"standardization, uniformity, universality, and immutability.\" Since then, naturalists and their readers have gradually realized that nature is a force for diversity, and that, \"diversity itself is of the essence of excellence.\" The right kind of secession, Jacobs states, can lead to the right kind of diversity, and Quebec and Canada are capable of both, and must achieve both, to survive.\n\n\"Cities and the Wealth of Nations\" attempts to do for economics what \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" did for modern urban planning, though it has not received the same critical attention. Beginning with a concise treatment of classical economics, this book challenges one of the fundamental assumptions of the greatest economists. Classical (and Neo-classical) economists consider the nation-state to be the main player in macroeconomics. Jacobs argues that it is not the nation-state, rather it is the city which is the true player in this worldwide game. She restates the idea of import replacement from her earlier book \"The Economy of Cities\", while speculating on the further ramifications of considering the city first and the nation second, or not at all.\n\n\"Systems of Survival: A Dialogue on the Moral Foundations of Commerce and Politics\" moves outside of the city, studying the moral underpinnings of work. As with her other work, she used an observational approach. This book is written as a Platonic dialogue. It appears that she (as described by characters in her book) took newspaper clippings of moral judgments related to work, collected and sorted them to find that they fit two patterns of moral behaviour that were mutually exclusive. She calls these two patterns \"Moral Syndrome A\", or commercial moral syndrome, and \"Moral Syndrome B\", or guardian moral syndrome. She claims that the commercial moral syndrome is applicable to business owners, scientists, farmers, and traders. Similarly, she claims that the guardian moral syndrome is applicable to government, charities, hunter-gatherers, and religious institutions. She also claims that these Moral Syndromes are fixed, and do not fluctuate over time.\n\nIt is important to stress that Jane Jacobs is providing a theory about the morality of work, and not all moral ideas. Moral ideas that are not included in her syndrome are applicable to both syndromes.\n\nJane Jacobs goes on to describe what happens when these two moral syndromes are mixed, showing the work underpinnings of the Mafia and communism, and what happens when New York subway Police are paid bonuses here – reinterpreted slightly as a part of the larger analysis.\n\n\"The Nature of Economies\", a dialog between friends concerning the premise: \"human beings exist wholly within nature as part of the natural order in every respect\" (p. \"ix\"), argues that the same principles underlie both ecosystems and economies: \"development and co-development through differentiations and their combinations; expansion through diverse, multiple uses of energy; and self-maintenance through self-refueling\" (p. 82).\n\nJacobs' characters discuss the four methods by which \"dynamically stable systems\" may evade collapse: \"bifurcations; positive-feedback loops; negative-feedback controls; and emergency adaptations\" (p. 86). Their conversations also cover the \"double nature of fitness for survival\" (traits to avoid destroying one's own habitat as well as success in competition to feed and breed, p. 119), and unpredictability including the butterfly effect characterized in terms of multiplicity of variables as well as disproportional response to cause, and self-organization where \"a system can be making itself up as it goes along\" (p. 137).\n\nThrough the dialogue, Jacobs' characters explore and examine the similarities between the functioning of ecosystems and economies. Topics include environmental and economic development, growth and expansion, and how economies and environments keep themselves alive through \"self-refueling.\" Jacobs also comments on the nature of economic and biological diversity and its role in the development and growth of the two kinds of systems.\n\nThe book is infused with many real-world economic and biological examples, which help keep the book \"down to earth\" and comprehensible, if dense. Concepts are furnished with both economic and biological examples, showing their coherence in both worlds.\n\nOne particularly interesting insight is the creation of \"something from nothing\" – an economy from nowhere. In the biological world, free energy is given through sunlight, but in the economic world human creativity and natural resources supply this free energy, or at least starter energy. Another interesting insight is the creation of economic diversity through the combination of different technologies, for example the typewriter and television as inputs and outputs of a computer system: this can lead to the creation of \"new species of work\".\n\nPublished in 2004 by Random House, \"Dark Age Ahead\" posits Jacobs' argument that \"North American\" civilization shows signs of a spiral decline comparable to the collapse of the Roman empire. Her discussion focuses on \"five pillars of our culture that we depend on to stand firm,\" which can be summarized as the nuclear family and community; quality in education; free thought in science; representational government and responsible taxes; and corporate and professional accountability. As the book's title suggests, Jacobs' outlook is far more pessimistic than that of her previous works. However, in the conclusion she admits: \"At a given time it is hard to tell whether forces of cultural life or death are in the ascendancy. Is suburban sprawl, with its murders of communities and wastes of land, time, and energy, a sign of decay? Or is rising interest in means of overcoming sprawl a sign of vigor and adaptability in North American culture? Arguably, either could turn out to be true.\"\n\nJane Jacobs says in her work \"The Death and Life of Great American Cities\" that the sources of orthodox urbanism are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49629860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49629860", "title": "Karl Kummer (politician)", "text": "Karl Kummer (politician)\n\nKarl Kummer (born 1 January 1904 in Vienna; died 15 August 1967 in Warsaw) was an Austrian catholic politician, social reformer, and labour law reformer.\n"}
{"id": "26449007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26449007", "title": "Katharine Bement Davis", "text": "Katharine Bement Davis\n\nKatharine Bement Davis (January 15, 1860 – December 10, 1935) was an American progressive era social reformer and criminologist who became the first woman to head a major New York City agency when she was appointed Correction Commissioner on January 1, 1914.\n\nThe Panama-Pacific Exposition designated her one of the three most distinguished women in America.\nDavis is remembered for her pioneering science-based prison reform and groundbreaking research about female sexuality.\n\nShe was born in Buffalo, New York, on January 15, 1860, to Oscar Bill Davis and Frances Freeman. She was the oldest of five children—three girls and two boys. Katharine's mother Frances was a strong proponent of women's rights and a zealous advocate for women's suffrage.\n\nThe Davis family lived in Dunkirk, New York, during most of her childhood. Both of her parents were active in community organizations in Dunkirk. Oscar Davis worked for Bradstreet company, and when Katharine was seventeen he relocated to Rochester, New York, to manage a regional office there.\n\nIn 1879, Davis graduated from Rochester Free Academy, a public high school. Since her family was unable to afford the tuition for college, she taught at Dunkirk Academy. While at Dunkirk Academy, she established a women's equality club and led a women's literacy group.\n\nAfter teaching high school chemistry for ten years, Davis saved enough money to continue her schooling full-time. In 1890, she enrolled in Vassar College, a center of progressive education for women. Davis combined her interests in science and social reform by studying food chemistry and nutritional studies. Taking this course of study gave Davis the opportunity for career in a public health agency after graduation.\n\nAfter graduating from Vassar, Davis continued her studies at Columbia University's Barnard College, a separate women's college within the university, while teaching at Brooklyn Heights Seminary for Girls. She studied the chemistry of food.\n\nWhile studying at Barnard, Davis managed a project to develop a model home for New York State's display at the Chicago World Fair. As a result of the success of the home display, she was offered a job running a settlement house in Philadelphia.\n\nThe settlement house movement began in the late 19th century to socialize the poor and uneducated residents that occupied immigrant neighborhoods in a city to American values and customs. In the United States, \"college settlements\" were run by young women graduates of progressive colleges who as \"workers\" moved into a neighborhood house in order to Americanize the local residents.\n\nThe College Settlement on Philadelphia's St. Mary's Street served a district of indigent blacks and Russian immigrants. Davis moved into the house as \"head worker\". While in Philadelphia, Davis worked with W. E. B. Du Bois, who was then at the University of Pennsylvania conducting groundbreaking research on blacks in urban America. Davis noted in the Settlement's annual report that \"the investigation into the condition of the colored people of . . . the seventh ward which contains about 10,000 Negroes, nearly one fourth the entire number in the city\" would be carried out \"by means of house-to-house canvass.\"\n\nDavis moved to Chicago, Illinois to return to school at Chicago University where she was to be the first female Fellow in Political Science-Economics to earn a Ph.D.\n\nThe New York State Reformatory for Women at Bedford Hills, New York opened in May 1901 with Davis as the superintendent. Besides the administration building, the campus included \"a reception hall, four cottages, a laundry building, a powerhouse, a gate house, and a stable\". The reception hall had two wings, one wing modeled after a traditional prison with three tiers of 24 cells each, and the other wing contained rooms accommodating 42 inmates.\n\nIn 1909 Davis arranged for the New York Public Education Association to do a psychological testing study at Bedford. The results showed that serious mental problems existed in a significant number of the female inmates. This result indicated a disconnect between the original focus of the reformatory and the population of inmates that it was serving. In 1910 Davis advocated for judges to have access to pre-sentencing background research and evaluations so that they can made appropriate placements. Davis wrote up her ideas in a pamphlet, \"A Rational Plan for the Treatment of Women Convicted in the Courts of New York City.\" that was widely distributed to people affiliated with criminal justice system in New York City.\n\nThe Prison Association of New York recognized the reforms that Davis made at Bedford Hills saying that \"the reformatory is becoming perhaps the most scientific institution of its kind in the world.\"\n\nReform-minded Mayor John Purroy Mitchel selected Davis to head the Correction Commission making her the first woman to lead an agency in New York City on January 1, 1914. Based on her relationship with Mitchel and his associates, Davis was on the Progressive party's 1914 slate for State Constitutional Convention seat, making her the first woman to run for a New York statewide office on a major party ticket.\n\nThe Bureau of Social Hygiene in New York City was an agency incorporated by John D. Rockefeller, Jr. in 1913 for \"the study, amelioration, and prevention of those social conditions, crimes, and diseases which adversely affect the well-being of society, with special reference to prostitution and the evils associated therewith.\" Rockefeller established the agency as a result of his appointment in 1911 to a special grand jury to investigate white slavery in New York City. The Bureau's work was influenced by the view that there was a biological basis for crime. During the Bureau's early years the main focus was on prostitution, vice, and political corruption. During later years, the Bureau shifted its emphasis towards criminology and the control of crime. The Bureau stopped granting new appropriations in 1934, and by 1937 all prior commitments were completed.\n\nIn 1918 Davis became the head of the Bureau.\n\nAt the Bureau of Social Hygiene, Davis arranged for ground-breaking research on women's sexuality on \"normal\" females. These were women whose names were found from club memberships directories and college alumnae lists. They were surveyed about \"auto-erotic practices, the frequency of sexual desire, homosexual experiences, use of contraceptives, frequency of sexual intercourse, pre-marital and extra-marital sexual experiences.\"\n\nCompulsory sterilization was seen by many as a way to reduce the incidence of mental illness and mental retardation in the general population of the United States. Davis was an eugenicist and during her tenure as General Secretary, she affiliated the Bureau with leaders in the field of eugenics such as Harry Laughlin, Charles Davenport and E. S. Gosney, director of The Human Betterment Foundation in California. In 1924, Davis accepted a position on the Committee on Eugenics of the United States' Advisory Council.\n\nAt the end of 1927 her contract was not extended and she retired. On February 2, 1928, the Waldorf-Astoria ballroom was filled with Progressive Era reformers to honor Davis at a testimonial dinner. The guests including Eleanor Roosevelt, Jane Addams, Carrie Chapman Catt, Rev. Harry Emerson Fosdick, Walter Lippman, Judge William McAdoo, John D. Rockefeller Jr., Lillian Wald and Felix Warburg.\n\nDavis retired to Pacific Grove, California with her sisters. Davis died December 10, 1935 from cerebral arteriosclerosis at her home.\n\nDuring her lifetime Davis was honored numerous times by a variety of organizations. The Panama-Pacific Exposition designated her one of the three most distinguished women in America. Davis received honorary degrees from Mount Holyoke College, Western Reserve and Yale universities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7983699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7983699", "title": "Knowledge divide", "text": "Knowledge divide\n\nThe knowledge divide is the gap in standards of living between those who can find, create, manage, process, and disseminate information or knowledge, and those who are impaired in this process. According to a 2005 UNESCO World Report, the rise in the 21st century of a global information society has resulted in the emergence of knowledge as a valuable resource, increasingly determining who has access to power and profit. The rapid dissemination of information on a potentially global scale as a result of new information media and the globally uneven ability to assimilate knowledge and information has resulted in potentially expanding gaps in knowledge between individuals and nations.\n\nIn the 21st century, the emergence of the knowledge society becomes pervasive. The transformations of world's economy and of each society have a fast pace. Together with information and communication technologies (ICT) these new paradigms have the power to reshape the global economy. In order to keep pace with innovations, to come up with new ideas, people need to produce and manage knowledge. This is why knowledge has become essential for all societies.\n\nAccording to UNESCO and the World Bank, knowledge gaps between nations may occur due to the varying degrees by which individual nations incorporate the following elements:\n\n\nThe information and ICT systems that support knowledge are very important. This is why digitization is viewed closely related to knowledge. Scientists generally agree that there is a digital divide, recently different reports also showed the existence of knowledge divide.\n\nThe creation and effective use of knowledge are increasingly related to the development of an ICT infrastructure. Without ICT, it is impossible to have an infrastructure able to process the huge flow of information required in an advanced economy. In particular, without adequate technical support, it is difficult to develop and use e-learning and electronic documents to overcome time and space constraints.\n\nThe digital divide is, however, but one important part of the larger knowledge divide. As UNESCO states, \"closing the digital divide will not suffice to close the knowledge divide, for access to useful, relevant knowledge is more than simply a matter of infrastructure—it depends on training, cognitive skills and regulatory frameworks geared towards access to contents.\"\n\nIn the book Digital Dead End, Virginia Eubanks criticizes the way that the digital divide is generally thought of as a division between haves and have-nots, where the solution is distribution. This over simplistic depiction obscures the fact that often social and structural inequality is at the root of the divide. According to a study done by Eubanks with women of the YWCA, the women of the community \"insisted that have-nots possess many different kinds of crucial information and skills.\" In other words, it is not simply knowledge of the technology itself that is the issue but the structural system based on perpetuating the status quo in which the haves \"hoard\" knowledge.\n\nFirst, it was noticed that a great difference exists between the North and the South (rich countries vs. poor countries). The development of knowledge depends on spreading Internet and computer technology and also on the development of education in these countries. If a country has attained a higher literacy level then this will result in having higher level of knowledge.\nIndeed, UNESCO's report details many social issues in knowledge divide related to globalization. There was noticed a knowledge divide with respect to\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9992", "title": "List of contemporary ethnic groups", "text": "List of contemporary ethnic groups\n\nThe following is a list of contemporary ethnic groups. There has been constant debate over the classification of ethnic groups. Membership of an ethnic group tends to be associated with shared cultural heritage, ancestry, history, homeland, language or dialect; where the term \"culture\" specifically includes aspects such as religion, mythology and ritual, cuisine, dressing (clothing) style, and other factors.\n\nBy the nature of the concept, ethnic groups tend to be divided into ethnic subgroups, which may themselves be or not be identified as independent ethnic groups depending on the source consulted. Multiracial groups (such as Canadian Métis and South African Coloureds) should be listed as subgroups of the ethnic groups they are descended from.\n\nThe groups commonly identified as \"ethnic groups\" (as opposed to ethno-linguistic phyla, national groups, racial groups or similar). Smaller groups (i.e. less than 100,000) are often indigenous peoples.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1026713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1026713", "title": "Mandatory retirement", "text": "Mandatory retirement\n\nMandatory retirement also known as enforced retirement, is the set age at which people who hold certain jobs or offices are required by industry custom or by law to leave their employment, or retire.\n\nTypically, mandatory retirement is justified by the argument that certain occupations are either too dangerous (military personnel) or require high levels of physical and mental skill (air traffic controllers, airline pilots). Most rely on the notion that a worker's productivity declines significantly after age 70, and the mandatory retirement is the employer's way to avoid reduced productivity. However, since the age at which retirement is mandated is often somewhat arbitrary and not based upon an actual physical evaluation of an individual person, many view the practice as a form of age discrimination, or ageism.\n\nEconomist Edward Lazear has argued that mandatory retirement can be an important tool for employers to construct wage contracts that prevent worker shirking. Employers can tilt the wage profile of a worker so that it is below marginal productivity early on and above marginal productivity toward the end of the employment relationship. In this way, the employer retains extra profits from the worker early on, which he returns in the later period if the worker has not shirked his duties or responsibilities in the first period (assuming a competitive market).\n\nIn Australia, compulsory retirement is generally unlawful throughout the various State and Territory jurisdictions in Australia. However, there are some exemptions. For instance, permanent members of the Australian Defence Force must retire at the age of 60 and reservists at 65.\n\nSince the passage of a constitutional amendment in 1977, judges on federal courts are required to retire at the age of 70.\n\nThe Constitution of Brazil says in Article 40, Paragraph 1, Item II, that all public servants in the Union, States, Cities and the Federal District shall mandatorily retire at the age of 70. This regulation encompasses servants from the executive, legislative and judicial branches. It also applies to the Supreme Federal Court Justices, as per Article 93, Item VI, of the Constitution, and the Court of Accounts of the Union Judges, as stated in Article 73, Paragraph 3 of the Constitution (disposition added after the 20th Amendment).\n\nThe normal age for retirement in Canada is 65, but one cannot be forced to retire at that age. Labour laws in the country do not specify a retirement age. Age 65 is when federal Old Age Security pension benefits begin, and most private and public retirement plans have been designed to provide income to the person starting at 65 (an age is needed to select premium payments by contributors to be able to calculate how much money is available to retirees when they leave the program by retiring).\n\nAll judges in Canada are subject to mandatory retirement, at 70 or 75 depending on the court. Federal senators cease to hold their seats at 75.\n\nMandatory retirement of federally regulated employees is prohibited as of December 2012.\n\nIn October 2006 the Employment Equality (Age) Regulations 2006, the UK Labour Government introduced a Default Retirement Age, whereby employers are able to terminate or deny employment to people over 65 without a reason. A legal challenge to this failed in September 2009, although a review of the legislation was expected in 2010 by the new Conservative/Liberal Democrat coalition government. This review has taken place and on 17 February 2011 BIS published the draft Regulations abolishing the Default Retirement Age. The draft Regulations were later revised and the final version was laid before Parliament on 1 March 2011. As of 6 April 2011, employers can no longer give employees notice of retirement under Default Retirement Age provisions and will need to objectively justify any compulsory retirement age still in place to avoid age discrimination claims.\n\nMandatory retirement is generally unlawful in the United States, except in certain industries and occupations that are regulated by law, and are often part of the government (such as military service and federal police agencies, such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation).\n\nFrom the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission website:\nFrom the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations discussing the Age Discrimination in Employment Act:\n\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, Pope Paul VI introduced a mandatory retirement age of 70 for priests and 75 for bishops and archbishops. There is no mandatory retirement age for cardinals nor for the pope, as they hold these positions for life, but cardinals age 80 or over are prohibited from participating in the papal conclave.\n\nFor the Anglican Communion clergy, they introduced the mandatory retirement age of 65 for priests and 70 for bishops and archbishops, five years younger than their Roman Catholic counterparts, as a result of changes imposed in the Protestant Reformation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21511851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21511851", "title": "March of Progress", "text": "March of Progress\n\nThe March of Progress, properly called The Road to Homo Sapiens, is an illustration that presents 25 million years of human evolution. It was created for the \"Early Man\" volume of the \"Life Nature Library\", published in 1965.\n\nIt has been viewed as a picture of the discredited view (orthogenesis) that evolution is progressive. As such, it has been widely parodied and imitated to create images of progress of other kinds.\n\nThe picture of progress in evolution was anticipated by Thomas Henry Huxley's 1863 \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\".\n\nThe illustration is part of a section of text and images commissioned by Time-Life Books for the \"Early Man\" volume (1965) of the \"Life Nature Library\", by F. Clark Howell.\n\nThe illustration is a foldout entitled \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\". It shows a sequence of figures, drawn by natural history painter and muralist Rudolph Zallinger (1919–1995). The 15 human evolutionary forebears are lined up as if they were marching in a parade from left to right. The first two sentences of the caption read \"What were the stages of man's long march from apelike ancestors to \"sapiens\"? Beginning at right and progressing across four more pages are milestones of primate and human evolution as scientists know them today, pieced together from the fragmentary fossil evidence.\"\n\nThe 15 primate figures in Zallinger's image, from left to right, are listed below. The datings follow the original graphic and may no longer reflect current scientific opinion.\n\n\nContrary to appearances and some complaints, the original 1965 text of \"The Road to Homo Sapiens\" reveals an understanding of the fact that a linear presentation of a sequence of primate species, all in the direct line of human ancestors, would not be a correct interpretation. For example, the fourth of Zallinger's figures (\"Oreopithecus\") is said to be \"a likely side branch on man's family tree\". Only the next figure (\"Ramapithecus\") is described as \"now thought by some experts to be the oldest of man's ancestors in a direct line\" (something no longer considered likely). That implies that the first four primates are not to be considered actual human ancestors. Likewise, the seventh figure (\"Paranthropus\") is said to be \"an evolutionary dead end\". In addition, the colored stripes, across the top of the figure, which indicate the age and duration of the various lineages clearly imply that there is no evidence of direct continuity between extinct and extant lineages and also, multiple lineages of the figured hominids occurred contemporaneously at several points in the history of the group.\n\nThe image has frequently been copied, modified, and parodied. It has been criticized as \"unintentionally and wrongly\" implying that \"evolution is progressive\".\n\nWith regard to the way the illustration has been interpreted, the anthropologist and author of the section, F. Clark Howell, remarked:\nStephen Jay Gould (1941–2002) condemned the iconology of the image in several pages of his 1989 book, \"Wonderful Life\", reproducing several advertisements and political cartoons that make use of the illustration to make their various points. In a chapter, \"The Iconography of an Expectation\", he asserted that\n\nThe intelligent design advocate Jonathan Wells wrote in \"\" (2002), \"Although it is widely used to show that we are just animals, and that our very existence is a mere accident, the ultimate icon goes far beyond the evidence.\" The book likens a selection of evolution theory textbook topics to the cover illustration thus qualified.\n\nBrian Switek, writing for \"Scientific American\", argues that the idea of a \"march of progress\", as depicted in the 1965 Time-Life illustration, dates back to the medieval great chain of being and the 19th century idea of the \"missing link\" in the fossil record. In his view, to understand life and evolution, \"step one involves casting out types of imagery which constrain rather than enlighten.\" Writing in \"Wired\", Switek added that \"There is perhaps no other illustration that is as immediately recognizable as representing evolution, but the tragedy of this is that it conveys a view of life that does not resemble our present understanding of life's history.\"\n\n\nThomas Henry Huxley's frontispiece to his 1863 book \"Evidence as to Man's Place in Nature\" was intended simply to compare the skeletons of apes and humans, but its unintentional left-to-right progressionist sequence has according to the historian Jennifer Tucker \"become an iconic and instantly recognizable visual shorthand for evolution\".\n\nAn illustration, with the caption \"Evolution\", showing two sequences of four images, each illustrating a gradual transformation of an animal into a human, appeared in the 1889 edition of Mark Twain's \"A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55613545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55613545", "title": "Mary Blathwayt", "text": "Mary Blathwayt\n\nMary Blathwayt (1 February 1879 – 25 June 1961) was a British feminist, suffragette and social reformer. She lived at Eagle House in Somerset that became known as the \"Suffragette's Rest\".\n\nMary Blathwayt was born 1 February 1879 in Worthing, Sussex, the daughter of Colonel Linley Blathwayt, an army officer who had served in India and Emily Blathwayt who were first cousins.\n\nUpon retiring from active service, Colonel Blathwayt and his family moved from India to Eagle House, Batheaston, on the outskirts of Bath.\n\nHer younger brother, William, trained as an electrical engineer and taught English in Germany for many years before returning to England at the beginning of the First World War. Mary, remained at home and attended Bath High School.\n\nBlathwayt and her mother started attending meetings of the Bath Women's Suffrage Society. In July 1906, Blathwayt gave three shillings to Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU). She first met Annie Kenney at a WSPU meeting in Bath and agreed to help Kenney, Elsie Howey, Clara Codd and Mary Phillips to organise the women's suffrage campaign in her area. Blathwayt was given an allowance by her family to support her in her work for women's rights. Many major people from the suffragette movement were invited to stay at her house and to plant a tree to celebrate a prison sentence.\n\nHowever when Vera Wentworth and Elsie Howey assaulted the Prime Minister this proved too much for Mary Blathwayt's family. Her mother, Emily, resigned from the WSPU and her father, Linley, wrote letters of protest to Christabel Pankhurst, Howey and Wentworth. Pankhurst was told that Howey and Wentworth could not visit their house again. Wentworth sent them a long reply expressing regret at their reaction but noting that \"if Mr. Asquith will not receive deputation they will pummel him again\".\n\nFollowing her retirement from the WSPU, Blathwayt lived a quiet life with her family at Eagle House until her death on 25 June 1961. The sixty trees that were planted at Eagle House were removed to make way for a housing estate. Other trees have been planted to mirror the lost memorials.\n\nBlathwayt's diary reveals that she probably had an affair with Cristabel Pankhurst before Pankhurst moved on to Annie Kenney. Blathwayt made notes of Kenney's sleeping partners when she stayed at Eagle House and jealousy has been proposed as the reason. In 1961 the Local Planning Authority overruled local objections and allowed the gardens to be redeveloped. The house was kept but its contents were auctioned and this included a Boadicea brooch given by Annie Kenney to Mary Blathwayt. The garden did not completely go unnoticed as a local journalist noted that the contents of the house were unimportant when compared to the suffragette's garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17777038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17777038", "title": "Mediated deliberation", "text": "Mediated deliberation\n\nMediated deliberation is a form of deliberation that is achieved through the media which acts as a mediator between the mass public and elected officials. The communication professionals of the media relay information, values, and diverse points of view to the public in order for effective public deliberation to occur. Benjamin Page proposes mediated deliberation be a \"division of labor\" with the idea of using the media to deliver information between the elected officials and the public because modern problems make it impossible to rely on the elected officials to deliberate for the public. The role of the media is to encourage discussion amongst the citizens to keep them engaged with their elected officials.\n\nMediated deliberation follows the conception of a deliberative democracy. According to Jürgen Habermas, a German philosopher, \"no modern political process could function effectively without the \"professionals of the media system\" and the various elites who produce mediated political communication.\" This ideal mediated deliberation would:\nto mobilize and pool relevant issues and required information, and to specify interpretations; to process such contributions discursively by means of proper arguments for and against; and to generate rationally motivated \"yes\" and \"no\" attitudes [i.e., public opinions] that are expected to determine the outcome of procedurally correct decisions.\n\nThrough this ideal model, mediated deliberation should promote public knowledge on important issues as well as encouraging public opinion through enlightenment.\n\nTo achieve an effective mediated deliberation, it requires collective responsibility from the media producers, including newspapers, television broadcasters, and the internet. The media needs to reliable because many people gain information and knowledge about events and issues. Robert Goodwin, a philosopher, described the idea of \"deliberation within\" which is the deliberation that occurs in an individual's mind. \"The point in having a deliberative media process is for individuals to hear conflicting considerations and weigh them to arrive at their own judgments.\" Through the analytic and social processes of deliberation, the table shows the roles that the media producers and media users need to fulfill in order for the ideal, mediated deliberation to occur. In the analytic process, it involves introspection on subjective values while reflecting on personal and emotional experiences with facts. The following tables are copyrighted © 2008 by Sage Publications, Inc from John Gastil’s book, \"Political Communication and Deliberation.\" \nAlong with the analytic process, the social process involves more equal access and comprehension while considering other diverse points of view.\n\nSocial Process\nThe analytic and social processes for mediated deliberation gives people the opportunity to evaluate the actions of media producers as well as their users.\n\nAs the host of \"The Daily Show,\" Jon Stewart appeared on CNN's former show \"Crossfire\" on October 15, 2004. Instead of discussing current events, Stewart argued that \"Crossfire\" \"fails miserably\" at providing its viewer audience with balanced information about politics. \"Crossfire\" \"presented itself as part of the deliberative process yet engaged in \"partisan hackery,\" Stewart concluded \"[it was not an honest debate]\". Stewart accused \"Crossfire\" of not upholding the \"responsibility to the public discourse\" and instead, it appeared to be a political theater. In response to Stewart's remarks, CNN canceled \"Crossfire\" in 2005.\n\nLance Bennett noticed that the media tend to not present balanced viewpoints for current events. Shortly after the September 11 attacks in the United States, Bennett's research showed the media coverage to represent only one, popular political party without a strong opposition party.\n\nBenjamin Page analyzed the 1991 U.S. war against Iraq in the \"New York Times\" from November 9, 1990 to January 15, 1991 to examine whether or not the stories covered by the media were balanced and fair. Page wanted to see if there were a diversity of views about the war from a variety of sources. As a result, the editors and regular columnists consumed most of the \"Times\" in the most read sections of the paper while ordinary citizens' voices were placed in the Letters section. Page noted that few experts on the Middle East or peace groups were presented in columns even though the \"Times\" 's editors were evenly balanced among three views of the conflict with Iraq: entirely peaceful solution; the U.S. should continue to use economic sanctions followed by military intervention, if necessary; and immediate use of force. Page concluded that although the media were balanced with the three views of the editors, other major viewpoints were not included. For example, the overwhelming majority of the \"Times\" 's readers supported a more peaceful stance but their views \"were not presented in proportion to their adherents among the general public\". Instead, their letters were presented in the Letters section which is less read than where the editors' and regular columnists' articles are located. \n\nPage criticizes the media for having \"different media outlets [taking] distinctive political stands.\" Television programs tend to take stands in a more muted and subtle way through verbal statements while printed sources present their ideologies in relation to the interests of their audience over time. In addition, Page notes that \"\"certain media outlets\"--especially newspapers and magazines, but sometimes also television program networks--do not merely reflect the social and political forces around them; instead, they \"actively work to shape political discourse to their own purposes.\"\" The media would emphasize points about a story that they want to make.\n\nCivic journalism (sometimes called public journalism) is a movement that peaked in the 1990s as an attempt to reconnect with democracy and to increase persons' trust in journalism by being more debatable, neutral, and independent with an issue. As attempts to achieve these goals, newspapers \"redesigned their coverage to emphasize the concerns of citizens\"; encourage citizens to discuss public issues, and change techniques in newsgathering and reporting.\n\nOn January 25, 2003, the Public Journalism Network in Georgia established a declaration which made it clear that journalists believed in maintaining these changes in journalism.\n\n\"The Public Journalism Network brings together a diverse group of print and electronic media organizations that share the same general goal of connecting with the public they serve and promoting not just media deliberation but also the kinds of conversations, discussions, and public meetings\" \nIn brief, the Public Journalism Network Charter states:\n\n\"We believe journalism and democracy work best when news information and ideas flow freely; news fairly portrays a full range and variety of life and culture of all communities; when public deliberation is encouraged and amplified, and when news helps people function as political actors and not just political consumers...journalists should stand apart in making sound professional judgment and should not stand apart in learning about and understanding these communities...new techniques for storytelling and information-sharing to help individual communities to have their own voice as a whole set of communities...stories and images can help or hinder as people struggle to reach sound judgments about personal lives and well-being...to reach deeper into communities and serve people...listen to people...study dynamics of communities and the complexity of public life...journalism helps people see the world as a whole and helps them take responsibility for what they see.\" \nModeling after the National Issues Forums, Citizen Voices was a Philadelphian newspaper's \"attempt to engage\" across the diverse city during a 1999 mayoral race between a white Republican against a black Democrat. After noticing skewed responses from more educated and affluent white readers in this racially divided city, Citizen Voices aimed to encourage more public involvement from lower class minorities by creating a citizens’ issues-oriented mayoral campaign. To invite participants from all backgrounds, Citizen Voices invented \"The Oprah Show\" as a comedic parody of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" as a way to get citizens to think about problems and solutions within their city. The second phase of the project included a National Issues Forum-style discussion where citizens deliberated on position papers that the mayoral candidates submitted and drafted five issues with their questions for the mayoral debate including: education, jobs, neighborhoods, public safety, and reforming city hall. The issue of race was added to these five topics due to race relations complicating Philadelphia's effort to address its problems. \"Throughout the year, Citizen Voices remained a frequent presence on \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" 's opinion pages.\" Editorials on the campaign revolved around the issues that were picked by Citizens Voices and were even published on the commentary page in full-page layouts. Candidates were asked to respond to these questions on the issues that were drafted by citizens. As a result, it appeared that low-income participants were more willing and more confident to express their political views.\n\nOne of the best sources to see an example of a mediated deliberation is investigative journalism. The media responds and reports events that generate a lot of public concern or interests. In investigative journalism, the media conducts their own original research and investigation to uncover a news story that would have otherwise gone unnoticed. Sometimes, it is triggered from a reporter's hunch or even an outside source. For example, the \"Washington Post\" 's articles revealing the Watergate scandal involving President Richard Nixon through the famous \"Deep Throat\" outside source. Over the years, investigative reporting has steadily declined. In 2002, about one in 150 stories accounted for investigative journalism compared to one in 60 in 1998. This reduction has been caused by many factors including: \nAssuming the reports are valid, investigative journalism can improve mediated deliberation by serving as an objective, unbiased source. Reporters may present the necessary information and facts of an issue needed for individuals to decide the whether or not future action needs to take place.\n"}
{"id": "45408696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45408696", "title": "Mila Tupper Maynard", "text": "Mila Tupper Maynard\n\nMila Tupper Maynard (née Mila Frances Tupper; January 26, 1864 – November 12, 1926) was an American Unitarian minister, writer, social reformer and suffragist. She is thought to have been the first female minister in Nevada.\n\nBorn Mila Frances Tupper on January 26, 1864, in Brighton, Iowa, she was the daughter of Allen and Ellen (Smith) Tupper. Tupper Maynard was greatly influenced by her sister, Eliza Frances Tupper, who was 20 years older and active in establishing churches throughout the Midwestern United States. Tupper Maynard accompanied her sister on these projects and became actively involved in the Unitarian church.\n\nHer ambition was to become a Unitarian minister, but women were not admitted into seminaries for training. Instead, she graduated from Whitewater State Normal School (now University of Wisconsin–Whitewater) in Wisconsin and then went on to earn a Bachelor of Letters degree in philosophy at Cornell University in 1889. Her education allowed her to be ordained as a Unitarian minister. Her first position was pastor in La Porte, Indiana. After serving in La Porte from 1889 to 1891, she moved to Grand Rapids, Michigan, where she remained for about a year.\n\nWhile in Grand Rapids, she met Rev. Rezin A. Maynard, 12 years her senior, who was an alcoholic attorney and counseled the Unitarian Church. They developed a strong relationship, which led Rev. Maynard to divorce his wife. The affair caused a scandal within the Unitarian Church congregation and Tupper Maynard left for Chicago where she worked at the Hull House under Jane Addams’ supervision. Rev. Maynard soon followed Tupper Maynard to Chicago, there on May 24, 1893. Following her time at the Hull House, Tupper Maynard joined the World's Congress of Representative Women at the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. During this period, she became closely associated with Christian socialism and joined Christian socialist Myron Reed at the Broadway Temple.\n\nIn 1893, the Maynards served as pastors of the Unitarian Church in Reno, Nevada. While living in Reno, Tupper Maynard taught religious courses at the University of Nevada, established a choir, and administered to patients at the Hospital for the Care of the Indigent Insane. Her services at the hospital led to an appointment by the Nevada governor to attend the Congress of the National Prison Association (now known as the American Correctional Association). She continued providing twice-weekly lectures and numerous socialist-themed lectures. Her topics included property rights, prison reform, government involvement in religious education, and women's and children's rights.\n\nWhile living in Reno, she began to write extensively on the women's suffrage movement. She addressed the Nevada State Assembly on February 11, 1895, on women's suffrage. Although the assembly rejected a women's suffrage bill soon after her speech, lawmakers later revived the amendment and the Nevada State Senate and Assembly ultimately passed it. Shortly after her landmark speech to the Assembly, Tupper Maynard provided pastoral care for Alice Hartley, who had been arrested on murder charges. She had killed her lover, Reno banker M.D. Foley, after he abandoned her and their baby. Most of Tupper Maynard's congregation and the local community objected to Tupper Maynard’s attention to Hartley, asserting that her actions condoned murder and the woman’s lifestyle as a \"fallen woman\". Tupper Maynard's colleagues from other faiths criticized her for appearing to sympathize with a criminal.\n\nThe criticism prompted the Maynards to leave for Salt Lake City to serve the First Unitarian Church. They later became associated with the People's Temple in Denver. She wrote \"The Wider Selfhood\" articles in the \"Rocky Mountain News\", and also served as editorial writer on the \"Rocky Mountain News\" and the \"Denver Times\" staff. She was the author of \"Walt Whitman—Poet of the Wider Selfhood\".\n\nBy 1907, they moved to Los Angeles, where their socialist advocacy bloomed. The couple were central figures in the Socialist Party and continued working on the suffrage movement. In 1913, the Maynards joined the staff of \"The Western Comrade\", a socialist magazine closely associated with Job Harriman's Llano del Rio utopian cooperative community in the Antelope Valley on the edge of the Mojave Desert. Harriman, a Socialist Party leader and candidate for mayor of Los Angeles, and Frank E. Wolfe, a veteran newspaperman, edited the magazine. Tupper Maynard served as the magazine's drama critic, but she also wrote on women's suffrage and religious issues. By 1914, most of the original staff of \"The Western Comrade\" had left the publication. Tupper Maynard then focused her attention on establishing the Unity Church of Santa Monica. The United States' entry into World War I in 1917 proved a pivotal time for socialists. Many members opposed the United States entering the war, but others, like the Maynards, supported the country's involvement, which created a division within the Socialist Party. She quit the Socialist Party in 1918. For the next eight years, she taught religious studies until her death in Los Angeles in 1926.\n"}
{"id": "5854300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5854300", "title": "Modern Studies", "text": "Modern Studies\n\nModern studies is a subject unique to the Scottish secondary school curriculum. The focus of Modern Studies is to develop learners' knowledge and understanding of contemporary political and social issues in local, Scottish, United Kingdom and international contexts.\n\nModern Studies is offered both at National Qualification level and also in the Broad General Education stage of Scottish education. Pupils in primary school and up to S3 in secondary school have the opportunity to study Modern Studies concepts through the 'People in Society, Economy and Business' area of the broader Social Studies Curriculum for Excellence experiences and outcomes. In the Senior Phase, Modern Studies is offered as a discrete subject. Ray Gunnion, history teacher in Brannock High School until 2004, was largely involved in introducing Modern Studies into the Scottish Education system as he felt it was a valuable subject for kids in Scotland.\n\nModern Studies helps you develop knowledge and understanding of the processes that determine political, social and economic life. These processes are studied locally, nationally and internationally.\n\nModern Studies helps you develop important skills. For example you will become better at critically evaluating information, analysing complex sources and report writing. In some instances, the skills involved in using information technology will also be developed.\n\nTogether, the knowledge you acquire and the skills you develop will allow you to become a more informed individual, able to participate more effectively in society in a more tolerant and responsible manner.\n\nCommon study themes exist across Modern Studies qualifications, from Broad General Education to Senior Phase.\n\nPupils are given the opportunity to learn about the democratic processes of the United Kingdom with a focus on either UK democracy or Scottish democracy. This includes examining rights and responsibilities, the political process, participation and representation at various levels.\n\nPupils examine social issues in society using sociological processes. The focus of this unit is either Social Inequality or Crime and the Law.\n\nA focus on social inequalities would examine issues of health, education, income and wealth inequalities in the UK by studying selected groups such as the unemployed, working poor, women, children, the elderly, LBGT* people, BME people and others.\n\nA focus on Crime and the Law would explore the types of crime committed in the UK, the sociological and individualistic theories of the causes of crime, the impact of crime and attempts to tackle crime. The unit would examine the role of the criminal justice system, the police and the government.\n\nThe International Issues unit is intended to broaden the scope of pupils' experiences to international contexts. The focus of this unit will examine either a World Power or a World Issue.\n\nA focus on a World Power will consist of a socioeconomic and political study of a G20 country (excluding the United Kingdom). This focus will be on the country's constitutional arrangements and opportunities for participation, the nature of recent socioeconomic issues and attempts to revolve them and the international influence of the world power.\n\nA focus on a World Issue would put in the spotlight a contemporary significant conflict or issue which extends beyond the borders of a single country and has had impacts regionally or globally. Examples of areas of study in this area would be terrorism or the Syrian Civil War. A study of a world issue would focus on the causes of, the impacts of and attempts to resolve the issue.\n\nAll schools in Scotland follow the 3-18 Curriculum for Excellence. Modern Studies is not offered as a discrete subject at primary school level, rather, it is delivered within the integrated Social Studies curricular area (which also encompasses history and geography themes). In the early, first and second stages (P1-P7); pupils are introduced to social studies key themes and are encouraged to develop analytical and evaluative skills.\n\nEach school has the freedom to develop a course to suit the needs and interests of both pupils and teachers within the parameters of the Social Studies Experiences and Outcomes.\n\nModern Studies is offered at National 3, 4 & 5 levels and at Higher and Advanced Higher. There is scope for a great deal of personalisation and choice across the NQ levels within the Course Assessment Specification. There are three areas of study and within these areas, teachers have the opportunity to teach a number of combinations of topic; these are:\nAt Advanced Higher level, there is a greater emphasis on depth of knowledge and so, one area of study is chosen from: Political Issues OR Law and Order OR Social Inequality.\n\nAt each level above National 3, there also exists the requirement for pupils to complete an independent research project under the supervision of their teacher. This project makes up some of the final overall award.\n\nModern Studies does not exist as a separate subject at University level though it is a sound basis for further study of a range of subjects from which Modern Studies is composed, such as Crime and the Law, Politics, International Relations, Sociology, Criminology, Economics, Social Policy and Public Policy.\n\nEducation in Scotland\n\n"}
{"id": "5000516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5000516", "title": "Mommy track", "text": "Mommy track\n\nA mommy track is a path in a woman's life that puts priority to being a mother. It can also specifically refer to work arrangements for women in the workforce that facilitate motherhood, such as flexible hours, but at the same time usually provides fewer opportunities for career advancement. References to the mommy track often go along with being a housewife, \"opting out\" of the workforce, temporarily or even permanently. Women following the mommy track may be contrasted to career women who prioritize their careers more than having children.\n\nWriter Jennifer A. Kingson introduced the term \"mommy track\" in an August 8, 1988, article in The New York Times, in which she described the career hurdles faced by law firm associates who sacrificed advancement potential once they had children.\n\nFelice Schwartz’s 1989 article in the \"Harvard Business Journal\" is sometimes called the first discussion of the mommy track phenomenon. Schwartz claims in the article that while “the cost of employing women in management is greater than the cost of employing men,” this greater cost is due primarily to gendered expectations of the workplace and women’s duties in raising children. Schwartz wrote:\nSchwartz's assertions generated widespread publicity and a new conversation about women in the workplace. \"The New York Times,\" having coined the term in 1988, described \"mommy track\" in greater detail in a March 8, 1989 article, \"Mommy Career Track Sets Off Furor\" which discussed Schwartz's article and the response to it in the public sphere. The article described the mommy track as a phenomenon \"in which women with family responsibilities are shunted into dead-end, lower-paying jobs.\"\n\nAcross different pay levels and socioeconomic groups, women’s earnings tend to plateau after giving birth. Even when controlling for variables, on average mothers in all groups earn lower wages than non-mothers. Beyond this general drop in earnings, though, there are significant differences in mothers’ wage gaps between high-earning women and low-earning women.\n\nHigh-earning women appear to bear much higher costs of childbirth than low-earning women. In the US, choosing to have children will force a woman to give up 21 to 33 percent of her lifetime earnings, a loss that could cost up to hundreds of thousands of dollars. Ten years after having children, a highly skilled woman with children remains at a pay level 24% lower than non-mothers even when time out of the workforce is taken into account. This group of women also seems to face greater discrimination within the workplace; only 16% of all law firm partners are women, a discrepancy absent from lower-skilled professions. Higher-skilled women tend to have flatter wage-earning trajectories than their low-skilled counterparts after giving birth, primarily seen in a lack of wage growth.\n\nLow-earning women who have children are sacrificing about 10 to 14 percent of their total lifetime earnings. Even ten years after having children, a mother in the US in this income bracket earns wages that are about 12% lower than non-mother, low-skilled women. This group of mothers tends to experience a one-time fall in pay immediately after childbirth of about 6%, but after that initial fall the wage gap between women with children and those without does not continue to grow over time.\n\nA theory frequently cited for why mothers earning lower wages than other women that is the fact that mothers tend to spend fewer hours in the workplace than non-mothers. A report in 2014 by the Bureau of Labor Statistics stated that employed men worked 52 minutes more than employed women on the days they worked, and that this difference partly reflects women's greater likelihood of working part-time. Part-time work and flextime or more flexible arrangements are seen as hallmarks of the mommy track, since they point to women not being in the workplace full-time. However, this is changing as more people—men and women alike—choose more flexible work arrangements that allow for more free time.\n\nIn the years since the women’s liberation movement and second-wave feminism, gender roles have become more complicated and less dogmatic. Despite this, the modern ideal of “intensive parenting,” first described by Sharon Hays, ensures that mothers continue to take primary responsibility for raising children due to the engrained social norm that women are better nurturers. This is one of the reasons that while both men and women report having increased trouble with their work-life balance after having a baby, women are the only ones whose hours working decrease as a response to this conflict. Moreover, women who cannot afford to pay someone else to take care of domestic work are faced with the double burden of working outside of the home while continuing to complete the majority of domestic work in the home.\n\nAnother cultural influence on mothers' decreased presence in the workforce is gender discrimination within the U.S. tax code. Since domestic labor in one’s own home is unpaid and untaxed, and women continue to do a majority of domestic labor as a result of societal norms, in many households it may seem less expensive for a woman to take care of this labor than to go to work and pay someone else to cook, clean, and care for children. The tax code also sees men as the primary earners and women as secondary earners, so men benefit from joint filing while women’s earnings are frequently subject to higher taxation.\n\nMany feminists saw the idea of the mommy track as divisive to women and therefore one that could have a detrimental effect to the feminist cause. Since Schwartz’s initial article proposed sorting women into two categories based on their devotion to careers, some saw this as a division between women that both forced them into narrow categories and ignored any existing differences between men.\n\nThere is also an ongoing discussion of whether the wage gap that results from a mommy track is any sort of societal discrimination against women, or basically an effect of mothers choosing to spend more time away from work.\n\nIn a 2005 study, in the US, it has been estimated that 31% of working mothers left the workplace (for an average of 2.2 years), most often precipitated by the birth of the second child. As of 2015, the US was one of only three countries in the world (the other two being Papua New Guinea and Suriname) that does not have laws that require employers to provide paid maternity leave.\n\nJapan’s social norms, like those of the U.S., help to cause many women to move into part-time work upon having children. However, unlike the U.S., Japanese mothers rarely return to full-time work after having children. Even more so than other developed countries, Japan has an especially high proportion of women who work part-time, and a majority of those women are mothers. Common business practices in Japan further penalize mothers who may have taken leave from the workplace at some point, due to companies choosing to only recruit directly from universities and setting upper limits on age for full-time positions.\n\nIn the Netherlands women have entered the workforce relatively recently. Throughout much of the 20th century, women faced many legal and social obstacles preventing them from working. Although in the late 1950s, the Netherlands made important legal changes, such as removing the marriage bar and the marital power of the husband, it was only in 1984 that full legal equality between husband and wife was achieved - prior to 1984 the law stipulated that the husband's opinion prevailed over the wife's regarding issues such as decisions on children's education and the domicile of the family, reflecting the traditional structure of the society.\nAlso, according to \"The Economist\", \"[Dutch] politics was dominated by Christian values until the 1980s\", which meant that Dutch women were slower to enter into the workforce. In the early 1980s, the Commission of the European Communities report \"Women in the European Community\" found that \"it is in the Netherlands (17.6%) and in Ireland (13.6%) that we see the smallest numbers of married women working and the least acceptance of this phenomenon by the general public\". (pg 14). From the 1980s onwards, the numbers of women entering the workplace have increased, but most of the women work part time. In 2012, 76.9% of employed women worked part-time, well above the European Union average of 32.1%.\n\nThe UK has less working mothers than many other Western countries. Lack of sufficient childcare and social stigma against working mothers have been cited as reasons. In general, women in the UK have one of the highest rate of part-time work in Europe. A report by OECD which looked at the OECD members, as well as at other countries from inside and outside Europe, found that only the Netherlands and Switzerland had a higher percentage of women working part-time. Women in the UK face one of the worst motherhood penalties among Western countries: \"[mothers] find significant motherhood wage penalties in several Continental Northern European countries (Austria, the Netherlands and Germany) and Anglophone countries (Canada, the UK and the US)\". The European Council, in a recommendation to the UK (which is non-binding), has criticized the UK because \"The difference in the share of part-time work between women (42,6 % in 2013) and men (13,2 % in 2013) is one of the highest in the Union. The percentage of women who are inactive or work part-time due to personal and family responsibilities (12,5 %) was almost twice as high as the EU average (6,3 %) in 2013...[e]ven if supply in the childcare system has increased recently, the availability of affordable, high-quality, full-time childcare remains a key issue.\"\n\nIn the Nordic countries, marriage and having children have far greater effects on women than on men, partly due to the expectation that women will continue unpaid domestic labor. However, the Nordic countries have worked to make the dual-earner household the norm, with nationalized childcare, parental leave, and flexible working hours making it possible for women to continue to work. According to a 2007 UNICEF report, in Sweden, although parents are given 12 months of parental leave time that can be divided between the two as each couple sees best, gender norms continue to have an effect: mandated maternity leave combined with Sweden allowing women to reduce work hours after giving birth means that nearly half of mothers in dual-income families work less than full-time. Although women in Nordic countries have a high overall labour participation, there is a strong segregation by gender with women being often found in certain work sectors, which have a working culture adapted to family life, with flexible hours and offers of part-time jobs, and men working in other sectors. According to the Nordic Information on Gender \"The gender-segregated labour market is a main reason why women are more likely to work part time in the Nordic countries than elsewhere in Europe\". However, this part-time work culture does not extend to Finland, where for historical reasons there was a shortage of labour in the country, which increased the need for women to work full time - as such, the part-time culture of the other Nordic countries was never established in Finland. Finland has a longer tradition of mothers working, compared to the other Nordic countries: in 1978, 73% of Finnish mothers of 0 - 6 year olds were employed, compared to 69% of Swedish and only 48% of Norwegian.\nAs of 2014, Sweden's employment rate for women was the highest in the EU28, and was only slightly below that of men (73% female rate vs. 76.5% male rate). This compared with the EU28 rate of 58.8% female vs 69% male.\n\n\nPolicies:\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30695457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30695457", "title": "Morality of violence", "text": "Morality of violence\n\nIn ethics, questions regarding the morality of violence ask under what conditions, if any, the use of violence can be morally justified. Three prominent views on the morality of violence are (1) the pacifist position, which states that violence is always immoral, and should never be used; (2) the utilitarian position, which states that violence can be used if it brings about a net \"good\" for society; (3) a hybrid of these two views which both looks at what good comes from the use of violence, while also examining the types of violence used.\n\nChristian theologians have traditionally argued against the morality of violence, arguing that Christians should love their enemies as well as their friends. Benito Mussolini often spoke about the morality of violence, arguing that violence was moral, and that it had spiritual importance as an expression of human will.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35044291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35044291", "title": "Multicommunicating", "text": "Multicommunicating\n\nMulticommunicating is the practice of engaging in more than one conversation at a time. It is defined as, \"engaging in two or more overlapping, synchronous conversations\". The term multicommunicating was coined by Turner, Reinsch and Tinsley, who propose that simultaneous conversations can be conducted using an ever increasing array of media, including face-to-face, phone and email tools for communication. Multicommunicating evolves with the rapid development of ICT. It has become more and more prevalent in recent years and it has received attention from academic fields. Up to now, the majority of academic research focuses on its professional implications and outlines a number of key factors shaping the act of multicommunicating. For instance, the flexibility of communication tempo, the compartmentalization of conversations, and the topics and intensity of interactions are all contributing factors toward a person's choice of engaging in multicommunicating as well as his or her ultimate success with the practice.\n\nThe reason why multicommunicating is possible from a physiological and cognitive perspective is because humans, or presence allocators, are typically able to think faster than they are able to talk or type. Nonetheless, most neuroscience studies imply that we are not truly cognitively capable of multitasking; we are just able to switch between tasks. This means that those of us who are most adept at apparent multitasking, or multicommunicating, are essentially very quick at juggling our attention(s) between messages.\n\nNotably, many people engage in multiple conversations as a direct response to the requests of others. Employees frequently believe that multicommunicating increases their productivity and work efficiency, however in-depth interviews about the practice of multicommunicating have often revealed some mixed results. Research has also shown that the most commonly used combinations for multicommunicating are the telephone and email, followed by the telephone and text-based messaging (text message, instant message, etc.).\n\nAs a concept, multicommunicating primarily builds off Hall's work on polychronicity, Goffman's theory of the presentation of self, and Daft and Lengel's notion of media richness; Multicommunicating is also similar in nature to the notion of multitasking. However, where multicommunicating departs from all of these previous concepts is that it refers specifically to managing multiple conversations, people and media – not just tasks – at the same time. Stephen, Cho and Ballard elucidate this distinction in a 2011 paper which compares dovetailing (sequential communication) with mutlicommunication (simultaneous interactions). In addition, multicommunicating often occurs unbeknown to one's communication partners.\n\nMulticommunicating is closely related to Hall's 1959 work on polychronicity; in fact, multicommunicating was initially called 'polychronic communication' in one of Turner and Reinsch' first scholarly presentations of the concept to the wider academic community. In his 1959 book \"The Silent Language\" Hall coined the term polychronicity and in subsequent works developed the argument that polychronicity is a measure of a culture's preference toward engaging in several activities at a time. An important conceptual transition then occurred in the late 90's, when Bluedron became one of the first scholars to adapt the term polychronicity from the cultural context and to apply it to the workplace.\n\nGoffman's theory of the presentation of self, which suggests that people engage in a world of multistage dramas, also plays an informing role in the construction of multicommunicating. The notion that we tailor our behavior to suit our environmental contexts and situations is indeed, true in conversations, too. Nonetheless, where multicommunicating differentiates itself from Goffman's theory of the presentation of self is that a 'presence allocator' picks up their appropriate behavior cues from the interaction and the medium itself as opposed to the 'actor', who picks up his or her cues for appropriate behavior from their physical environment.\n\nDaft and Lengel's research on media richness theory or, how employees choose which technologies to use in the workplace, is another important concept for multicommunicating. Similar to McLuhan's notion of 'the medium is the message', Daft and Lengel argue that different media have varying qualities that make them more or less suited for certain interactions. For example, a relatively complex interaction, such as an important conversation with a new business partner, will likely be carried out with as rich a medium as possible. This rich medium would be a communication technology, like Skype or even a face-to-face conversation, which would allow for maximum information and submersion in the interaction. Conversely, a more casual and routine conversation, such as the making of lunch plans with a co-worker, could easily be carried out over a less contextually rich medium like an office chat or a text message.\n\nOrganizational norms shape the frequency and usage of multicommunication within an organization. In this sense, the practice of multicommunicating is a type of multiple media practices, also known as multimedia, because people often use more than one media when engaging in multiple conversations. Media Ecology theory centers on the principles that there is a strong connection between media, technology and communication, and how media and communication processes influence human perception, feeling, understanding and value, and usually all three are used when engaged in multiple conversations in a technology enriched workplace..\n\nMulticommunicating takes the medium selection concept from media richness theory and suggests that some of the same characteristics that contribute to making medium choices may also contribute to the reasons a person might multicommunicate. For example, if a conversation is not very complicated or equivocal, a person might be more likely to engage in multiple conversations. A conversation that is more complicated might make it hard for multicommunicating to take place.\n\nClosely connected to media richness theory is also the notion of Channel Expansion Theory, which suggests that as an individual becomes more familiar with a specific technology, his or her perception of its capabilities and richness expands. Thus, somebody who is very comfortable with a certain chat site may perceive it to be richer in contextual nature than somebody who is only familiar with its most basic functionalities. This contributes to our understanding of multicommunicating in the sense that a persons' experience with various media may make them more adept at picking up contextually rich conversation signals as well as more prepared for handling certain communication technologies. However, even though channel expansion theory implies there are positive effects associated with the familiarity of a technology, this does not necessarily suggest that as a person's perception of media richness increases, the process of multicommunicating becomes simplified.\n\nThe difference between multicommunicating and multitasking can be confusing since both of the terms talk about people participating in two events at the same time. Scholars in the field of communication have made clear definition of the relationship between these two phenomena. They believe that multitasking has broader scope than multicommunicating which is one complex form of multitasking. Multitasking refers to a user engaging in multitasking behavior when s/he performs more than one unrelated task concurrently, which simply emphasizes task independence and performance concurrency. Multicommunicating, however, involves people participating in two simultaneous conversations, which not only requires adequate attention on both tasks, but also coordination between the two.\n\nIn addition to multicommunicating, multitasking also includes electronic multitasking, invisible whispering, and social multitasking. None of these subcategories are separated from others. They are overlapping with other categories more or less.\n\nResearch suggests that there are two characteristics which help to determine a person's choice of communication media when engaging in multicommunicating: compartmentalization and flexibility of tempo.\n\nCompartmentalization refers to the ability and ease of cross-conversations. For instance, an online chat allows one to relatively freely move from one conversation to another. In this case, the ability to hide conversations from the multiple communication partners is an important factor of compartmentalization, too.\n\nFlexibility of tempo refers to the amount of time a person has to respond to a certain message. Face-to-face communication often allows for less flexibility of tempo than does a text message.\n\nMost typically, users choose to combine media technologies such as the telephone (described as non-flexible in tempo and partially compartmentalized) with those such as electronic text (described as high in both flexibility and compartmentalization capabilities). Of course, sometimes presence allocators do not have a choice about one or more of the media they engage with. However, specific combinations of communication media may contribute strongly toward the success or, lack thereof, one has with multicommunicating.\n\nTo multicommunicate or not to multicommunicate – what is it that makes an multicommunicating episode successful? Several factors, including intensity, topic of conversation, equivocality, and the presence allocator themselves may help to determine the outcomes of an episode of multicommunicating.\n\nIntensity of communication is one of the key factors in multicommunicating because it helps to predict the amount of attention and importance a specific conversation holds. Typically, conversation intensity increases with more, simultaneous conversations, a faster pace of conversion, a broader range of topics, and a wider mix of social roles. Overly high intensity has sometimes been reported as a factor for unsuccessful multicommunicating.\n\nThe topics or themes of episodes of multicommunicating are another key factor determining overall success. Put simply, the more alike the themes of the simultaneous conversations, the more congruent an experience and easier a time the presence allocator has in information processing and conversation-switching. Similarly, the more divergent the topics or themes of conversation, the bigger the cognitive strain on the presence allocator and the higher the chance for confusion or conversation mix-ups.\n\nThe notion of equivocality is closely related to topic or theme of communication and is another key factor, which may help to determine the success of multicommunicating. Equivocality refers to the possibility for misinterpretation and studies suggest that the higher the potential for equivocality in a conversation, the more likely an individual is to pick a medium of communication that is rich in contextual cues, or that has high media-richness. The possibility for equivocality extends to episodes of multicommunicating, too, and could potentially be compounded if one has to switch their attention between media – or does not engage in rich-media conversations when necessary.\n\nThere are limits to our working memory that in turn restrict our cognitive information processing capabilities. Performance deteriorates when these limits are exceeded. Because of these limits, performing two tasks at the same time or rapidly switching between two tasks results in decreased task performance in terms of accuracy and response time. These problems can be partially alleviated (but not eliminated) by practice and physical compatibility of the tasks being performed, but they increase with task complexity.\n\nOverall, research advocates that presence allocators have the most successful experiences with multicommunicating episodes when engaged in multiple conversations with contextually appropriate media around similar topics. Likewise, the frequent reports of unsuccessful multicommunicating episodes include a sense of high intensity, equivocality and theme confusion. In those cases, information overload can occur to the point where a conversation slows down, becomes confounded or altogether stops.\n\nWhile the study of multicommunicating is still in its emergent stages, it appears to be increasingly relevant to a fast-paced, multitasking society. Some implications of multicommunicating and suggestions for further studies include:\n\nMost people indicate that they multicommunicate in order to become more efficient. However, this goal of efficiency has received some mixed results. Despite the notion that getting several things done at once makes us more productive, research has indicated that polychronicity is negatively correlated with deadlines. More specifically, when it comes to communication and multiple conversations many people reveal a breaking point, at which they can no longer juggle synchronous messages. Significant numbers of research subjects also indicate that they prefer to stay away from multicommunicating altogether when it comes to important conversations which require strong attention.\n\nSeveral scholars also hypothesized that perceived communication workload can influence people engaging in multicommunicating. Since perceived heavy workload gives people a sense of loss of time, which may result to people compensating for the effect of being overloaded by multicommunicating. However, as revealed by related research results, perceived communication overload did not predict meeting multitasking behaviors.\n\nBy employing the social exchange theory, which views social behavior as \"an exchange of goods, material goods but also non-material ones, such as the symbols of approval or prestige\" where \"persons that give much to others try to get much from them, and persons that get much from others are under pressure to give much to them\", Carmeno and Webster examine the relational outcomes of multicommunicating from the following aspects: Partners-VS Focal-Initiated Conversation, Conversation Leveraging, Multicommunicating Performance, Focal Individual Accessibility, Partner's Polychronic Communication Orientation, Awareness and Media Fit. In their research, they suggest that Multicommunicating has the potential to build up or damage our workplace relationships. And the incivility perceived in multicommunicating may lead to mistrust in working places.\n\nStaying “connected has become a societal norm and a personal habit in our society, especially with the development of new information communication technologies (ICTs). Bayer, Campbell & Ling explain how individuals internalize and activate social connectedness during daily life. The model outlined typed of connection cues, factors, that moderate sensitivity to connection norms, and activation paths for connection habits. But what does it really mean to stay “connected”? Does it mean that our physical presence also determines our social presence? The research done by Turner & Foss” suggests that there are four types of presences when we engage in multiple conversations: budgeted, entitled, competitive and invitational. \n\n\nEach presence involves the control of our audience and technology, the choices we make, and how we interact. \n\nIs there a way to measure our social presence? In her paper “Toward a more robust theory and measure of social presence” Biocca, Harms & Burgoon contribute to the understanding of social behavior in mediated environments, which allows researchers to predict and measure differences among interfaces and guide the design of new social environments and interfaces\n\nMulticommunicating is especially present in team collaborations. In order to be more effective in their workplace, teams would use different platforms for their communication practices. There are a number of communication platforms such as Slack that include multiple Social Media Channels (social networking platforms and instant messaging). The media capabilities of these platforms, including integrations for diverse information and communication technologies, enable affordances for both highly adaptable and centralized team communication practices. A recent research shows that team communication platforms (also known as TCPs) enable affordances for multicommunication and attention allocation including flexible scaling of media modality and synchronicity. \n\nAnother important factor to consider with multicommunicating is the organizational context and the perception of others.\n\nIn organizational settings, research suggests that individual's decisions to use informational communication technology are influenced by what they observe other members do in the organization, which is positive related to their multicommunicating behaviors. The perception of what others think about multicommunicating is also another significant predictor on this behaviors. Often, people hide the fact that they are multicommunicating from their conversational partners because they report an underlying perception of rudeness or partiality of conversational investment associated with multicommunicating. However, if people perceive that multicommunicating is acceptable in the organizations, they will not feel embarrassed and will engage in this kind of behaviors more often.\n\nDepending on the organizational culture, multicommunicating can become particularly crucial and bear negative effects in a professional or office setting. Conversely, research suggests that employees who follow organizational communication norms receive higher performance ratings than those who don't. therefore, if multicommunicating were considered an organizational 'norm', its practice could also bring positive feedback.\n\nWhile multicommunicating can be a controversial topic in research and practice, it is an increasingly common organizational realty. Further research into cognitive abilities, organizational settings and expanding virtual work opportunities, as well as technology will likely carry significant findings for our personal and professional lives.\n\nMulticimmunication can change the ways in which teams work and interact within the organization.\n\nAn important factor to consider with multicommunicating is the organizational context and the perception of others. In their research Stephens and Davis (2009) talk about the social influences on electronic multitasking in organizational meetings. ICTs have infiltrated meetings and allowed a new range of communicative behaviors to emerge. The observation of organizational norms and the perception of others’ thoughts concerning the use of ICTs for multitasking during a meeting explain a considerable amount of variance in how individuals use ICTs to communicate electronically in meetings. \n\nRelating to this point, Belanger and Watson (2006) made a study exploring how virtual team members structure their use of multiple media to attain strategic goals. In today’s work environment, individuals working in teams must learn to manage their time for communication and coordination, and to add to this complexity teams can range from completely virtual environments to face-to-face and all the technologies that are involved. Cardon and Dai (2014) did a study that examines the nature of mobile phone use in meetings among Chinese professionals. Using mobile phones in meetings is a form of multicommunicaion, but the etiquette associated with mobile phone use differ across cultures. Multicommunicating via mobile phones in meetings is mostly client-based and relationship-based, and it changes among cultures and across generations.\n\n\nCopresence. \"Organization Science\" (22) 1481-1499.\n"}
{"id": "258901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=258901", "title": "Mutilation", "text": "Mutilation\n\nMutilation or maiming (from the Latin: \"mutilus\") is cutting off or injury to a body part of a person so that the part of the body is permanently damaged, detached or disfigured.\n\nSome ethnic groups practice ritual mutilation, e.g. scarification, burning, flagellation, tattooing, or wheeling, as part of a rite of passage. In some cases, the term may apply to treatment of dead bodies, such as soldiers mutilated after they have been killed by an enemy.\n\nThe traditional Chinese practices of \"língchí\" and foot binding are forms of mutilation. One form of mutilation that has captured the imagination of Westerners is the \"long-neck\" people, a sub-group of the Karen known as the Padaung where women wear brass rings around their neck. The act of tattooing is also considered a form of self-mutilation according to some cultural traditions, such as within Christianity. A joint statement released by the United Nations and numerous other international bodies opposes female circumcision as a form of mutilation. Whether or not male circumcision amounts to mutilation is a subject of academic debate. The Danish Society for General Medicine has declared non medical male circumcision an ethically unacceptable mutilation while the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has condemned non medical male circumcision as a \"violation of the physical integrity of children\".\n\nCastration is also a form of mutilation, as are body piercing, some forms of extreme body modification, and some cosmetic surgery.\n\n\"Maiming\", or mutilation which involves the loss of, or incapacity to use, a bodily member, is and has been practised by many societies with various cultural and religious significances, and is also a customary form of physical punishment, especially applied on the principle of an eye for an eye.\n\nThe Araucanian warrior Galvarino suffered this punishment as a prisoner during the Spanish conquest of Chile.\n\nIn law, maiming is a criminal offence; the old law term for a special case of maiming of persons was mayhem, an Anglo-French variant form of the word.\n\nMaiming of animals by others than their owners is a particular form of the offence generally grouped as malicious damage. For the purpose of the law as to this offence animals are divided into cattle, which includes horses, pigs and asses, and other animals which are either subjects of larceny at common law or are usually kept in confinement or for domestic purposes.\n\nIn Britain under the Malicious Damage Act 1861 the punishment for maiming of cattle was three to fourteen years penal servitude; malicious injury to other animals is a misdemeanour punishable on summary conviction. For a second offence the penalty is imprisonment with hard labor for over twelve months. Maiming of animals by their owner falls under the Cruelty to Animals Acts.\n\nIn times when even judicial physical punishment was still commonly allowed to cause not only intense pain and public humiliation during the administration but also to inflict permanent physical damage, or even deliberately intended to mark the criminal for life by docking or branding, one of the common anatomical target areas not normally under permanent cover of clothing (so particularly merciless in the long term) were the ear(s).\n\nIn England, for example, various pamphleteers attacking the religious views of the Anglican episcopacy under William Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury, had their ears cut off for those writings: in 1630 Dr. Alexander Leighton and in 1637 still other Puritans, John Bastwick, Henry Burton and William Prynne.\n\nIn Scotland one of the Covenanters, James Gavin of Douglas, Lanarkshire, had his ears cut off for refusing to renounce his religious faith. In Japan, Gonsalo Garcia and his companions were similarly punished.\n\nNotably in various jurisdictions of colonial British North America, even relatively minor crimes, such as hog stealing, were punishable by having one's ears nailed to the pillory and slit loose, or even cropped, a counterfeiter would be branded on top (for that crime, considered lèse-majesté, the older mirror punishment was boiling in oil), which was an example of western mutilation.\n\nIndependence did not render American justice any less brutal. For example, in the future state of Tennessee, an example of harsh 'frontier law' under the 1780 Cumberland Compact took place in 1793 when Judge John McNairy sentenced Nashville's first horse thief, John McKain, Jr., to be fastened to a wooden stock one hour for 39 lashes, have his ears cut off and cheeks branded with the letters \"H\" and \"T\".\n\nTongue cutting is also a form of mutilation as this leads to bleeding to death in most cases with choking in the lungs.\n\nNebahne Yohannes, an unsuccessful claimant to the Ethiopian imperial throne who had his ears and nose cut off, yet was then freed. This form of mutilation against unsuccessful claimants to thrones has been in use in middle-eastern regions for thousands of years. To qualify as a king, formerly, one had to exemplify perfection. Obvious physical deformities such as missing noses, ears, or lips, are thereby sufficient disqualifications. The victim in these cases is typically freed alive to act (\"a\") as an example to others, and (\"b\") as no longer a threat.\n\n"}
{"id": "55567666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55567666", "title": "New Lab", "text": "New Lab\n\nNew Lab opened in June, 2016, as a multi-disciplinary technology center. Housed in Building 128 of the Brooklyn Navy Yard, the $35 million project serves as a hardware-focused shared workspace, research lab, and hatchery for socially-oriented tech manufacturing.\n\nUsing the MIT Media Lab as a model, the impetus for the independent organization was to provide space and services to new manufacturing enterprises. Current members work in fields such as robotics, connected devices, energy, nanotechnology, life sciences, and urban tech.\n\nMedia coverage of New Lab has focused on the company's role in revitalizing the Brooklyn Navy Yard, its public-private partnership lease structure, and Urban Tech initiative with the New York CIty Economic Development Corporation.\n\nDavid Belt and partner Scott Cohen formed the concept for New Lab in 2011 after prospecting the decaying Building 128 with Navy Yard president David Ehrenberg. The partners found the maritime manufacturing history of the structure, specifically the manufacturing innovations that took place there, synchronous with their aim to provide a platform for emerging hardware technologies in New York City. The city was abundant in resources and opportunities for entrepreneurs working in software, Belt said in a recent interview, but space, tools and resources for those working in the new manufacturing hardware community were lacking.\n\nBelt leveraged his development firm, Macro Sea, a company that specializes \"in bringing historic properties back into cultural relevance,\" to obtain funding, architectural expertise, and begin constructing a lease with the city of New York. The Navy Yard was in the initial stages of its current revitalization at the time and, because the city owned the property, special arrangements were needed to develop there.\n\nCohen began scouting the companies who would comprise their core members and helped work to capitalize them. To date, venture capitalists have invested approximately $250 million in New Lab and its members.\n\nThe land predating New Lab has a rich historical cultural lineage and narrative of experimental and innovative breakthroughs. That past was a major factor in the decision to develop New Lab in the Navy Yard. Before colonial settlement, the area that would become the Navy Yard served as a clamming site for the Lenape Native Americans. It was then settled by the Dutch and sold to a developer, thus beginning its employment as a center for manufacturing. Among the technological advancements that took place at the Navy Yard are: the first use of the steam-powered pile driver; construction of the first undersea telegraph cable; development of a commercialized form of anesthetic ether by E.R. Squibb; and a broadcast of the first woman to sing over the radio, opera singer Eugenia Farrar performed \"I Love You Truly.\"\n\nConstruction of navy ships like the Fulton II, a first-of-its-kind steam-powered warship, and fabrication of the USS Arizona, state-of-the-art among its peers, induced many influential manufacturing process refinements and advancements.\n\nIn interviews, Belt and Cohen both cite this maritime and technological history as inspiration for New Lab, both in guiding the renovation of the facility and in shaping its mission.\n\nAccording to a Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation document,128 was raised in 1899 as a \"steel structure... used to assemble large boiler engines and fabricated sections of naval vessels.\" It served as the primary machine shop for every major ship launched during World Wars One and Two. Designed to accommodate the significant height of a warship, the sequence of its hulking steel girders resembles an airport hangar. 128 has been slated for, but avoided, plans for non-naval readaptation. The City of New York sought to adapt it for reuse as a \"food complex at one point,\" but the effort was not sustained.\n\nMarvel Architects, New Lab's architect of record, along with DBI, Belt's project management firm, worked together to craft and execute the renovation. Press regarding New Lab often states that the company occupies Building 128 of the Navy Yard, but this is slightly misleading in that 128 is a complex of warehouses and New Lab occupies the southernmost portion.\n\nRecladding the building's armature and repurposing of the 51,000 ft machine shop into an 84,000 ft multidisciplinary design, prototyping, and advanced manufacturing space took approximately 5 years and continued until the company's full opening in September 2016. The undertaking utilized approximately 9,000 lbs of steel in total according to the developer.\n\nA guiding principle of the redesign was to harmonize of the needs of the forthcoming lab environment with the original structural features. Modern workplace design elements were fused with the 19th century industrial characteristics of the building's centerline.\n\nNew Lab's open floor design was intended, spatially, to reinforce its mission, the layout meant to encourage member companies to collaborate and cross-pollinate ideas. Communal meeting rooms, office pods, and interior plazas on both floors emphasize the developer’s intention to create a collaborative design and fabrication center.\n\nUpon completion, the rebuild subdivided Building 128's usable space into: Private studios = 31,664 ft; Open private studios = 6,226 ft; Fabrication lab = 6,834 ft; Cafe kitchen = 600 ft; Conference rooms = 2,014 ft; Coworking desks = 144; Flex space = 66 desks.\n\nThere is an additional 6,174 ft of event space which hosts talks, hackathons, and new manufacturing events such as the recent Urban Tech Hub launch.\n\nAdditive Manufacturing (3D printing) technology is a component of the design process for many New Lab residents. Prototyping shops are a distinguishing feature of the hardware-centric facility. New Lab leverages partnerships with firms like AutoDesk, Stratasys, BigRep, Haas, Ultimaker, and others to provide and maintain equipment and filament for printing. The organization has amassed several million dollars of digital fabrication and manufacturing machine assets such as 3D Printers, electronic workbenches, fabrication tools, and CNC equipment since its opening.\nAs of September 2017 eighty companies and 400 people worked at New Lab. By 2018, the number of companies had increased to over 100. Members are typically growth-stage companies with anywhere between 3-20 employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46433643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46433643", "title": "Panel discussion", "text": "Panel discussion\n\nA panel discussion, or simply a panel, involves a group of people gathered to discuss a topic in front of an audience, typically at scientific, business, or academic conferences, fan conventions, and on television shows. Panels usually include a moderator who guides the discussion and sometimes elicits audience questions, with the goal of being informative and entertaining. Film panels at fan conventions have been credited with boosting box office returns by generating advance buzz.\n\nThe typical format for a discussion panel includes a moderator in front of an audience.\n\nTelevision shows in the English-speaking world that feature a discussion panel format include \"Real Time with Bill Maher\", \"Loose Women\", \"The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore\", as well as segments of the long-running \"Meet the Press\". Quiz shows featuring this format, such as \"QI\" and \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\", are called panel games. The host of a panel is typically expected to bring a token refreshment or snack to the discussants.\n\nPanels at sci-fi fan conventions, such as San Diego Comic-Con and New York Comic-Con, have become increasingly popular; there are typically long lines to get access to the panels. The panels often feature advance looks at upcoming films and video games. Panels and the early screenings at conventions have been credited as increasing the popularity of blockbuster films in recent years.\n\nOne of the earliest film panels was at the 1976 San Diego Comic-Con, when publicist Charles Lippincott hosted a slideshow—in front of a \"somewhat skeptical\" audience—for an upcoming film called \"Star Wars\". Five years later, the \"Blade Runner\" panel at the 1981 San Diego Comic-Con featured a film featurette, before featurettes were popular. At the 2000 event, \"\" preview panel ushered in today's era of hugely popular panels.\n\n"}
{"id": "1306405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1306405", "title": "Postfeminism", "text": "Postfeminism\n\nThe term postfeminism (alternatively rendered as post-feminism) is used to describe reactions against contradictions and absences in feminism, especially second-wave feminism and third-wave feminism. The term \"postfeminism\" is sometimes confused with subsequent feminisms such as 4th wave-feminism, and \"women of color feminism\" (e.g. hooks, 1996; Spivak, 1999).\n\nThe ideology of postfeminism is recognized by its contrast with prevailing or preceding feminism. Postfeminism strives towards the next stage in gender-related progress, and as such is often conceived as in favor of a society that is no longer defined by gender binary and gender roles. A postfeminist is a person who believes in, promotes, or embodies any of various ideologies springing from the feminism of the 1970s, whether supportive of or antagonistic towards classical feminism.\n\nPostfeminism can be considered a critical way of understanding the changed relations between feminism, popular culture and femininity. Postfeminism may also present a critique of second-wave feminism or third-wave feminism by questioning their binary thinking and essentialism, their vision of sexuality, and their perception of relationships between femininity and feminism. It may also complicate or even deny entirely the notion that absolute gender equality is necessary, desirable or realistically achievable.\n\nSecond-wave feminism is often critiqued for being too \"white\", too \"straight\", and too \"liberal\", thus resulting in the needs of women from marginalized groups and cultures being ignored. However, since intersectionality is a product of third-wave feminism, the references to such as postfeminist are open to challenge and may be more properly considered feminist.\n\nWhile \"postfeminism\" was first used in the 1980s to describe a backlash against second-wave feminism, it is now used as a label for a wide range of theories that take critical approaches to previous feminist discourses and includes challenges to the second wave's ideas. It may also be used to invoke the view that feminism is no longer relevant to today's society.\n\nOver the years, the meaning of postfeminism has broadened in scope, encompassing many different meanings, as is the case with feminism. Within feminist literature, definitions tend to fall into two main categories: 1) “death of feminism”, “anti-feminism”, “feminism is irrelevant now” and 2) the next stage in feminism, or feminism that intersects with other “post-” philosophies/theories, such as postmodernism, post-structuralism and postcolonialism.\n\nIn 1919, a journal was launched in which \"female literary radicals\" stated \"'we're interested in people now—not in men and women'\", that \"moral, social, economic, and political standards 'should not have anything to do with sex'\", that it would \"be 'pro-woman without being anti-man'\", and that \"their stance [is called] 'post-feminist'\".\n\nThe term was used in the 1980s to describe a backlash against second-wave feminism. Postfeminism is now a label for a wide range of theories that take critical approaches to previous feminist discourses and includes challenges to the second wave's ideas. Other postfeminists say that feminism is no longer relevant to today's society. Amelia Jones has written that the postfeminist texts which emerged in the 1980s and 1990s portrayed second-wave feminism as a monolithic entity and were overly generalizing in their criticism.\n\nThe 1990s saw the popularization of this term, in both the academic world as well as the media world. It was seen as a term of both commendation and scorn. Toril Moi, a professor at Duke University, originally coined the term in 1985 in Sexual/Textual politics to advocate a feminism that would deconstruct the binary between equality based on \"liberal\" feminism and difference-based or \"radical\" feminism. There is confusion surrounding the intended meaning of \"post\" in the context of \"postfeminism\". This confusion has plagued the very meaning of \"postfeminism\" since the 1990s. While the term has seemed on the one hand to announce the end of feminism, on the other hand it has itself become a site of feminist politics.\n\nCurrently, feminist history is characterized by the struggle to find out the present situation—often articulated as a concern about whether there is still such a thing called \"feminism\"—by writing in the past. It is here that the meaning of \"post\" as a historical break is troubling, for \"post\" offers to situate feminism in history by proclaiming the end of this history. It then confirms feminist history as a thing of the past. However, some claim that it is impossible that feminism could be aligned with \"post\" when it is unthinkable, as it would be the same as calling the current world a post racist, post-classist, and post-sexist society.\n\nThe early part of the 1980s was when the media began labeling teenage women and women in their twenties the \"postfeminist generation\". After twenty years, the term postfeminist is still used to refer to young women, \"who are thought to benefit from the women's movement through expanded access to employment and education and new family arrangements but at the same time do not push for further political change\", Pamela Aronson, Professor of Sociology, asserts. Postfeminism is a highly debated topic since it implies that feminism is \"dead\" and \"because the equality it assumes is largely a myth\".\n\nAccording to Prof. D. Diane Davis, postfeminism is just a continuation of what first- and second-wave feminisms want.\n\nResearch conducted at Kent State University narrowed postfeminism to four main claims: support for feminism declined; women began hating feminism and feminists; society had already attained social equality, thus making feminism outdated; and the label \"feminist\" was disliked due to negative stigma.\n\nIn her 1994 book \"Who Stole Feminism? How Women Have Betrayed Women\", Christina Hoff Sommers considers much of modern academic feminist theory and the feminist movement to be gynocentric. She labels this \"gender feminism\" and proposes \"equity feminism\"—an ideology that aims for full civil and legal equality. She argues that while the feminists she designates as gender feminists advocate preferential treatment and portray women as victims, equity feminism provides a viable alternative form of feminism. These descriptions and her other work have caused Hoff Sommers to be described as an antifeminist by some other feminists.\n\nSome contemporary feminists, such as Katha Pollitt or Nadine Strossen, consider feminism to hold simply that \"women are people.\" Views that separate the sexes rather than unite them are considered by these writers to be \"sexist\" rather than \"feminist\".\n\nAmelia Jones has authored post-feminist texts which emerged in the 1980s/1990s and portrayed second-wave feminism as a monolithic entity and criticized it using generalizations.\n\nOne of the earliest modern uses of the term was in Susan Bolotin's 1982 article \"Voices of the Post-Feminist Generation\", published in \"New York Times Magazine\". This article was based on a number of interviews with women who largely agreed with the goals of feminism, but did not identify as feminists.\n\nSusan Faludi, in her 1991 book \"\", argued that a backlash against second wave feminism in the 1980s had successfully re-defined feminism through its terms. She argued that it constructed the women's liberation movement as the source of many of the problems alleged to be plaguing women in the late 1980s. She also argued that many of these problems were illusory, constructed by the media without reliable evidence. According to her, this type of backlash is a historical trend, recurring when it appeared that women had made substantial gains in their efforts to obtain equal rights.\n\nAngela McRobbie argued that adding the prefix \"post-\" to \"feminism\" undermined the strides that feminism made in achieving equality for everyone, including women. In McRobbie's opinion, postfeminism gave the impression that equality has been achieved and feminists could now focus on something else entirely. McRobbie believed that postfeminism was most clearly seen on so-called feminist media products, such as \"Bridget Jones's Diary, Sex and the City\", and \"Ally McBeal\". Female characters like Bridget Jones and Carrie Bradshaw claimed to be liberated and clearly enjoy their sexuality, but what they were constantly searching for was the one man who would make everything worthwhile.\n\nRepresentations of post feminism can be found in pop culture. Postfeminism has been seen in media as a form of feminism that accepts popular culture instead of rejecting it, as was typical with second wave feminists. Many popular shows from the 90s and early 2000s are considered to be postfeminist works because they tend to focus on women who are empowered by popular cultural representations of other women. Because of this, postfeminists claimed that such media was more accessible and inclusive than past representations of women in the media; however, some feminists believe that postfeminist works focus too much on white, middle-class women. Such shows and movies include \"The Devil Wears Prada, , The Princess Diaries,\" and \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer.\" Another example is \"Sex and the City\". Carrie Bradshaw from \"Sex and the City\" is an example of a character living a post feminist life. While her character attempts to live a sexually liberated lifestyle, Bradshaw is stuck endlessly pursuing the love and validation of a man. The balance between Bradshaw's independent life as a successful columnist and desire to find a husband exemplifies the tension of post feminism. Many of these works also involve women monitoring their appearance as a form of self-management, be it in the form of dieting, exercise, or—most popularly—makeover scenes. Postfeminist literature—also known as chicklit—has been criticized by feminists for similar themes and notions. However, the genre is also praised for being confident, witty, and complicated, bringing in feminist themes, revolving around women, and reinventing standards of fiction. Examples can also be found in \"Pretty Little Liars\". The novels explore the complexity of girlhood in a society that assumes gender equality, which is in line with postfeminism. The constant surveillance and self policing of the series' protagonists depicts the performance of heterosexuality, hyperfemininity, and critical gaze forced upon girls. The materialism and performance from the girls in \"Pretty Little Liars\" critiques the notion that society has full gender equality, and thus offers a critique of postfeminism.\n\nIn an article on print jewelry advertisements in Singapore, Michelle Lazar analyses how the construction of 'postfeminist' femininity has given rise to a neo-liberal hybrid \"pronounced sense of self or 'I-dentity'\". She states that the increasing number of female wage earners has led to advertisers updating their image of women but that \"through this hybrid postfeminist I-dentity, advertisers have found a way to reinstall a new normativity that coexists with the status quo\". Postfeminist ads and fashion have been criticized for using femininity as a commodity veiled as liberation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10273999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10273999", "title": "Precision questioning", "text": "Precision questioning\n\nPrecision questioning (PQ), an intellectual toolkit for critical thinking and for problem solving, grew out of a collaboration between Dennis Matthies (1946- ) and Dr. Monica Worline, while both taught/studied at Stanford University.\n\nPrecision questioning seeks to enable its practitioners with a highly structured, one-question/one-answer discussion format to help them:\n\n\nPQ focuses on clearly expressing gaps in thinking by coupling a taxonomy of analytical questions with a structured call-and-response model to enable PQ practitioners to uncover weaknesses in thinking and to raise the intellectual level of a conversation.\n\nThose who use precision questioning (also called \"PQers\") describe PQ conversations as those analytical opportunities motivated by an attempt to get to precise answers, or to identify where no answer is available.\n\nHowever, when \"drilling\" into a topic, practitioners endeavor to avoid the use of personalization (blame or shame). Precision questioning holds to the ideal of meeting one's own needs for information while also respecting the intellectual integrity of the conversation-partner.\n\nMatthies, who taught at Stanford University’s Center for Teaching and Learning (CTL) in the 1990s, developed several experimental courses that have subsequently become known to a wider public — including Precision Questioning, initially taught in the Stanford Philosophy Department.\n\nProselytizing for precision questioning on a commercial basis continues via the Vervago company,\nco-founded by Matthies and Worline.\n\nTens of thousands of people in universities and companies throughout the world have studied different versions of precision questioning.\n\n"}
{"id": "35420542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35420542", "title": "Project Hieroglyph", "text": "Project Hieroglyph\n\nProject Hieroglyph is an initiative to create science fiction that will spur innovation in science and technology founded by Neal Stephenson in 2011.\n\nStephenson framed the ideas behind Hieroglyph in a World Policy Institute article entitled \"Innovation Starvation\" where he attempts to rally writers to infuse science fiction with optimism that could inspire a new generation to, as he puts it, “get big stuff done.”\n\nStephenson says that \"a good SF universe has a coherence and internal logic that makes sense to scientists and engineers. Examples include Isaac Asimov's robots, Robert Heinlein's rocket ships, and William Gibson's cyberspace. Such icons serve as hieroglyphs—simple, recognizable symbols on whose significance everyone agrees.\"\n\nStephenson partnered with Arizona State University's Center for Science and the Imagination which now administers the project.\n\nIn September 2014, the project's first book, Hieroglyph: Stories and Visions for a Better Future, edited by Ed Finn and Kathryn Cramer was published by William Morrow. Contributors to the book include Neal Stephenson, Bruce Sterling, Madeline Ashby, Gregory Benford, Rudy Rucker, Vandana Singh, Cory Doctorow, Elizabeth Bear, Karl Schroeder, James Cambias, Brenda Cooper, Charlie Jane Anders, Kathleen Ann Goonan, Lee Konstantinou, Annalee Newitz, Geoffrey Landis, David Brin, Lawrence Krauss, and Paul Davies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882343", "title": "Public goods game", "text": "Public goods game\n\nThe public goods game is a standard of experimental economics. In the basic game, subjects secretly choose how many of their private tokens to put into a public pot. The tokens in this pot are multiplied by a factor (greater than one and less than the number of players, N) and this \"public good\" payoff is evenly divided among players. Each subject also keeps the tokens they do not contribute.\n\nThe group's total payoff is maximized when everyone contributes all of their tokens to the public pool. However, the Nash equilibrium in this game is simply zero contributions by all; if the experiment were a purely analytical exercise in game theory it would resolve to zero contributions because any rational agent does best contributing zero, regardless of whatever anyone else does.\n\nIn fact, the Nash equilibrium is rarely seen in experiments; people do tend to add something into the pot. The actual levels of contribution found varies widely (anywhere from 0% to 100% of initial endowment can be chipped in). The average contribution typically depends on the multiplication factor. Capraro has proposed a new solution concept for social dilemmas, based on the idea that players forecast if it is worth to act cooperatively and then they act cooperatively in a rate depending on the forecast. His model indeed predicts increasing level of cooperation as the multiplication factor increases.\n\nDepending on the experiment's design, those who contribute below average or nothing are called \"defectors\" or \"free riders\", as opposed to the contributors or above average contributors who are called \"cooperators\".\n\n\"Repeat-play\" public goods games involve the same group of subjects playing the basic game over a series of rounds. The typical result is a declining proportion of public contribution, from the simple game (the \"One-shot\" public goods game). When trusting contributors see that not everyone is giving up as much as they do they tend to reduce the amount they share in the next round. If this is again repeated the same thing happens but from a lower base, so that the amount contributed to the pot is reduced again. However, the amount contributed to the pool rarely drops to zero when rounds of the game are iterated, because there tend to remain a hard core of ‘givers’.\n\nOne explanation for the dropping level of contribution is inequity aversion. During repeated games players learn their co-player's inequality aversion in previous rounds on which future beliefs can be based. If players receive a bigger share for a smaller contribution the sharing members react against the perceived injustice (even though the identity of the “free riders” are unknown, and it’s only a game). Those who contribute nothing in one round, rarely contribute something in later rounds, even after discovering that others are.\n\nIf the amount contributed is not hidden it tends to be significantly higher. The finding is robust in different experiment designs: Whether in \"pairwise iterations\" with only two players (the other player's contribution level is always known) or in nominations after the end of the experiment.\n\nThe option to punish non-contributors and to reward the highest contributions after a round of the public goods game has been the issue of many experiments. Findings strongly suggest that non-rewarding is not seen as sanction, while rewards don't substitute punishment. Rather they are used completely differently as a means to enforce cooperation and higher payoffs.\n\nPunishing is exercised, even at a cost, and in most experiments it leads to greater group cooperation. However, since punishment is costly, it tends to lead to (marginally) lower payoffs, at least initially. On the other hand, a 2007 study found that rewards alone could not sustain long-term cooperation.\n\nMany studies therefore emphasize the combination of (the threat of) punishment and rewards. The combination seems to yield both a higher level of cooperation and of payoffs. This holds for iterated games in changing groups as well as in identical groups.\n\nAsymmetric cost and or benefit functions have direct influence in the contribution behaviour of agents. When confronted with different payoff returns to their contributions, agents behave differently though they still contribute more than in Nash equilibrium.\n\nA public goods games variant suggested as an improvement for researching the free rider problem is one in which endowment are earned as income. The standard game (with a fixed initial endowments) allows no work effort variation and cannot capture the marginal substitutions among three factors: private goods, public goods, and leisure.\n\nA different framing of the original neutral experiment setting induces players to act differently because they associate different real-life situations. For example, a public good experiment could be presented as a climate negotiation or as contributions to private parties.\n\nThe effect of associations (label frame) depends on the experience-pool the player made with similar real-life frames. This is especially true for one-shot (not iterated) games where players can only infer others’ behavior and expectations from their life experiences. Therefore, the same frame can induce more and also less contribution, even in similar cultures. Label frames move beliefs i.e. about other player's behaviour, and these beliefs subsequently shape motivation and choice.\n\nAlso, the same game structure can always be presented as a gain or a loss game. Because of the Framing effect players respond completely differently when it is presented as a gain or a loss. If public good games are presented as a loss, i.e. a player's contribution in a \"private\" engagement diminishes other player's payoff, contributions are significantly lower.\n\nFor contribution to be privately \"irrational\" the tokens in the pot must be multiplied by an amount smaller than the number of players and greater than 1. Other than this, the level of multiplication has little bearing on strategy, but higher factors produce higher proportions of contribution.\n\nWith a large group (40) and very low multiplication factor (1.03) almost no-one contributes anything after a few iterations of the game (a few still do). However, with the same size group and a 1.3 multiplication factor the average level of initial endowment contributed to the pot is around 50%.\n\nThe name of the game comes from economist’s definition of a “public good”. One type of public good is a costly, \"non-excludable\" project that every one can benefit from, regardless of how much they contribute to create it (because no one can be excluded from using it - like street lighting). Part of the economic theory of public goods is that they would be under-provided (at a rate lower than the ‘social optimum’) because individuals had no private motive to contribute (the free rider problem). The “public goods game” is designed to test this belief and connected theories of social behaviour.\n\nThe empirical fact that subjects in most societies contribute anything in the simple public goods game is a challenge for game theory to explain via a motive of total self-interest, although it can do better with the ‘punishment’ variant, or the ‘iterated’ variant; because some of the motivation to contribute is now purely “rational”, if players assume that others may act irrationally and punish them for non-contribution.\n\nThe sociological interpretation of these results emphasizes group cohesion and cultural norms to explain the \"prosocial\" outcomes of public goods games.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48563218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48563218", "title": "Public hypersphere", "text": "Public hypersphere\n\nPublic hypersphere is a new kind of public sphere that has come into existence globally through the use of modern information technology, digital media, and computer networks.\n\nSwedish writer Karl-Erik Tallmo used the corresponding Swedish term \"hyperoffentlighet\" in an article in the daily \"Sydsvenska Dagbladet\" in 1999 and the same year also the English expression \"public hypersphere\" in an article in the journal \"Human IT\".\n\nThe term is derived from Jürgen Habermas and his thoughts concerning a \"bourgeois public sphere\". The public hypersphere, however, is not limited to publishing or the European café culture, not even to the Internet but includes the larger part of human relations, mediated or not. It encompasses both voluntary participation as well as involuntary, through mass surveillance: \"The electronic traces we leave constantly write our autobiographies ... [The public hypersphere is] a gas that fills the entire available space, it is 'the place that doesn't exist'.\" The public hypersphere is \"not just public or transparent to a higher degree than the regular public sphere; it has a whole new structure. Mathematicians talk about \"hyperspheres\" when they want to describe a sphere of higher dimensionality, where normal geometric rules don't apply – here, the shortest path between two points is not necessarily a straight line.\"\n\nThe French philosopher and media scholar Pierre Lévy used the expression \"l'hypersphère publique\" in an article in 2011 in the journal \"Medium\". He describes the combined effect of social media, real time functions, and wireless technology. He mentions API programming as important when it comes to connecting various databases with different interfaces. He writes that traditional information monopolies are dissolved and a kind of \"digital ecosystem\" has evolved, where old and new media interact. Citizens gain new liberties in expressing and retrieving information but also new ways to establish personal contacts. All these new phenomena \"contribute in building a ubiquitous medium, hypercomplex and fractal, that everyone, \"nolens volens\", partake in designing, directing and using ...\" Lévy has also written about the transformation of the public sphere in his book \"Cyberdémocratie\" (2002).\n\nIn German, the word \"Hyperöffentlichkeit\" has been used by sociologist Udo Thiedeke in his characterization of Howard Rheingold's ideas concerning the virtual community, that is a high degree of participation and interactivity.\n"}
{"id": "25199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25199", "title": "Quotation", "text": "Quotation\n\nA quotation is the repetition of one expression as part of another one, particularly when the quoted expression is well-known or explicitly attributed by citation to its original source, and it is indicated by (punctuated with) quotation marks.\n\nA quotation can also refer to the repeated use of units of any other form of expression, especially parts of artistic works: elements of a painting, scenes from a movie or sections from a musical composition.\n\nQuotations are used for a variety of reasons: to illuminate the meaning or to support the arguments of the work in which it is being quoted, to provide direct information about the work being quoted (whether in order to discuss it, positively or negatively), to pay homage to the original work or author, to make the user of the quotation seem well-read, and/or to comply with copyright law. Quotations are also commonly printed as a means of inspiration and to invoke philosophical thoughts from the reader. Pragmatically speaking, quotations can also be used as language games (in the Wittgensteinian sense of the term) to manipulate social order and the structure of society. \n\nFamous quotations are frequently collected in books that are sometimes called quotation dictionaries or treasuries. Of these, \"Bartlett's Familiar Quotations\", \"The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations\", \"The Columbia Dictionary of Quotations\", \"The Yale Book of Quotations\" and \"The Macmillan Book of Proverbs, Maxims, and Famous Phrases\" are considered among the most reliable and comprehensive sources. Diaries and calendars often include quotations for entertainment or inspirational purposes, and small, dedicated sections in newspapers and weekly magazines—with recent quotations by leading personalities on current topics—have also become commonplace.\n\nChiefly a text medium in the beginning, the World Wide Web gave rise to any number of personal quotation collections that continue to flourish, even though very few of them seem to facilitate accurate information or correct citation.\n\nThe increase of written means of informal communication brought about by the Internet has produced the practice of using quotations as personal flags, as in one's own signature block. This is most commonly seen in email messages and Usenet posts, while it is almost never seen in blog posts. Quotations are also popular as a user's personal message, a line under the user's nickname in some Instant Messaging clients (and here they often go uncited). In all these cases, quotations are usually included to give a glimpse of the user's personality, to make a statement of their beliefs, or to spread views and ideas.\n\nThe sheer bulk of online quotations, combined with more efficient search engines, has effectively made the Internet the world's quotation storehouse, encompassing an unprecedented number of easily obtainable quotations. Though matters of accuracy still remain, features such as Amazon.com's \"Search Inside the Book\" and Google Book Search may serve to alleviate such concerns.\n\nSection 30(1) of the United Kingdom Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (apparently in transposition of Article 5(3)(d) of the EU Copyright Directive on quotations) allows fair dealing with a copyrighted work for the purpose of criticism or review, provided that it is accompanied by sufficient acknowledgement.\n\nMany quotations are routinely incorrect or attributed to the wrong authors, and quotations from obscure or unknown writers are often attributed to far more famous writers. Examples of this are Winston Churchill, to whom many political quotations of uncertain origin are attributed, and Oscar Wilde, to whom anonymous humorous quotations are sometimes attributed.\n\nThe \"Star Trek\" catchphrase \"Beam me up, Scotty\" did not appear in that form in the original series. Other misquotations include \"Just the facts, ma'am\" (attributed to Jack Webb's character of Joe Friday on \"Dragnet\"), \"Elementary, my dear Watson\" (attributed to Sherlock Holmes), \"Luke, I am your father\" (attributed to Darth Vader in Star Wars), \"Play it again, Sam\" (attributed to Ilsa in \"Casablanca\"), \"Do you feel lucky, punk?\" (attributed to Harry Callahan in \"Dirty Harry\") and \"We don't need no stinkin' badges!\" (attributed to Gold Hat in \"The Treasure of the Sierra Madre\"). \n\nThe Dirty Harry quotation \"Do you feel lucky, punk?\" is a rewording of the original dialogue: \"You've got to ask yourself one question: 'Do I feel lucky?' Well, do ya, punk?\" Humphrey Bogart's character Rick in \"Casablanca\" never said \"Play it again, Sam.\" The actual expression is \"Play it, Sam.\" Mae West did not say \"Why don't you come up sometime and see me?\" in \"She Done Him Wrong\", but rather \"Why don't you come up and see me sometime?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41669573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41669573", "title": "Rhetoric of health and medicine", "text": "Rhetoric of health and medicine\n\nThe Rhetoric of Health and Medicine (or Medical Rhetoric) is an academic discipline concerning language and symbols in health and medicine. Rhetoric most commonly refers to the persuasive element in human interactions and is often best studied in the specific situations in which it occurs. As a subfield of rhetoric, medical rhetoric specifically analyzes and evaluates the structure, delivery, and intention of communications messages in medicine- and health-related contexts. Primary topics of focus includes patient-physician communication, health literacy, language that constructs disease knowledge, and pharmaceutical advertising (including both direct-to-consumer and direct-to-physician advertising). The general research areas are described below. Medical rhetoric is a more focused subfield of the rhetoric of science.\n\nPractitioners from the medical rhetoric field hail from a variety of disciplines, including English studies, communication studies, and health humanities. Through methods such as content analysis, survey methodology, and usability testing, researchers in this sphere recognize the importance of communication to successful healthcare.\n\nSeveral communication journals, including \"Communication Design Quarterly\", \"Journal of Business and Technical Communication,\" \"Technical Communication Quarterly\", and \"Present Tense,\" have published special issues on themes related to medical rhetoric. The majority of research in the field is indexed in the academic database EBSCO Communication & Mass Media Complete. The largest bibliography of research is available at http://medicalrhetoric.com/bibliography/articles-and-book-chapters/ although this list is only periodically updated and does not include all of the work in the field (for more complete coverage, search EBSCO). In 2013, scholars in the field also began a biennial symposium, Discourses of Health and Medicine. Scolars in the field use the label \"medical rhetoric\" in Google scholar.\n\nThe rhetoric of health and medicine is tied to the emergence of rhetoric of science in the early 1970s and 1980s. Contemporary theorists such as Kenneth Burke, Michel Foucault, Thomas Kuhn, Bruno Latour, and Steve Woolgar laid the theoretical groundwork for this early interest in the persuasive dimensions of scientific language. In the 1980s the field shifted when rhetorical critics like Martha Solomon and Charles Anderson began analyzing texts on biomedicine. Solomon analyzed the rhetoric used in medical reports during the Tuskegee Syphilis Project, while Anderson examined the writings of surgeon Richard Selzer to comment on the rhetoric of surgery.\n\nIn the 1990s, the rhetoric of health and medicine emerged more clearly as a field distinct from rhetoric of science. Rhetorical scholar Celeste Condit raised questions about the historical and rhetorical dimensions of issues like abortion and genetics in works such as 1990's \"Decoding Abortion Rhetoric: Communicating Social Change\" and 1999's \"The Meanings of the Gene: Public Debates about Heredity\". In these seminal works, Condit focused on what she called \"rhetorical formations,\" or the multiple simultaneous discourses that surrounded each rhetorical object.\n\nThe field also saw the rise of discussion on disability studies and illness narratives during the 1990s, which initiated the beginning of a Special Interest Group on disability studies at the annual Conference on College Composition and Communication (CCCC), headed by Brenda Jo Brueggemann. The initiation of this group then inspired a Medical Rhetoric Special Interest Group, headed by Barbara Heifferon, which has continued to meet annually to present day.\n\nIn the early 21st century, scholars began to pay increasing attention to various topics in the rhetoric of health and medicine. J. Blake Scott's 2003 book \"Risky Rhetoric: AIDS and the Cultural Practices of HIV Testing\" used Michel Foucault's theory of examination, which defines rhetoric as a form of disciplinary power, to examine the cultural condition that influence HIV testing. He reported that the rhetoric used in public policy and various propaganda led to the stigmatization and discrimination of people with HIV/AIDS.\n\nIn 2005, Judy Segal's \"Health and the Rhetoric of Medicine\" gained recognition for highlighting the persuasive elements in diagnoses, health policies, illness experiences, and illness narratives. She also addressed direct-to-consumer advertising of prescription drugs, the role of health information in creating the \"worried well,\" and problems of trust and expertise in doctor-patient relationships.\n\nIn 2010, Lisa Keränen's \"Scientific Characters: Rhetoric, Politics, and Trust in Breast Cancer Research\" addressed issues of research viability and relationships among scientists, patients, and advocates. Kimberly Emmons’ work on the rhetoric surrounding depression, \"Black Dogs and Blue Words: Depression and Gender in the Age of Self-Care\", was published the same year.\n\nThe rhetoric of pharmaceutical and science commercialization is the study of the persuasive language and symbols that the pharmaceutical industry and biotechnology companies use to communicate and influence consumers, physicians, regulatory agencies, and other stakeholders in the commercialization of biotechnology. Scholars have found that the language used to define, describe, and regulate pharmaceuticals influences the understanding and perception of the drugs among both the general public and experts. Information about pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and filtered through many channels as it moves from scientist to consumer. Despite the regulations on pharmaceutical advertising, pharmaceutical companies use carefully crafted direct-to-consumer advertising to rhetorically influence the patient-physician dialogue to drive consumption of specific pharmaceutical drugs. Furthermore, pharmaceutical companies mislead physicians and scientists through deceptive rhetorical strategies in technical documentation (which both package inserts directed towards physicians and medical journal articles directed towards scientists). In a recent study, a pharmaceutical company disguised negative performance in one group of subjects by selectively merging data between different patient groups in clinical trials and carefully crafting supporting statements. This study shows that scientific data and knowledge is secondary to rhetorical messages supporting commercialization, and that human health is secondary to company profit. Notably, technical information is subject to obfuscation and distortion so that the message communicated outside of a commercial organization aligns with the primary goal of selling a product. Studying and trying to improve the rhetorical processes involved in pharmaceutical information as it moves through the chain of dissemination is a key concern of rhetorical scholarship on this topic.\n\nThe rhetoric of mental health considers how language functions in the production of knowledge on topics such as mental and psychological disorders, chemical imbalances in the brain, and variations on what are considered normal mental faculties. The $100 million Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, introduced by the Obama administration in 2013, is testament to the emerging importance of brain science and mental health in medical science and public policy debate. Neurorhetoric, the study of how language is used in the creation, distribution, and reception of science about the brain, has recently become an important topic in medical rhetoric and composition studies, as well as in popular science publications targeted at non-scientists. Information and texts relevant to the rhetoric of mental health include psychotropic pharmaceutical regulations, their production, prescription, advertising, and consumption, and scientific and popular discussions about major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, schizophrenia, autism, and other mental disorders. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM, now in its 5th edition) is a central text for the study of the mental health profession.\n\nPatient narrative is the clinical story of a person's past and present medical history documented by a medical clinician. The patient narrative can also be referred to as the medical history, the History and Physical (H & P), or the clinical narrative. The H&P includes a Subject, Objective, Assessment, and Plan (SOAP note), which summarizes the patient's narrative or history of medical illness, objectively reports the patient's clinical data and lab results, assesses diagnoses and prognoses, and often recommends how to address the patient's clinical situation. As part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the government enacted the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act, which mandates that health providers transition from handwritten (typed) patient narratives to electronic patient narratives in forms such as the electronic medical record (EMR) or the electronic health record (EHR). The EMR and EHR are of interest to communication scholars because they economize the words and space of the traditional patient narrative into a structured system of navigation screens and checkboxes.\n\nThe Rhetoric of alternative medicine differs from traditional medical rhetoric in its emphasis on the persuasive aspects of language related to holistic or other nonstandard approaches. Some of these alternative medical practices include acupuncture, massage therapy, and chiropractic care. Scholars further explore alternative medical practitioners’ claims that they take a holistic approach to medical treatment, assessing a person's body, mind, and spirit, rather than just treating a disease.\n\nStarting with references to medical care in ancient Greece, Plato's “Dialogues”, expressed that physician-patient communication should not include any “lively interactions” between the physician and patient. In the Age of Enlightenment, Dr. John Gregory began to emphasize patient-physician communication by introducing the idea of preventative care for “gentleman of a liberal education.” Few found his suggestive style of care useful, and the view that “physicians must assume sole responsibility for protecting the ignorant public from its folly” lived on for some time. As late as the 1980s, the American Medical Association still had not incorporated regulations into their Code of Ethics that required physicians to incorporate patient opinion into the decision-making process. It was not until 1996 when the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) was created to protect patient rights and privacy. This law was intended to assure patients that their wishes would be considered in treatment decision-making.\n\nFor students who take a more applied approach to health and medical rhetoric, there are an increasing number of employment opportunities in industry, government, and nonprofit organizations. Such opportunities fall into two broadly defined categories: service and advocacy.\n\nService is a situation in which a communication expert helps a healthcare professional be more effective in his or her communication efforts. This might mean the communicator is paid to assist with a task like grant writing, editing, or authoring a medical document. Medical transcriptionists, represented by the Association for Healthcare Documentation Integrity (AHDI), provide another form of professional communication in medical discourse. The AHDI is the world's largest nonprofit organization representing individuals and organizations in healthcare documentation. By ensuring documentation's accuracy, privacy, and security, the organization aims to protect public health, increase patient safety, and improve quality of care for healthcare consumers. Other professional medical writing associations include the American Medical Writers Association (AMWA) and the International Academy of Nursing Editors (INANE).\n\nSometimes these medical authors are considered “ghostwriters,” or paid writers who write a communicative piece but are not formally acknowledged as a text's author. Karen L. Wooley says that professional writers must adhere to ethical guidelines that ghostwriters may not be expected to follow. While authors control their content when working with a professional medical writer, Wooley says that ghostwriters may try to take control of the content away from the author and hide certain facts, such as where a project's funding comes from. Researchers such as Elliott Moffatt are concerned that medical ghostwriting, especially in the context of pharmaceutical research, is dangerous to public health. Possible dangers can include misrepresenting the data and subtly influencing the way clinicians and patients perceive the data.\n\nAdvocacy in medical rhetoric is a situation in which the communicator addresses a health-related topic, empowering the citizens of a community to understand how that issue impacts them. This type of health communication enables the public to understand a health issue more thoroughly, providing them with the tools necessary to challenge or change existing power structures within their own communities. Advocacy is often associated with risk communication, the process of explaining natural disasters, human-made hazards, and behavioral practices to the public in a way they can understand. Theorists such as Don Nutbeam propose a need for advocacy and say that health literacy, or people's ability to access and make decisions with health information, is an important part of empowerment. Nick Pidgeon and Baruch Fischhoff say that communicating complex medical or health information to the public is difficult because past scientists failed to base their communication on solid principles and evidence. Based on these past failures, Pidgeon and Fischhoff argue for a simpler and trustworthier model of science communication. In response to this issue, Jeffrey T. Grabill and W. Michele Simmons propose that technical communicators can provide advocacy because they have both good writing skills and an ability to understand and convey information to patients.\n\nRhetoric, like any field of study, is made up of constituent parts. These parts are often referred to as either rhetorical concepts or rhetorical principles. Rhetorical concepts can be seen as tools of the trade that allow rhetoricians to effectively communicate in a way that is most likely to persuade readers and audiences of the messages and meanings intended by the rhetorician. Rhetorical concepts are an important part of what makes an argument persuasive, and all effective arguments inherently contain them. Rhetorical concepts help rhetoricians convey information that would otherwise be unascertainable by the audience, which is especially important for topics that carry heavy implications, such as the complications that often follow complex medical and health needs.\n\nFigures of speech are a type of figurative language that often convey specialized meaning not based on the literal meaning of the words that make up the figure. Often providing emphasis, freshness of expression, or clarity, they can be used to explain complex, unknown topics to readers and audiences in a way that makes them easier for the reader to understand.\n\nMetaphor and analogy are important in scientific communication because they make new ideas understandable to both expert and nonexpert audiences. Disease, for example, which is difficult to comprehend on both large and microbiological scales, is often communicated through metaphor and analogy. When a public health campaign “wages war” on cancer, or a microbiologist describes a virus as “attacking” a cell, these forceful words create a war-like metaphor for understanding the way disease works. Notable work in this area has been done by Judy Segal, who chronicled the impact of five biomedical metaphors in her book \"Health and the Rhetoric of Medicine\", including ‘‘medicine is war,’’ ‘‘the body is a machine,’’ ‘‘diagnosis is health,’’ ‘‘medicine is a business,’’ and ‘‘the person is genes, ’’ all of which have had academic, cultural, and social impacts on the way medicine is practiced and understood. Monika Cwiarka has also questioned the use of laboratory mice in behavior-based studies, asking whether certain behaviors observed in mice can be considered analogous to those observed in humans. Another important recent study is Gronnvoll and Landau's research to determine how the public uses metaphor to understand genetic science.\n\nHyperbole is a figure of speech more often used by a patient when speaking with a doctor than by doctors communicating with their patients. Where some figures of speech can help to lend meaning or understanding to medical and scientific communication, hyperbole often obscures the truth by exaggerating it, which can have detrimental and even deadly results. Headaches, for example, can occasionally be described by patients as feeling as if their “head’s going to explode.” This type of communication can make it difficult for doctors to understand the true gravity of a symptom, which may lead to misdiagnosis. Furthermore, doctors and scientists need to be especially aware of the negative implications that hyperbole can have in medical discourses. As Joseph Loscalzo points out in his article Clinical Trials in Cardiovascular Medicine in an Era of Marginal Benefit, Bias, and Hyperbole, the use of hyperbole by investigators during medical trials can “often prejudice the trialist in favor of a positive result.” When investigators provide trialists with bias, whether intentionally or unintentionally, the data that is collected may be skewed in the direction of the bias provided by the investigator.\n\nConsider a hypothetical conversation between two parties about health care reform. One party may wish to argue the moral necessity of health care reform while the other party wishes to argue that health care reform is economically infeasible. Until both parties agree on the issue at hand (whether it be the economic or moral considerations of health care reform), resolution of the argument cannot take place. Once the parties have agreed on the issue at hand, they have achieved rhetorical stasis. The idea of first agreeing to the issue at hand is central to any discussion between rational people. One example of how stasis can apply to health and medical rhetoric is provided in a recent article by Christa Teston and Scott Graham. These researchers applied the rhetorical concept of stasis to medical discourse by reviewing the FDA discussion on Avastin as a treatment for metastatic breast cancer. They concluded that the absence of stasis resulted in miscommunication between the interested parties. The FDA could have achieved stasis, these authors conclude, by first reaching consensus on the following questions: What counts as clinical benefit? What kinds of evidence would be deemed meaningful?\n\nThe rhetorical appeals, often referred to as modes of persuasion or ethical strategies, are a set of rhetorical concepts used to persuade audiences. Initially introduced by Aristotle in On Rhetoric, the appeals focus on three ways to persuade your audience: by appealing to the character of the speaker (ethos), the emotions of the audience (pathos), or the logic/truth of the argument itself (logos).\n\nEthos is an appeal to the authority or credibility of the presenter and is especially important in health and medicine communication. As Sarah Bigi explains in her article The Persuasive Role of Ethos in doctor-patient Interactions, “physicians are expected to inform, advise and persuade patients regarding their health problems.” In order to successfully persuade their patients, doctors need to rely on the rhetorical appeals, and the appeal that patients seem to care about the most, is the ethos of the doctor. If a doctor does not seem credible than a patient is unlikely to follow their instructions or diagnosis, which can lead to further health complications down the line.\n\nPathos is an appeal to the audience's emotions. The speaker may use pathos in a multitude of ways; however, in terms of the rhetoric of health and medicine, two particular emotions stand out: fear and hope.\n\nWhen doctors appeal to fear it is not done so lightly. Doctors have to decide if instilling fear in their patient is the right tactic for persuading their patients to agree with the physician's treatment plan. For instance, if a patient has diabetes and is likely to lose a toe or foot if they do not change the way they treat their condition, it is up to the doctor to decide when to stop telling their patient that “changing your habits will give you a better life” and to start telling their patient that “if you don’t stop your current habits, you’re going to lose a foot.”\n\nWhen doctors appeal to hope, the doctor tries to persuade the patient through describing a scenario of a positive future that's only possible by the patient following the doctor's orders. In some cases, Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, the act of presenting this positive emotional state can actually create a positive result in itself.\n\nLogos is logical appeal or the simulation of it. It is normally used to describe facts and figures that support the speaker's claims or thesis. It is important to health and medicine communications because patients want to know which treatments work best, and they want the scientific data to prove it. Having an appeal to logic also enhances ethos because information makes the speaker look knowledgeable and prepared to his or her audience. However, the data can be confusing and thus confuse the audience. So, the doctor has to make sure to leverage the appeals to best persuade their patients. Doctors must decide how many facts and figures are appropriate to persuade an audience of the factual basis of the argument while portraying themselves as a credible speaker and playing to the right emotional state of their patient---all to get the patient to follow the doctor's orders.\n\nRhetoricians of health and medicine conduct research primarily through qualitative methods, although quantitative methods are also occasionally employed. Scholars in the field apply these techniques to understand how and for what reasons health and medical communication is accomplished.\n\nThrough content analysis, scholars strive to answer the questions first formulated by political scientist Harold Lasswell as they apply to health and medicine texts: “Who says what, to whom, why, to what extent and with what effect?\" For example, researchers might study the content of pharmaceutical advertisements on television to determine their appeals to potential consumers. Others might examine the communication of health information via new media such as Twitter and Facebook. Rhetoricians have increasingly turned to computers to facilitate quantitative content analysis as they gather massive data collections from Internet sources.\n\nResearchers in the field are also concerned with the effectiveness of health and medical communications. Audience surveys are often used to determine if a target audience understands a given set of health or medical instructions. The results help researchers adjust these instructions and assist audiences in achieving functional health literacy. Other surveys gauge the public's attitudes and knowledge regarding important medical topics such as mental health. This sort of research identifies gaps for public health agencies to address in their communications.\n\nCreators of health and medical communications often test their work with a subset of their target audience before its wider release. This practice is particularly important when content creators are not themselves part of their target audience, as is often the case for communications that address vulnerable communities such as senior citizens or immigrants with English as a second language. Usability research can include techniques such as “think aloud” testing, in which potential users talk the researcher through their navigation of a given computer program or text. Evaluations by experts in other fields, such as design or user experience, are also employed.\n\nAnyone interested in professional opportunities in health and medical rhetoric might visit the websites of the following professional organizations:\n"}
{"id": "615394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615394", "title": "Robert D. Putnam", "text": "Robert D. Putnam\n\nRobert David Putnam (born 1941) is an American political scientist. He is the Peter and Isabel Malkin Professor of Public Policy at the Harvard University John F. Kennedy School of Government. Putnam developed the influential two-level game theory that assumes international agreements will only be successfully brokered if they also result in domestic benefits. His most famous (and controversial) work, \"Bowling Alone\", argues that the United States has undergone an unprecedented collapse in civic, social, associational, and political life (social capital) since the 1960s, with serious negative consequences. In 2010, he co-published an article in which he noted that the trend had moved the other way; he continued to advocate a push towards more social capital but he felt his famous thesis (\"Americans are now bowling alone\") was no longer true. In March 2015, he published a book called \"Our Kids: The American Dream in Crisis\" that looked at issues of inequality of opportunity in the US.\n\nRobert David Putnam was born on January 9, 1941, in Rochester, New York, and grew up in Port Clinton, Ohio, where he participated in a competitive bowling league as a teenager. Putnam graduated from Swarthmore College in 1963 where he was a member of Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity. An outstanding student, he won a Fulbright Fellowship to study at Balliol College, Oxford, and went on to earn master's and doctorate degrees from Yale University, the latter in 1970. He taught at the University of Michigan until joining the faculty at Harvard in 1979, where he has held a variety of positions, including Dean of the Kennedy School, and is currently the Malkin Professor of Public Policy. Putnam was raised as a religiously observant Methodist. In 1963, Putnam married his wife Rosemary, a special education teacher and French horn player. Around the time of his marriage, he converted to Judaism, his wife's religion.\n\nHis first work in the area of social capital was \"Making Democracy Work: Civic Traditions in Modern Italy\", a comparative study of regional governments in Italy which drew great scholarly attention for its argument that the success of democracies depends in large part on the horizontal bonds that make up social capital. Putnam writes that northern Italy's history of community, guilds, clubs, and choral societies led to greater civic involvement and greater economic prosperity. Meanwhile, the agrarian society of Southern Italy is less prosperous economically and democratically because of less social capital. Social capital, which Putnam defines as \"networks and norms of civic engagement\", allows members of a community to trust one another. When community members trust one another, trade, money-lending, and democracy flourish.\n\nIn 1995 he published \"Bowling Alone: America's Declining Social Capital\" in the \"Journal of Democracy\". The article was widely read and garnered much attention for Putnam, including an invitation to meet with then-President Bill Clinton and a spot in the pages of \"People\". Some critics argued that Putnam was ignoring new organizations and forms of social capital; others argued that many of the included organizations were responsible for the suppression of civil rights movements and the reinforcement of anti-egalitarian social norms. Over the last decade and a half, the United States had seen an increase in bowlers but a decrease in bowling leagues.\n\nIn 2000, he published \"Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community\", a book-length expansion of the original argument, adding new evidence and answering many of his critics. Though he measured the decline of social capital with data of many varieties, his most striking point was that many traditional civic, social and fraternal organizations – typified by bowling leagues – had undergone a massive decline in membership while the number of people bowling had increased dramatically.\n\nPutnam makes a distinction between two kinds of social capital: bonding capital and bridging capital. Bonding occurs when you are socializing with people who are like you: same age, same race, same religion, and so on. But in order to create peaceful societies in a diverse multi-ethnic country, one needs to have a second kind of social capital: bridging. Bridging is what you do when you make friends with people who are not like you, like supporters of another football team. Putnam argues that those two kinds of social capital, bonding and bridging, do strengthen each other. Consequently, with the decline of the bonding capital mentioned above inevitably comes the decline of the bridging capital leading to greater ethnic tensions.\n\nIn 2016, Putnam explained his inspiration for the book, by saying,\nCritics such as the sociologist Claude Fischer argue that (a) Putnam concentrates on organizational forms of social capital, and pays much less attention to networks of interpersonal social capital; (b) Putnam neglects the emergence of new forms of supportive organizations on and off the Internet; and (c) the 1960s are a misleading baseline because the era had an unusually high number of traditional organizations.\n\nSince the publication of \"Bowling Alone\", Putnam has worked on efforts to revive American social capital, notably through the Saguaro Seminar, a series of meetings among academics, civil society leaders, commentators, and politicians to discuss strategies to re-connect Americans with their communities. These resulted in the publication of the book and website, \"Better Together,\" which provides case studies of vibrant and new forms of social capital building in the United States\n\nPutnam theorizes a relation in the negatives trends in society. He envisions a uniting factor named social capital; originally coined by social theorist Alexis deToqueville as a strength within America allowing democracy to thrive due to the closeness of society, \"trends in civic engagement of a wider sort\". Putnam observes a declining trend in social capital since the 1960s. The decreasing in social capital is blamed for rising rates in unhappiness as well as political apathy. Low social capital, a feeling of alienation within society is associated with additional consequences such as:\n\n\nIn recent years, Putnam has been engaged in a comprehensive study of the relationship between trust within communities and their ethnic diversity. His conclusion based on over 40 cases and 30,000 people within the United States is that in the short term, other things being equal, \"more\" diversity in a community is associated with \"less\" trust both among and within ethnic groups. Putnam describes people of all races, sex, socioeconomic statuses, and ages as \"hunkering down\", avoiding engagement with their local community as diversity increases. Although limited to American data, his findings run counter the contact hypothesis which proposes that distrust declines as members of different ethnic groups interact, and conflict theory which suggests that while distrust \"among\" ethnic groups rises with diversity, distrust \"within\" ethnic groups should decrease. Putnam found that even when controlling for income inequality and crime rates, two factors which conflict theory states should be prime causal factors in declining inter-ethnic group trust, more diversity is still associated with less communal trust. Further, he found that low communal trust is associated with the same consequences as low social capital. Putnam says, however, that \"in the long run immigration and diversity are likely to have important cultural, economic, fiscal, and developmental benefits.\"\n\nPutnam published his data set from this study in 2001 and subsequently published the full paper in 2007.\n\nPutnam has been criticized for the lag between his initial study and his publication of his article. In 2006, Putnam was quoted in the \"Financial Times\" as saying he had delayed publishing the article until he could \"develop proposals to compensate for the negative effects of diversity\" (quote from John Lloyd of Financial Times). In 2007, writing in \"City Journal\", John Leo questioned whether this suppression of publication was ethical behavior for a scholar, noting that \"Academics aren't supposed to withhold negative data until they can suggest antidotes to their findings.\" On the other hand, Putnam did release the data in 2001 and publicized this fact.\n\nPutnam denied allegations he was arguing against diversity in society and contended that his paper had been \"twisted\" to make a case against race-conscious admissions to universities. He asserted that his \"extensive research and experience confirm the substantial benefits of diversity, including racial and ethnic diversity, to our society.\"\n\nIn 2007 he briefly met Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi to discuss the role of civil society in the Libyan political context.\n\nHe has been a member of Phi Beta Kappa since 1963, the International Institute of Strategic Studies since 1986, the American Philosophical Society since 2005 and the National Academy of Sciences since 2001. He has been a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences from 1980 and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy from 2001 and was a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration, 1989–2006 and Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, 1974–1975 and 1988–1989. Other fellowships included the Guggenheim 1988–1989; the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars 1977 and 1979; Fulbright 1964–1965 and 1977; SSRC-ACLS 1966–1968; Ford Foundation, 1970; German Marshall Fund, 1979; SSRC-Fulbright, 1982; SSRC-Foreign Policy Studies, 1988–1989 and was made a Harold Lasswell Fellow by the American Academy of Political and Social Science. Robert Putnam was a fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations 1977–1978 and a member since 1981. He was a member of the Trilateral Commission from 1990 to 1998. He was the President of the American Political Science Association (2001–2002). He had been Vice-President 1997–1998.\n\nIn 2004 the President of the Italian Republic made him a Commander of the Order of the Star of Italian Solidarity. He was awarded the Johan Skytte Prize in Political Science in 2006 and a Wilbur Lucius Cross Medal by the Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in 2003, he was a Marshall Lecturer at the University of Cambridge in 1999 and was honored with the Ithiel de Sola Pool Award and Lectureship of the American Political Science Association.\n\nHe has received honorary degrees from Stockholm University (in 1993), Ohio State University (2000), University of Antwerp (also 2000), University of Edinburgh (2003) LUISS Guido Carli University (2011).\n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the National Humanities Medal by President Barack Obama for \"deepening our understanding of community in America.\"\n\nIn 2015, he was awarded the University of Bologna, ISA Medal for Science for research activities characterized by excellence and scientific value.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31342356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31342356", "title": "Scientific communication", "text": "Scientific communication\n\nScientific communication is a part of information science and the sociology of science which study researchers' use of formal and informal information channels, their communicative roles (e.g., \"gatekeepers\"), the utilization of the formal publication system and similar issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "106004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=106004", "title": "Sex and sexuality in speculative fiction", "text": "Sex and sexuality in speculative fiction\n\nSexual themes are frequently used in science fiction or related genres. Such elements may include depictions of realistic sexual interactions in a science fictional setting, a protagonist with an alternative sexuality, or exploration of the varieties of sexual experience that deviate from the conventional.\n\nScience fiction and fantasy have sometimes been more constrained than non-genre narrative forms in their depictions of sexuality and gender. However, speculative fiction also offers the freedom to imagine societies different from real-life cultures, making it an incisive tool to examine sexual bias and forcing the reader to reconsider his or her cultural assumptions.\n\nPrior to the 1960s, explicit sexuality of any kind was not characteristic of genre speculative fiction due to the relatively high number of minors in the target audience. In the 1960s, science fiction and fantasy began to reflect the changes prompted by the civil rights movement and the emergence of a counterculture. New Wave and feminist science fiction authors imagined cultures in which a variety of gender models and atypical sexual relationships are the norm, and depictions of sex acts and alternative sexualities became commonplace.\n\nThere also exists , which explores sexuality and the presentation of themes aimed at inducing arousal.\n\nAs genres of popular literature, science fiction and fantasy often seem even more constrained than non-genre literature by their conventions of characterization and the effects that these conventions have on depictions of sexuality and gender. Sex is often linked to disgust in science fiction and horror, and plots based on sexual relationships have mainly been avoided in genre fantasy narratives. On the other hand, science fiction and fantasy can also offer more freedom than do non-genre literatures to imagine alternatives to the default assumptions of heterosexuality and masculine superiority that permeate many cultures.\n\nIn speculative fiction, extrapolation allows writers to focus not on the way things are (or were), as non-genre literature does, but on the way things could be different. It provides science fiction with a quality that Darko Suvin has called \"cognitive estrangement\": the recognition that what we are reading is not the world as we know it, but a world whose difference forces us to reconsider our own world with an outsider's perspective. When the extrapolation involves sexuality or gender, it can force the reader to reconsider their heteronormative cultural assumptions; the freedom to imagine societies different from real-life cultures makes science fiction an incisive tool to examine sexual bias. In science fiction, such estranging features include technologies that significantly alter sex or reproduction. In fantasy, such features include figures (for example, mythological deities and heroic archetypes) who are not limited by preconceptions of human sexuality and gender, allowing them to be reinterpreted. Science fiction has also depicted a plethora of alien methods of reproduction and sex.\n\n\"Uranian Worlds\", by Eric Garber and Lyn Paleo, is an authoritative guide to science fiction literature featuring gay, lesbian, transgender, and related themes. The book covers science fiction literature published before 1990 (2nd edition), providing a short review and commentary on each piece.\n\nSome of the themes explored in speculative fiction include:\n\n\"True History,\" a Greek-language tale by Assyrian writer Lucian (120-185 CE), has been called the first ever science fiction story. The narrator is suddenly enveloped by a typhoon and swept up to the Moon, which is inhabited by a society of men who are at war with the Sun. After the hero distinguishes himself in combat, the king gives him his son, the prince, in marriage. The all-male society reproduces (male children only) by giving birth from the thigh or by growing a child from a plant produced by planting the left testicle in the Moon's soil.\n\nIn other proto-SF works, sex itself, of any type, was equated with base desires or \"beastliness,\" as in \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), which contrasts the animalistic and overtly sexual Yahoos with the reserved and intelligent Houyhnhnms. Early works that showed sexually open characters to be morally impure include the first lesbian vampire story \"Carmilla\" (1872) by Sheridan Le Fanu (collected in \"In a Glass Darkly\").\n\nThe 1915 utopian novel \"Herland\" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman depicts the visit by three men to an all-female society in which women reproduce by parthenogenesis.\n\nDuring the pulp era, explicit sexuality of any kind was not characteristic of genre science fiction and fantasy. The frank treatment of sexual topics of earlier literature was abandoned. For many years, the editors who controlled what was published, such as Kay Tarrant, assistant editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\", felt that they had to protect the adolescent male readership that they identified as their principal market. Although the covers of some 1930s pulp magazines showed scantily clad women menaced by tentacled aliens, the covers were often more lurid than the magazines' contents. Implied or disguised sexuality was as important as that which was openly revealed. In this sense, genre science fiction reflected the social mores of the day, paralleling common prejudices. This was particularly true of pulp fiction, more so than literary works of the time.\n\nIn Aldous Huxley's dystopian novel \"Brave New World\" (1932), natural reproduction has been abolished, with human embryos being raised artificially in \"hatcheries and conditioning centres.\" Recreational sex is promoted, often as a group activity, and marriage, pregnancy, natural birth, and parenthood are considered too vulgar to be mentioned in polite conversation.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of genre science fiction that involves a challenging amount of unconventional sexual activity is \"Odd John\" (1935) by Olaf Stapledon. John is a mutant with extraordinary mental abilities who will not allow himself to be bound by many of the rules imposed by the ordinary British society of his time. The novel strongly implies that he has consensual intercourse with his mother and that he seduces an older boy who becomes devoted to him but also suffers from the affront that the relationship creates to his own morals. John eventually concludes that any sexual interaction with \"normal\" humans is akin to bestiality.\n\n\"War with the Newts\", a 1936 satirical science fiction novel by Czech author Karel Čapek, concerns the discovery in the Pacific of a sea-dwelling race, an intelligent breed of newts - who are initially enslaved and exploited by humans and later rebel and go war against them. The book includes a detailed appendix entitled 'The Sex Life of the Newts', which examines the Newts' sexuality and reproductive processes in a pastiche of academese. This is one of the first attempts to speculate on what form sex might have among non-human intelligent beings.\n\nAs the readership for science fiction and fantasy began to age in the 1950s, writers were able to introduce more explicit sexuality into their work.\n\nPhilip José Farmer wrote \"The Lovers\" (1952), arguably the first science fiction story to feature sex as a major theme, and \"Strange Relations\" (1960), a collection of five stories about human/alien sexual relations. In his novel \"Flesh\" (1960), a hypermasculine antlered man ritually impregnates legions of virgins in order to counter declining male fertility.\n\nTheodore Sturgeon wrote many stories that emphasised the importance of love regardless of the current social norms, such as \"The World Well Lost\" (1953), a classic tale involving alien homosexuality, and the novel \"Venus Plus X\" (1960), in which a contemporary man awakens in a futuristic place where the people are hermaphrodites.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's time-travel short story \"All You Zombies\" (1959) chronicles a young man (later revealed to be intersex) taken back in time and tricked into impregnating his younger, female self before he underwent a sex change. He then turns out to be the offspring of that union, with the paradoxical result that he is both his own mother and father.\n\nWhen Heinlein's \"The Puppet Masters\" was originally published, it was censored by the publisher to remove various references to sex. The opening scene, where the protagonist is called urgently to HQ on an early morning hour, was re-written to remove all mention of his being in bed with a girl he had casually picked up. The published version did mention that the book's alien invaders cause human beings whose bodies they take over to lose sexual feeling - but removed a later section mentioning that after some time on Earth the invaders \"discovered sex\" and started engaging in wild orgies and even broadcasting them on TV in areas under their control. Thirty years later, with changing mores, Heinlein published the book's full, unexpurgated text. \n\nIn \"Time Enough for Love\" (1973), Heinlein's recurring protagonist Lazarus Long - who never grows old and has an extremely long and eventful life - travels backward in time to the period of his own childhood. As an unintentional result, he falls in love with his own mother. He has no guilt feeling about pursuing and eventually consummating that relationship - considering her simply as an extremely attractive young woman named Maureen who just happens to have given birth to him thousands of years ago (as far as his personal timeline is concerned). The sequel,\"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\" takes place after Maureen had discovered the true identity of her lover - and shows that for her part, she was more amused than shocked or angry. \nPoul Anderson's 1958 novel \"War of the Wing-Men\", centers on a species of winged intelligent creatures and sexual differencws are central to its plot. Of the two mutually-hostile societies featured in the book, one practices monogamous marriage, while in the other there are every spring several days of a wild indiscriminate orgy - and a complete celibacy for the rest of the year. Ironically, both societies alike consider themselves chaste and the other depraved: \"We keep faithful to our mates while they fuck around indiscriminately - disgusting!\" ; \"We keep sex where it belongs, to one week per year where you are not really yourself. They do it all over the year- disgusting!\". Humans who land on the planet intervene in the centuries-long war, by showing members of the two societies that they are not all that different from each other.\n\nAnother Poul Anderson novel of the same period, \"Virgin Planet\" (1959), deals in a straightforward manner with homosexuality and polyamory on an exclusively female world. The plot twist is that the protagonist is the only male on a world of women, and though quite a few of them are interested in sex with him, it is never consummated during his sojourn on the planet.\n\nA mirror image was presented by A. Bertram Chandler in \"Spartan Planet\" (1969), featuring an exclusively male world, where by definition homosexual relations are the normal (and only) sexual relations. The plot revolves around the explosive social upheaval resulting when the planet is discovered by a spaceship from the wider galaxy, whose crew includes both men and women. \n\nUntil the late 1960s, few other writers depicted alternative sexuality or revised gender roles, nor openly investigated sexual questions.\n\nMore conventionally, A. Bertram Chandler's books include numerous episodes of free fall sex, his characters (male and female alike) strongly prone to extramarital relations and tending to while away the boring months-long Deep Space voyages by forming complicated love triangles.\n\nBy the late 1960s, science fiction and fantasy began to reflect the changes prompted by the civil rights movement and the emergence of a counterculture. Within the genres, these changes were incorporated into a movement called \"the New Wave,\" a movement more skeptical of technology, more liberated socially, and more interested in stylistic experimentation. New Wave writers were more likely to claim an interest in \"inner space\" instead of outer space. They were less shy about explicit sexuality and more sympathetic to reconsiderations of gender roles and the social status of sexual minorities. Notable authors who often wrote on sexual themes included Joanna Russ, Thomas M. Disch, John Varley, James Tiptree, Jr., and Samuel R. Delany. Under the influence of New Wave editors and authors such as Michael Moorcock (editor of the influential \"New Worlds\" magazine) and Ursula K. Le Guin, sympathetic depictions of alternative sexuality and gender multiplied in science fiction and fantasy, becoming commonplace.\n\nRobert A. Heinlein's \"Stranger in a Strange Land\" (1961) and \"The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress\" (1966) both depict heterosexual group marriages and public nudity as desirable social norms, while in Heinlein's \"Time Enough for Love\" (1973), the main character argues strongly for the future liberty of homosexual sex. Heinlein's character Lazarus Long, travelling back in time to the period of his own childhood, discovers, to his surprise and (initial) shame, a sexual desire of his own mother - but overcoming this initial shame, he comes to think of her simply as \"Maureen\", an attractive young woman who is far from indifferent to him. \n\nSamuel R. Delany's Nebula Award-winning short story \"Aye, and Gomorrah\" (1967) posits the development of neutered human astronauts, and then depicts the people who become sexually oriented toward them. By imagining a new gender and resultant sexual orientation, the story allows readers to reflect on the real world while maintaining an estranging distance. In his 1975 science fiction novel entitled \"Dhalgren\", Delany colors his large canvas with characters of a wide variety of sexualities. Once again, sex is not the focus of the novel, although it does contain some of the first explicitly described scenes of gay sex in science fiction. Delany depicts, mostly with affection, characters with a wide variety of motivations and behaviours, with the effect of revealing to the reader the fact that these kinds of people exist in the real world. In later works, Delany blurs the line between science fiction and gay pornography. Delany faced resistance from book distribution companies for his treatment of these topics.\n\nUrsula K. Le Guin explores radically alternative forms of sexuality in \"The Left Hand of Darkness\" (1969) and again in \"Coming of Age in Karhide\" (1995), which imagine the sexuality of an alien \"human\" species in which individuals are neither \"male\" nor \"female,\" but undergo a monthly sexual cycle in which they randomly experience the activation of either male or female sexual organs and reproductive abilities; this makes them in a sense bisexual, and in other senses androgynous or hermaphroditic. It is common for an individual of that species to undergo at some moment of life pregnancy and birth-giving. while at another time having the male role and impregnating somebody else. Le Guin has written considerations of her own work in two essays, \"Is Gender Necessary?\" (1976) and \"Is Gender Necessary? Redux\" (1986), which respond to feminist and other criticism of \"The Left Hand of Darkness\". In these essays, she makes it clear that the novel's assumption that Gethenians would automatically find a mate of the gender opposite to the gender they were becoming produced an unintended heteronormativity. Le Guin has subsequently written many stories that examine the possibilities science fiction allows for non-traditional sexuality, such as the sexual bonding between clones in \"Nine Lives\" (1968) and the four-way marriages in \"Mountain Ways\" (1996).\n\nIn his 1972 novel \"The Gods Themselves\", Isaac Asimov describes an alien race with three genders, all of them necessary for sexual reproduction. One gender produces a form of sperm, another gender provides the energy needed for reproduction, and members of the third gender bear and raise the offspring. All three genders are included in sexual and social norms of expected and acceptable behavior. In this same novel, the hazards and problems of sex in microgravity are described, and while people born on the Moon are proficient at it, people from Earth are not.\n\nSimilarly, Poul Anderson's \"Three Worlds to Conquer\" depicts centaur-like beings living on Jupiter who have three genders: female, male and \"demi-male\". In order to conceive, a female must have sex with both a male and a demi-male within a short time of each other. In the society of the protagonist, there are stable, harmonious three-way families, in effect a formalized Menage a Trois, with the three partners on equal terms with each other. An individual in that society feels a strong attachment to all three parents - mother, father and demi-father - who all take part in bringing up the young. Conversely, among the harsh invaders who threaten to destroy the protagonist's homeland and culture, males are totally dominant over both females and demi-males; the latter are either killed at birth or preserved in subjugation for reproduction - which the protagonist regards as a barbaric aberration. \n\nFeminist science fiction authors imagined cultures in which homo- and bisexuality and a variety of gender models are the norm. Joanna Russ's award-winning short story \"When It Changed\" (1972), portraying a female-only lesbian society that flourished without men, and her novel \"The Female Man\" (1975), were enormously influential. Russ was largely responsible for introducing radical lesbian feminism into science fiction.\n\nThe bisexual female writer Alice Bradley Sheldon, who used James Tiptree, Jr. as her pen name, explored the sexual impulse as her main theme. Some stories by Tiptree portray humans becoming sexually obsessed with aliens, such as \"And I Awoke and Found Me Here on the Cold Hill's Side\" (1972), or aliens being sexually abused. \"The Girl Who Was Plugged In\" (1973) is an early precursor of cyberpunk that depicts a relationship via a cybernetically controlled body. In her award-winning novella \"Houston, Houston, Do You Read?\" (1976), Tiptree presents a female-only society after the extinction of men from disease. The society lacks stereotypically \"male\" problems such as war, but is stagnant. The women reproduce via cloning, and consider men to be comical.\n\nIn Robert Silverberg's novelette \"The Way to Spook City\" the protagonist meets and has an affair with a woman named Jill, who seems completely human - and convincingly, passionately female human. Increasingly in love with her, he still has a nagging suspicion that she is in fact a disguised member of the mysterious extraterrestrial species known as \"Spooks\", who had invaded and taken over a large part of the United States. Until the end, he repeatedly grapples with two questions: Is she human or a Spook? And if she is a Spook, could the two of them nevertheless build a life together? \n\nElizabeth A. Lynn's science fiction novel \"A Different Light\" (1978) features a same-sex relationship between two men, and inspired the name of the LGBT bookstore chain A Different Light. Lynn's The Chronicles of Tornor (1979–80) series of novels, the first of which won the World Fantasy Award, were among the first fantasy novels to include gay relationships as an unremarkable part of the cultural background. Lynn also wrote novels depicting sadomasochism.\n\nJohn Varley, who also came to prominence in the 1970s, is another writer who examined sexual themes in his work. In his \"Eight Worlds\" suite of stories and novels, humanity has achieved the ability to change sex quickly, easily and completely reversibly - leading to a casual attitude with people changing their sex back and forth as the sudden whim takes them. Homophobia is shown as initially inhibiting the uptake of this technology, as it engenders drastic changes in relationships, with bisexuality becoming the default mode for society. Varley's Gaea trilogy (1979-1984) features lesbian protagonists.\n\nFemale characters in science fiction films, such as \"Barbarella\" (1968), continued to be often portrayed as simple sex kittens.\n\nAfter the pushing back of boundaries in the 1960s and 70s, sex in genre science fiction gained wider acceptance, and was often incorporated into otherwise conventional science fiction stories with little comment.\n\nJack L. Chalker's Well World series, launched in 1977, depicts a world - designed by the super science of a vanished extraterrestrial race, the Markovians - which is divided into numerous \"hexes\", each inhabited by different sentient race. Anyone entering one of these hexes is transformed into a member of the local race. This plot device gives a wide scope for exploring the divergent biology and cultures of the various species - including their sex life. For example, a human entering a hex inhabited by an insectoid intelligent race is transformed into a female of that species, feels sexual desire for a male and mates with him. Too late does she discover that in this species, pregnancy is fatal - the mother being devoured from the inside by her larvae. In a later part, a very macho villain gains control of a supercomputer whose power includes the ability to \"redesign\" people's bodies to almost any specification. He uses the computer to give himself a \"super-virile\" body, capable of a virtually unlimited number of erections and ejaculations - and then proceeds to transform his male enemies into beautiful women and induce in them a strong sexual desire towards himself. However, a computer breakdown restores to these captives their normal minds. Though they are still in women's bodies, these bodies were designed with great strength and stamina, so as to enable them to undergo repeated sexual encounters. Thus, they are well-equipped to chase, catch and suitably punish their abuser. \n\nSet on an alien planet, Octavia E. Butler's acclaimed short story \"Bloodchild\" (1984) depicts the complex relationship between human refugees and the insect-like aliens who keep them in a preserve to protect them, but also to use them as hosts for breeding their young. Sometimes called Butler's \"pregnant man story,\" \"Bloodchild\" won the Nebula Award, Hugo Award, and Locus Award. Other of Butler's works explore miscegenation, non-consensual sex, and hybridity.\n\nIn Robert Silverberg's 1982 novella \"Homefaring\", the protagonist enters the mind of an intelligent lobster of the very far future and experiences all aspects of lobster life, including sex: \"He approached a female, knowing precisely which one was the appropriate one, and sang to her, and she acknowledged his song with a song of her own, and raised her third pair of legs for him, and let him plant his gametes beside her oviducts. There was no apparent pleasure in it, as he remembered pleasure from his time as a human. Yet it brought him a subtle but unmistakable sense of fulfillment, of the completion of biological destiny, that had a kind of orgasmic finality about it, and left him calm and anchored at the absolute dead center of his soul\". When finally returning to his human body and his human lover, he keeps longing for the lobster life, to \"his mate and her millions of larvae\". \n\nQuentin and Alice, the extremely shy and insecure protagonists of Lev Grossman's fantasy novel \"The Magicians\", spend years as fellow students at a School of Magic without admitting to being deeply in love with each other. Only the experience of being magically turned into foxes enables them at last to break through their reserve: \"Increasingly, Quentin noticed one scent more than the others. It was a sharp, acrid, skunky musk that probably would have smelled like cat piss to a human being, but to a fox it was like a drug. He tackled the source of the smell, buried his snuffling muzzle in her fur, because he had known all along, with what was left of his consciousness, that what he was smelling was Alice. Vulpine hormones and instincts were powering up, taking over, manhandling what was left of his rational human mind. He locked his teeth in the thick fur of her neck. It didn't seem to hurt her any, or at least not in a way that was easily distinguishable from pleasure. He caught a glimpse of Alice's wild, dark fox eyes rolling with terror and then half shutting with pleasure. Their tiny quick breathes puffed white in the air and mingled and disappeared. Her white fox fur was coarse and smooth at the same time, and she made little yipping sounds every time he pushed himself deeper inside her. He never wanted to stop\". When resuming their human bodies, Quentin and Alice are initially even more shy and awkward with each other, and only after going through some harrowing magical experiences are they finally able to have human sex. \n\nLois McMaster Bujold explores many areas of sexuality in the multiple award-winning novels and stories of her Vorkosigan Saga (1986-ongoing), which are set in a fictional universe influenced by the availability of uterine replicators and significant genetic engineering. These areas include an all-male society, promiscuity, monastic celibacy, hermaphroditism, and bisexuality.\n\nIn the Mythopoeic Award-winning novel \"Unicorn Mountain\" (1988), Michael Bishop includes a gay male AIDS patient among the carefully drawn central characters who must respond to an irruption of dying unicorns at their Colorado ranch. The death of the hedonistic gay culture, and the safe sex campaign resulting from the AIDS epidemic, are explored, both literally and metaphorically.\n\nSex has a major role in Harry Turtledove's 1990 novel \"A World of Difference\", taking place on the planet Minerva (a more habitable analogue of Mars). Minervan animals (including the sentient Minervans) are hexameristically radially symmetrical. This means that they have six eyes spaced equally all around, see in all directions and have no \"back\" where somebody could sneak on them unnoticed. Females (referred to as \"mates\" by the Minervans) give birth to litters that consist of one male and five females, and the \"mates\" always die after reproducing because of torrential bleeding from the places where the six fetuses were attached; this gives a population multiplication of 5 per generation if all females live to adolescence and reproduce. Females reach puberty while still hardly out of childhood, and typically experience sex only once in the lifetime - leading to pregnancy and death at birth-giving. Thus, in Minervan society male dominance seems truly determined by a biological imperative - though it takes different forms in various Minervan societies: in some females are considered expendable and traded as property, in other they are cherished and their tragic fate mourned - but still their dependent status is taken for granted. The American women arriving on Minerva and discovering this situation consider it intolerable; a major plot element is their efforts, using the resources of Earth medical science, to find a way of saving the Minervan females and let them survive birth-giving. At the end, they do manage to save a particularly sympathetic Minervan female - potentially opening the way for a complete upheaval in Minervan society.\n\n\"Glory Season\" (1993) by David Brin is set on the planet Stratos, inhabited by a strain of human beings designed to conceive clones in winter, and normal children in summer. All clones are female, because males cannot reproduce themselves individually. Further, males and females have opposed seasons of sexual receptivity; women are sexually receptive in winter, and men in summer. (This unusual heterogamous reproductive cycle is known to be evolutionarily advantageous for some species of aphids.) The novel treats themes of separatist feminism and biological determinism.\n\nElizabeth Bear's novel \"Carnival\" (2006) revisits the trope of the single-gender world, as a pair of gay male ambassador-spies attempt to infiltrate and subvert the predominately lesbian civilization of New Amazonia, whose matriarchal rulers have all but enslaved their men.\n\nThe plot of \"The Tamír Triad\" by Lynn Flewelling has a major Transsexual element. To begin with the protagonist, Prince Tobin, is to all appearances a male - both in his own perception and in that of others. Boys who swim naked together with Tobin have no reason to doubt his male anatomy. Yet, due to the magical reasons which are an important part of the plot, in the underlying, essential identity Tobin had always been a disguised girl. In the series' cataclysmic scene of magical change this becomes an evident physical fact, and Prince Tobin becomes Queen Tamír, shedding the male body and gaining a fully functioning female one. Yet, it takes Tamír a considerable time and effort to come to terms with her female sexuality.\n\nLateral Magazine, \"The freedom of a genre: Sexuality in speculative fiction\": 'In another twist of today’s society, \"Nontraditional Love\" by Rafael Grugman (2008) puts together an upside-down society where heterosexuality is outlawed, and homosexuality is the norm. A ‘traditional’ family unit consists of two dads with a surrogate mother. Alternatively, two mothers, one of whom bares a child. In a nod to the always-progressive Netherlands, this country is the only country progressive enough to allow opposite sex marriage. This is perhaps the most obvious example of cognitive estrangement. It puts the reader in the shoes of the oppressed by modelling an entire world of opposites around a fairly “normal” everyday heterosexual protagonist. A heterosexual reader would not only be able to identify with the main character, but be immersed in a world as oppressive and bigoted as the real world has been for homosexuals and the queer community throughout history.\n\n"}
{"id": "34821434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34821434", "title": "Social History and Industrial Classification", "text": "Social History and Industrial Classification\n\nSocial History and Industrial Classification (SHIC) is a classification system used by many British museums for social history and industrial collections.\nIt was first published in 1983.\n\nSHIC was classifies materials (books, objects, recordings etc.) by their interaction with the people who used them. For example, a carpenter's hammer is classified with other tools of the carpenter, and not with a blacksmith's hammer. In contrast other classification systems, for example the Dewey Decimal Classification, might class all hammers together and close to the classification for other percussive tools. The specialist subject network, Social History Curator's Group (SHCG), obtained funding in 2012 to develop an on-line version, now on their website http://www.shcg.org.uk/\n\nMaterials are classified under four major category numbers:\nFurther classification within a category is by the use of further numbers after the decimal point. \n\nIt is permissible to assign more than one classification in cases where the object had more than one use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2001375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2001375", "title": "Social conflict", "text": "Social conflict\n\nSocial conflict is the struggle for agency or power in society.\nSocial conflict or group conflict occurs when two or more actors oppose each other in social interaction, reciprocally exerting social power in an effort to attain scarce or incompatible goals and prevent the opponent from attaining them. It is a social relationship wherein the action is oriented intentionally for carrying out the actor's own will against the resistance of other party or parties.\n\nConflict theory emphasizes interests, rather than norms and values, in conflict. The pursuit of interests generates various types of conflict. Thus conflict is seen as a normal aspect of social life rather than an abnormal occurrence. Competition over resources is often the cause of conflict. The three tenets of this theory are the following: 1) Society is composed of different groups that compete for resources. 2) While societies may portray a sense of cooperation, a continual power struggle exists between social groups as they pursue their own interests. Within societies, certain groups control specific resources and means of production. 3) Social groups will use resources to their own advantage in the pursuit of their goals. This often means that those who lack control over resources will be taken advantage of. As a result, many dominated groups will struggle with other groups in attempt to gain control. The majority of the time, the groups with the most resources will gain or maintain power (due to the fact that they have the resources to support their power). The idea that those who have control will maintain control is known as The Matthew Effect.\n\nOne branch of conflict theory is critical criminology. This term is based upon the view that the fundamental causes of crime is oppression, resulting from social and economic forces operating within a given society. This perspective stems from German philosopher, Karl Marx, who believed the justice system and laws favour the rich and powerful in a society and that the poor are punished far more severely for much smaller crimes.\n\nAnother branch of conflict theory is the conflict theory of aging. This came about in the 1980s due to a setback in federal spending and a loss of jobs across the nation; the older generations competed with the younger generation for employment. Among those that were the worst affected were women, low-income families, and minorities. therefor, competition can seriously harm our daily life and society\n\nIn the Critique of the Political Economy Marx writes:\nIn the social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into definite relations, which are independent of their will, namely the economic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legal and political superstructure and to which correspond definite forms of social consciousness. The mode of production of material life conditions the general process of social, political and intellectual life. It is not the consciousness of men that determines their existence, but their social existence that determines their consciousness. At some stage of development, the material productive forces of society come into conflict with the existing relations of production or – this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms – with the property relations within the framework of which they have operated hitherto. From forms of development of the productive forces these relations turn into their fetters (legcuffs). Then begins an era of social revolution. The changes in the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation of the whole immense superstructure.\n\nIn studying such transformations it is always necessary to distinguish between the material transformation of the economic conditions of production, which can be determined with the precision of natural science, and the legal, political, religious, artistic or philosophic – in short, ideological forms in which men become conscious of this conflict and fight it out. Just as one does not judge an individual by what he thinks about himself, so one cannot judge such a period of transformation by its consciousness, but, on the contrary, this consciousness must be explained from the contradictions of material life, from the conflict existing between the social forces of production and the relations of production. No social order is ever destroyed before all the productive forces for which it is sufficient have been developed, and new superior relations of production never replace older ones before the material conditions for their existence have matured within the framework of the old society.\n\nMankind thus inevitably sets itself only such tasks as it is able to solve, since closer examination will always show that the problem itself arises only when the material conditions for its solution are already present or at least in the course of formation. In broad outline, the Asiatic, ancient,[A] feudal and modern bourgeois modes of production may be designated as epochs marking progress in the economic development of society. The bourgeois mode of production is the last antagonistic form of the social process of production – antagonistic not in the sense of individual antagonism but of an antagonism that emanates from the individuals' social conditions of existence – but the productive forces developing within bourgeois society create also the material conditions for a solution of this antagonism. The prehistory of human society accordingly closes with this social formation.\nhttp://www.marxists.org/archive/marx/works/1859/critique-pol-economy/preface.htm\n\nKarl Marx, a German revolutionary, emphasized his materialist views on ownership and means of production. He argued that what is most valued is a result of human labour and founded his ideas based on a capitalistic community, meaning a majority of the money is owned by only a small percentage. This causes a distinction between two classes, the industrialists and the working class. The industrialists, the ones that make up the small percentage, own the means of production. The working class are those earning their wages by selling their labour. Problems become noticeable because the upper class is looking to get the most production possible for the least amount of money. A Surplus value is created; the profit industrialists hold on to caused by workers producing more than the employers actually need to repay the cost of hiring labourers. Another occurrence is exploitation; when workers receive less money than what their labour is worth. Marx believed that the gap between industrialists and the labourers would continue to grow. The industrialists would become more and more wealthy, and the labourers continue to move towards poverty. Conflict theory is seen throughout relationships and interactions between two groups of people including races, opposite sexes, and religions.\n\nMax Weber and Karl Marx have two different approaches to the conflict theory. Marx supports the ideas of deviance, claiming that individuals choose to engage in such rebellious and conflicting behaviour as a response to the inequalities of the capitalist system. Weber discusses the conflict of stratification and its effects on power in society. He stresses property, prestige, and power as the main influences to the conflicting behaviours of groups in society.\n\nKarl Marx argued:\n\"The worker becomes all the poorer the more wealth he produces, the more his production increases in power and range. The worker becomes an ever cheaper commodity the more commodities he creates. With the increasing value of the world of things proceeds in direct proportion to the devaluation of the world of men. Labour produces not only commodities; it produces itself and the worker as a commodity -- and does so in the proportion in which it produces commodities generally.\"\n\nA commodity is a social use value produced by its owner not for personal consumption but for exchange. Marx believed that an entrepreneur has more and more to keep up with the more his company and power expands. It becomes more difficult each time his range of power increases. Eventually, the entrepreneur himself will become a commodity because he/she will no longer be able to keep up with their business and will have to put themselves (their company) up for sale on the market.\n\nStratification is the distribution of a valued good in levels, or could be seen as the inequalities among individuals and groups. Weber determined that there are three levels of stratification and those include: property (economic class), prestige (status), and power (party). Property is related to control and ownership; prestige is the position that gains value determined by interactions with others; power is influence, relations, and position.\n\nThese systems share 3 characteristics. They are as follows:\n\nConflict of interest is a type of conflict interest. We can define a conflict of interest as a situation in which a person has a private or personal interest sufficient to appear to influence the objective exercise of his or her official duties as, say, a public official, an employee, or a professional.\n\"Social conflict is not limited to hostile or antagonistic opposition; it is not wholly a clash of coercive powers as often is implied, but of any opposing social powers. Social conflict is usually recognized through violence and physical behaviour. Yet it's more that just fighting, and killing one another. At times it can deal with it throw a simple town in a conversation. It is acknowledged by someone's power.\"\n\nDr. Coser, a sociologist, disagrees with the majority of American sociologists who, he contends, have badly neglected and misunderstood the concept and function of social conflict. He defines social conflict as '… a struggle over the values and claims to scarce status, power and resources in which the aims of the opponents are to neutralize, injure, or eliminate their rivals'. He believes that the prevalent tendency is to look upon conflict as dysfunctional and pathological.\n\nTypes of social conflict:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18106245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18106245", "title": "Social networking in the Philippines", "text": "Social networking in the Philippines\n\nSocial networking is one of the most active web-based activities in the Philippines, with Filipinos being declared as the most active users on a number of web-based social network sites such as Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter. The use of social networking website has become so extensive in the Philippines that the country has been tagged as \"The Social Networking Capital of the World,\" and has also become part of Filipino cyberculture. Social networking is also used in the Philippines as a form of election campaign material, as well as tools to aid criminal investigation.\n\nFriendster is one of the first social networking websites in the World Wide Web when it was introduced in 2002. However, its popularity in the United States plummeted quickly in 2004 due to massive technical problems and server delays. But as it was losing its American audience, Friendster slowly gained users from Southeast Asia starting in the Philippines. Friendster director of engineering Chris Lunt wondered why its web traffic was spiking in the middle of the night, and noticed that the traffic was coming from the Philippines. He then traced the trail to a Filipino-American marketing consultant and hypnotist named Carmen Leilani de Jesus as the first user to have introduced Friendster to the Philippines, where a number of her friends live.\n\nA study released by Universal McCann entitled \"Power To The People - Wave3\" declared the Philippines as \"the social networking capital of the world,\" with 83 percent of Filipinos surveyed are members of a social network. They are also regarded as the top photo uploaders and web video viewers, while they are second when it comes to the number of blog readers and video uploaders.\n\nWith over 7.9 million Filipinos using the Internet, 6.9 million of them visit a social networking site at least once a month. At times, Friendster has been the most visited website in the Philippines, as well as in Indonesia, according to web tracking site Alexa. David Jones, vice president for global marketing of Friendster, said that \"the biggest percentage of (their site's) users is from the Philippines, clocking in with 39 percent of the site's traffic.\" He further added that in March 2008 alone, Friendster recorded 39 million unique visitors, with 13.2 million of whom were from the Philippines. Meanwhile, Multiply president and founder Peter Pezaris said that the Filipino users of their site comprised the largest and most active group in terms of number of subscribers and of photographs being uploaded daily. About 2.2 million out of more than nine million registered users of Multiply are Filipinos, outnumbering even nationalities with a bigger population base like the United States, Indonesia, and Brazil. Also, one million photographs are uploaded by Filipinos to Multiply every day, which is half of their total number worldwide.\n\nSixty percent of Filipino users of Multiply are female, while 70 percent are under the age of 25. In comparison, Filipino Friendster users are between the ages 16 to 30, with 55 percent of them female.\n\nThe popularity of social networking in the Philippines can be traced in the Filipinos' culture of \"friends helping friends.\" For Filipinos, their friends and who they know can become more valuable than money, especially when what they need can be achieved through nepotism, favoritism, and friendship among others.\n\nSocial networking has extensive uses in the Philippines. It was used to promote television programs like with its two profiles on Multiply. A call center company posted job openings on its Multiply community site and was able to attract recruits. The power of social networking was tested in the country's 2007 general elections when senatorial candidate Francis Escudero created his own Friendster profile to bolster support from Filipino users. He eventually won a seat in the Senate. Local celebrities and politicians have since created their own profiles on Friendster as their medium to communicate with their fans and constituents.\n\nFriendster was also used as a tool for police investigations. Local police in Cebu City were able to track down the suspects for the robbery and murder of a female nursing student on March 2008. After receiving information and tips from the public and other police operatives, the local police searched through the suspects' profiles in order to get a closer look at their faces. The police printed the pictures of the suspects and launched a series of police operations, which led to their arrest. Meanwhile, Manila Police District arrested a suspect for the murder of two guest relations officers in Tondo on January 2007 after they were able to find the suspect's whereabouts through his Friendster profile.\n\nSocial networks also became a source of high-profile cyberwars, notably between actors Ynez Veneracion and Mon Confiado against Juliana Palermo. The two accused Palermo of creating a fake Friendster profile of her ex-boyfriend Confiado, which is uploaded with photos of Confiado and his girlfriend Veneracion but laden with profanities in each caption.\n\nFor his bid for the Philippine Presidency in May 2010, then Secretary of National Defense, Gilberto Teodoro launched an aggressive campaign via the social media. He capitalized on networks such as YouTube and Facebook. He reportedly spent nearly a quarter of his campaign budget on the social media in the Philippines; in comparison to the current president’s Benigno Simeon Aquino III – 9%.\n\nFilipino-American Internet personality Christine Gambito, also known as HappySlip, criticized Friendster for displaying what she described as \"inappropriate advertisements\" that appear on her profile. She posted a message on the site's bulletin board addressing her fans that she contemplated deleting her account. Gambito had earlier deleted her MySpace account because she objected to the Google-powered online advertisements that she said \"were in direct conflict with the HappySlip brand and especially misrepresentative of Filipino women.\" She particularly criticized the posting of advertisements of international dating websites that supposedly target Filipinas.\n\nMeanwhile, Philippine National Police Director General Avelino Razon ordered the Criminal Investigation and Detection Group to find out who created a fake account on Friendster using his identity. The profile was laden with false information about him, saying that he \"wants to meet traitors, corrupts, criminals so he could crush them.\"\n\nAs of December 2008, there have been cases of spam comments in Friendster profiles, most of which are in the form of a JPEG image masquerading as an embedded YouTube video, with a thumbnail of a sexually explicit video clip, such as a girl undressing herself or something similar. Clicking on the image usually results in a redirect to a dubious or disreputable website, or worse, a drive-by download of malware, such as the Koobface worm. Because some of the users, especially teenagers, who usually log on to the site in an Internet cafe, have only limited knowledge about malware and/or computers in general, such social engineering attacks can be a significant risk. The site had received considerable criticism due to this issue.\n\nOn July 2011, GMA Network creates the new campaign \"Think Before You Click\" - a campaign by GMA News to promote responsible use of social media.\nOn August 2016, Rappler initiates the campaign \"#NoPlaceForHate\" - a campaign that encourages civility when engaging online.\n"}
{"id": "17334301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17334301", "title": "Social photography", "text": "Social photography\n\nSocial photography is a subcategory of photography focusing upon the technology, interaction and activities of individuals who take photographs. Digital cameras, photo sharing websites and the Internet have enabled new tools and methods of social networking while consumer trends such as flashpacking and adventure travel have led to a worldwide increase in socially connected photographers.\n\nThe proliferation of easy-to-use open source blogging methods, inexpensively-priced equipment and content management system applications has led to an increase in photography for social change and amateur photojournalism.\nSome extensions of social photography include geotagging and online mapping, while online social networking destinations like Facebook have led to an increase in the popularity of technology employing the real-time transfer of images. Where Facebook allows for users to instantly upload a picture from their mobile phone to their profile, there have recently been a number of services sprouting up that allows users to create real time photo streams. \n\nA wireless digital camera enables photographers to connect to cellular networks or other hotspots to share photos, print wirelessly and save photos directly to an image hosting website. Geographic areas serviced by outdoor WiFi networks permit extended applications for geocaching which can include the use of Global Positioning Systems and smartphones.\n\nSome news networks and online broadcasters encourage viewers to send in photographs of live, breaking and current events, enabling citizen journalists and amateur photographers to participate in the news gathering process.\n\nSome business companies started to look for individuals who can take images opposed to stock-photos that would help evolve their brand and this is typically done through social photography. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2636265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636265", "title": "Sophonisba Breckinridge", "text": "Sophonisba Breckinridge\n\nSophonisba Preston Breckinridge (April 1, 1866 – July 30, 1948) was an American activist, Progressive Era social reformer, social scientist and innovator in higher education. She was the first woman to earn a Ph.D. in political science and economics then the J.D. at the University of Chicago, and she was the first woman to pass the Kentucky bar. President Roosevelt in 1933 sent her as a delegate to the 7th Pan-American Conference in Uruguay - making her the first woman to represent the U.S. government at an international conference. She led the process of creating the academic professional discipline and degree for social work.\n\nBorn in Lexington, Kentucky, Sophonisba \"Nisba\" Preston Breckinridge was a member of the politically active and socially prominent Kentuckian elite, Desha family and Breckinridge family. She was the second child of seven of Issa Desha Breckinridge, the second wife of Col. William C.P. Breckinridge, a member of Congress from Kentucky, editor and a lawyer. Her paternal grandfather was the abolitionist minister Robert Jefferson Breckinridge; her maternal grandfather was General Joseph Desha, a U.S. Representative and the ninth governor of Kentucky. Her great-grandfather was John Breckinridge, the United States Attorney General. Her cousin, John C. Breckinridge, was Vice President of the United States during James Buchanan's presidency, and ran against Abraham Lincoln in 1860 presidential election. At fourteen, she attended the Kentucky Agricultural & Mechanical College (later called the University of Kentucky) when it opened to women in 1880. She was not allowed to be degree-seeking, but she studied there for four years.\n\nBreckenridge graduated from Wellesley College in 1888 and worked for two years as a high school teacher in Washington, D.C., teaching mathematics. She traveled in Europe for the next two years returning to Lexington in 1892 when her mother suddenly died. She studied the legal system in her father's law office and in 1895 became the first woman to be admitted to the Kentucky bar.\n\nSince Breckinridge had few clients who would hire a woman lawyer, she left Kentucky to become a secretary to Marion Talbot, the Dean of Women at the University of Chicago. She enrolled as a graduate student eventually receiving a Ph.M. degree in 1897, and a Ph.D. in political science and economics in 1901 from the University of Chicago. Her thesis for the Ph.M. degree was on \"The Administration of Justice in Kentucky,\" and her Ph.D. in Political Science came in 1903 with her dissertation, \"Legal Tender: A Study in English and American Monetary History.\" Meanwhile, she was appointed in 1902 as assistant dean of women of the university, and the next year she was hired as an instructor. In 1904, she became the first woman to graduate from the University of Chicago Law School. \"My record there was not distinguished,\" she later wrote in her autobiography, \"but the faculty and students were kind, and the fact that the law school, like the rest of the University...accepted men and women students on equal terms publicly\". She also became the first woman to be admitted to Order of the Coif, an honorary legal scholastic society. A news writer in Paris, Kentucky announced her achievement and gushed that Breckinridge, \"is considered one of the most brilliant women in the South.\"\n\nAs a social scientist, teaching and conducting research at the University of Chicago, Breckinridge focused on the intersection of the social problems, public policy and social reforms with an emphasis on immigrants, African Americans, child laborers, and working women in American urban centers, among other issues. From the beginning, she took an activist approach and became involved with the Women's Trade Union League (WTUL), serving as a factory inspector.\n\nIn 1907 she joined the Hull House project and began in earnest to work with the leaders of the Chicago settlement house movement, Jane Addams, Mary McDowell, and Margaret Dreier Robins on such issues as vocational training, housing, juvenile delinquency and truancy. Breckinridge also collaborated with Vassar College graduate and social reformer Julia Lathrop, and social gospel minister Graham Taylor, a founder of the settlement house \"Chicago Commons\", to create the \"Chicago School of Civics and Philanthropy\", becoming its first dean. By 1920, Breckinridge and Lathrop had convinced the Board of the School to merge it into the University of Chicago, forming the Graduate School of Social Service Administration. By 1927 the faculty of this new academic unit created the scholarly journal \"Social Service Review\" which remains the premier journal in the field of social work. Breckinridge and Edith Abbott were the founding editors, and Breckinridge worked on its publication every year until her death in 1948.\n\nBy 1909, Breckenridge had become an assistant professor of social economy, and over ten years later, in 1920, she finally convinced her male colleagues of her research abilities and earned tenure as associate professor at the University of Chicago. From 1923 to 1929, she was also dean in the College of Arts, Literature and Science. She earned full professorship in 1925, and in 1929 she served as the dean of pre-professional social service students and Samuel Deutsch professor of public welfare administration until her retirement from the faculty in 1933.\n\n\"The Delinquent Child and the Home\" was one of Breckinridge's first books. It was published in 1912 and looks specifically at crime, consequences, and criminal records of children in Chicago. There are eleven chapters that explain the study and expected outcomes of children that live in different settings in the city. Some notable chapters include the first chapter, Discretion of the Inquiry. This chapter talks about children who have been charged with crimes, how the family unit has an impact on this, and how the court needs to make adjustments in its system when working with juveniles.\n\n\"The Child of the Immigrant: The Problem of Adjustment\" looks at the impact of children growing up in ethnic enclaves in Chicago in the early 1900s. Sophonisba alludes to examples of young people adjusting to life in the United States or how they are understanding what it means to live in America while living a different kind of life in the home that ties back to their own roots or their parents cultures. \"The Poor Child: The Problem of Poverty\" talks about how poverty often is the reason for juvenile delinquency. Breckinridge says it is usually because they are engaging in activities in order to survive, help their families, or do not have a school to go to that may help in lessening delinquent activity. \"The Child Without Play: The Problem of Neighborhood\", specifically refers to the West side of Chicago in the early 1900s and explains how dense neighborhoods are often where the most crime occurs among children because of the lack of parks and space for children to roam freely. In \"The Child from the Comfortable Home: The Problem of the Unmanageable\", Breckinridge speaks in the final parts of her book about how there could be underlying problems from growing up. Though most of these children are from good homes and live under authority, sometimes they are sent to boarding schools where they might be better disciplined. Breckinridge points out the opposing classes in this chapter by explaining how children from families of higher social status are put in a boarding school while children from families of lower social classes usually face court or put in a state mandated institution.\n\nWritten in 1912, \"The Modern Household\" analyzes the stereotypically feminine role in the domestic and social spheres. For those women who worked, Breckinridge and Talbot point out, they would end up with double obligations because they would also have to maintain a house. The wife would also need to maintain certain household style that indicated a wealthier lifestyle. There are assumptions such as that every house would have, at least, a housekeeper and multiple children. Talbot and Breckinridge incorporate the legal angles, economic perspectives, and social roles. This book serves focus on guiding the smallest details, such as preparation food, as well as covering the larger issues like house income. The authors remark how the world is already changing with the influx of technology. At the end of each chapter, she has a list of questions for the reader to reflect upon. The language used in \"The Modern Household\" is more formal but very clear.\n\nIn her book \"New Homes For Old\", published in 1921, Breckinridge discusses various aspects of the immigrant experience when moving to the United States. She begins with the adjustment which these immigrants must undergo upon arrival and the process of finding a new home in an unfamiliar place. Breckinridge then transitions to an analysis of the relationships within the immigrant family, detailing work situations, family structures, and certain living conditions. In the next section, she addresses taking care of the household, focusing on the responsibilities of the woman in a family. She follows with an explanation of the financial needs and difficulties faced by immigrants, including currency changes, special events, property ownership, the irregularity of income, and buying items such as furniture and clothing. Next is a discussion of the care of children, addressing issues such as school, parental authority, and dealings with the juvenile court. The next two sections address organizations and institutions which offer and provides aid to immigrants. While some of these organizations are focused on specific immigrant groups, others are more general and provide both support and education for varied groups of immigrants. The final section of the book addresses the need for involvement of a social work agency for those immigrant families who have been unable to successfully adjust and are facing difficulties.\n\nPublished in 1931, the focus of \"Marriage and the Civic Rights of Women: separate domicil and independent citizenship\" is studying the effect of the Cable Acts on women born in other countries who, after moving to the United States, needed to prepare themselves for independent citizenship. The first section addresses a legal approach to the problem, concerning questions such as separate domicil (place of residence) for married women, their independent citizenship, and flaws in the citizenship legislation which the Cable Act had failed to correct. Also discussed is the situation of women born in other countries who, by marrying American citizens, forfeited their nationality of origin without acquiring American citizenship in addition to a summary of the movement to implement an International Convention dealing with this subject. In the second section a social interpretation of these issues is established, presenting a case study based on interviews with a considerable number of women and some men living in Chicago. This case study illustrates the attitude, the motivating forces and the problems of women born outside the United States who have succeeded in obtaining their papers and have become citizens, those who have tried to do so and have failed, and those who have not yet tried\n\n\"Women in the Twentieth Century; A Study of Their Political, Social and Economic Activities\" was published in 1933. Breckinridge's work shows her careful documentation of the social situations and cultural climates that produced various political, social, and economic interest groups. She provided the material in a clear, chronological manner with estimates of attendance to conferences and members, along with mission statements. From the beginning of the text, she demonstrates her observations by reflecting on the environment she lived in through her data collection. Breckinridge references other sociologists like Edith Abbott in her literature. In \"Chapter II: The Nineties – An Introduction to the New Century,\" Breckinridge presents a detailed account of the beginning of women joining clubs. An example listed is the General Federation of Women's Clubs which was founded in 1890. This group had certain requirements that, in turn, restricted membership: \"Article IV of the adopted constitution provided that clubs applying for membership in the General Federation must show that no sectarian or political test is required and that while distinctly humanitarian movements may be recognized, their chief purpose is not philanthropic or technical, but social, literary, artistic or scientific culture.\" The various groups formations begin with groups like The National American Woman Suffrage Association and the Women's Christian Associations but within the decade, there was also the National Society of the Daughters of the American Revolution, National Association of Colored Women, and the National Congress of Mothers All of these eventually evolved to include occupational focuses National Woman's Trade Union League, Quota International, the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. She also focuses on the macro level as seen by \"The Industrial Problem as it affects Women and Children.\" These business changes created legislation similar to current labor laws. For example, \"no child under 14 years of age be employed in mill, factory, workshop, store, office, or laundry, and no boy under 16 years in mines\" and required schools to provide education to the community. The trend of new groups emerging continued exponentially lead to a societal shift in understanding the social roles. Consequently, Breckinridge points out that the labor market has to change because up until this point, the majority of workers were men and their relationship had different connotations than with married women who wanted to work. Overall, Women in the Twentieth Century demonstrates her progressive and scrutinizing lens through which she views the world.\n\nBreckinridge extensively published on family, public welfare, and children:\n\n\nBreckinridge was active in many national social and political causes, including:\n\nIn 1907, when Breckinridge obtained an appointment as a part-time professor in the Department of Household Administration which was a part of the Sociology department of the University of Chicago, she became a resident of Hull House. She lived in Hull House during her yearly vacations, as well as while teaching and conducting research at the University of Chicago. In collaboration with her colleague Edith Abbott, Breckinridge helped establish the Wendell Phillips Settlement House on the West Side (at 2009 Walnut Street) where African-American social workers were trained. It held a day nursery, a Boy Scout division, a division especially for women and girls, a large public meeting space, and served as a center for 25 different community groups. The settlement house was put under the supervision of the Chicago Urban League in 1918.\n\nShe served as vice president of the National American Woman Suffrage Association in 1911. When the women of Chicago gained limited voting rights in 1913, Breckinridge ran for alderman in Chicago on the Progressive ticket, however unsuccessfully.\n\nIn 1915 she participated in the American delegation that attended the Women's Peace Congress at The Hague. There she served as a close associate and assistant for Jane Addams, who had served as chair of the Congress. Breckinridge spoke before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs in January 1916, along with other members of the Woman's Peace Party to lobby for a joint resolution to establish a \"commission for enduring peace.\"\n\n\nFollowing her retirement from the faculty of the University of Chicago, Breckinridge continued to teach courses in public welfare until 1942. In Chicago, on July 30, 1948, Sophonisba Breckinridge died from a perforated ulcer and arteriosclerosis, aged 82. She is interred in Lexington (Kentucky) Cemetery in the Breckinridge family plot.\n\nBreckinridge was the first woman U.S. representative to a high-level international conference, \nthe 1933 Montevideo Conference.\n\nIn 1934, she was elected president of the American Association of Schools of Social Work, which later evolved into the Council on Social Work Education.\n\nBreckinridge was awarded honorary degrees by:\n\nThe University of Chicago currently houses undergraduate students in Breckinridge House, named after Sophonisba Breckinridge, where students celebrate \"Sophie Day\" in the early spring.\n\nBreckinridge is also a character in Sarah Schulman's 2009 novel \"The Mere Future\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14808522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14808522", "title": "Triadic closure", "text": "Triadic closure\n\nTriadic closure is a concept in social network theory, first suggested by German sociologist Georg Simmel in his 1908 book \"Soziologie\" [\"Sociology: Investigations on the Forms of Sociation\"]. Triadic closure is the property among three nodes A, B, and C, such that if a strong tie exists between A-B and A-C, there is a weak or strong tie between B-C. This property is too extreme to hold true across very large, complex networks, but it is a useful simplification of reality that can be used to understand and predict networks.\n\nTriadic closure was made popular by Mark Granovetter in his 1973 article \"The Strength of Weak Ties\". There he synthesized the theory of cognitive balance first introduced by Fritz Heider in 1946 with a Simmelian understanding of social networks. In general terms, cognitive balance refers to the propensity of two individuals to want to feel the same way about an object. If the triad of three individuals is not closed, then the person connected to both of the individuals will want to close this triad in order to achieve closure in the relationship network.\n\nThe two most common measures of triadic closure for a graph are (in no particular order) the clustering coefficient and transitivity for that graph.\n\nOne measure for the presence of triadic closure is clustering coefficient, as follows:\n\nLet formula_1 be an undirected simple graph (i.e., a graph having no self-loops or multiple edges) with V the set of vertices and E the set of edges. Also, let formula_2 and formula_3 denote the number of vertices and edges in G, respectively, and let formula_4 be the degree of vertex i.\n\nThen we can define a triangle among the triple of vertices formula_5, formula_6, and formula_7 to be a set with the following three edges: {(i,j), (j,k), (i,k)}. Then we can define the number of triangles that vertex formula_5 is involved in as formula_9 and, as each triangle is counted three times, we can express the number of triangles in G as formula_10. Assuming that triadic closure holds, only two strong edges are required for a triple to form and the number of triples of vertex i is formula_11, assuming formula_12. Thus we can express formula_13.\n\nNow, for a vertex formula_5 with formula_12, the clustering coefficient formula_16 of vertex formula_5 is the fraction of triples for vertex formula_5 that are closed, and can be measured as formula_19. Thus, the clustering coefficient formula_20 of graph formula_21 is given by formula_22, where formula_23 is the number of nodes with degree at least 2.\n\nAnother measure for the presence of triadic closure is transitivity, defined as formula_24.\n\nIn a trust network, triadic closure is likely to develop due to the transitive property. If a node A trusts node B, and node B trusts node C, node A will have the basis to trust node C. In a social network, strong triadic closure occurs because there is increased opportunity for nodes A and C with common neighbor B to meet and therefore create at least weak ties. Node B also has the incentive to bring A and C together to decrease the latent stress in two separate relationships.\n\nNetworks that stay true to this principle become highly interconnected and have very high clustering coefficients. However, networks that do not follow this principle turn out to be poorly connected and may suffer from instability once negative relations are included.\n\nTriadic closure is a good model for how networks will evolve over time. While simple graph theory tends to analyze networks at one point in time, applying the triadic closure principle can predict the development of ties within a network and show the progression of connectivity.\n\nIn social networks, triadic closure facilitates cooperative behavior, but when new connections are made via\nreferrals from existing connections the average global fraction of cooperators is less than when individuals choose new connections randomly from the population at large. Two possible effects for this are by the structural and informational construction. The structural construction arises from the propensity toward high clusterability. The informational construction comes from the assumption that an individual knows something about a friend's friend, as opposed to a random stranger.\n\nStrong Triadic Closure Property is that if a node has strong ties to two neighbors, then these neighbors must have at least a weak tie between them. A local bridge occurs, on the other hand, when a node is acting as a gatekeeper between two neighboring nodes who are not otherwise connected. In a network that follows the Strong Triadic Closure Property, one of the ties between nodes involved in a local bridge needs to be a weak tie.\n\nLet node B be a local bridge between nodes A and C such that there is no weak tie between the nodes involved. Therefore, B has a strong tie to both A and C. By the definition of Strong Triadic Closure, a weak tie would develop between nodes A and C. However, this contradicts the fact that B is a local gatekeeper. Thus at least one of the nodes involved in a local bridge needs to be a weak tie to prevent triadic closure from occurring.\n"}
{"id": "48729747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48729747", "title": "Women in law", "text": "Women in law\n\nWomen in law describes the role played by women in the legal profession and related occupations, which includes lawyers (also called barristers, advocates, solicitors, attorneys or legal counselors), paralegals, prosecutors (also called District Attorneys or Crown Prosecutors), judges, legal scholars (including feminist legal theorists), law professors and law school deans.\n\nIn the US, while women made up 34% of the legal profession in 2014, women are underrepresented in senior positions in all areas of the profession. There has been an increase in women in the law field from the 1970s to 2010, but the increase has been seen in entry level jobs. In the United States, 60% of attorneys are women; however, the percent of female equity partners is 15%. Women of color are even more underrepresented in the legal profession. In private practice law firms, women make up just 4% of managing partners in the 200 biggest law firms. In 2014 in Fortune 500 corporations, 21% of the general counsels were women, of which only 10.5% were African-American, 5.7% were Hispanic, 1.9% were Asian-American/Pacific Islanders, and 0% were Middle Eastern. In 2009, 21.6% of law school Deans were women. Women held 27.1% of all federal and state judge positions in 2012. In the US, \"[w]omen of color were more likely than any other group to experience exclusion from other employees, racial and gender stereotyping.\" There are few women law school deans; the list includes Joan Mahoney, Barbara Aronstein Black at Columbia Law School, Elena Kagan at Harvard Law School, Kathleen Sullivan at Stanford Law School, and the Hon. Kristin Booth Glenn and Michelle J. Anderson at the City University of New York School of Law.\n\nIn Canada, while 37.1% of lawyers are women, \"50% ...said they felt their [law] firms were doing \"poorly\" or \"very poorly\" in their provision of flexible work arrangements.\" As well, \"...racialized women accounted for 16% of all lawyers under 30\" in 2006 in Ontario and women Aboriginal lawyers accounted for 1%.\n\nThe American Bar Association reported that in 2014, women made up 34% of the legal profession and men made up 66%. In private practice law firms, women make up 20.2% of partners, 17% of equity partners and 4% of managing partners in the 200 biggest law firms. At the junior level of the profession, women make up 44.8% of associates and 45.3% of summer associates. In 2014 in Fortune 500 corporations, 21% of the general counsels were women and 79% were men. Of these 21% of women general counsels, 81.9% were Caucasian, 10.5% were African-American, 5.7% were Hispanic, 1.9% were Asian-American/Pacific Islanders, and 0% were Middle Eastern. In 2009, women were 21.6% of law school Deans, 45.7% of Associate, Vice-Deans or Deputy Deans and 66.2% of Assistant Deans. Women have better representation on law school Law Reviews. In the top 50 schools as ranked by \"US World and News Reports\" in 2012-2013, women made up 46% of leadership positions and 38% of editor-in-chief positions.\n\nIn 2012, women held 27.1% of all federal and state judge positions, while men held 73.9%. In 2014, three of nine Supreme Court justices were women (33%), 33% of Circuit Court of Appeals judges and 24% of federal court judges. Women held 27% of all state judge positions.\n\nDuring the 2012-2013 academic year, women made up 47% of Juris Doctor (JD) students, people of color made up 25.8% of JD students. In 2009 in the US, women made up 20.6% of law school deans. In the US in 2014, 32.9% of all lawyers were women. 44.8% of law firm associates were women in 2013. In the 50 \"best law firms for women\" in the US, \"19% of the equity partners were women,\n29% of the nonequity partners were women, and 42% of... counsels were women.\n\nA survey indicates that 96% of US law firms state that their highest paid partner is male. \n\"Only 24.1% of all federal judgeships were held by women, and only 27.5% of state judgeships were held by women.: Women lawyers' salaries were \"83% of men lawyers’ salaries in 2014\".\n\nIn 2010 in Canada, \"there were 22,261 practicing women lawyers and 37,617 practicing men lawyers.\" Canadian studies show that \"50% of lawyers said they felt their firms were doing \"poorly\" or \"very poorly\" in their provision of flexible work arrangements.\" More women lawyers found it \"difficult to manage the demands of work and personal/family life\" than men, with 75% of women reporting these challenges versus 66% of men associates. A 2010 report about Ontario lawyers from 1971 to 2006 indicates that \"...racialized women accounted for 16% of all lawyers under 30, compared to 5% of lawyers 30 and older in 2006. Visible minority lawyers accounted for 11.5% of all lawyers in 2006. Aboriginal lawyers accounted for 1.0% of all lawyers in 2006.\n\nThe National Association for Law Placement (NALP) found that every year since 2009 there has been a decline of African-American associates—“from 4.66 percent to 3.95 percent.\" According to a November 2015 NALP press release, at just 2.55 percent of partners, minority women remain the most underrepresented group at partnership level.\n\nIn a 2008 survey, by the National Association of Women Lawyers (NAWL), the report found that women of color view their workplace as racially/ethnically stereotypical and exclusionary as a result. Women of color also felt that law firms were not taking enough action to increase diversity and when actions were taken they were not executed effectively. The America Bar Association Commission on Women in the Profession released a report which was a culmination of a study meant to address the decline of women of color in the legal profession. In the study, women of color were given the opportunity to express concern over the negative effects they faced in the workplace and how those effects carried into their personal life. Women of color reported feelings of exclusion, isolation, and as though they were receiving more unwanted critical attention than their counterparts. The American Bar Association Commission on Women in the Profession when looking at reports on the treatment of women of color in the legal profession were disappointed with the patterns they noticed which led the American Bar Association Commission on Women in the Profession to undertake their own research in 2003, the Women of Color Research Initiative. In both law firms and corporate legal departments the findings were that women of color “receive less compensation than men and white women; are denied equal access to significant assignments, mentoring and sponsorship opportunities; receive fewer promotions; and have the highest rate of attrition.” There is a ripple effect within the treatment of women of color. Women of color are put at a disadvantage early on making “the ultimate result that women of color miss opportunities to get better work assignments, more client contact, and more billable hours.” Women of color’s treatment within the legal profession and their feelings about this treatment have affected the retention of women of color in the legal profession. Women of color leave law firms at a high rate, “nearly 75 percent leave by their fifth year, and nearly 86 percent leave before their seventh year.\" These women are leaving because they feel the only way to escape exclusion in the workplace is to leave the workplace.\n\nABA's Commission on Women in the Profession released a report aimed at identifying challenges faced by women of color in law firms and found that “to overcome systemic discrimination against women of color, firms must recognize that the experiences of women of color are different from those of other groups; implementing changes to reflect this difference is necessary for retention. Firms and corporations must initiate active mentorship programs and encourage organization-wide discussions about issues concerning women of color, and constructive feedback is required.” After the release of this report, several law firms have attempted the recommendations set forth by the report. Law firms began initiatives that focus on recruiting women of color as well as ensuring the retention of women of color as well. Recruiting of minority women has been increased through law firms finding summer associates by doing interviews “at the Southeast Minority Career Fair, MCCA/Vault Career Fair, Specialty Bar Association, Lavender Law Career Fair, and at schools such as Howard University School of Law and North Carolina Central School of Law.”\n\nThe Center for Women in Law is a US organization set up and funded by women, says it is \"devoted to the success of the entire spectrum of women in law ... serves as a national resource to convene leaders, generate ideas, and lead change\". It combines theory with practice, addressing issues facing individuals and the profession as a whole. The Center is a Vision 2020 National Ally. The Center was founded in 2008 by a group of women, many of whom were alumnae of The University of Texas School of Law, and many of whom graduated from law school in earlier decades when it was not common for women to pursue law as a career. The group began discussing the issues faced by women lawyers and became determined to understand fully and address effectively the underlying causes of the barriers to advancement faced by women lawyers. The Austin Manifesto calls for specific, concrete steps to tackle the obstacles facing women in the legal profession today. The center holds summits and meetings on issues affecting women in the legal profession.\n\nThe National Women's Law Center (NWLC) is a United States non-profit organization founded in 1972 and based in Washington, D.C. The Center advocates for women's rights through litigation and policy initiatives. It began when female administrative staff and law students at the Center for Law and Social Policy demanded that their pay be improved, that the center hire female lawyers, that they no longer be expected to serve coffee, and that the center create a women's program. Marcia Greenberger was hired in 1972 to start the program and Nancy Duff Campbell joined her in 1978. In 1981, the two decided to turn the program into the separate National Women's Law Center.\n\nWomen's Legal Education and Action Fund, referred to by the acronym LEAF, is the \"...only national organization in Canada that exists to ensure the equality rights of women and girls under the law.\". Established on April 19, 1985, LEAF was formed in response to the enactment of Section 15 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms to ensure that there was fair and unbiased interpretation of women’s Charter rights by the courts. LEAF performs legal research and intervenes in appellate and Supreme Court of Canada cases on women's issues . LEAF has been an intervener in many significant decisions of the Supreme Court of Canada, particularly cases involving section 15 Charter challenges. In addition to its legal work, LEAF also organizes speaking engagements and projects that allow lawyers interested in women’s rights to educate one another, to educate the public, and to create collective responses to legal issues related to women’s equality. LEAF was created by founding mother Doris Anderson and other women.\n\nWomen in Law and Litigation (WILL) was formed in India in 2014 by women lawyers, judges and legal professionals to deal with gender discrimination faced by women in the field of law. The litigating public prefers to deal with male lawyers. The society was formed under the supervision of Supreme Court of India and the justice of Supreme Court of India, Ranjana Desai. WILL was formed to provide professional support, advocacy skills, and a platform for discussion on ways for development of women lawyers. \nJustice Hima Kohli of the High Court (Delhi) defined WILL as the society would be a \"way to give back to the system for senior lawyers and legal practitioners who have \"reached high positions\".\n\nFeminist legal theory, also known as feminist jurisprudence, is based on the belief that the law has been fundamental in women's historical subordination. The project of feminist legal theory is twofold. First, feminist jurisprudence seeks to explain ways in which the law played a role in women's former subordinate status. Second, it is dedicated to changing women's status through a reworking of the law and its approach to gender. In 1984 Martha Fineman founded the Feminism and Legal Theory Project at the University of Wisconsin Law School to explore the relationships between feminist theory, practice, and law, which has been instrumental in the development of feminist legal theory.\n\nThe liberal model of equality under the law operates from within the liberal legal paradigm and generally embraces liberal values and the rights-based approach to law, though it takes issue with how the liberal framework has operated in practice. The difference model emphasizes the significance of gender differences and holds that these differences should not be obscured by the law, but should be taken into account by it. The dominance model views the legal system as a mechanism for the perpetuation of male dominance. Feminists from the postmodern camp have deconstructed the notions of objectivity and neutrality, claiming that every perspective is socially situated. See equality feminism, difference feminism, radical feminism, and postmodern feminism for context.\n\nNotable scholars include:\n\nFeminist philosophy of law \"...identifies the pervasive influence of patriarchy on legal structures, demonstrates its effects on the material condition of women and girls, and develops reforms to correct gender injustice, exploitation, or restriction.\" Feminist philosophy of law uses approaches drawn from \"...feminist epistemology, relational metaphysics, feminist political theory, and other developments in feminist philosophy to understand how legal institutions enforce dominant masculinist norms.\" In the contemporary era, feminist philosophy of law also takes account of approaches such as \"...human rights theory, postcolonial theory, critical legal studies, critical race theory, queer theory, and disability studies.\" As with feminism in general, there are many subtypes of feminist philosophy of law, including \"...radical, socialist and Marxist, relational, cultural, postmodern, dominance, difference, pragmatist, and liberal approaches.\" Feminist philosophers of law argue that \"... law makes systemic bias (as opposed to personal biases of particular individuals) invisible, normal, entrenched, and thus difficult to identify and to oppose.\" Feminist philosophers of law view laws as \"...patriarchal, reflecting ancient and almost universal presumptions of gender inequality.\" Some of the legal issues analyzed by feminist philosophers of law include marriage, reproductive rights (e.g., pertaining to laws on abortion), the \"commodification of the body\" (as in sex work) and violence against women.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the first woman to pass a law degree was Eliza Orme, who graduated from University College London in 1888. She was not allowed to qualify to practice as either a solicitor or a barrister. It was not until 1919, with the passage of the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 that women could enter the legal profession. This had been challenged in 1914 in a case known as \"Bebb v Law Society\", in which the Court of Appeal found that women did not fall within the legal definition of \"persons\" and so could not become lawyers. The 1919 Act also allowed women to serve on juries for the first time.\n\n\n\nAt the end of the nineteenth century, Canadian women were barred from participation in, let alone any influence on or control over, the legal system–women could not become lawyers, magistrates, judges, jurors, voters or legislators. Clara Brett Martin (1874 – 1923) became the first female lawyer in the British Empire in 1897 after a lengthy debate in which the Law Society of Upper Canada tried to prevent her from joining the legal profession. After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts in 1891, Martin submitted a petition to the Law Society to become a member. Her petition was rejected by the Society after contentious debate, with the Society ruling that only men could be admitted to the practice of law, because the Society's statute stated that only a \"person\" could become a lawyer. At that time, women were not considered to be \"persons\" in Canada, from a legal perspective. W.D. Balfour sponsored a bill that provided that the word \"person\" in the Law Society's statute should be interpreted to include females as well as males. Martin’s cause was also supported by prominent women of the day including Emily Stowe and Lady Aberdeen. With the support of the Premier, Oliver Mowat, legislation was passed on April 13, 1892, which permitted the admission of women as solicitors.\n\nHelen Kinnear (1894 – 1970) was a Canadian lawyer who was the first federally appointed woman judge in Canada. She was the first woman in the British Commonwealth to be created a King's Counsel and the first in the Commonwealth appointed to a county-court bench and the first female lawyer in Canada to appear as counsel before the Supreme Court in Canada in 1935. Marie-Claire Kirkland-Casgrain (born 1924) is a Quebec lawyer, judge and politician who was the first woman elected to the Legislative Assembly of Quebec, the first woman appointed a Cabinet minister in Quebec, the first woman appointed acting premier, and the first woman judge to serve in the Quebec Provincial Court. Marlys Edwardh CM (born 1950) is a Canadian litigation and civil rights lawyer who was one of the first women to practice criminal law in Canada. Roberta Jamieson C.M. is a Canadian lawyer and First Nations activist who was the first Aboriginal woman ever to earn a law degree in Canada, the first non-Parliamentarian to be appointed an \"ex officio\" member of a House of Commons committee and the first woman appointed as Ontario Ombudsman. Delia Opekokew is a Cree woman from the Canoe Lake First Nation in Saskatchewan, who was the first First Nations lawyer admitted to the law societies in Ontario and in Saskatchewan as well as the first woman ever to run for the leadership of the Assembly of First Nations. Opekokew graduated from Osgoode Hall in 1977, and was admitted to the Bar of Ontario in 1979 and to the Bar of Saskatchewan in 1983.\n\nBeverley McLachlin (born 1943) is the 17th and current Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada, the first woman to hold this position, and the longest serving Chief Justice in Canadian history. In her role as Chief Justice, she also serves as a Deputy of the Governor General of Canada. When Governor General Adrienne Clarkson was hospitalized for a cardiac pacemaker operation on 8 July 2005, Chief Justice McLachlin served as the Deputy of the Governor General of Canada and performed the duties of the Governor General as the Administrator of Canada. In her role as Administrator, she gave royal assent to the \"Civil Marriage Act\", effectively legalizing same-sex marriage in Canada.\n\nSome Canadian lawyers have become notable for their achievements in politics, including Kim Campbell, Mélanie Joly, Anne McLellan, Rachel Notley and Jody Wilson-Raybould.\n\nNotable Canadian legal professionals include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
