{"id": "2241412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2241412", "title": "Alberto Enríquez Gallo", "text": "Alberto Enríquez Gallo\n\nGil Alberto Enríquez Gallo (24 July 1894 – 13 July 1962) was President of Ecuador 1937–1938.\n\nEnriquez was appointed as a general in the Ecuadorian army by Federico Páez, and served as Minister of Defense in his government. In September 1937, he overthrew Páez in a military coup. Although he ruled for less than a year, Enríquez achieved note as a social reformer by his promulgation of the Labor Code of 1938.\n\nEnríquez is also remembered for having initiated a protracted confrontation with the United States-based South American Development Company over the terms of its Ecuadorian concession and the wages it paid its Ecuadorian employees. The company refused to comply with Enríquez's entreaty that more of the profits from its mining operations stay in Ecuador, and it won the support of the United States Department of State.\n\n"}
{"id": "2559736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2559736", "title": "Animal studies", "text": "Animal studies\n\nAnimal studies is a recently recognized field in which animals are studied in a variety of cross-disciplinary ways. Scholars who engage in animal studies may be formally trained in a number of diverse fields, including geography, art history, anthropology, biology, film studies, geography, history, psychology, literary studies, museology, philosophy, communication, and sociology. They may engage with questions about literal animals, or about notions of \"animality\" or \"brutality,\" employing various theoretical perspectives, including feminism, Marxist theory, and queer theory. Using these perspectives, those who engage in animal studies seek to understand both human-animal relations now and in the past, and to understand animals as beings-in-themselves, separate from our knowledge of them. Because the field is still developing, scholars and others have some freedom to define their own criteria about what issues may structure the field.\n\nAs an interdisciplinary subject, animal studies exists at the intersection of a number of different fields of study. Different fields began to turn to animals as an important topic at different times and for various reasons, and these separate disciplinary histories shape how scholars approach animal studies.\n\nIn part, animal studies developed out of the animal liberation movement and was grounded in ethical questions about co-existence with other species: whether it is moral to eat animals, to do scientific research on animals for human benefit, and so on. Animal studies scholars who explore the field from an ethical perspective frequently cite Australian philosopher Peter Singer's 1975 work, \"Animal Liberation\", as a founding document in animal studies. Singer's work followed Jeremy Bentham's by trying to expand utilitarian questions about pleasure and pain beyond humans to other sentient creatures.\n\nTheorists interested in the role of animals in literature, culture, and Continental philosophy also consider the late work of Jacques Derrida a driving force behind the rise of interest in animal studies in the humanities. Derrida's final lecture series, \"The Animal That Therefore I Am\", examined how interactions with animal life affect human attempts to define humanity and the self through language. Taking up Derrida's deconstruction and extending it to other cultural territory, Cary Wolfe published \"Animal Rites\" in 2003 and critiqued earlier animal rights philosophers such as Peter Singer and Thomas Regan. Wolfe's study points out an insidious humanism at play in their philosophies and others. Recently also the Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben published a book on the question of the animal: \"The Open. Man and Animal\".\n\nResearchers in animal studies examine the questions and issues that arise when traditional modes of humanistic and scientific inquiry begin to take animals seriously as subjects of thought and activity. Students of animal studies may examine how humanity is defined in relation to animals, or how representations of animals create understandings (and misunderstandings) of other species. In order to do so, animal studies pays close attention to the ways that humans anthropomorphize animals, and asks how humans might avoid bias in observing other creatures. For instance, Donna Haraway's book, \"Primate Visions\", examines how dioramas created for the American Museum of Natural History showed family groupings that conformed to the traditional human nuclear family, which misrepresented the animals' observed behavior in the wild. Critical approaches in animal studies have also considered representations of non-human animals in popular culture, including species diversity in animated films.\n\nBy highlighting these issues, animal studies strives to re-examine traditional ethical, political, and epistemological categories in the context of a renewed attention to and respect for animal life. The assumption that focusing on animals might clarify human knowledge is neatly expressed in Claude Lévi-Strauss's famous dictum that animals are \"good to think.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16594692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16594692", "title": "Aonach", "text": "Aonach\n\nAn Aonach or Óenach was an ancient Irish public national assembly called upon the death of a king, queen, notable sage or warrior as part of ancestor worship practices. As well as the entertainment, the óenach was an occasion on which kings and notables met under truce and where laws were pronounced and confirmed.\n\nThe Aonach had three functions; honoring the dead, proclaiming laws, and funeral games and festivities to entertain. The first function took between one and three days depending on the importance of the deceased, guests would sing mourning chants called the \"Guba\" after which druids would improvise songs in memory of the dead called a \"Cepóg\". The dead would then be burnt on a funeral pyre. The second function would then be carried out by the Ollamh Érenn, giving out laws to the people via bards and druids and culminating in the igniting of another massive fire. The custom of rejoicing after a funeral was then enshrined in the \"Cuiteach Fuait\", games of mental and physical ability accompanied by a large market for traders. \n\nThe most notable fair, that held under the auspices of the High King of Ireland and the Uí Néill, was the \"Óenach Tailten\" or \"Tailteann Games\", which is given prehistoric origins by medieval writers. This was held at Teltown, in modern County Meath, as late as 1770. The compilers of the Irish annals considered violence and disorders at this óenach, or the failure of the incumbent High King to hold the fair, to be of note. The Irish Free State held revivals of the Tailteann Games from 1924 to 1932. \n\nOther important assemblies included that of Tlachtga, held on the Hill of Ward at Samhain, that of Carman, held in County Wexford, that of Uisnech, held at Beltane and that of Raigne in Osraige. Not all had pagan calendrical associations. The \"Óenach Colmáin\", probably held at Lynally, was named for Saint Elo Colman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230542", "title": "Appreciative inquiry", "text": "Appreciative inquiry\n\nAppreciative inquiry (AI) is a model that seeks to engage stakeholders in self-determined change. According to Bushe \"AI revolutionized the field of organization development and was a precursor to the rise of positive organization studies and the strengths based movement in American management.\" It was developed at Case Western Reserve University's department of organizational behavior, starting with a 1987 article by David Cooperrider and Suresh Srivastva. They felt that the overuse of \"problem solving\" hampered any kind of social improvement, and what was needed were new methods of inquiry that would help generate new ideas and models for how to organize.\n\nCooperrider and Srivastva took a social constructionist approach, arguing that organizations are created, maintained and changed by conversations, and claiming that methods of organizing were only limited by people's imaginations and the agreements among them.\n\nIn 2001, Cooperrider and Diana Whitney published an article outlining the five principles of AI.\n\nIn 1996, Cooperrider, Whitney and several of their colleagues became centrally involved using AI to mid-wife the creation of the United Religions Initiative, a global organization dedicated to promoting grassroots interfaith cooperation for peace, justice and healing. This early partnership between URI and AI is chronicled in Birth of a Global Community: Appreciative Inquiry in Action by Charles Gibbs and Sally Mahé. AI was also used in the first (1999) and subsequent meetings of business leaders that created the UN's Global Compact. In another of the early applications, Cooperrider and Whitney taught AI to employees of GTE (now part of Verizon) resulting in improvements in employees' support for GTE's business direction and. as a part of continuous process improvement generated both improvements in revenue collection and cost savings earning GTE an ASTD award for the best organisational change program in the US in 1997.\"\n\nOn May 8, 2010, Suresh Srivastva died.\n\nGervase Bushe, a researcher on the topic, published a 2011 review of the model, including its processes, critiques, and evidence. He also published a history of the model in 2012.\n\nAccording to Bushe, AI \"advocates collective inquiry into the best of what is, in order to imagine what could be, followed by collective design of a desired future state that is compelling and thus, does not require the use of incentives, coercion or persuasion for planned change to occur.\"\n\nThe model is based on the assumption that the questions we ask will tend to focus our attention in a particular direction, that organizations evolve in the direction of the questions they most persistently and passionately ask. In the mid 80's most methods of assessing and evaluating a situation and then proposing solutions were based on a \"deficiency\" model, predominantly asking questions such as \"What are the problems?\", \"What's wrong?\" or \"What needs to be fixed?\". Instead of asking \"What's the problem?\", others couched the question in terms of \"challenges\", which still focused on deficiency, on what needs to be fixed or solved. Appreciative Inquiry was the first serious managerial method to refocus attention on what works, the positive core, and on what people really care about. Today, these ways of approaching organizational change are common\n\nThe five principles of AI are:\n\nSome researchers believe that excessive focus on dysfunctions can actually cause them to become worse or fail to become better. By contrast, AI argues, when all members of an organization are motivated to understand and value the most favourable features of its culture, it can make rapid improvements.\n\nStrength-based methods are used in the creation of organizational development strategy and implementation of organizational effectiveness tactics. The \"appreciative\" mode of inquiry often relies on interviews to qualitatively understand the organization's potential strengths by looking at an organization's experience and its potential; the objective is to elucidate the assets and personal motivations that are its strengths.\n\nBushe has argued that mainstream proponents of AI focus too much attention on \"the positive\" and not enough on the transformation that AI can bring about through generating new ideas and the will to act on them. In a 2010 comparative study in a school district he found that even in cases where no change occurred participants were highly positive during the AI process. What distinguished those sites that experienced transformational changes was the creation of new ideas that gave people new ways to address old problems. He argues that for transformational change to occur, AI must address problems that concern people enough to want to change. However, AI addresses them not through problem-solving, but through generative images. Some of this is covered in a 90-minute discussion about AI, positivity and generativity by Bushe and Dr. Ron Fry of Case Western, at the 2012 World Appreciative Inquiry Conference.\n\nThe following table comes from the Cooperrider and Whitney (2001) article and is used to describe some of the distinctions between AI and approaches to organizational development not based on what they call positive potential:\n\nAppreciative inquiry attempts to use ways of asking questions and envisioning the future in order to foster positive relationships and build on the present potential of a given person, organization or situation. The most common model utilizes a cycle of four processes, which focus on what it calls:\n\nThe aim is to build – or rebuild – organizations around what works, rather than trying to fix what doesn't. AI practitioners try to convey this approach as the opposite of problem solving.\n\nThere are a variety of approaches to implementing appreciative inquiry, including mass-mobilised interviews and a large, diverse gathering called an Appreciative Inquiry Summit. These approaches involve bringing large, diverse groups of people together to study and build upon the \"best\" in an organization or community.\n\nAI is used in organizational development and as a consultancy tool in an attempt to bring about strategic change. It has been applied in businesses, health care bodies, social non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and government operations. Although originating in the US, it is also used in the UK – for example in the National Support Teams and around the world. Since 2000, \"The AI Practitioner\", a quarterly publication, has described applications in a variety of settings around the world.\n\nAI has various business applications and can effectively be used to elicit information from stakeholders. Positivity is paired with a group consensus to envision and begin producing an optimistic future based on existing strengths and successes. As seen in Harbarian process modeling, AI has been used in Business process modeling to elicit information about an organization's present state and desired future state.\n\nIn Vancouver, AI is being used by the Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education. The Center, which was founded by the Dalai Lama and Victor Chan, is using AI to facilitate compassionate communities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51023476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51023476", "title": "Artificial empathy", "text": "Artificial empathy\n\nArtificial empathy (AE) is the development of AI systems − such as companion robots − that are able to detect and respond to human emotions. According to scientists, although the technology can be perceived as scary or threatening by many people, it could also have a significant advantage over humans in professions which are traditionally involved in emotional role-playing such as the health care sector. From the care-giver perspective for instance, performing emotional labor above and beyond the requirements of paid labor often results in chronic stress or burnout, and the development of a feeling of being desensitized to patients. However, it is argued that the emotional role-playing between the care-receiver and a robot can actually have a more positive outcome in terms of creating the conditions of less fear and concern for one's own predicament best exemplified by the phrase: \"if it is just a robot taking care of me it cannot be that critical.\" Scholars debate the possible outcome of such technology using two different perspectives. Either, the AE could help the socialization of care-givers, or serve as role model for emotional detachment.\n\nThere are a variety of philosophical, theoretical, and applicative questions related to AE. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "7471277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7471277", "title": "Center for the Study of Religion and Society", "text": "Center for the Study of Religion and Society\n\nThe Center for the Study of Religion and Society (CSRS) is a research center at the University of Notre Dame in the United States that is dedicated to advancing social scientific understanding of religion in society through scholarly research, training and publications. The Center brings a variety of faculty, students and other researchers together into a community of scholars engaged in empirical investigations, intellectual interchange and teaching crucial for advancing the sociological study of religion. \n\nActivities facilitated by CSRS include major data collection projects, seminars, colloquia, lectures, conferences, grant writing and the building of an infrastructure for survey, interviews-based, and participant-observation social research. The Center combines an emphasis on the insight and richness of cultural analysis with the strength of large-scale survey research.\n\nChristian Smith of the University of Notre Dame is the director of CSRS and the principal investigator on a number of the Center's current research projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "5044343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5044343", "title": "Citizen Cyborg", "text": "Citizen Cyborg\n\nCitizen Cyborg: Why Democratic Societies Must Respond to the Redesigned Human of the Future is a 2004 non-fiction book by bioethicist and sociologist James Hughes, which articulates democratic transhumanism as a socio-political ideology and program.\n\nThe editors of the popular science magazine \"Scientific American\" recommended \"Citizen Cyborg\" in their April 2005 issue.\n\n\n\nReviews\n"}
{"id": "44560541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44560541", "title": "Communication ethics", "text": "Communication ethics\n\nCommunication ethics is the notion that an individual's or group's behavior are governed by their morals which in turn affects communication. Generally speaking communication ethics deals with the moral good present in any form of human communication. This includes interpersonal communication, mass mediated communication, and digital communication.\n\nCommunication ethics concerns not only the individual, but is of great concern to businesses, corporations, and professional entities. A business with unethical communication practices is not as effective as one with ethical communication practices. For example, a business with unethical communication practices may withhold evidence that it is harming the environment or breaking a law through a lack of transparence; while a business with ethical communication practices will immediately press a release to the affected parties. In this example, transparency makes the business more effective because it notifies its clients, prospective or established, providers/suppliers, or other affiliates of the potential environmental hazard or law violation. In other words, in this example, transparency will encourage trust and good faith, that the effective business will not conceal what is in the interest of its audience. For the sake of counterexample, there may be a time when censorship is the more effective business practice: take the case of trade secrets, when a design method or management tactic is not openly revealed in the name of competitive advantage; or when terms of agreement/use that a business may have with a service provider forbids transparency. In the latter counterexample, a business may use social media to advertise, but the social media service provider may limit the conduct of its users. Here, if the business considers social media to be a valuable service to achieve its advertising, it may have to censor its product or service to preserve its agreement with the social media provider.\n\nCommunication ethics is also a division of the NCA (National Communication Association) which was established by Western Michigan University in 1985, as well the NCA has adopted a Credo for Ethical Communication.\nThe Communication Ethics Conference has been held every year for the last 13 years, and has various speakers from Communication Studies backgrounds.\n\n\nEthical communication encompasses being honest in all communitcations, keeping confidential information confidential,and not discussing the personal or business situations of others in public or in front of a third party\n"}
{"id": "31529005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31529005", "title": "Communication quotient", "text": "Communication quotient\n\nCommunication quotient, communication intelligence, or CQ is a theory that communication is a behaviour based skill that can be measured and trained. CQ measures the ability of people to communicate effectively with one another. The first scholarly article referring to CQ was by Robert Service in CQ: the Communication Quotient for IS professionals. The article was published in 2005 in the Journal of Information Science. In 2010 at TED Women, Clare Munn spoke about the importance of our Communication Quotient in an increasingly digital world.\n\nThe development of CQ as a theory and a concept can be traced back to the challenging of IQ as fully explaining cognitive ability in 1983, by Howard Gardner with his Theory of multiple intelligences. In Gardner's view, traditional types of intelligence, such as IQ, fail to fully explain cognitive ability. The development of CQ is part of the trend to analyse and fully understand human intelligence, a trend led by Daniel Goleman’s emotional intelligence and social intelligence.\n\n\"The Times of India\" in 2005 , in an article entitled A Shift from IQ, referred to CQ as an ability multi-national corporations were testing for amongst Indian graduates. In 2005 Craig Harrison in Improving Your Communication Quotient described CQ skills specifically in terms of workplace communication. In 2007 Clare Munn and Maria Bello defined CQ as \"Expressive & Receptive Intelligence\" the communication bridge between IQ and EQ. In 2011 Alistair Gordon and Steve Kimmens in \"The CQ Manifesto\" defined CQ as \"saying the right thing in the right way to the right people at the right time in a such a way that the message is received and understood as it was intended\".\n\nIn Robert Service’s 2005 article he presented the communication quotient as a measurable and improvable type of intelligence, specifically for IT and IS professionals. Service argues that the improvement of communication ability will allow individuals the opportunity to move up in the organisational ranks. The article presents two models to explain communication, the first is the model of two-way communications and the second is the CQ measurement and improvement matrix.\n\n"}
{"id": "412676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412676", "title": "Conflict resolution", "text": "Conflict resolution\n\nConflict resolution is conceptualized as the methods and processes involved in facilitating the peaceful ending of conflict and retribution. Committed group members attempt to resolve group conflicts by actively communicating information about their conflicting motives or ideologies to the rest of the group (e.g., intentions; reasons for holding certain beliefs) and by engaging in collective negotiation. Dimensions of resolution typically parallel the dimensions of conflict in the way the conflict is processed. Cognitive resolution is the way disputants understand and view the conflict, with beliefs, perspectives, understandings and attitudes. Emotional resolution is in the way disputants feel about a conflict, the emotional energy. Behavioral resolution is reflective of how the disputants act, their behavior. Ultimately a wide range of methods and procedures for addressing conflict exist, including negotiation, mediation, mediation-arbitration, diplomacy, and creative peacebuilding.\n\nThe term \"conflict resolution\" may also be used interchangeably with \"dispute resolution\", where arbitration and litigation processes are critically involved. The concept of conflict resolution can be thought to encompass the use of nonviolent resistance measures by conflicted parties in an attempt to promote effective resolution.\n\nThe dual concern model of conflict resolution is a conceptual perspective that assumes individuals’ preferred method of dealing with conflict is based on two underlying themes or dimensions: concern for self (assertiveness) and concern for others (empathy).\n\nAccording to the model, group members balance their concern for satisfying personal needs and interests with their concern for satisfying the needs and interests of others in different ways. The intersection of these two dimensions ultimately leads individuals towards exhibiting different styles of conflict resolution. The dual model identifies five conflict resolution styles/strategies that individuals may use depending on their dispositions toward pro-self or pro-social goals.\n\nThere are many examples of conflict resolution in history, and there has been a debate about the ways to conflict resolution: whether it should be forced or peaceful. Conflict resolution by peaceful means is always a better option. The conflict resolution curve derived from an analytical model offers a peaceful solution by motivating conflicting entities. Forced resolution of conflict might invoke another conflict in future.\n\nConflict resolution curve (CRC) separates conflict styles into two separate domains: domain of competing entities and domain of accommodating entities(Image of CRC ). There is a sort of agreement between targets and aggressors on this curve. Their judgements of badness compared to goodness of each other are analogous on CRC. So, arrival of all conflicting entities to some negotiable points on CRC is important before peace building. CRC does not exist (i.e., singular) in reality if the chance of aggression of the aggressor is certain. Under such circumstances it might lead to apocalypse with mutual destruction.\nThe curve explains why nonviolent struggles ultimately toppled repressive regimes from power and sometimes forced leaders to change the nature of governance. Also, this methodology has been applied to capture the conflict styles in Korean Peninsula and dynamics of negotiation process.\n\nWars may occur between parties who contest an incompatibility. The nature of an incompatibility can be territorial or governmental, but a warring party must be a \"government of a state or any opposition organization or alliance of organizations that uses armed force to promote its position in the incompatibility in an intrastate or an interstate armed conflict\". Wars can conclude with a peace agreement, which is a \"formal agreement... which addresses the disputed incompatibility, either by settling all or part of it, or by clearly outlining a process for how... to regulate the incompatibility.\" A ceasefire is another form of agreement made by warring parties; unlike a peace agreement, it only \"regulates the conflict behaviour of warring parties\", and does not resolve the issue that brought the parties to war in the first place.\n\nPeacekeeping measures may be deployed to avoid violence in solving such incompatibilities. Beginning in the last century, political theorists have been developing the theory of a global peace system that relies upon broad social and political measures to avoid war in the interest of achieving world peace. The Blue Peace approach developed by Strategic Foresight Group facilitates cooperation between countries over shared water resources, thus reducing the risk of war and enabling sustainable development.\n\nConflict resolution is an expanding field of professional practice, both in the U.S. and around the world. The escalating costs of conflict have increased use of third parties who may serve as a conflict specialists to resolve conflicts. In fact, relief and development organizations have added peace-building specialists to their teams. Many major international non-governmental organizations have seen a growing need to hire practitioners trained in conflict analysis and resolution. Furthermore, this expansion has resulted in the need for conflict resolution practitioners to work in a variety of settings such as in businesses, court systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, and educational institutions throughout the world.\n\nConflict resolution as both a professional practice and academic field is highly sensitive to cultural practices. In Western cultural contexts, such as Canada and the United States, successful conflict resolution usually involves fostering communication among disputants, problem solving, and drafting agreements that meet underlying needs. In these situations, conflict resolvers often talk about finding a mutually satisfying (\"win-win\") solution for everyone involved.\n\nIn many non-Western cultural contexts, such as Afghanistan, Vietnam, and China, it is also important to find \"win-win\" solutions; however, the routes taken to find them may be very different. In these contexts, direct communication between disputants that explicitly addresses the issues at stake in the conflict can be perceived as very rude, making the conflict worse and delaying resolution. It can make sense to involve religious, tribal, or community leaders; communicate difficult truths through a third party; or make suggestions through stories. Intercultural conflicts are often the most difficult to resolve because the expectations of the disputants can be very different, and there is much occasion for misunderstanding.\n\nConflict resolution has also been studied in non-humans, including dogs, cats, monkeys, snakes, elephants, and primates. Aggression is more common among relatives and within a group than between groups. Instead of creating distance between the individuals, primates tend to be more intimate in the period after an aggressive incident. These intimacies consist of grooming and various forms of body contact. Stress responses, including increased heart rates, usually decrease after these reconciliatory signals. Different types of primates, as well as many other species who live in groups, display different types of conciliatory behavior. Resolving conflicts that threaten the interaction between individuals in a group is necessary for survival, giving it a strong evolutionary value. These findings contradict previous existing theories about the general function of aggression, i.e. creating space between individuals (first proposed by Konrad Lorenz), which seems to be more the case in conflicts between groups than it is within groups.\n\nIn addition to research in primates, biologists are beginning to explore reconciliation in other animals. Until recently, the literature dealing with reconciliation in non-primates has consisted of anecdotal observations and very little quantitative data. Although peaceful post-conflict behavior had been documented going back to the 1960s, it was not until 1993 that Rowell made the first explicit mention of reconciliation in feral sheep. Reconciliation has since been documented in spotted hyenas, lions, bottlenose dolphins, dwarf mongoose, domestic goats, domestic dogs, and, recently, in red-necked wallabies.\n\nUniversities worldwide offer programs of study pertaining to conflict research, analysis, and practice. Conrad Grebel University College at the University of Waterloo has the oldest-running peace and conflict studies (PACS) program in Canada. PACS can be taken as an Honors, 4-year general, or 3-year general major, joint major, minor, and diploma. Grebel also offers an interdisciplinary Master of Peace and Conflict Studies professional program. The Cornell University ILR School houses the Scheinman Institute on Conflict Resolution, which offers undergraduate, graduate, and professional training on conflict resolution. It also offers dispute resolution concentrations for its , JD/MILR, MPS, and MS/PhD graduate degree programs. At the graduate level, Eastern Mennonite University's Center for Justice and Peacebuilding offers a Master of Arts in Conflict Transformation, a dual Master of Divinity/MA in Conflict Transformation degree, and several graduate certificates. EMU also offers an accelerated 5-year BA in Peacebuilding and Development/MA in Conflict Transformation. Additional graduate programs are offered at Georgetown University, Johns Hopkins University, Creighton University, the University of North Carolina at Greensboro, and Trinity College Dublin. George Mason University’s School for Conflict Analysis and Resolution offers BA, BS, MS, and PhD degrees in Conflict Analysis and Resolution, as well as an undergraduate minor, graduate certificates, and joint degree programs. Nova Southeastern University also offers a PhD in Conflict Analysis & Resolution, in both online and on-campus formats.\n\nConflict resolution is a growing area of interest in UK pedagogy, with teachers and students both encouraged to learn about mechanisms that lead to aggressive action and those that lead to peaceful resolution. The University of Law, one of the oldest common law training institutions in the world, offers a legal-focused masters degree in Conflict Resolution as an LL.M. (Conflict resolution).\n\nTel Aviv University offers two graduate degree programs in the field of conflict resolution, including the English-language International Program in Conflict Resolution and Mediation, allowing students to learn in a geographic region which is the subject of much research on international conflict resolution.\n\nThe Nelson Mandela Center for Peace & Conflict Resolution at Jamia Millia Islamia University, New Delhi, is one of the first centers for peace and conflict resolution to be established at an Indian university. It offers a two-year full-time MA course in Conflict Analysis and Peace-Building, as well as a PhD in Conflict and Peace Studies.\n\nConflict management refers to the long-term management of intractable conflicts. It is the label for the variety of ways by which people handle grievances—standing up for what they consider to be right and against what they consider to be wrong. Those ways include such diverse phenomena as gossip, ridicule, lynching, terrorism, warfare, feuding, genocide, law, mediation, and avoidance. Which forms of conflict management will be used in any given situation can be somewhat predicted and explained by the social structure—or social geometry—of the case.\n\nConflict management is often considered to be distinct from conflict resolution. \nIn order for actual conflict to occur, there should be an expression of exclusive patterns which explain why and how the conflict was expressed the way it was. Conflict is often connected to a previous issue. Resolution refers to resolving a dispute to the approval of one or both parties, whereas management is concerned with an ongoing process that may never have a resolution. Neither is considered the same as conflict transformation, which seeks to reframe the positions of the conflict parties.\n\nThe role of culture is not always fully appreciated and must be taken into account. In a piece on “the ocean model of civilization”, Prof Nayef Al-Rodhan argues that greater transcultural understanding is critical for global security because it diminishes ‘hierarchies’ and alienation, and avoids dehumanization of the ‘other’.\n\nWhen personal conflict leads to frustration and loss of efficiency, counseling may prove helpful. Although few organizations can afford to have professional counselors on staff, given some training, managers may be able to perform this function. Nondirective counseling, or \"listening with understanding\", is little more than being a good listener—something every manager should be.\n\nSometimes simply being able to express one's feelings to a concerned and understanding listener is enough to relieve frustration and make it possible for an individual to advance to a problem-solving frame of mind. The nondirective approach is one effective way for managers to deal with frustrated subordinates and coworkers.\n\nThere are other, more direct and more diagnostic, methods that could be used in appropriate circumstances. However, the great strength of the nondirective approach lies in its simplicity, its effectiveness, and that it deliberately avoids the manager-counselor's diagnosing and interpreting emotional problems, which would call for special psychological training. Listening to staff with sympathy and understanding is unlikely to escalate the problem, and is a widely-used approach for helping people cope with problems that interfere with their effectiveness in the workplace.\n\nStep 1: Clarifying and focusing: problem ownership\n\nNegative feelings such as annoyance, anger and discomfort can interfere with understanding exactly what is wrong in situations of confrontation and how to set things right again. Gaining a bit of distance from negative feelings is exactly what such moments call for, especially on the part of the person with (presumably) the greatest maturity. \"Problem ownership\" is defined as deciding who should take ownership of the behavior or conflict in the issue (Gordon, 2003). The main person who is bothered by the root problem is also the “owner” of the problem, and thus the owner of a problem needs to be the one who takes primary responsibility for solving the issue. Identifying ownership makes a difference in how behavior is dealt with, as well as how the problem is effectively solved. It is important to ask clarifying questions to really understand the root causes of the conflict.\n\nStep 2: Active listening\n\nSeveral strategies help with distinguishing who has a problem with a behavior and who takes ownership. One of those strategies is active listening. Active listening is attending carefully to all aspects of what a student says and attempting to understand or empathize as much as one can (Seifert & Sutton). Active listening consists of continually asking questions in order to test your understanding. It also requires giving encouragement to the student by letting them tell their story, and paraphrasing what the student says so you can form an unbiased conclusion. It is key not to move too quickly at solving the problem by just giving advice, instructions, or scolding. Responding too soon with solutions can shut down the student’s communication and leave you with inaccurate impressions of the source or nature of the problem (Seifert & Sutton).\n\nStep 3: Assertive discipline and I-messages\n\nOnce you, as the teacher, have taken in the student’s point of view, form your comments around how the student’s behavior affects your role. Your comments should be assertive, emphasize I-messages, and encourage the student to think about the effects of his or her behavior. They should not be passive, apologetic, hostile or aggressive, but matter-of-fact, such as, “Charlie, you are talking while I am talking.” The comments should emphasize I-messages that focus on how the behavior is affecting the teacher’s teaching and the other students' learning (Seifert & Sutton). An example of this would be, “You are making it hard for me to focus on teaching this math lesson.” Lastly, you should ask the student more open-ended questions that make him or her think about the consequences of his or her behavior, such as, “How do the other kids feel when you yell in the middle of class?” (Seifert & Sutton). \n\nStep 4: Negotiation\n\nSeifert and Sutton state that the first three steps describe desirable ways of handling situations that are specific and last for only a short time. These steps by themselves could potentially not be enough when conflicts persist over extended periods of time. Often it is better to negotiate a solution in these situations. Negotiating is defined as methodically deliberating various options and deciding on one if possible (Seifert & Sutton). Even though negotiation demands time and energy, it often demands less time or effort ultimately than continuing to cope with the problem. The results of negotiation can be valuable to everyone involved in the situation. Various experts on conflict resolution have suggested different ways to negotiate with students about problems that are continual (Seifert & Sutton). The theories differ in specifics, but typically are generally similar to the steps we previously discussed:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30994679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30994679", "title": "Cyprus Civil Society Awards", "text": "Cyprus Civil Society Awards\n\nThe Cyprus Civil Society Awards were established in 2008 as part of a United Nations-funded project aiming to strengthen the role of civil society in Cyprus. One organization from the Greek Cypriot and one organization from the Turkish Cypriot community was each presented an award for their contribution to social development in six unique categories:\n\n\nThe awards have been established in order to promote reconciliation and facilitate interactions between the non-governmental organization between the two conflicting communities on the island. The awards are managed and presented by a consortium consisting of The Management Centre from the Turkish Cypriot community, the NGO Support Centre< from the Greek Cypriot community and INTRAC from the UK.\n"}
{"id": "43689550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43689550", "title": "Digital phobic", "text": "Digital phobic\n\nDigital phobic is an informal phrase used to describe a reluctance to become fully immersed in the digital age for being fearful of how it might negatively change or alter everyday life.\nThe fast-paced development of the digital world in the twenty-first century has contributed to the digital divide becoming a very real problem for a segment of the population for whom a lack of education of, interest in, or access to digital devices has left them excluded from the technological world and fearful of its growing omnipresence.\n\nDigital phobic is part of a growing dictionary of digital vocabulary exploring the social impact of the technological age. The phrase considers the fears associated with technological evolution and change, and acknowledges the possibility of exclusion as a result of a rising reliance on technology in day-to-day life.\n\nEveryday use of technology has increased dramatically since the turn of the century, significantly impacting both those embracing technological change as well as those reluctant to be a part of it.\n\nA sharp rise in technological innovations during the 21st century has been responsible for changing much of the way we work, socialize, and learn – all of which can be at the foundation of distrust in the technological age. Psychologists, academics and researchers have begun to consider the base of these fears and consider the social, cultural and environmental circumstances which might catalyze someone to becoming 'digital phobic'.\n\nTechnophobia is used to discuss a fear of advanced technology in a formal capacity and can stem from a number, and combination of, concerns. With the oncoming of the digital age, worries have broadened from the very earliest fears that technology would eradicate artisanship to concerns over data protection, financial security, identity theft, technical inability and invasion of privacy.\n\nThere is no exhaustible list of reasons cited for fearing the digital world and, whilst research into both the cause and consequence of developing a digital phobia remains in its infancy, the presence of digital phobia regardless contributes towards an increasingly comprehensive picture of a series of profiles among digital users.\nRecent research from Foresters, an international financial services organization, found 2% of the UK population to fall into this category of internet user. A further breakdown of this statistic, sees the percentage of users in development of a digital phobia increase, with 4% fearful of online shopping for worrying that someone will steal their card details, and 12% fearful that using social media will make it easier for people to find their personal details.\n\nWhen asked to reason their attitude towards technology as part of this survey, a larger percentage of the UK population were revealed to be fearful of the impact it could be having on more traditional means of doing things. 31% believed technology was preventing us from communicating properly, while 32% thought advances in technology will result in long-held traditions being lost.\n\nThis fear has only been exacerbated over time as more and more data-holding, services and opportunities are transferred to the digital realm, and both the perceived and real nature of security and vulnerability risks increases. Worrying levels of time spent on devices, the invasion of privacy or the possible misuse or abuse of personal data entrusted to online sources are all contributing towards the development of a digital phobia among a proportion of the population.\n\nConcerns about the negative, exclusionary or divisive consequences of living within a digital society are being voiced from various global platforms. April 2014 research conducted by Pew Research Center, in association with Smithsonian Magazine, revealed concerns about anticipated technological developments over the next half-century. 30% of Americans surveyed feared that technological changes would lead to a future in which people are worse off than they are at the time of being surveyed. Considered amid reports of dis-interest in the internet among Japan's residents despite its reputation as a high-tech nation, these reports contribute towards a growing understanding that high-tech advancements are not universally celebrated. Moreover, the May 2014 \"right to be forgotten\" ruling put in place in the European Union which allows internet users to request for their internet history to be un-searchable if deemed incorrect, outdated or irrelevant, and the thousands of requests received in the first few days following its announcement documents a, perhaps previously hidden, widespread fear of leaving a digital footprint and/or being falsely represented online.\n\nDigital phobia is part of a wider societal conversation on how we relate to, trust in, and interact with technology and considers the potentially negative implications of what otherwise appears to be a positive advancement of the modern world. \nThis phrase has been developed by Foresters, the international financial services organisation, for the purpose of describing attitudes to technology among the UK population.\n\nDeveloped within a digital vocabulary consisting of four other phrases (digital addict, digital omnivore, digital agnostic, digital denier), digital phobic is part of a scale of social description for online behavior within the digital age.\n\nThe phrase has been used as part of discussion on the more general use of technology within the 21st century and the importance of striking a balance between time spent on and offline. Research conducted by Foresters in association with Tech Timeout, a social communications initiative considering the role of technology in contemporary society, formed the basis of the descriptor and identified the key traits of each type of digital user based on answers from over 1,000 UK respondents. \nBoth anecdotal and research-based evidence suggests categories of internet use, whilst they cannot be linearly divided, are able to loosely describe attitudes to technology in society. The developed phrases are able to be used to greater understand and contextualize how new and existing technology is viewed and have been cited in international online newspapers and blog posts.\n\nWhilst this phrase and definition were developed specifically from research on UK technology-users, the phrase is not UK-specific and is designed to be indicative of a global community of technology users who share in these characteristics.\n\nDigital phobia presents a real and pressing problem in the modern world where technology has become a central and essential resource. Internet culture has developed to become a part of the fabric of everyday life and is now even considered part of the make-up of national identity with a country's internet use and digital footprint an important modern index for international comparison, often associated with development and modernity.\n\nThe consequences of non-participation in the digital world are far reaching, and can affect the economic, cultural, social, occupational and educational life of a non-user. For example, in 2009 Price Waterhouse Coopers estimated that UK households offline are missing out on savings of £560 a year which could be saved if shopping or paying for bills online. Furthermore, in the United States older people without internet access or the skills to make the most of it are considered a disadvantaged proportion of the population as, amongst other important resources, vital healthcare information and initiatives conducted online are unavailable to those not a part of the digital world.\n\nHeightened fears of how technology may be affecting the human population stems from a, for some very logical, fear of how technology is adapting the world we live in and at the pace and price with which it is doing so. With such a significance placed on online participation, concerns about the role of the internet in everyday life are not unfounded and not exclusive to those who prefer to stay away from the internet, avoid certain activities online, or use the internet without enthusiasm and only as necessitated.\n\nA survey conducted by security firm Avira identified 84% of people fear social networking sites will steal or misuse their personal information, demonstrating the net majority of internet users share, at least partially, in distrusting the digital world. Whilst many will, despite this fear, adopt cautious optimism and still use social networking as part of their everyday lives this high percentage serves to demonstrate that a fear significant enough for some to avoid readily using online and digital services is a fear shared by a large number of internet users.\n\nWhilst some digital phobics have preferred to remain distanced from technology due to hypothetical concerns others have attempted to join in societal interest but find themselves unable to stay caught up with new technology or would like to see its progression halted as evolution of the digital world has reached new speeds. The 2013 Oxford Internet Survey recognizes this concern among UK users, identifying distinct categories of both non-users and ex-users of internet-based technology who, for a variety of reasons, have discontinued or refuse to access the online world. This is further supported by results from a 2013 survey of internet use in America which found 32% of non-internet users avoiding the online world because of finding the internet difficult or frustrating to use, being physically unable or worried about other issues such as viruses, threat of hacking or spam – a figure considerably higher than in earlier years.\n\nConcern over the presence of a digital divide, whether locally or globally, is only exacerbated by the knowledge that access to many government and council services, job applications, and social and cultural resources are now largely internet based. Internet access has become a hurdle in contemporary society which, for those without the necessary desire to learn or knowledge of internet-based systems, can be difficult to navigate around, often resulting in key services and vital resources being less easily accessible, leaving non-users feeling isolated. Private and government campaigns to tackle this issue further demonstrate the severity and long-lasting impact of having a proportion of the population disinclined or disinterested in going online.\n\nAs the online world becomes saturated, device options for connecting to the internet vary and news of technological inventions goes viral the exponential growth of the technological world is only contributing towards a growing number of 'digital phobic' tech-users amongst the global population.\n\nDigital phobia has had a negative impact on the field of education. Some teachers have expressed a fear that new and advanced technology is supplanting them as the masters of their fields of study and a study of teachers in Wilmington, Delaware has shown that educators in this area are acclimating to the new technology in their classrooms at a slower pace. The local researchers believe that there are many factors why that is the case and some of the things they have found are things such as a lack of technological education by the teachers, and also the lack of time, or incentive to adjust to the new technology. University Larry Cuban has stated that \"The introduction of computers into school was supposed to improve academic achievement , and alter how teachers taught. Neither has occurred.\"\n\nThe constant infusion of new technology has many teachers fearing that they are losing their classroom. This new technology is essentially diminishing the role of a teacher in the classroom.\n\nResearchers believe that educators are slow to adapt to technology because they aren't given time to acclimate to the new technology, causing them to hesitate to use it in the classroom and express fear that these technologies may interfere with genuine learning particularly in humanities and creative subjects. In an article for the \"New Media Reader,\" Theodor H. Nelson wrote that people are opposed to the computer because they believe it is \"cold\" and \"inhuman\", but a human can be just as inhuman and maybe even more so than the actual machine itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14765778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14765778", "title": "El Sueño de Arquímedes", "text": "El Sueño de Arquímedes\n\nEl Sueño de Arquímedes was a Spanish science podcast and radio program which was broadcast by Radio Nacional de España (RNE) from September 2006 until June, 2007. The program was created by Ángel Rodríguez Lozano. A total of 35 programs are still available for download. In addition to El Sueño de Arquímedes, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano also hosted Vanguardia de la Ciencia, which was broadcast weekly without interruption from April 1995 until June 2007. The name of the program means \"the dream of Archimedes\", and alludes to Archimedes' statement that given a lever and a fixed point, he could move the world. To Ángel Rodríguez Lozano, the dream was moving the world by popularizing and sharing knowledge.\n\nBefore the startup of El Sueño de Arquímedes, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano had been hosting Vanguardia de la Ciencia for more than a decade. When RNE\nasked if he would host a second popular science program, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano realised that the scheduled timing, Sundays between 3 and 4 p.m, meant that it would be sandwiched between sports broadcasts. Therefore, he would have to capture the attention of listeners who were not looking for this type of program. The intention was therefore to make the program even more accessible than Vanguardia de la Ciencia, with shorter interviews and more music. Ángel Rodríguez Lozano stated that it had been a marvellous experience, and that the response had been tremendous.\n\nThe program included science news, interviews, and biographies of great scientists, written by Carmen Buergo. In the final, humorous section of the program, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano paid a visit to the archetypical mad scientist\nAlejandro Laguna, who supposedly lived and worked in a hidden laboratory in the basements of Radio Nacional de España, seven floors below ground level. Alejandro would demonstrate one of his latest inventions, which usually defied the laws of physics, and Ángel played the role of a rather gullible spectator. Alejandro then explained the physics of the corresponding real-world device. Finally, the demonstration of his invention usually had some highly unpleasant consequence for Ángel.\n\nIn June 2007, El Sueño de Arquímedes and Vanguardia de la Ciencia were abruptly terminated. In the correspondence section of one of the last programs of Vangurardia de la Ciencia, Ángel Rodríguez Lozano explained, in response to a letter from an outraged listener, that the decision to terminate the program was made due to a re-structuration of RNE, and that he was but one of 4,150 employees who had to leave.\nIn the previously referenced interview, he explained that everyone older than 52 years had to retire early, and that he was 54 years old at the time.\n\nThe decision to terminate the programs was widely criticized in Spanish-speaking blogs.\n\nAt the web-site of RNE, 36 programs are still available.\n\n"}
{"id": "3720589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720589", "title": "Entertainment technology", "text": "Entertainment technology\n\nEntertainment technology is the discipline of using manufactured or created components to enhance or make possible any sort of entertainment experience. Because entertainment categories are so broad, and because entertainment models the world in many ways, the types of implemented technology are derived from a variety of sources. Thus, in theatre, for example, entertainment technology practitioners must be able to design and construct scenery, install electrical systems, build clothing, use motors if there is scenery automation, provide plumbing (if functioning kitchen fixtures are required, or if \"singing in the rain\"), etc. In this way, the entertainment technology field intersects with most other types of technology.\n\nTraditionally, entertainment technology is derived from theatrical stagecraft, and stagecraft is an important subset of the discipline. However, the rise of new types and venues for entertainment, as well as rapidly advancing technological development, has increased the range and scope of its practice.\n\nEntertainment technology includes:\n\n\nIn animation and game design, the phrase \"entertainment technology\" refers to a very real world of entertainment experiences made possible by the advent of primarily computer-mediated digital technologies.\n\nEntertainment Technology can be traced back to the “Pre-digital Age.” The invention of the first phonograph machine, which is used to record and playback sound, dates back to 1877 by inventor Thomas Edison. There has been a significant progression from that antiquated modality of entertainment. From silent films (which also gave way to the art of creative storytelling using moving pictures) to the digital age, in which we now see growth on a global scale and, relative to earlier inventions, an extremely fast pace. By comparison, from the invention of the phonograph machine in 1877 to the invention of the first motion picture camera by Louis Lumiere in 1895 shows a gap of 18 years between significant entertainment technology inventions. Whereas compact discs were introduced in the 1980’s and within the next 10 years, satellite television was introduced. More recent developments in entertainment technology are sometimes considered to be a “race” in terms of which company will develop and distribute their product first. Knowing what we have available to us and where it all began can be used as a footnote in our ever-increasing development of entertainment and other technological advances.\n\nSociety has completely been changed and advanced in many different ways by all the advancements in entertainment technology. Ranging from how companies get their product name out and get customers to buy into that product, to how people come into contact with one another and how we converse. Media and entertainment have become such a huge part of everyone’s life. We are all invested in some kind of media whether it is a tv show or a vlog and the producer of those are all very aware of the consumption of their product and will try to advertise it in as many ways as possible. They will reach out and promote their form of entertainment by having it on multiple platforms. Media companies will share their product on many different popular websites and forms of social media and ask its consumers to share it as well, generating more views and continuously advancing their products notoriety. Millions of dollars have been spent on Artificial Intelligence. Companies use AI because it is so detailed and precise with all of its obtained knowledge, they will use it to help market their brand because AI knows exactly what people like and what they want to see and will put together the final product that will succeed the most. Entertainment websites and websites that sell goods maintain and expand their viewers and customers by advertising something new you haven’t seen before when you are done with what you originally visited the website for. A big reason why a company became so successful and became so popular is that they bundled everything people want into a smaller collection, instead of having a much larger bundle that only included a couple items a consumer wants. Virtual reality is giving us a new way to experience the world. You can travel to see your favorite live event anywhere in the world without even having to leave your house.\n\nA three dimensional, computer generated simulation of a real seeming environment brought on by the use of special electronic equipment. This technology is used to replace the user’s entire real world environment with a computer generated (or simulated) one.\n\nAn interactive technology that intertwines computer generated images with real world objects. These artificial images can align with or block the real world environment. This technology is used to alter the user’s perception of the real world which should not to be confused with virtual reality in which the user’s whole perception is changed.\n\nA rich visual and audio experience that provides a greater contrast than standard dynamic range. This technology is most associated with display devices, sound recording, 3D rendering, and photography. Technology like this provides a more lifelike image in the visual aspect.\n\nA device (usually a camera) that captures information about the light field that is emerging from a real life scene which is; the direction of the light rays in space and the intensity of the light in the actual environment/scene. This technology will someday surpass Virtual Reality.\n\nVideo streaming is becoming a huge part of society in this day and age and it’s only beginning to expand. Video streaming brought in a revenue of $30.29 billion in 2016 and based on projections conducted by Research and Markets, will reach an astonishing $70.05 billion in the year 2021. This projected drastic increase has caused there to be more competition in streaming, which has led to rapid growth, development, and a large increase in the amount of users. Technology is a data based driven field, and with this rapid growth the future is bright for this field. Technology has been enhancing discoveries for as long as it’s been invented. It holds the digital power to entertain, inform, and persuade. Technology will continue to provide all of these sentiments and will continue to do so for as long as developments keep forthcoming. Rapid growth and development does not only affect the consumers, but the producers. Large technology companies will have improve content quality of all while extracting maximum value of the product. Challenges for development in the media industry are how to maximize content, brands, and advertising. While also created tailoring consumers needs to enhance their experience. Consumers drive this field, companies are constantly running data about consumers preferences, relationships, habits, and locations. Technology is a growing field and with companies beginning to care more about the consumers, and with rapid growing development in this field, expect technology to take bigger steps forward in years to come.  \n\nSchools that offer programs or degrees in entertainment technology include:\n\n\nCurrently, the only university offering a degree specifically in Entertainment Engineering and Design (EED) is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV). Because UNLV's program is in its infancy, current entertainment technologists come from a wide variety of educational backgrounds, the most prevalent of which are theater and mechanical technology. Several other institutions of higher education offer similar programs for entertainment-related ventures.\n\nA bachelor's degree in these areas will typically have a difference of only a few specialized classes.\n\nTraditionally, people interested in careers in this field either presented themselves as apprentices within craft unions, or attended college programs in theatre technology. Although both are appropriate in limited ways, the growing world of entertainment technology encompasses many different types of performance and display environments than the theatre. To this end, newer opportunities have arisen that provide a wider educational base than these more traditional environments. An article \"Rethinking Entertainment Technology Education\" by John Huntington describes new teaching philosophies that resonate with the need for a richer and more flexible educational environment:\n\n"}
{"id": "50619050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50619050", "title": "FinTech in India", "text": "FinTech in India\n\nFinTech or financial technology has emerged as a relatively new industry in India. FinTech is an industry comprising companies that use technology to offer financial services. These companies operate in insurance, asset management and payment, and numerous other industries.\n\nAccording to the report of The National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), India has a presence of approximately 400 companies in the fintech industry, with an investment of about $420 million (in 2015). The NASSCOM report also estimated the fintech software and services market to grow 1.7 times by 2020, making it worth $8 billion.\n\nThe Indian fintech landscape is segmented as follows – 34% in payment processing, followed by 32% in banking and 12% in the trading, public and private markets. accelerators and incubators tapping the startup ecosystem include PayPal’s Star Tank, Yes Bank’s collaboration with T-Hub, among others. Visakhapatnam (Vizag) is being developed as fintech valley and the local government of Andhra Pradesh had opened Fintech Valley to promote the investments in this area.\n"}
{"id": "11056070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11056070", "title": "Frances Hoggan", "text": "Frances Hoggan\n\nFrances Elizabeth Hoggan (\"née\" Morgan; 20 December 1843 – 5 February 1927) was a Welsh doctor and the first British woman to receive a doctorate in medicine from any university in Europe. She was also a pioneering medical practitioner, researcher and social reformer – and the first female doctor to be registered in Wales. She and her husband opened the first husband-and-wife medical practice in Britain.\n\nFrances Hoggan was born in Brecon, Wales, where her father, Richard Morgan, was a curate. She was brought up and educated at Cowbridge in Glamorgan and later at Windsor. During her teens, she gave birth to an illegitimate daughter, who was brought up with her mother and passed off as Frances' sister. She went on to study at Paris and Düsseldorf. \n\nShe obtained her medical doctorate from the University of Zurich in March 1870, completing the six-year course in three years, becoming the first British woman to obtain a European MD degree. In 1874 she married Dr George Hoggan. She later practised in London as a specialist in women's and children's diseases, including a period at North London Collegiate School. Together with her husband, she opened the first husband-and-wife general medical practice in the UK. \n\nIn 1882, she called for a publicly funded women's medical service for female patients in India. This helped pave the way for the Dufferin Fund.\n\nHoggan became a campaigner and social reformer, and toured the United States lecturing. She had a particular interest in racial issues, and was a speaker at the Universal Race Congress in London in 1911.\n\nHer cremated remains are buried, with her husband's, in Woking cemetery.\n\nUpon the exclusion of women by the Council of the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries from its professional exams in 1867, Frances Elizabeth Morgan sought her medical education at the University of Zurich, whence Nadezhda Suslova, Russia's first woman physician, had received her degree in December 1867. There, Morgan completed the medical course in three years rather than the expected five, and in March 1870 became only the second woman to gain an MD (with a thesis on progressive muscular atrophy) at Zürich University. Afterwards, at a clinic in Vienna she undertook study on operative midwifery and became a pupil of surgeon Gustav Braun.\n\n\nThe Learned Society of Wales awards the \"Frances Hoggan Medal\" to outstanding women connected with Wales in the areas of science, medicine, engineering, technology or mathematics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4414154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4414154", "title": "Frozen conflict", "text": "Frozen conflict\n\nIn international relations, a frozen conflict is a situation in which active armed conflict has been brought to an end, but no peace treaty or other political framework resolves the conflict to the satisfaction of the combatants. Therefore, legally the conflict can start again at any moment, creating an environment of insecurity and instability.\n\nThe term has been commonly used for post-Soviet conflicts, but it has also often been applied to other perennial territorial disputes. The \"de facto\" situation that emerges may match the \"de jure\" position asserted by one party to the conflict; for example, Russia claims and effectively controls Crimea following the 2014 Crimean crisis despite Ukraine's continuing claim to the region. Alternatively, the \"de facto\" situation may not match either side's official claim. The division of Korea is an example of the latter situation: both the Republic of Korea and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea officially assert claims to the entire peninsula; however, there exists a well-defined border between the two countries' areas of control.\n\nFrozen conflicts sometimes result in partially recognized states. For example, the Republic of South Ossetia, a product of the frozen Georgian–Ossetian conflict, is recognized by eight other states, including five UN members; the other three of these entities are partially recognized states themselves.\n\nFollowing the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991, a number of conflicts arose in areas of some of the post-Soviet states, usually where the new international borders did not match the ethnic affiliations of local populations. These conflicts have largely remained \"frozen\", with disputed areas under the \"de facto\" control of entities other than the countries to which they are internationally recognized as belonging, and which still consider those areas to be part of their territory.\n\nSince the ceasefire which ended the Transnistria War (1990–1992), the Russian-influenced breakaway republic of Transnistria has controlled the easternmost strip of the territory of Moldova. The republic is internationally unrecognized, and Moldova continues to claim the territory.\n\nNagorno-Karabakh is a disputed territory, internationally recognized as part of Azerbaijan, but most of the region is governed by the Republic of Artsakh (formerly named Nagorno-Karabakh Republic), a \"de facto\" independent state with Armenian ethnic majority established on the basis of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast of the Azerbaijan Soviet Socialist Republic. Azerbaijan has not exercised political authority over the region since the advent of the Karabakh movement in 1988. Since the end of the Nagorno-Karabakh War in 1994, representatives of the governments of Armenia and Azerbaijan have been holding peace talks mediated by the OSCE Minsk Group on the region's disputed status.\n\nThe Abkhaz–Georgian conflict and Georgian–Ossetian conflict have led to the creation of two largely unrecognized states within the internationally recognized territory of Georgia. The 1991–92 South Ossetia War and the War in Abkhazia (1992–93), followed by the Russo-Georgian War of August 2008, have left the Russian-backed Republic of South Ossetia and Republic of Abkhazia in \"de facto\" control of the South Ossetia and Abkhazia regions in north and northwest Georgia.\n\nIn 2014, Crimea was occupied by the Russian troops without insignia while Ukraine was still recovering from large scale violence in the capital, and soon afterwards was admitted into the Russian Federation. This is widely regarded as an annexation of the peninsula by Russia, and is considered likely to result in another post-Soviet frozen conflict. While there are similarities between Transnistria, Abkhazia and the 2014–2015 War in Donbass, where the unrecognized Donetsk People's Republic and Lugansk People's Republic have taken \"de facto\" control of areas in the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine, the conflict in Donbass is not a frozen conflict yet as ceasefire violations are keeping the fighting on a low burner. However, some experts predict a frozen future for this conflict as well.\n\nIndia and Pakistan have fought at least three wars over the disputed region of Kashmir in 1947, 1965, and 1999. India claims the entire area of the former princely state of Kashmir and Jammu, of which it administers approximately 43%. Its claims are contested by Pakistan, which controls approximately 37% of the region and urges for plebiscite in Kashmir. The remaining territory is controlled by the People's Republic of China, with which India is again in dispute and have fought the Sino-Indian War.\n\nThe conflict between mainland China and Taiwan remains frozen since 1949. Both the People's Republic of China in the Mainland and the Republic of China in Taiwan consider the other to be part of its territory. While the latter especially is not recognized by a majority of countries and states internationally, it remains a \"de facto\" independent administration in Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu, and PRC's \"de facto\" administration remains in the Mainland.\n\nThe division of Korea was frozen from 1953, when a ceasefire ended the Korean War; until 27 April 2018, when the two countries agreed to end the war formally. Both North Korea and South Korea governments claim the entire peninsula, while \"de facto\" control is divided along the military demarcation line in the Korean Demilitarized Zone.\n\nHostilities of the 1991 Gulf War ended when the United Nations and Iraq signed a ceasefire agreement on April 3, 1991; Kuwait was liberated from being annexed by Iraq and its sovereignty was recognized by the latter. Due to sporadic conflicts through the Iraqi no-fly zones, the war remained frozen for the time being until 12 years later when the United States and its \"Coalition of the willing\" launched the invasion of Iraq and removed dictator Saddam Hussein from power over the non-compliance with UN Resolutions passed against Iraq following the 1991 war.\n\nThe Arab–Israeli conflict is a perennial conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbours, including the Palestinian territories. Israel refuses to recognize Palestinian statehood without an assured peace deal, while some Arab countries and groups refuse to recognize Israel. Israel has \"de facto\" control of East Jerusalem and claims it as its integral territory, although it is not internationally recognized as such. Similarly most of the Golan Heights are currently under \"de facto\" Israeli control and civil administration, whereas the international community rejects that claim.\n\nThe dispute over the status of Kosovo remains frozen since the end of the Kosovo War, fought in 1998–1999 between Yugoslav forces (FR Yugoslavia) and the ethnically Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army. The Kosovo region has been administered independently since the war, and the Republic of Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia in 2008, but it is not recognized by all countries worldwide, and Serbia still considers Kosovo part of its territory.\n\nThe Cyprus dispute has been frozen since 1974. The northern part of Cyprus is under the \"de facto\" control of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, but this is not recognized internationally except by Turkey.\n\nThe Western Sahara conflict has been largely frozen since a ceasefire in 1991, although various disturbances have broken out since then. Control of the territory of Western Sahara remains divided between Morocco and the Polisario Front.\n\n"}
{"id": "27082987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27082987", "title": "Global civics", "text": "Global civics\n\nGlobal civics suggests to understand civics in a global sense as a social contract among all world citizens in an age of interdependence and interaction. The disseminators of the concept define it as the notion that we have certain rights and responsibilities towards each other by the mere fact of being human on Earth.\n\nThe advocates of the notion attempt to demonstrate that it is possible to imagine global civics. According to this notion, in an increasingly interdependent world, the world citizens need a compass that would frame mindsets on a global scale, and create a shared consciousness and sense of global responsibility related to specific world issues such as environmental problems and nuclear proliferation.\n\nThe term global civics was first coined by Hakan Altinay, a nonresident senior fellow with the Global Economy and Development program at the Brookings Institution, in a working paper published in March 2010. The concept builds upon the basic tenets behind global ethics, global justice and world citizenship, inviting everyone to question their increasingly important role in a highly interdependent world. In early 2011, Altinay published \"Global Civics: Responsibilities and Rights in an Interdependent World,\" a book of articles on global civics put forth by academics and intellectuals all around the world.\n\nOpponents of the global civics concept argue that even a modest level of exercising responsibility towards all the people living in the world is so overwhelming and nearly impossible to achieve. These arguments also posit that civics assumes an effective state and enforcement. The claim goes that since there is no such thing as a world government, global civics implementation is not feasible. Also, it has been suggested that superpowers of the world are selfish and dangerous nations, and that they do not feel constrained by international legitimacy and laws. Finally, the critics claim that any experience of pan-global solidarity among human beings cannot form the basis of constellation of rights and responsibilities as it is nascent at best and the experience of being a global citizen is a privilege restricted to international elites and a few activists.\n\nThe proponents of global civics also suggest that university campuses play a vital role in spreading a thorough understanding of how today's global world functions and contributes toward preparation of future generations for life in an interdependent world. This view calls for visionary universities that could successfully \"provide their students with the forums and the tools to discuss and figure out what their responsibilities are to their fellow human beings.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9594858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9594858", "title": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research", "text": "Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research\n\nThe Heidelberg Institute for International Conflict Research (HIIK) is an independent and interdisciplinary registered association located at the Department of Political Science at the University of Heidelberg. Since 1991, the HIIK has been committed to the distribution of knowledge about the emergence, course and settlement of interstate and intrastate political conflicts. The Conflict Barometer is published annually and contains the current research results.\n\nThe HIIK's annual publication Conflict Barometer describes the recent trends in global conflict developments, escalations, de-escalations, and settlements. Coup d'état, attempted coups d'états, as well as implemented measures of conflict resolution are also reported. It is subdivided into five world regions and presents all present conflicts in detailed charts and short descriptions. The methodological approach consists of the conflict definition and the measuring of the conflict intensity.\n\nFollowing a methodological revision in 2011, changes in the Heidelberg methodology included allocating intensities not only based on state units and calendar years, but also on the level of subnational units and calendar months. Furthermore, the establishment of intensities now follows an analysis of clearly conceived proxy indicators, used for the assessment of means and consequences of a conflict measure. This analysis continues to be based on the actions of conflict actors, as well as the communication between them. Through the conceptual refinement and standardization of data collection and documentation, the HIIK data achieves a higher degree of precision, reliability, and comprehensibility regarding information on political conflicts.\n\nA political conflict is a positional difference between at least two assertive and directly involved actors regarding values relevant to a society (the conflict items including (territory, secession, decolonization, autonomy, system/ideology, national power, regional predominance, international power, resources, other)) which is carried out using observable and interrelated conflict measures that lie outside established regulatory procedures and threaten core state functions, the international order, or hold the prospect of doing so.\n(1) There must be at least two entities possessing intellectual capacity and vision, and who are capable of communicating. Such an entity is called an actor.\n(2) In order for the actors to sense incompatibility between their ideas and beliefs, there must be reciprocal actions and acts of communication between said actors. These actions and acts of communication are called measures.\n(3) A communicating act always refers to a specific issue, an action always refers to a certain object. The subject behind a measure is called item.\nFor the purpose of defining the term political conflict more precisely, the three elements aforementioned shall be further defined. These elements are necessary requirements for the existence of a political conflict.\n\nThe table below presents data after the 2011 methodology revision. Violent conflicts include highly violent ones, the latter being classified into limited and full-scale wars.\n\n"}
{"id": "56921904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56921904", "title": "History of children in the military", "text": "History of children in the military\n\nChildren in the military are children (defined by the Convention on the Rights of the Child as persons under the age of 18) who are associated with military organizations, such as state armed forces and non-state armed groups. Throughout history and in many cultures, children have been involved in military campaigns. For example, thousands of children participated on all sides of the First World War and the Second World War. Children may be trained and used for combat, assigned to support roles such as porters or messengers, or used for tactical advantage as human shields or for political advantage in propaganda.\n\nChildren are easy targets for military recruitment due to their greater susceptibility to influence compared to adults. Some children are recruited by force while others choose to join up, often to escape poverty or because they expect military life to offer a rite of passage to maturity.\n\nThroughout history and in many cultures, children have been extensively involved in military campaigns.\n\nThe earliest mentions of minors being involved in wars come from antiquity. It was customary for youths in the Mediterranean basin to serve as aides, charioteers and armor bearers to adult warriors. Examples of this practice can be found in the Bible, such as David's service to King Saul, in Hittite and ancient Egyptian art, and in ancient Greek mythology (such as the story of Hercules and Hylas), philosophy and literature. In a practice dating back to antiquity, children were routinely taken on a campaign, together with the rest of a military man's family, as part of the baggage.\n\nThe Roman Empire made use of youths in war, though it was understood that it was unwise and cruel to use children in war, and Plutarch implies that regulations required youths to be at least sixteen years of age. Despite this, several Roman legionaries were known to have enlisted aged 14 in the Imperial Roman army, such as Quintus Postunius Solus who completed 21 years of service in Legio XX Valeria Victrix, and Caecilius Donatus who served 26 years in the Legio XX and died shortly before his honorable discharge.\n\nIn medieval Europe young boys from about twelve years of age were used as military aides (\"squires\"), though in theory their role in actual combat was limited. The so-called Children's Crusade in 1212 recruited thousands of children as untrained soldiers under the assumption that divine power would enable them to conquer the enemy, although none of the children entered combat. According to the legend, they were instead sold into slavery. While most scholars no longer believe that the Children's Crusade consisted solely, or even mostly, of children, it nonetheless exemplifies an era in which entire families took part in a war effort.\n\nYoung boys often took part in battles during early modern warfare. When Napoleon was faced with invasion by a massive Allied force in 1814 he conscripted many teenagers for his armies. Orphans of the Imperial Guard fought in the Netherlands with Marshal MacDonald and were between the ages of 14 and 17. Many of the conscripts who reported to the ranks in 1814 were referred to as Marie Louises after the Empress Marie Louise of France; they were also known as \"The Infants of the Emperor\". These soldiers were in their mid-teens. One of their more visible roles was as the ubiquitous \"drummer boy\".\n\nDuring the age of sail, young boys formed part of the crew of British Royal Navy ships and were responsible for many essential tasks including bringing powder and shot from the ship's magazine to the gun crews. These children were called \"powder monkeys.\"\n\nDuring the American Civil War a young boy, Bugler John Cook, served in the US Army at the age of 15 and received the Medal of Honor for his acts during the Battle of Antietam, the bloodiest day in American history. Several other minors, including 11-year-old Willie Johnston, have also received the Medal of Honor.\n\nBy a law signed by Nicholas I of Russia in 1827 a disproportionate number of Jewish boys, known as the cantonists, were forced into military training establishments to serve in the army. The 25-year conscription term officially commenced at the age of 18, but boys as young as eight were routinely taken to fulfill the quota. \n\nIn the final stages of the Paraguayan War, children fought in the Battle of Acosta Ñu against the Allied forces of Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. The day is commemorated as a national holiday in Paraguay.\n\nDuring the Boshin War, the pro-\"shōgun\" Aizu Domain formed the , which was made up of the 16 to 17-year-old sons of Aizu samurai. During the Battle of Bonari Pass and the Battle of Aizu they fought the Satcho forces who supported the Imperial cause. A detached unit of Byakkotai was cut off from the rest of the unit and retreated to Iimori Hill, which overlooked Aizu-Wakamatsu Castle. From there, they saw what they thought was the castle on fire. 20 of the detached unit committed \"seppuku\" while one was unsuccessful. He was saved by a local peasant.\n\nThe youngest known soldier of World War I was Momčilo Gavrić, who joined the 6th Artillery Division of the Serbian Army at the age of 8, after Austro-Hungarian troops in August 1914 killed his parents, grandmother, and seven of his siblings.\n\nIn the West, boys as young as 12 were caught up in the overwhelming tide of patriotism and in huge numbers enlisted for active service. Others enlisted to avoid harsh and dreary lives. Typically many were able to pass themselves off as older men, such as George Thomas Paget, who at 17 joined a Bantam battalion in the Welsh Regiment. The last surviving combat veteran of the War was Claude Choules, who enlisted in the Royal Navy at age 14 and saw his first action at the Battle of Jutland at 15. In the Gallipoli campaign, otherwise known as \"Çanakkale\", children as young as 15 fought in the trenches. 120 children fought in the \"15'liler\" or \"The 15s\" company, with no known survivors.\n\nMany child soldiers fought in the Spanish Civil War:\n\nIn World War II children under the age of 18 were widely used by all sides in formal and informal military roles. Children were readily indoctrinated into the prevailing ideology of the warring parties, quickly trained, and often sent to the front line; many were wounded or killed. The lack of a legal definition of a child, combined with the absence of a system for verifying the ages of prospective child recruits, contributed to the extensive use of children in the war.\n\nThese are historical examples. For instances of children in the military today, see Children in the military.\n\nDuring the Algerian civil war (1991–2002) children were recruited frequently by Islamist armed groups fighting the government. A government-allied militia—the Legitimate Defence Groups (LDG)—also used children, according to some reports. Although the rules for joining the LDG were the same as the army, in which only adults were recruited (by conscription) the LDG applied no safeguards to ensure that children could not join up. The extent of child recruitment during the war remains unknown.\n\nChildren were kidnapped and used extensively during the civil war of 1993–2005. In 2004 hundreds of child soldiers were in the Forces Nationales pour la Libération (FNL), an armed rebel, Hutu group. Children between the ages of 10 and 16 were also conscripted by the Burundese military.\n\nAfter the Arusha peace accord of 2001 and the Pretoria agreement of 2003 eventually brought the conflict to an end in 2005, the new constitution committed to not using children in direct combat. The parties to the conflict no longer recruited children in large numbers, but many remained active in the FNL, which had denounced the peace accord.\n\nBy 2006, a reintegration program organized by UNICEF had led to the release of 3,000 children from the military and armed groups. According to Child Soldiers International:The majority of those [children] who took part in the program returned to farm and fish in their local communities, but nearly 600 returned to school. Some 1,800 former child soldiers received occupational training. Health care was provided for those with special needs and psychosocial support was provided through individual and group meetings., Burundi no longer appears on the UN list of countries where children are used in hostilities.\n\nBetween 2007 and 2012, children were used extensively by the Chadian military as participants in armed conflict. They were also integrated into various rebel forces, including the United Front for Democratic Change (\"Front Uni pour le Changement\", FUC), local self-defense forces known as \"Tora Boro\" militias, and two Sudanese rebel movements operating in Chad: the Justice and Equality Movement (JEM) and the G-19 faction of the Sudanese Liberation Army (SLA). After the government signed an action plan with the United Nations, children were released from service and were no longer recruited. By 2014, Chad had been removed from the UN list of countries that use child soldiers in war.\n\nDuring Côte d’Ivoire’s civil war of 2002–2004, \"children were recruited, often forcibly, by both sides\", and were also abducted by armed groups fighting the civil war in Liberia between 1999 and 2003. The \"Patriotic Youth –\" armed groups that included children in large numbers – received the active support of the government. Thousands of children saw membership of an armed group on either side of the war as a way to earn a living, although they were often unpaid, having to acquire money through extortion or begging. They were provided with automatic weapons, and girls were frequently abducted as sex slaves.\n\nAttempts to reach a peace agreement repeatedly failed, and although after 2006 children were gradually released from military groups, approximately 2,000 children remained. After President Laurent Gbagbo refused to recognise the 2010 election result, fighting flared up again and child recruitment increased. Under the new government, however, the UN brokered an Action Plan that included the release of all children and, in 2015, the UN reported that children were no longer recruited in the country.\n\nDuring its 30-year war for independence with Ethiopia (1961–1991) the Eritrean People’s Liberation Front was \"widely acknowledged\" to have used children extensively as soldiers, according to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers (now Child Soldiers International). Once independence had been won, the Eritrean armed forces recruited and used children again during the two-year border war with Ethiopia in 1998. There were many reports of child recruitment and use (including conscription from age 15), but there is little information today about the extent of the practice, which is due in part to the absence of effective birth registration and age-verification system at the time.\n\nThe UN reported in 2002 that children were no longer being used systematically by the Eritrean armed forces, and the government acceded to the Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict in 2005. Child recruitment continued, however; Human Rights Concern Eritrea reported in 2013 that all schoolchildren in 11 grade (approx. age 16) were made to spend the year at a military training camp, after which they were routinely recruited into the armed forces.\n\nAccording to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers in 2001 there were \"credible reports\" that the Ethiopian armed forces used thousands of children in its two-year border war with Eritrea between 1998 and 2000:Testimonies of former child soldiers, NGOs and journalists provide evidence of child deployment on the front lines and in massive waves across mine fields... Recruitment reportedly focused on Oromos and Somalis... and on grades 9 to 12 of secondary schools.Children were also forcibly recruited in groups from public places. The lack of a functioning birth registration system has made it difficult to estimate the number of children affected, but it is clear that the use of children was widespread; for example, most Ethiopian prisoners of war in one large prisoner of war camp in Eritrea were estimated to be aged 14–18.\n\nThe main opposition group in the 1990s, the Oromo Liberation Front, also systematically recruited children, including by force.\n\nIn 2008 it was reported that children were no longer used for military purposes in Ethiopia, and in 2014 the government ratified the Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict.\n\nIn Liberia’s civil wars (1989–1995, 1999–2003) all factions abducted children for direct combat, forced labour, and sexual slavery. It was the common practice of commanders to give children drugs and threaten them with execution in order to enhance their obedience; for example, soldiers were frequently given valium before a battle, known as \"bubbles\" or \"10-10\". Children were often persuaded or forced to commit grave human rights violations against civilians, including rape, torture, and the abduction of other children for military use. Children as young as 10 were used in direct combat.\n\nUnited Nations disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration programs repeatedly failed when children quitted them, often to return to their former military unit, and after fighters rioted in protest at the absence of a financial reward for being disarmed. A chronic lack of resources for reintegration also prompted child soldiers to enrol in other armed groups as a means of gainful employment. By 2004 more than 20,000 children needed to be demobilised and reunited with their communities. However, by October 2004 10,000 children had been released from their military units and were part of reintegration programs. \n\nBy 2006 children were no longer being used by any military groups in the country, although armed groups from Côte d'Ivoire and Guinea continued to abduct Liberian children. , children were no longer being used for military purposes in Liberia, and its armed forces were recruiting only adults over the age of 18. \n\nThe use of child soldiers in Liberia was epitomised by The Small Boys Unit, established by Liberian President Charles Taylor. The boys were not provided with sustenance, but were expected to engage in \"snake patrol\", looting surrounding villages. Taylor and others were later tried before the Special Court for Sierra Leone because of his involvement in recruiting child soldiers.\n\nAn estimated 20,000 children took part in hostilities during the 1990s, including the 1994 Rwanda genocide when many children were involved in committing atrocities. 5,000 children were in the national army, while others, including many street children, joined or were made to join armed groups. After the genocide, 4,500 children were detained on suspicion of participating in atrocities, and were incarcerated for several years without charge or trial; some were sent to the Gitagata Re-Education Centre for males below 14 years of age. In the late 1990s, children were widely recruited again, often by force, to fight in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\n\nInitial demobilisation and reintegration programmes failed after many schools banned former child soldiers and a high rate of unemployment rendered them vulnerable to re-recruitment by militia groups. In 2003, as the Rwandan military presence in the DRC reduced, so did the demand for child soldiers. The government introduced new legislation to raise the minimum enlistment age 18 and the armed forces stopped recruiting children. Nonetheless, armed groups continued to do so, albeit to a reduced extent, for their operations in the DRC.\n\nDuring the Sierra Leone Civil War (1991–2002) thousands of children were recruited by government armed forces and non-government armed groups, particularly the anti-government Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC), and the pro-government Civil Defence Forces (CDF).\n\nChildren were often forcibly recruited, given drugs and used to commit atrocities. Thousands of girls were also recruited as soldiers and often subjected to sexual exploitation. Many of the children were survivors of attacks on villages, which were routinely ordered to hand over their children to armed groups. By 2001, an estimated 10,000 children were being used for military purposes by government armed forces and various armed groups, particularly the RUF.\n\nAfter 2002, when the war was declared over, an extensive United Nations disarmament, demobilisation and reintegration programme reunited most former child soldiers with their communities, although it drew criticism for neglecting the needs of women and girls.\n\nIn June 2007 the Special Court for Sierra Leone found three men from the rebel Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC) guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and other serious violations of international humanitarian law, including the recruitment of children under the age of 15 years into the armed forces. With this the Special Court became the first ever UN-backed tribunal to secure a conviction for the military conscription of children. \n\n, children were no longer being used for military purposes in Sierra Leone, and its armed forces were recruiting only adults over the age of 18.\n\nIn his book \"A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Child Soldier\", Ishmael Beah chronicles his life during the conflict in Sierra Leone. In \"Armies of the Young: Child Soldiers in War and Terrorism\" anthropologist David M. Rosen discusses the murders, rapes, tortures, and thousands of amputations committed by the RUF Small Boys Unit. The film \"Blood Diamond\" is set during the civil war. The issue is also explored in the \"Bones\" episode, \"The Survivor In The Soap\".\n\nOver a period of twenty years the rebel Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) has abducted more than 30,000 boys and girls as soldiers or sex slaves. Joseph Kony began the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) in 1987, originally to protect northern Ugandans from the 1986 military coup by the People's National Resistance Army. Stating that he \"received messages from God\" Kony began attacking his own people, the Acholi, to establish a new theocratic government in Uganda based on the principles of the \"Ten Commandments of God\". This attempt by the LRA to gain control of the Ugandan government via roaming armies used boy- as well as girl-children as soldiers, such as Grace Akallo.\n\nThe LRA expansion into South Sudan, the Central African Republic and the Democratic Republic of Congo has used large numbers of children as active combatants and participants in extreme violence. On the 21October 2008 an appeal by the UN Security Council was made asking for the LRA to cease all military action in the DRC immediately. On 14June 2002 Uganda deposited its instrument of ratification of the Rome Statute, and on 16December 2003 the Government of Uganda referred the situation concerning northern Uganda to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC). The ICC investigated the situation and on 14October 2005 issued indictments against Lord's Resistance Army leader Joseph Kony and four other commanders for war crimes: Vincent Otti; Raska Lukwiya (indictment terminated, deceased); Okot Odhiambo; and Dominic Ongwen. The warrant for Kony, Otti and Odhiambo includes the alleged crime of the forced enlisting of children contrary to the Rome Statute Art. 8(2) (e)(vii).\n\nThe National Resistance Army also made use of child soldiers. Between 2003 and 2007, non-state armed groups fighting the LRA also used children.\n\nIn 2007 the Ugandan government agreed an action plan with the UN to end the use of child soldiers and in 2008 the country no longer appeared on the UN list of countries that recruit and use children.\n\nDuring the civil war between 1980 and 1992 the Salvadoran military and the main opposition group, the \"Frente Farabundo Martí de Liberación National\" (FMLN)\",\" recruited children extensively. The recruitment was frequently carried out by force and focused on economically suppressed regions. A fifth of the army’s personnel were aged under 18, as were a quarter of the FMLN. In a group of 278 former FMLN child soldiers interviewed for a study, the average age of recruitment was 10 years. The large majority of child recruits on both sides were living in poverty, and had been largely deprived of formal education. Many children who were not recruited by force joined of their own volition, mainly either to improve their circumstances or because they believed in the cause. \n\nAfter the civil war came to a close, rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for children mostly failed; the majority of FMLN children were not involved in them, and the large majority of those who were dropped out of them. A decade after the peace accord former child soldiers were still experiencing nightmares, depression, anxiety, and related signs of psychiatric trauma. \n\nToday, the Salvadoran military no longer sends children to war, but it still recruits and trains them from the age of 16.\n\nDuring the Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988) the armed forces used children widely; the extent of the practice is not known but the number of children involved is thought to be in the tens of thousands. Armed groups associated with the government advertised widely for children from age 14 to join them, and the country's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, urged children to fight at the front. According to the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers (now Child Soldiers International):Ayatollah Khomeini declared that parental permission was unnecessary for those going to the front, that volunteering for military duty was a religious obligation, and that serving in the armed forces took priority over all other forms of work or study. Various sources reported that children were indoctrinated into participating in combat. They were given \"keys to paradise\" and promised that they would go directly to heaven if they died as martyrs against the Iraqi enemy.The children involved were overwhelmingly from slums and poor villages, and some participated without the knowledge of their parents, including Mohammad Hossein Fahmideh. Thousands of children took part in human wave attacks, leading to widespread deaths and injuries. The total number of all Iranian casualties is estimated to be 200,000–600,000, of which approximately a third were aged 15–19 (and 3 percent under 14), according to one assessment.\n\nAfter the war, the \"Basij,\" an official militia organisation, continued to recruit children from age 15, focusing on those living in poverty and sometimes recruiting them by force. In 2004, the \"Basij\" was estimated to have as many as a million members of all ages. \"Ansar-e Hizbollah\", an armed group tolerated by the government, also recruited children widely in the 2000s, with no age restriction. , the Iranian armed forces continue to enlist from age 16 and the government has not yet ratified the Optional Protocol on the involvement of children in armed conflict.\n\nThe government of Saddam Hussein maintained 'boot camps' of civilian youths between the ages of 12 and 17 that involved small arms training and Ba'athist political indoctrination. Iraqi opposition sources and the US State Department reported that children who refused faced punishment. The state incorporated children as young as ten into the \"Futuwah\" and \"Ashbal Saddam\" youth movements and then subjected them to military training, sometimes for 14 hours a day. P. W. Singer has compared the groups to the \"Hitler Jugend\". In the Gulf War 12-year-old boys fought for the Iraqis. Children also participated in the Iran–Iraq War.\n\nIn the 2003 invasion of Iraq, US forces fought children at Nasariya, Karbala, and Kirkuk, and the US sent captured child combatants to Abu Ghraib prison. In 2009 a UN report on the post-war Iraqi occupation stated that the Iraqi insurgency had used children as combatants; it noted, for example, a suicide attack against Kirkuk's police commander by a boy aged between 10 and 13. \n\nIn the 1970s the \"Khmer Rouge\" exploited thousands of desensitised, conscripted children in their early teens to commit mass murder and other atrocities during the Cambodian civil war and subsequent genocide. The indoctrinated children were taught to follow any order without hesitation. After it was deposed in 1979, the \"Khmer Rouge\" fought a guerrilla war against the new government, and until at least 1998 relied heavily on child recruits, including forced recruitment by abduction. During this period, the children were deployed mainly in unpaid support roles, such as ammunition-carriers, and also as combatants.\n\nCambodia's state armed forces also recruited children widely. Throughout the 1990s the army was recruiting children from the age of 10 and using them in armed conflict, mainly as porters and spies, and also as combatants. Four percent of the army were children, according to an estimate in the \"Cambodia Daily\". Many children had fled the \"Khmer Rouge\" without a means to feed themselves and hoped that joining the government forces would enable them to survive, although local commanders frequently denied them any pay. Children often capitalised on the lack of an effective birth registration system to lie about their age in order to enlist. Other children, some as young as 8, were forced to join.\n\nBy 2000, the Cambodian government had signed the Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict and its armed forces resolved to recruit adults only. Meanwhile, the \"Khmer Rouge\" had collapsed with the death of its leader, Pol Pot, in 1998. By 2004, children were no longer being recruited in the country, although the demobilisation programmes were inadequate, according to UNICEF, failing to offer appropriate rehabilitative support to released children.\n\nBetween 1983 and 2009 Sri Lanka’s government fought a civil war with the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (Tamil Tigers). For its entire duration the Tamil Tigers and other armed groups made routine use of child recruits, typically aged 14–17 and sometimes under 10. Some children enlisted to escape deprivation or racism, or during compulsory military training at their school when they were exposed to recruitment propaganda. Others were recruited by force when walking home from school or after the Tigers pressurised families to surrender one child, as per its policy. In 2001, international sources estimated that 40 percent of Tamil Tiger personnel were children, contrary to official statements insisting that the organisation did not use them. Sri Lankan soldiers nicknamed one unit the \"Baby Battalion\", due to the number of children in it. Although state armed forces recruited only adults over the age of 18, they supported the Karuna group, a Tamil splinter organisation opposed to the Tamil Tigers, to recruit children by force. The government also used detained Tamil Tiger children for propaganda by exposing them to the media.\n\nThe first international initiative to demobilise and reintegrate children into their communities began in 2003, but was halted in 2004 because the Tigers failed to keep their commitment to release children from their ranks. The organisation began to release children in 2004, but continued to enlist several thousand, albeit in progressively smaller numbers, until at least 2007. The Tamil Tigers were defeated in 2009 and all other parties to the conflict stopped recruiting children in the same year.\n\nDuring the First Chechen War, Chechen separatist forces included a large number of boys and girls, some as young as 11. According to the UN: \"Child soldiers in Chechnya were reportedly assigned the same tasks as adult combatants, and served on the front lines soon after joining the armed forces.\" In 2004 under-18s were still believed to be involved in a range of armed groups in the war against Russia; some allegedly took part in suicide bombings.\n\nChildren aged 17 were sent to the Falklands War in 1982 (where three were killed) and the Gulf War in 1990–91 (where two were killed). 17-year-olds were also deployed as NATO peacekeepers in the former Yugoslavia during the 1990s. Having initially resisted international negotiations to prevent the deployment of children, the UK agreed to deploy adults only when it signed the Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict in 2000, but remained committed to recruiting and training children from age 16. Between 2003 and 2010 22 personnel aged 17 were sent to Afghanistan and Iraq, reportedly in error.\n\nDuring the Troubles in Northern Ireland (c. 1960s to 1998) it was common for paramilitary groups to recruit and use children, including as combatants. Five children in Republican paramilitary groups, seven in Loyalist paramilitary groups, and five in the British armed forces, died during the conflict. The youngest, Cathleen McCartland, was recruited by the Irish Republican Army (IRA) and was aged 12 when she was killed in Belfast.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23431927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23431927", "title": "History of the family", "text": "History of the family\n\nThe history of the family is a branch of social history that concerns the sociocultural evolution of kinship groups from prehistoric to modern times. The family has a universal and basic role in all societies. Research on the history of the family crosses disciplines and cultures, aiming to understand the structure and function of the family from many viewpoints. For example, sociological, ecological or economical perspectives are used to view the interrelationships between the individual, their relatives, and the historical time. The study of family history has shown that family systems are flexible, culturally diverse and adaptive to ecological and economical conditions. \n\nFamily defined as the co-residence and the organization by kinship are both integral in the development of the concept of the family. A co-residential group that makes up a household may share general survival goals and a residence, but may not fulfill the varied and sometimes ambiguous requirements for the definition of a family.\n\nThe history of the family emerged as a separate field of history in the 1970s, with close ties to anthropology and sociology. The trend was especially pronounced in the U.S. and Canada. It emphasizes demographic patterns and public policy. It is quite separate from genealogy, although, it often draws on the same primary sources such as censuses and family records. According to an influential pioneering study in 1978 called: \"Women, Work, and Family\". The authors, Louise A. Tilly and Joan W. Scott, broke new ground with their broad interpretive framework and emphasis on the variable factors shaping the women's place in the family and economy in France and England. It has considered the interaction of production and reproduction in an analysis of the women's wage labor and thus helped to bring together labor and family history. Much work has been done on the dichotomy in women's lives between the private sphere and the public. For a recent worldwide overview covering 7000 years see Maynes and Waltner (2012).\nThe history of childhood is a growing subfield.\n\nEarly scholars of family history applied Darwin's biological theory of evolution in their theory of the evolution of family systems. American anthropologist, Lewis H. Morgan, published \"Ancient Society\" in 1877, based on his theory of the three stages of human progress, from savagery through barbarism, to civilization. Morgan's book was the \"inspiration for Friedrich Engels' book\", \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State\", published in 1884. Engels expanded Morgan's hypothesis that economic factors caused the transformation of primitive community into a class-divided society. Engels' theory of resource control and later that of Karl Marx was used to explain the cause and effect of the change in family structure and function. The popularity of this theory was largely unmatched until the 1980s, when other sociological theories, particularly structural functionalism, gained acceptance.\n\nThe book, \"Centuries of Childhood\" by Philippe Ariès, published in France in 1960, had a great influence on the revival of the field of family history studies. Ariès used the analysis of demographic data to draw the conclusion that the concept of childhood was a concept that emerged in modern nuclear families.\n\nSince the early 20th century, scholars have begun to unify methods of gathering data. One notable book by W.I. Thomas and Florian Znaniecki, \"Polish Peasant in Europe and America\" (1918), was influential in establishing the precedence of a systematic longitudinal data analysis. Gathering church files, court records, letters, architectural and archeological evidence, art and iconography, and food and material culture increased the objectivity and reproducibility of the family reconstruction studies. Studies of current family systems additionally employ qualitative observations, interviews, focus groups, and quantitative surveys.\n\nIn most cultures of the world, the beginning of family history is set in creation myths. In \"Works and Days\", the ancient Greek poet Hesiod describes the epic destruction of four previous Ages of Man. The utopia that was the Golden Age was eventually replaced by the current Iron Age; a time when gods made man live in \"hopeless misery and toil.\" Hesiod's second poem Theogony, described the Greek gods' relationships and family ties. Ancient Greeks believed that among them, were descendants of gods who qualified for priesthood or other privileged social status.\n\nThe Judeo-Christian tradition originates in the Bible's Book of Genesis. The first man and woman created by God gave rise to all of the humanity. The Bible reflects the patriarchal worldview and often refers to the practice of polygamy, a common marital practice in ancient times. In biblical times, men sought to prove their descent from the family of the prophet Moses in order to be accepted into the priesthood.\n\nRoman families would include everyone within a household under the authoritarian role of the father, the pater familias; this included grown children and the slaves of the household. Children born outside of marriage, from common and legal concubinage, could not inherit the father's property or name; instead, they belong to the social group and family of their mothers'.\n\nMost ancient cultures like those of Assyria, Egypt, and China, kept records of successors in the ruling dynasties to legitimize their power as divine in origin. Both the Inca king and the Egyptian Pharaoh claimed that they were direct descendants of the Sun God. Many cultures, such as the Inca of South America, the Kinte of Africa, and the Māori of New Zealand, did not have a written language and kept the history of their descent as an oral tradition.\n\nMany cultures used other symbols to document their history of descent. The totem poles are indigenous to the people of the Pacific Northwest. The symbolic representation of the pole goes back to the history of their ancestors and the family identity, in addition to being tied with the spiritual world.\n\nEuropean nobility had long and well-documented kinship relationships, sometimes taking their roots in the Middle Ages. In 1538, King Henry VIII of England mandated that churches begin the record-keeping practice that soon spread throughout Europe. Britain's \"Domesday Book\" from 1086, is one of the oldest European genealogy records. In ancient and medieval times, the history of one's ancestors guaranteed religious and secular prestige.\n\nThere were two distinct family patterns that emerged in Christian Europe throughout the Middle Ages. In most of Southern and Eastern Europe, marriage occurred between two individuals who had lived with their parents for a long period of time. The man involved was older, usually in his late twenties, and the girl was often still a teenager. Their household would contain several generations, an occurrence demographers denote as a \"complex\" household. In contrast, areas in Northwestern Europe gave rise to a familial structure that was unique for the time period. The man and woman were typically around the same age, and would wait until they were in their early twenties to marry. Following the marriage, the couple would set up their own independent household (termed a \"nuclear\" household structure). This led to a lower birthrate, as well as greater levels of economic stability for the new couple. This also served as a check on the increasing population in Europe. Many women in this region during this time period would never marry at all.\n\nIn 1632, Virginia was the first state in the New World mandating a civil law that christenings, marriages, and burials were to be recorded. Some modern Americans of European descent belong to organizations for early immigrants to the United States, like the National Society of Old Plymouth Colony Descendants, The Society of Mayflower Descendants, Daughters of the American Revolution, National Society Sons of the American Revolution, and Society of the Descendants of the Founding Fathers of New England.\n\nThe organization of the pre-industrial family is now believed to be similar to modern types of family. Many sociologists used to believe that the nuclear family was the product of industrialization, but evidence highlighted by historian Peter Laslett suggests that the causality is reversed and that industrialization was so effective in North-western Europe specifically because the pre-existence of the nuclear family fostered its development.\n\nFamily types of pre-industrial Europe belonged into two basic groups, the \"simple household system\" (the nuclear family), and the \"joint family system\" (the extended family). A simple household system featured a relatively late age of marriage for both men and women and the establishment of a separate household after the marriage or neolocality. A joint family household system was characterized by earlier marriage for women, co-residence with the husband's family or patrilocality, and co-residing of multiple generations. Many households consisted of unrelated servants and apprentices residing for periods of years, and at that time, belonging to the family. Due to shorter life expectancy and high mortality rates in the pre-industrialized world, much of the structure of a family depended on the average age of the marriage of women. Late marriages, as occurred in the simple household system, left little time for three-generation families to form. Conversely, in the joint family household system, early marriages allowed for multi-generational families to form.\n\nThe pre-industrial family had many functions including food production, landholding, regulation of inheritance, reproduction, socialization and education of its members. External roles allowed for participation in religion and politics. Social status was also strictly connected to one's family.\n\nAdditionally, in the absence of government institutions, the family was the only resource to cope with sickness and aging. Because of the industrial revolution and new work and living conditions, families changed, transferring to public institutions responsibility for food production and the education and welfare of its aging and sick members. Post-industrial families became more private, nuclear, domestic and based on the emotional bonding between husband and wife, and between parents and children.\n\nHistorian Lawrence Stone identifies three major types of family structure in England: in about 1450-1630, the open lineage family dominated. The Renaissance era, 1550-1700, brought the restricted patriarchal nuclear family. The early modern world 1640-1800 emphasized the closed domesticated nuclear family. Stone's conclusions have been disputed by other historians; Peter Laslett and Alan MacFarlane believe the nuclear family became common in England beginning in the thirteenth century.\n\n"}
{"id": "603166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603166", "title": "Labor history (discipline)", "text": "Labor history (discipline)\n\nLabor history or labour history is a sub-discipline of social history which specialises on the history of the working classes and the labor movement. The central concerns of labor historians include industrial relations and forms of labor protest (strikes, lock-outs), the rise of mass politics (especially the rise of socialism) and the social and cultural history of the industrial working classes. Labor historians may also concern themselves with issues of gender, race, ethnicity and other factors besides class but chiefly focus on urban or industrial societies which distinguishes it from rural history.\n\nLabor history developed in tandem with the growth of a self-conscious working-class political movement in many Western countries in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Whilst early labor historians were drawn to protest movements such as Luddism and Chartism, the focus of labor history was often on institutions: chiefly the labor unions and political parties. Exponents of this \"institutional\" approach included Sidney and Beatrice Webb. The work of the Webbs, and other pioneers of the discipline, was marked by optimism about the capacity of the labor movement to effect fundamental social change and a tendency to see its development as a process of steady, inevitable and unstoppable progress. As two contemporary labor historians have noted, early work in the field was \"designed to service and celebrate the Labour movement.\"\n\nIn the 1950s to 1970s, labor history was redefined and expanded in focus by a number of historians, amongst whom the most prominent and influential figures were E. P. Thompson and Eric Hobsbawm. The motivation came from current left-wing politics in Britain and the United States and reached red-hot intensity. Kenneth O. Morgan, a more traditional liberal historian, explains the dynamic:\n\nMorgan sees benefits: \nMorgan tells of the downside as well:\n\nThompson and Hobsbawm were Marxists who were critical of the existing labour movement in Britain. They were concerned to approach history \"from below\" and to explore the agency and activity of working people at the workplace, in protest movements and in social and cultural activities. Thompson's seminal study \"The Making of the English Working Class\" was particularly influential in setting a new agenda for labor historians and locating the importance of the study of labor for social history in general. Also in the 1950s and 1960s, historians began to give serious attention to groups who had previously been largely neglected, such as women and non-caucasian ethnic groups. Some historians situated their studies of gender and race within a class analysis: for example, C. L. R. James, a Marxist who wrote about the struggles of blacks in the Haitian Revolution. Others questioned whether class was a more important social category than gender or race and pointed to racism, patriarchy and other examples of division and oppression \"within\" the working class.\n\nLabor history remains centered on two fundamental sets of interest: institutional histories of workers' organizations, and the \"history from below\" approach of the Marxist historians.\n\nDespite the influence of the Marxists, many labor historians rejected the revolutionary implications implicit in the work of Thompson, Hobsbawm et al. In the 1980s, the importance of class itself, as an historical social relationship and explanatory concept, began to be widely challenged. Some notable labor historians turned from Marxism to embrace a postmodernist approach, emphasizing the importance of language and questioning whether classes could be so considered if they did not use a \"language of class\". Other historians emphasized the weaknesses and moderation of the historic labor movement, arguing that social development had been characterized more by accommodation, acceptance of the social order and cross-class collaboration than by conflict and dramatic change.\n\nLabor history in the United States is primarily based in history departments, with occasional representation inside labor unions. The scholarship deals with the institutional history of labor unions and the social history of workers. In recent years there's been special attention to historically marginal groups, especially blacks, women, Hispanics and Asians.\nThe Study Group on International Labor and Working-Class History was established: 1971 and has a membership of 1000. It publishes \"International Labor and Working-Class History\". H-LABOR is a daily email-based discussion group formed in 1993 that reaches over a thousand scholars and advanced students. the Labor and Working-Class History Association formed in 1988 and publishes \"\".\n\nProminent scholars include John R. Commons (1862–1945), David Brody (b. 1930), Melvyn Dubofsky, and David Montgomery (1927-2011).\n\nKirk (2010) surveys labor historiography in Britain since the formation of the Society for the Study of Labour History in 1960. He reports that labor history has been mostly pragmatic, eclectic and empirical; it has played an important role in historiographical debates, such as those revolving around history from below, institutionalism versus the social history of labor, class, populism, gender, language, postmodernism and the turn to politics. Kirk rejects suggestions that the field is declining, and stresses its innovation, modification and renewal. Kirk also detects a move into conservative insularity and academicism. He recommends a more extensive and critical engagement with the kinds of comparative, transnational and global concerns increasingly popular among labor historians elsewhere, and calls for a revival of public and political interest in the topics. Meanwhile, Navickas, (2011) examines recent scholarship including the histories of collective action, environment and human ecology, and gender issues, with a focus on work by James Epstein, Malcolm Chase, and Peter Jones.\n\nOutside the Marxist orbit, social historians paid a good deal of attention to labour history as well.\n\nAddison notes that in Britain by the 1990s, labour history was, \"in sharp decline,\" because:\n\n\n\nCanada\n\nUnited States\n\nEurope\n"}
{"id": "52994567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52994567", "title": "Leonora Beck Ellis", "text": "Leonora Beck Ellis\n\nLeonora Beck Ellis (née, Leonora Beck; 1862-1951) was a 19th-century American educator, author, poet, and Southern social reformer, from the U.S. state of Georgia. She served as president of the Woman’s Press Association of Georgia, and for five years, was president of the Capital Female College of Atlanta.\n\nLeonora Beck was born near Augusta, Georgia, in 1862. Her father, Rev. James W. Beck (born Wilkes County, Georgia, October 23, 1831), was among the first teachers at Jackson Institute. Her mother was Margaret Willis, of Meriwether County, Georgia. There were two brothers: Marcus W., judge of the Flint circuit court; and Walter L., business manager of the Griffin Wheel company, of Chicago.\n\nAt an early age, she showed an unusual aptitude for linguistic study, speaking several modern languages when nine years old. She was well grounded in Latin and Greek when 15 years old. Ellis was educated at Oxford College, in Alabama, the only college for men in the South which received women. There, she studied and trained for the teaching profession, graduating at the age of 16 years with A.M. distinction.\n\nAt once, Ellis accepted the position of young lady principal in the college at Bowdon, Georgia, which she held for two and a half years. During her connection with that institution, Ellis instructed in metaphysics, Latin and Greek about 100 students, ranging from the ages of 15 to 30 years. Her success as an educator becoming more generally known, she was urged to accept many positions of trust and honor, but declined them. Next, she taught at the Jackson Institute in Jackson, Georgia. In 1889, Ellis removed to Atlanta to engage in founding the Capital Female College, later known as the Leonora Beck College. \n\nAfter her marriage to Richard Abbey Ellis, editor of the Atlanta \"Illustrator\", on June 2, 1896, she devoted herself to literature. Ellis' earliest articles appeared in \"Munsey's\", \"Leslie's\", the \"Bachelor of Arts\", and the \"New England Magazine\", in 1896 and 1897. Afterwards, she contributed stories, essays, travel sketches, and occasional verse to many different periodicals, but her chief writing was upon economic and sociological themes, and her thoughtful papers upon such subjects appeared from time to time in the \"Forum\", the \"Arena\", the \"Independent\", the \"Review of Reviews\", among others. Especially, she devoted herself to the varying phases of the great industrial revolution in the South, and her papers treating of social, educational, and material conditions in the manufacturing population of that section were accepted as high authority. Besides a volume of stories entitled 'Star Heights', and an occasional poem, a series of essays on Robert Browning was, perhaps, her most enduring contribution to literature.\n\nEllis was the author of a number of articles bearing upon economic and sociological conditions in the South. The Library of Congress listed her series of articles on child labor, because of the interest which they possess for students of this problem. Ellis spent much of her time in Aripeka, Florida. She was engaged in making investigations among the sponge fishers of the Florida coast. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28180053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180053", "title": "List of active separatist movements in South America", "text": "List of active separatist movements in South America\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in South America. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. What is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4519333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519333", "title": "List of people with the longest marriages", "text": "List of people with the longest marriages\n\nThis list contains marriages which have been reported as setting records for length, both extant and historical (by order of length). The length of marriage is based on the reported death of either member, or reported divorce, or the most recent report that both members of the couple were still living.\n"}
{"id": "48471349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48471349", "title": "Marshall v Southampton Health Authority", "text": "Marshall v Southampton Health Authority\n\nMarshall v Southampton and South West Hampshire Area Health Authority (1986) Case 152/84 is an EU law case, concerning the conflict of law between a national legal system and European Union law.\n\nHelen Marshall, a senior dietitian, claimed that her dismissal on grounds of being old violated the Equal Treatment Directive 1976. She was an employee of an Area Health Authority (or \"AHA\"), a body established by the UK government under the National Health Service Act 1977, as amended by the Health Services Act 1980.\n\nMarshall was dismissed after 14 years on 31 March 1980, approximately four weeks after attaining the age of 62, despite her expressing a willingness to continue in employment until the age of 65 (4 February 1983). The sole reason for her dismissal was that she had passed 'the retirement age'; the AHA’s policy was to make women compulsorily retire at 60, but men at 65.\n\nSection 27 (1) and 28 (1) of the Social Security Act 1975 provided state pensions were to be granted to men at 65 and woman at 60, though notably did not impose any obligation to retire at the age at which the state pension becomes payable. \n\nThe AHA were able to waive the term, which was deemed an implied term of Marshall's contract of employment and had done so for a further two years after she attained the age of 60. \n\nGiven Marshall suffered financial loss, namely the difference between her earnings as an employee and her pension, and since she lost the satisfaction gained from work she initiated proceedings before an industrial tribunal, contending her dismissal constituted discriminatory treatment on the ground of sex, contrary to the sexual discrimination act and community law. The tribunal dismissed the claim in so far as it was based on infringement of the sexual discrimination act, since s 6 (4) permits discrimination of the grounds of sex in regards to retirement. However the claim on the basis that the principle of equal treatment laid down by directive 76/207 was upheld. \n\nThe employment appeal tribunal affirmed the industrial tribunal on the first point, yet set aside the decision on the second point, on the basis that an individual had no \"locus standi\" and could not rely upon such a violation in proceedings before a United Kingdom court or tribunal. \n\nThe English Court of Appeal found the Area Health Authority an ‘emanation of the State’, observing that the AHA respondent was constituted under s.8(1) of the National Health Service Act 1977. The Court made reference of two questions for preliminary ruling to the European Court of Justice (ECJ): \n\nAdvocate General Slynn argued the ‘state’ should be construed broadly, to cover all organs, saying that insinuating ‘horizontal effect’ into directives would ‘totally blur the distinction between EU directives and regulations'.\n\nThe ECJ, in a full court of 13 judges, held there was no horizontal direct effect. It does not matter what capacity a state is acting. Thus it fell to enquire whether the NHS should be deemed an \"independent legal person\" or an \"arm of the state\"; and that was a matter for the national court.\n\nThis case involved an application for a preliminary ruling. Once the ECJ had answered the question, their decision was remitted to the reconvened Court of Appeal (which in the interim had adjourned this case). The Court of Appeal was then obliged to reach a decision in the light of the ECJ ruling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37139048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37139048", "title": "Maurice Maignen", "text": "Maurice Maignen\n\nMaurice Maignen, (1822–1890), was a French Social Reformer and a Roman Catholic Religious Brother during the nineteenth century. He was the founder of the Catholic Circle of Montparnasse to prevent future tragedies from happening, like the Paris Commune.\n\nMaurice Maignen (Jules-Charles-Maurice Maignen) was born in Paris, on March 3, 1822, to Charles-Desire-Adelaide Maignen and Cecile-Josephine (née Chamigner), before the Revolution. He was baptized at Saint-Germain l'Auxerrois three days later. In 1818, his father, an artist, graduated from Académie des Beaux-Arts in Paris, before joining the Military House of the King, as a bodyguard. His father returned to painting only after two years of service.\n\nMaurice was schooled for only six years. At fifteen, he started working, to provide for his family because of his father's illness. He started working on the newly formed railroad, Compagnie du chemin de fer de Paris à Saint-Germain, the predecessor to Compagnie des chemins de fer de l'Ouest, where he remained until 1843, before becoming a draftsman at the Ministry of War. He found, with Jean-Léon Le Prevost and Clement Myionnet, the Congregation of the Brothers of St. Vincent de Paul with the apostolate of education of the youth and evangelisation of the poor and workers.\n\nIn 1855, at the age of 33, Brother Maurice created an \"Association of Young Workers\" and, in 1865, it evolved into the \"Circle of Young Workers\", better known as \"Catholic Circle of Montparnasse\". In the winter of 1871, he met two officers, former prisoners of war, Albert de Mun and René de la Tour du Pin, who remained lifelong friends with him. Both Albert and René found the Society of Catholic Worker Circles, through the inspiration of Brother Maurice.\n\nMaurice Maignen died on December 7, 1890. He body was interred in the Chapel at the Montparnasse Circle and his heart was encased in a reliquary in the Motherhouse of his \"Congregation of the Brothers of St. Vincent de Paul.\"\n\nThe information on this page is partially translated from the equivalent page in French licensed under the Creative Commons/Attribution Sharealike . History of contributions can be checked here:.\n\n"}
{"id": "55781608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55781608", "title": "Mundo Lingo", "text": "Mundo Lingo\n\nMundo Lingo are free language social events that happen independently in various metropolises in different countries. They usually take place in the late evening during the week (7pm to midnight) in a specific bar. They gather many men and women of all ages and all nationalities that wish to learn or improve one or more languages.\n\nEach participant receive flags to stick to his clothes. They are supposed to indicate their native language at the top, and the rest below (generally the languages they mastered and below the one they wants to learn). Then, people are free to chat with each other while having drinks.\n\nThe first Mundo Lingo event was an initiative of UK born Benji Moreira when he was an immigrant in Buenos Aires (Argentina). It took place on July 7, 2011 and was aimed for local Argentines to learn foreign languages and for internationals to practice Spanish.\nAfter a while, around 50 people per week were attending and the flag system was introduced. In 2014 the event grew increasingly popular and was exported to Cologne, London, Montreal, and then Melbourne.\n\nAs of September 2018, Mundo Lingo events regularly take place in up to 30 cities, 24 countries and 5 continents.\n\nAs of September 2018, Mundo Lingo events regularly take place in Saigon and Hanoi (Vietnam), Bangkok and Chiang Mai (Thailand), Nanjing (China), Osaka (Japan), Singapore and Yangon (Myanmar) .\n\nAs of September 2018, Mundo Lingo events regularly take place in Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane (Australia) and Wellington and Auckland (New Zealand).\n\nAs of September 2018, Mundo Lingo events regularly take place in Barcelona (Spain), Cologne, Stuttgart and Munich (Germany), Copenhagen (Denmark), Geneva (Switzerland), London (England), Paris (France) and Oslo (Norway).\n\nAs of September 2018, Mundo Lingo events regularly take place in Buenos Aires, Córdoba and La Plata (Argentina), Lima (Peru), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Montréal and Toronto (Canada), New York (United States).\n\n"}
{"id": "1282344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282344", "title": "Neo-Luddism", "text": "Neo-Luddism\n\nNeo-Luddism or new Luddism is a philosophy opposing many forms of modern technology. The word Luddite is generally used as a derogatory term applied to people showing technophobic leanings. The name is based on the historical legacy of the English Luddites, who were active between 1811 and 1816.\n\nNeo-Luddism is a leaderless movement of non-affiliated groups who resist modern technologies and dictate a return of some or all technologies to a more primitive level. Neo-Luddites are characterized by one or more of the following practices: passively abandoning the use of technology, harming those who produce technology, advocating simple living, or sabotaging technology. The modern neo-Luddite movement has connections with the anti-globalization movement, anti-science movement, anarcho-primitivism, radical environmentalism, and deep ecology.\n\nNeo-Luddism is based on the concern of the technological impact on individuals, their communities, and/or the environment, Neo-Luddism stipulates the use of the precautionary principle for all new technologies, insisting that technologies be proven safe before adoption, due to the unknown effects that new technologies might inspire.\n\nNeo-Luddism calls for slowing or stopping the development of new technologies. Neo-Luddism prescribes a lifestyle that abandons specific technologies, because of its belief that this is the best prospect for the future. As Robin and Webster put it, \"a return to nature and what are imagined as more natural communities.\" In the place of industrial capitalism, neo-Luddism prescribes small-scale agricultural communities such as those of the Amish and the Chipko movement in Nepal and India as models for the future.\n\nNeo-Luddism denies the ability of any new technology to solve current problems, such as environmental degradation, nuclear warfare and biological weapons, without creating more, potentially dangerous problems. Neo-Luddites are generally opposed to anthropocentrism, globalization and industrial capitalism.\n\nIn 1990, attempting to reclaim the term 'Luddite' and found a unified movement, Chellis Glendinning published her \"Notes towards a Neo-Luddite manifesto\". In this paper, Glendinning describes neo-Luddites as \"20th century citizens—activists, workers, neighbors, social critics, and scholars—who question the predominant modern worldview, which preaches that unbridled technology represents progress.\" Glendinning voices an opposition to technologies that she deems destructive to communities or are materialistic and rationalistic. She proposes that technology encourages biases, and therefore should question if technologies have been created for specific interests, to perpetuate their specific values including short-term efficiency, ease of production and marketing, as well as profit. Glendinning also says that secondary aspects of technology, including social, economic and ecological implications, and not personal benefit need to be considered before adoption of technology into the technological system.\n\nNeo-Luddism often establishes stark predictions about the effect of new technologies. \nAlthough there is not a cohesive vision of the ramifications of technology, neo-Luddism predicts that a future without technological reform has dire consequences. Neo-Luddites believe that current technologies are a threat to humanity and to the natural world in general, and that a future societal collapse is possible or even probable. \n\nNeo-Luddite Ted Kaczynski predicted a world with a depleted environment, an increase in psychological disorders, with either \"leftists\" who aim to control humanity through technology, or technology directly controlling humanity. According to Sale, \"The industrial civilization so well served by its potent technologies cannot last, and will not last; its collapse is certain within not more than a few decades.\". Stephen Hawking, a famous astrophysicist, predicted that the means of production will be controlled by the \"machine owner\" class and that without redistribution of wealth technology will create more economic inequality.\n\nThese predictions include changes in humanity's place in the future due to replacement of humans by computers, genetic decay of humans due to lack of natural selection, biological engineering of humans, misuse of technological power including disasters caused by genetically modified organisms, nuclear warfare, and biological weapons; control of humanity using surveillance, propaganda, pharmacological control, and psychological control; humanity failing to adapt to the future manifesting as an increase in psychological disorders, widening economic and political inequality, widespread social alienation, a loss of community, and massive unemployment; technology causing environmental degradation due to shortsightedness, overpopulation, and overcrowding.\n\nIn 1990, attempting to reclaim the term 'Luddite' and found a unified movement, Chellis Glendinning published her \"Notes towards a Neo-Luddite manifesto\". In this paper, Glendinning proposes destroying the following technologies: electromagnetic technologies (this includes communications, computers, appliances, and refrigeration), chemical technologies (this includes synthetic materials and medicine), nuclear technologies (this includes weapons and power as well as cancer treatment, sterilization, and smoke detection), genetic engineering (this includes crops as well as insulin production). She argues in favor of the \"search for new technological forms\" which are local in scale and promote social and political freedom.\nIn \"The coming revolution\", Kaczynski outlined what he saw as changes humanity will have to make in order to make society functional, \"new values that will free them from the yoke of the present technoindustrial system\", including:\n\nContemporary neo-Luddites are a widely diverse group of loosely affiliated or non-affiliated groups which includes \"writers, academics, students, families, Amish, Mennonites, Quakers, environmentalists, \"fallen-away yuppies,\" \"ageing flower children\" and \"young idealists seeking a technology-free environment.\" Some Luddites see themselves as victims of technology trying to prevent further victimization (such as Citizens Against Pesticide Misuse and Parents Against Underage Smartphones). Others see themselves as advocates for the natural order and resist environmental degradation by technology (such as Earth First!).\n\nOne neo-Luddite assembly was the \"Second Neo-Luddite Congress\", held April 13–15, 1996, at a Quaker meeting hall in Barnesville, Ohio. On February 24, 2001, the \"Teach-In on Technology and Globalization\" was held at Hunter College in New York city with the purpose to bring together critics of technology and globalization. The two figures who are seen as the movement's founders are Chellis Glendinning and Kirkpatrick Sale. Prominent neo-Luddites include educator S. D. George, ecologist Stephanie Mills, Theodore Roszak, Scott Savage, Clifford Stoll, Bill McKibben, Neil Postman, Wendell Berry, Alan Marshall and Gene Logsdon. Postman, however, did not consider himself a Luddite and loathed being associated with the term.\n\nSome neo-Luddites use vandalism and or violence to achieve social change and promote their cause.\n\nIn May 2012, credit for the shooting of Roberto Adinolfi, an Ansaldo Nucleare executive, was claimed by an anarchist group who targeted him for stating that none of the deaths following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami were caused by the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster itself: Adinolfi knows well that it is only a matter of time before a European Fukushima kills on our continent [...] Science in centuries past promised us a golden age, but it is pushing us towards self destruction and slavery [...] With our action we give back to you a small part of the suffering that you scientists are bringing to the world.\n\nKaczynski, also known as the \"Unabomber\", initially sabotaged developments near his cabin but dedicated himself to getting back at the system after discovering a road had been built over a plateau he had considered beautiful. Between 1978 and 1995, Kaczynski engaged in a nationwide bombing campaign against modern technology, planting or mailing numerous home-made bombs, killing three people and injuring 23 others. In his 1995 manifesto, \"Industrial Society and Its Future\", Kaczynski states: The kind of revolution we have in mind will not necessarily involve an armed uprising against any government. It may or may not involve physical violence, but it will not be a POLITICAL revolution. Its focus will be on technology and economics, not politics.\n\nIn August 2011 in Mexico a group or person calling itself Individuals Tending Towards the Wild perpetrated an attack with a bomb at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education, State of Mexico Campus, intended for the coordinator of its Business Development Center and Technology Transfer. The attack was accompanied by the publication of a manifesto criticizing nanotechnology and computer science.\n\nSale says that neo-Luddites are not motivated to commit violence or vandalism. The manifesto of the 'Second Luddite Congress', which Sale took a major part in defining, attempts to redefine neo-Luddites as people who reject violent action.\n\nAccording to Julian Young, Martin Heidegger was a Luddite in his early philosophical phase and believed in the destruction of modern technology and a return to an earlier agrarian world. However, the did not see technology as wholly negative and did not call for its abandonment or destruction. In \"The Question Concerning Technology\" (1953), Heidegger posited that the modern technological \"mode of Being\" was one which viewed the natural world, plants, animals, and even human beings as a \"standing-reserve\"—resources to be exploited as means to an end. To illustrate this \"monstrousness\", Heidegger uses the example of a hydroelectric plant on the Rhine river which turns the river from an unspoiled natural wonder to just a supplier of hydropower. In this sense, technology is not just the collection of tools, but a way of being in the world and of understanding the world which is instrumental and grotesque. According to Heidegger, this way of being defines the modern way of living in the West. For Heidegger, this technological process ends up reducing beings to not-beings, which Heidegger calls 'the abandonment of being' and involves the loss of any sense of awe and wonder, as well as an indifference to that loss.\n\nOne of the first major contemporary anti-technological thinkers was French philosopher Jacques Ellul. In his \"The Technological Society\" (1964), Ellul argued that the rationality of technology enforces logical and mechanical organization which \"eliminates or subordinates the natural world.\" Ellul defined \"technique\" as the entire totality of organizational methods and technology with a goal toward maximum rational efficiency. According to Ellul, technique has an impetus which tends to drown out human concerns: \"The only thing that matters technically is yield, production. This is the law of \"technique\"; this yield can only be obtained by the total mobilization of human beings, body and soul, and this implies the exploitation of all human psychic forces.\" Another critic of political and technological expansion was Lewis Mumford, who wrote \"The Myth of the Machine\". The views of Ellul influenced the ideas of the infamous American neo-Luddite Kaczynski. The opening of Kaczynski's manifesto reads: \"The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have been a disaster for the human race.\" Other philosophers of technology who have questioned the validity of technological progress include Albert Borgmann, Don Ihde and Hubert Dreyfus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13537337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13537337", "title": "Organizational dissent", "text": "Organizational dissent\n\nOrganizational dissent is the \"expression of disagreement or contradictory opinions about organizational practices and policies\". Since dissent involves disagreement it can lead to conflict, which if not resolved, can lead to violence and struggle. As a result, many organizations send the message – verbally or nonverbally – that dissent is discouraged. However, recent studies have shown that dissent serves as an important monitoring force within organizations. Dissent can be a warning sign for employee dissatisfaction or organizational decline. Redding (1985) found that receptiveness to dissent allows for corrective feedback to monitor unethical and immoral behavior, impractical and ineffectual organizational practices and policies, poor and unfavorable decision making, and insensitivity to employees' workplace needs and desires. Furthermore, Eilerman argues that the hidden costs of silencing dissent include: wasted and lost time, reduced decision quality, emotional and relationship costs, and decreased job motivation. Perlow (2003) found that employee resentment can lead to a decrease in productivity and creativity which can result in the organization losing money, time, and resources.\nThere are three types of dissent: articulated, latent, and displaced (Kassing, 1998).\n\nInvolves expressing dissent openly and clearly in a constructive fashion to members of an organization that can effectively influence organization adjustment. This may include supervisors, management, and corporate officers.\n\nEmployees resort to expressing dissent to either their coworkers or other ineffectual audiences within the organization. Employees employ this route when they desire to voice their opinions but lack sufficient avenues to effectively express themselves.\n\nInvolves expressing dissent to external audiences, such as family and friends, rather than media or political sources sought out by whistle-blowers.\n\nKassing (1997) states there are three factors that influence which dissent strategy an employee will decide to use:\n\nIndividual influences concern qualities that employees bring to the organization, expectations they have acquired, and behaviors they enact within organizations.\n\nRoberto (2005) claims that employees may have a preference for avoiding conflict. Therefore, they find confrontation in a public setting uncomfortable. Individual's sense of powerlessness and senses of right and wrong are contributing factors (Kassing & Avtgis, 1999).\n\nKassing and Avtgis (1999) demonstrated that an individual's verbal aggressiveness and argumentativeness influence the manner in which an individual will approach expressing dissent. Verbal aggressiveness involves attacking another person's self concept. This may include character attacks, competence attacks, ridicule, and threats. Argumentativeness, on the other hand, is when an individual argues about controversial issues.\n\nIndividuals will choose their strategy for expressing dissent based on the strength of their arguments. Kassing and Avtgis (1999) found an individual who is more argumentative and less verbally aggressive is prone to use articulated dissent. On the other hand, an individual who lacks argumentative skills will resort to using a less direct and more aggressive strategy, latent dissent.\n\nWork locus of control can also be a contributing influence. An individual with an internal locus of control orientation believes that they have control over their destiny. They feel the only way to bring about a desired outcome is to act. Individuals who see their lives as being controlled by outside forces demonstrate an external locus of control (Robbins, 2005). Kassing's (2001) study demonstrated that employees with an internal locus of control used articulated dissent whereas an employee with an external locus of control preferred to use latent dissent.\n\nRelational influences include the types and qualities of relationships people maintain within their organization.\n\n\"Employee relationships\"<br>\nEmployees develop and maintain various relationships within organizations. These relationships can influence the choices employees make about expressing dissent. Employees may feel uncomfortable voicing their dissenting opinions in the presence of others because they feel the best way to preserve relationships is to keep quiet. Homogeneous groups also place pressure on individuals to conform. Since many people fear being embarrassed in front of their peers, they can easily be lulled into consensus (Roberto, 2005).\n\n\"Superior–subordinate relationship\"<br>\nThe superior–subordinate relationship is an important relational factor. Employees who perceive they have a higher-quality relationship with their supervisors are more often to use articulated dissent. They feel their supervisors respect their opinions and that they have mutual influence and persuasion over the outcome of organizational decisions. Conversely, employees that perceive their relationship with their supervisor as low-quality will resort to latent dissent. They feel that there is no room to voice their opinions (Kassing, 2000).\n\nManagement which models the use of articulated dissent contributes to the use of articulated dissent among its employees (Kassing & Avtgis, 1999). Subordinates who witness their supervisors successfully articulating dissent may be more likely and more willing to adopt similar strategies. However, a supervisor must keep in mind that expressing dissent can be very difficult and uncomfortable for lower-level managers and employees. Therefore, supervisors should not only take actions to encourage dissent, they must be willing to seek out individuals willing to say no to them (Roberto, 2005).\n\nOrganizational influences concern how organizations relate to their employees.\n\nOnce an employee joins an organization, it is through assimilation that they learn the norms of the organization. Perlow (2003) states that organizations placing \"high value on being polite and avoiding confrontation\" can cause employees to be uncomfortable expressing their differences. Employees make assessments about motives and restraints when others dissent and use this knowledge to inform their own decisions about when and how to use dissent (Kassing, 2001). Furthermore, some corporate assumptions are accepted without questioning. For example, employees will defer to the expert's opinion (Roberto, 2005).\n\nOrganizational identification and workplace freedom of speech has an effect on an individual's choice of expressing dissent (Kassing, 2000). If an individual highly identifies himself or herself with the organization, they are more likely to use the dissent strategy that mirrors the organization's values. If the organization demonstrates it values dissent and promotes workplace freedom of speech, the highly identified employee will demonstrate articulate dissent.\n\nAn organization that limits the opportunities for employees to voice their opinions, demonstrates contradictory expectations, and gives the perception that openness is not favored, will lead employees to select latent dissent strategies (Kassing & Avtgis, 1999).\n\nThe perceptions of supervisors and coworkers can be used to further determine an individual's choice of dissent strategy. Employees will take notice of other dissenters and the consequences of their actions and will use this information to refine their \"sense of organizational tolerance for dissent, to determine what issues merit dissent, and to inform their future dissent strategy choices\" (Kassing, 2001).\n\nKassing (2001) found that articulated and latent dissenters were perceived differently. People perceived articulated dissenters to be more satisfied, more committed, possess higher quality relationships with their supervisors, and seen as employees who believed they have influence within their organizations than latent dissenters. Furthermore, articulated dissenters, compared to latent dissenters, were perceived to be less verbally aggressive.\n\nOrganizational dissent begins with a triggering event. This triggering event is what propels individuals to speak out and share their opinions about organizational practices or politics. An individual will consider the issue of dissent and whom it concerns before deciding what dissent strategy to use. The types of issues that cause employees to dissent vary. The majority of employees expressed dissent due to resistance of organizational change. Other factors include employee treatment, decision making tactics, inefficiency, role/responsibility, resources, ethics, performance evaluations, and preventing harm (Kassing, 2002).\n\nIn addition to the dissent-triggering event, the focus of the issues can be relevant to how one expresses dissent. Kassing (2002) believed individuals may focus on improving matters within the organization that affect themselves (self-focused), they may focus on the welfare of the organization of the whole (other-focused) or they may focus on issues concerning their co-workers (neutral).\n\nAn individual will use upward articulate dissent in response to functional and other-focused dissent-triggering events. Organizations are more attractive to upward articulate dissenting when it is in regards to functional aspects. This type of dissent gives the perception that dissenters are being constructive and are concerned with issues of \"principle rather than personal-advantage.\" It allows the employee to signal their commitment to cooperative goals.\n\nIndividuals may also express latent dissent in response to functional and other-focused dissent-triggering. They determine to use latent instead of articulate when they believe that management is not receptive to employee dissent. This indicates that individuals would use articulate dissent if they feel those channels are not available and accessible. Latent dissent is also used in protective dissent–triggering events.\n\nIndividuals will readily used displaced dissent regardless of the focus or triggering event. External audiences provide individuals with a low-risk alternative to express dissent. The downfall for organizations, however, is the loss of employee feedback. If an employee expresses their dissent to outsiders, the organization will not hear about it and will assume that less dissent exists within the organization. When an organization fails to address potential issues, employees may then view the organization as discouraging dissent and will resort to using either latent or displaced dissent in the future.\n\nIn 2002, Kassing's research found upward dissent can be beneficial to both the organization and the individuals involved.\n\nUpward dissent serves as an important monitoring force and allows the organization to identify problems and issues before they become damaging.\n\nEmployees who express upward dissent seem more satisfied, to have better work relationships, and to identify with their organization.\n\nNot all organizations are designed to recognize and respond to employee dissent. Furthermore, employees consider expressing upward dissent as a \"risky proposition.\" In several studies Kassing (1997, 1998) found that employees decided to express dissent by considering whether or not they will be perceived as constructive or adversarial, as well as the risk of retaliation associated with dissenting. In 2002, Kassing found that once an individual decides to strategically express dissent, they use five different categories: direct-factual appeal, repetition, solution presentation, circumvention, and threatening resignation.\n\nWhen an employee uses factual information derived from physical evidence, knowledge of organizational policies and practices, and personal work experience, they use the direct-factual appeal strategy. This strategy is considered active and constructive because the employees seek evidence and base their assumptions on facts, evidence, and first-hand experience. Employees avoid using verbal attacks and unsupported data.\n\nRepetition involves expressing dissent about a topic/issue repeatedly at different points in time. This strategy is often used when an employee feels nothing is being done to correct the original articulated problem/issue and feel that the issue warrants being repeated. The problem with this strategy is that repetition in a short period can be seen as destructive. Especially if the abbreviated time frame does not allow the supervisor enough time to respond. However, if repetition is used over an extended time period it may be considered active–constructive since it may serve as a reminder to the supervisor.\n\nThe solution presentation strategy is deemed as active–constructive since an employee will provide solutions, with or without supporting evidence. This allows the supervisor to be receptive to the expressed dissent and indicates that effort has been put into solving the problem/issue.\n\nIf an employee feels their immediate supervisors are not responsive to dissent, they may employ the circumvention strategy. This entails the employee choosing to dissent to an audience higher in the organizational hierarchy. If an employee uses this strategy before giving their supervisor they opportunity to handle the situation first, this strategy can be deemed active–destructive. However, when used to express dissent regarding unethical practices it is considered active–constructive since the dissent is issue driven.\n\nThreatening resignation can also be seen as both active–constructive and active–destructive. This strategy involves the employee threatening to resign as a \"form of leverage for obtaining responsiveness and action from supervisors and management.\" When used to express your concerns about unsafe and intolerable work conditions it is deemed constructive. However, this strategy will appear to be destructive when the managers view the threat as \"antagonistic and unprincipled.\"\n\nThere are some \"tricks\" that leaders can utilize to develop their employees' attitudes, knowledge, and skills that are needed to foster constructive dissent.\n\nLeaders should focus on \"How I should make the decision\" instead of \"What decision should I make.\" In the end, if they perform the following steps the decision the leader should make will be obvious.\n\nLeaders need to ensure that conflict remains constructive. That is, they must stimulate task-oriented disagreement and debate while trying to minimize interpersonal conflict. Eilerman (2006) claims that the way conflict is handled will determine whether the outcome is constructive or destructive. According to Roberto (2005) leaders can create constructive conflict by taking concrete steps before, during, and after a critical decision process.\n\nBefore the process begins, leaders can establish ground rules for how people should interact during the deliberations, clarify the role that each individual will play in the discussions, and build mutual respect. Asking individuals to role play or to become the devil's advocate ahead of time can help reduce affective conflict while also stimulating constructive conflict (Roberto, 2005). Macy and Neal (1995) claim that since the role of the devil's advocate is to present convincing counterarguments and to challenge the main position, its benefit lies in the fact that it automatically builds conflict into the decision-making process.\n\nDuring deliberations, leaders can intervene when debates get heated. They might redirect people's attention and frame the debate in a different light, redescribe the ideas and data in novel ways so as to enhance understanding and spark new branches of discussion or may revisit ideas in hopes of finding common ground (Roberto, 2005). Deutsch and Coleman (2000) explain that reframing allows conflicting parties to see themselves as being in a collaborative, while producing a positive atmosphere that is conductive to creativity and one that increases the potential solutions available.\n\nAfter a decision process ends, leaders should reflect on the process and try to derive lessons learned regarding how to manage conflict constructively. Since reflections can lead to new insight, individuals must take time to critically assess the experience. They also must address and repair any hurt feelings and damaged relationships that may not have been apparent during the process itself. If these relationships are not repaired, trust could be lost which could negatively affect the effort of the next collaboration. Additionally, leaders should celebrate constructive conflict management and help others to remember the success of the process (Roberto, 2005).\n\nBennis (2004) emphasizes that corporate leaders must promise their followers that they will never be devalued or punished because they express dissent. All too often in the past, organizations would marginalize or terminate any employee who voiced an opposing view. Additionally, leaders should reward dissent and punish conflict avoiders. Anyone who clearly withholds a dissenting view only to obstruct the implementation later should be held responsible.\n\nWhen leaders establish a climate of openness, they make constructive conflict a habit in the organization and develop behaviors which can be sustained over time. Kassing's (2000) research found that when leaders emphasize workplace freedom of speech, employees openly and clearly express dissent to audiences that are responsible for \"organizational adjustment.\" However, for leaders to ensure this type of sustainability, they need to not only change the way they make decisions, but they must develop a pipeline of leaders who approach decision-making differently (Roberto, 2005).\n\nEven if a leader takes all the steps indicated above they must be aware of four situations that can undermine their efforts (Roberto, 2005).\n\nLeaders should avoid crowding out opportunities to respond or discuss policies. Overloading an agenda can decrease the amount of time that is available for an individual to express their view.\n\nEmploying the same person as devil's advocate can cause the view that it is an \"empty ritual.\" It is seen as being done for procedural reasons instead of seeking dissenting views.\n\nLeaders should not allow employee subgroups to have too much time before coming together as a group. Doing so can cause the employees to become attached to an argument and as a result they may not be open to other ideas.\n\nLeaders should avoid focusing on qualitative data. The employees may become more focused on the data than the real issue(s).\n\nWhistle-blowing is a subset of dissent. It involves the expression of dissent to external organizations such as media and political avenues that have the power to take corrective action. Kassing (2000) believes that the whistle-blowing process begins at the superior–subordinate relationship. If a superior response to an employee's effort to dissent is negative this may cause the employee to seek other avenues of dissent. In fact, evidence indicates that only as a last resort do the dissendents finally go public with their tales (Bennis, 2004, Kassing, 2000).\n\nWhistle-blowers are often high-performing employees who believe they are doing their job (Martin, 2005). They just want to bring people's attention to a problem that is potentially harmful or unethical. Despite this, whistle-blowers are perceived negatively and suffer grave consequences. They are often ostracized, harassed, and attacked by their superiors and coworkers. They face termination, financial losses, stress, relationship breakdown, and health problems. Even worse, few whistle-blowers seem to bring about any change. The organization seems to put all their efforts into destroying the whistle-blower while ignoring the original problem. The organization will take great measures to cover-up the problem, devalue the target, reinterpret the events, and intimidate and/or bribe the whistle-blowers (Martin, 2005).\n\nOrganizations need to realize that internal dissent is not itself a crisis, but rather priceless insurance against disaster. Until the ugly headlines appear and the consequences are unavoidable, companies too often forget that they will suffer far more for ignoring their principled dissendents than by giving them a hearing (Bennis, 2004).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19629641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19629641", "title": "Pederasty", "text": "Pederasty\n\nPederasty or paederasty ( or ) is a (usually erotic) homosexual relationship between an adult male and a pubescent or adolescent male. The word \"pederasty\" derives from Greek (\"\") \"love of boys\", a compound derived from (\"pais\") \"child, boy\" and (\"erastēs\") \"lover\". In French, however, \"pédérastie\" has been used as a synonym for homosexuality between adult males (see \"\").\n\nHistorically, pederasty has existed as a variety of customs and practices within different cultures. The status of pederasty has changed over the course of history, at times accepted and at other times a crime. In the history of Europe, its most structured cultural manifestation was Athenian pederasty, and became most prominent in the 6th century BC. Greek pederasty's various forms were the subject of philosophic debates in which the purely carnal type was unfavorably compared with erotic friendships and moderate forms, known as \"Sophrosyne\".\n\nIn most countries today, the local age of consent determines whether or not a person is considered legally competent to consent to sexual acts, and whether such contact is abusive to the young person, under the law.\n\nAnthropologists propose three subdivisions of homosexuality: age-structured, egalitarian and gender-structured. Pederasty is the archetypal example of male age-structured homosexuality.\nGeoffrey Gorer and others distinguish pederasty from pedophilia, which he defined as a separate, fourth type that he described as \"grossly pathological in all societies of which we have record.\" According to Gorer, the main characteristic of homosexual pederasty is the age difference (either of generation or age-group) between the partners. In his study of native cultures pederasty appears typically as a passing stage in which the adolescent is the beloved of an older male, remains as such until he reaches a certain developmental threshold, after which he in turn takes on an adolescent beloved of his own. This model is judged by Gorer as socially viable, i.e. not likely to give rise to psychological discomfort or neuroses for all or most males. He adds that in many societies, pederasty has been the main subject of the arts and the main source of tender and elevated emotions.\n\nSome modern observers restrict the age of the younger partner to \"generally between twelve and seventeen\", though historically the spread was somewhat greater. The younger partner must, in some sense, not be fully mature; this could include young men in their late teens or early twenties.\n\nWhile relationships in ancient Greece involved boys from 12 to about 17 or 18, in Renaissance Italy they typically involved boys between 14 and 19, and in Japan the younger member ranged in age from 11 to about 19.\n\nIn antiquity, pederasty was seen as an educational institution for the inculcation of moral and cultural values in some cultures, as well as a form of sexual expression. Its practice dates from the Archaic period onwards in Ancient Greece, but Cretan ritual objects that reflect an already-formalised practice date to the late Minoan civilization, in around 1650 BC. According to Plato, in Ancient Greece, pederasty was a relationship and bond, whether sexual or chaste, between an adolescent boy and an adult man outside of his immediate family. While most Greek men engaged in relations with both girls and boys, exceptions to the rule were known, some avoiding relations with women, and others rejecting relations with boys. In Ancient Rome, relations with boys took a more informal and less civic path, men taking advantage of dominant social status to extract sexual favors from their social inferiors or carrying on illicit relationships with freeborn boys.\n\nAnalogous relations were documented among other ancient peoples, such as the Thracians and the Celts (Posidonius). According to Plutarch, the ancient Persians had long practiced it as well, an opinion seconded by Sextus Empiricus who asserted that the laws of the Persians \"recommended\" the practice. Herodotus, however, asserts they learned copulation with boys \"(παισὶ μίσγονται)\" from the Greeks, by the use of that term reducing their practice to what John Addington Symonds describes as the \"vicious form\" of pederasty, as opposed to the more restrained and cultured one valued by the Greeks. Plutarch, however, counters Herodotus by pointing out that the Persians had been castrating boys long before being exposed to the mores of the Greeks.\n\nOpposition to the carnal aspects of pederasty existed concurrently with the practice, both inside and outside of the cultures in which it was found. Among the Greeks, a few cities prohibited it, and in others, such as Sparta, only the chaste form of pederasty was permitted, according to Xenophon and others. Likewise, Plato's writings devalue and then condemn sexual intercourse with the boys one loved, and he valued the self-disciplined lover who abstained from consummating the relationship.\n\nJudaism and Christianity also condemned sodomy (while defining that term variously), a theme that would be promulgated by Islam and, later still, by the Baha'i Faith. Within the Baha'i faith, pederasty is the only type of homosexuality mentioned by Bahá'u'lláh. \"We shrink, for very shame, from treating of the subject of boys... Commit not that which is forbidden you in Our Holy Tablet, and be not of those who rove distractedly in the wilderness of their desires.\"\n\nWithin the blanket condemnation of sodomy, pederasty was a particular target. The 2nd-century preacher Clement of Alexandria used divine pederasty as an indictment of Greek religion and the mythological figures of Herakles, Apollo, Poseidon, Laius, and Zeus: \"For your gods did not abstain even from boys. One loved Hylas, another Hyacinthus, another Pelops, another Chrysippus, another Ganymedes. These are the gods your wives are to worship!\" Early legal codes prescribed harsh penalties for violators. The law code of the Visigothic king Chindasuinth called for both partners to be \"emasculated without delay, and be delivered up to the bishop of the diocese where the deed was committed to be placed in solitary confinement in a prison.\" These punishments were often linked to the penance given after the Sacrament of Confession. At Rome, the punishment was burning at the stake since the time of Theodosius I (390). Nonetheless, the practice continued to surface, giving rise to proverbs such as \"With wine and boys around, the monks have no need of the Devil to tempt them,\" an early Christian saying from the Middle East.\n\nPederasty was notable in Moorish Spain, and Tuscany and northern Italy during the Renaissance. and also medieval and Tsarist Russia.\n\nElsewhere, it was practiced in pre-Modern Japan until the Meiji restoration.\n\nIn many societies, such as Ancient Greece, it was justified on the grounds that love was the best foundation for teaching courage as well as civic and cultural values and that homoerotic love between males was superior to other forms of love.\n\n\"Pederasty\" derives from the combination of ' (the Greek stem for \"boy\" or \"child\") with ' (Greek for \"lover\"; cf. \"eros\"). Late Latin \"pæderasta\" was borrowed in the 16th century directly from Plato's classical Greek in \"The Symposium.\" (Latin transliterates \"\" as \"æ\".) The word first appeared in the English language during the Renaissance, as \"pæderastie\" (e.g. in Samuel Purchas' \"Pilgrimes\"), in the sense of sexual relations between men and boys. Beside its use in the classical sense, the term has also been used as a synonym for anal sex, irrespective of the nature of the partner. A 19th-century sexological treatise discusses men practicing the \"insertion of the penis into the anus of women,\" as \"pederasty with their wives.\" Additionally, the term has been used to refer to any homosexual activity, regardless of the participants' ages. Jeremy Bentham used the term in this broader sense in an essay dating from the 18th century.\n\nThe commonly accepted reference definitions of pederasty refer to a sexual relationship, or to copulation, between older and younger males. The OED offers: \"Homosexual relations between a man and a boy; homosexual anal intercourse, usually with a boy or younger man as the passive partner.\" The concise OED has: \"Sexual intercourse between a man and a boy.\" When describing pederasts, some focus solely on the mechanics of copulation, such as the \"Merriam-Webster\" (on-line edition): \"one who practices anal intercourse especially with a boy\". Other dictionaries offer a more general definition, such as \"homosexual relations between men and boys\" or \"homosexual relations, especially between a male adult and a boy or young man.\" The limitation of pederasty to anal sex with a boy is contested by sexologists. Francoeur regards it as \"common but incorrect,\" while Haeberle describes it as \"a modern usage resulting from a misunderstanding of the original term and ignorance of its historical implications.\"\n\nAcademic and social studies sources propose more expansive definitions of the term. The Encyclopedia of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender & Queer Culture defines the term as: \"The erotic relationship between an adult male and a youth, generally one between the ages of twelve and seventeen, in which the older partner is attracted to the younger one who returns his affection.\" The Encyclopedia of Homosexuality suggests \"Pederasty is the erotic relationship between an adult male and a boy, generally one between the ages of twelve and seventeen, in which the older partner is attracted to the younger one who returns his affection, whether or not the liaison leads to overt sexual contact.\"\n\nIn Athens, the slaves were expressly forbidden from entering into pederastic relations with the free-born boys. In medieval Islamic civilization, pederastic relations \"were so readily accepted in upper-class circles that there was often little or no effort to conceal their existence.\"\n\nPlato was an early critic of sexual intercourse in pederastic relationships, proposing that men's love of boys avoid all carnal expression and instead progress from admiration of the lover's specific virtues to love of virtue itself in abstract form. While copulation with boys was often criticized and seen as shameful and brutish, other aspects of the relationship were considered beneficial, as indicated in proverbs such as \"A lover is the best friend a boy will ever have.\"\n\nPederastic art shows seduction scenes as well as sexual relations. In the seduction scenes the man is standing, grasping the boy's chin with one hand and reaching to fondle his genitals with the other. In the sexual scenes, the partners stand embracing face to face, the older of the two engaged in intercrural sex with the younger, who (usually but not always) does not show arousal. Anal sex is almost never shown, and then only as something eliciting surprise in the observers. The practice was ostensibly disparaged, the Athenians often naming it jocularly after their Dorian neighbors (\"cretanize,\" \"laconize,\" \"chalcidize\"). While historians such as Dover and Halperin hold that only the man experienced pleasure, art and poetry indicate reciprocation of desire, and other historians assert that it is \"a modern fairy tale that the younger eromenos was never aroused.\"\n\nPederastic couples were also said to be feared by tyrants, because the bond between the friends was stronger than that of obedience to a tyrannical ruler. Plutarch gives as examples the Athenians Harmodius and Aristogeiton. Others, such as Aristotle, claimed that the Cretan lawgivers encouraged pederasty as a means of population control, by directing love and sexual desire into relations with males.\n\nFrom the early Republican times of Ancient Rome, it was perfectly normal for an older man to desire and pursue boys. However, penetration was illegal for free-born youths; the only boys who were legally allowed to perform as a passive sexual partner were slaves or former slaves known as \"freedmen\", and then only with regard to their former masters. For slaves there was no protection under the law even against rape.\n\nThe result was that in Ancient Roman times, pederasty largely lost its function as a ritual part of education and was instead seen as an activity primarily driven by one's sexual desires and competing with desire for women. The social acceptance of pederastic relations waxed and waned during the centuries. Conservative thinkers condemned it – along with other forms of indulgence. Tacitus attacks the Greek customs of \"gymnasia et otia et turpes amores\" (palaestrae, idleness, and shameful loves). The emperors, however, indulged in male love – most of it of a pederastic nature. As Edward Gibbon mentions, of the first fifteen emperors, \"Claudius was the only one whose taste in love was entirely correct\", the implication being that he was the only one not to take men or boys as lovers.\n\nOther writers spent no effort censuring pederasty \"per se\", but praised or blamed its various aspects. Martial appears to have favored it, going as far as to essentialize not the sexual use of the catamite but his nature as a boy: upon being discovered by his wife \"inside a boy\" and offered the \"same thing\" by her, he retorts with a list of mythological personages who, despite being married, took young male lovers, and concludes by rejecting her offer since \"a woman merely has two vaginas.\"\n\nPederasty in ancient times was not the exclusive domain of the Greeks and Romans. Athenaeus in the \"Deipnosophists\" states that the Celts also partook and despite the beauty of their women, preferred the love of boys. Some would regularly bed down on their animal skins with a lover on each side. Other writers also attest to Celtic pederasty: Aristotle (Politics, II 6.6. Athen. XIII 603a.), Strabo (iv. 199), and Diodorus Siculus (v. 32)). Some moderns have interpreted Athenaeus as meaning that the Celts had a boy on each side, but that interpretation is questioned by Hubbard, who reads it as meaning that they had a boy one side and a woman on the other. (Hubbard, 2003; p. 79) The Sibylline oracles claim that only the Jews were free from this impurity:\n[The Jews] are mindful of holy wedlock,<br>\nand they do not engage in impious intercourse with male children,<br>\nas do Phoenicians, Egyptians and Romans,<br>\nspacious Greece and many nations of other,<br>\nPersians and Galatians and all Asia, transgressing<br>\nthe holy law of immortal God, which they transgressed.\n\nPersian pederasty and its origins was debated even in ancient times. Herodotus claimed they had learned it from the Greeks: \"From the Greeks they have learned to lie with boys.\" However, Plutarch asserts that the Persians used eunuch boys to that end long before contact between the cultures. In either case, Plato claimed they saw fit to forbid it to the inhabitants of the lands they occupied, since \"It does not suit the rulers that their subjects should think noble thoughts, nor that they should form the strong friendships and attachments which these activities, and in particular love, tend to produce.\"\n\nIn pre-modern Islam there was a \"widespread conviction that beardless youths possessed a temptation to adult men as a whole, and not merely to a small minority of deviants\". This was despite the widespread belief of pederastic relations being immoral.\n\nOsman Agha of Temeşvar who fell captive to the Austrians in 1688 wrote in his memoirs that one night an Austrian boy approached him for sex, telling him \"for I know all Turks are pederasts\".\n\nIn the 1770s, Âşık Sadık the poet wrote, in an address to the Sultan: \"Lût kavmi döğüşür, put kavmi bozar. Askerin lûtîdir, bil Padişahım\" (\"The people of Lot fight, the people of idolatry spoil. Know, my Sultan, that your soldiers are sodomites\"). Studies of Ottoman criminal law, which is based on the Sharia, reveal that persistent sodomy with non-consenting boys was a serious offense and those convicted faced capital punishment.\n\nMen's sexual interest in youths was reflected in prostitution, with young male sex workers fetching higher prices than their female counterparts as recently as the beginning of the 20th century. In Tianjin there were thirty-five male brothels, housing 800 boys. Although the superintendent of trade at Guangzhou issued an annual warning to the population against permitting Westerners access to boy prostitutes (\"do not indulge the Western barbarian with all our best favors\"), Europeans were increasingly welcomed in the boy brothels.\n\nIn 10th-century China courting male couples consisted of the older qi xiong (契兄) and the younger qi di. (契弟) (The terms mean, literally, sworn elder brother and younger brother. It is very common in the Chinese culture to conceptualize many kinds of alliances as fictive kinship relationships). Boy marriages, which lasted for a set period after which the younger partner would find a wife (often with the help of the older one) appear to have been part of the culture in the province of Fujian in pre-modern times. The marriages were said to have been celebrated by the two families in traditional fashion, including the ritual \"nine cups of tea\". The popularity of these pederastic relationships in Chang'ans gay quarters gave rise to one of the euphemistic expressions for same-sex love in China, \"the southern custom\". Along with the concentration of Chang'ans gay community here, the North Hamlet was also heavily concentrated with many of the city's entertaining courtesans, as well as its notorious brothel houses for prostitution.\n\nThere was another term in ancient China, \"luan tong\" (), which means a beautiful little boy who has sexual attraction to an adult man. Some emperors in ancient China had some \"luan tong\" in their palaces for sexual intercourse or making fun.\n\nIn Japan, the practice of shudō (衆道), \"the Way of the Young\", paralleled closely the course of European pederasty. It was prevalent in the religious community and samurai society from the mediaeval period on, and eventually grew to permeate all of society. It fell out of favor around the end of the 19th century, concurrently with the growing European influence.\n\nIts legendary founder is Kūkai, also known as Kōbō Daishi, the founder of the Shingon school of Buddhism, who is said to have brought the teachings of male love over from China, together with the teachings of the Buddha. Monks often entered into love relationships with beautiful youths known as \"chigo\" (稚児), which were recorded in literary works known as \"chigo monogatari\" (稚児物語).\n\nIn modern Japanese manga, attraction to young boys is called shotacon, while relationships involving older adolescents and adults is called yaoi.\n\nLate 19th-century historian Hubert Howe Bancroft reported in his study of the native culture of Kodiak Island:\n'The most repugnant of all their practices is that of male concubinage. A Kodiak mother will select her handsomest and most promising boy, and dress and rear him as a girl, teaching him only domestic duties, keeping him at women's work, associating him with women and girls, in order to render his effeminacy complete. Arriving at the age of ten or fifteen years, he is married to some wealthy man who regards such a companion as a great acquisition. These male concubines are called Achnutschik or Schopans' (the authorities quoted being Holmberg, Langsdorff, Billing, Choris, Lisiansky and Marchand). The same is the case in Nootka Sound and the Aleutian Islands, where 'male concubinage obtains throughout, but not to the same extent as amongst the Koniagas.' The male concubines have their beards carefully plucked out as soon as the face-hair begins to grow, and their chins are tattooed like those of the women. In California the first missionaries found the same practice, the youths being called Joya.\n\nThough early Mayans are thought to have been strongly antagonistic to same-sex relationships, later Mayan states employed pederastic practices. Their introduction was ascribed to the god Chin. One aspect was that of the father procuring a younger lover for his son. Juan de Torquemada mentions that if the (younger) boy was seduced by a stranger, the penalty was equivalent to that for adultery. Bernal Diaz reported statues of male pairs making love in the temples at Cape Catoche, Yucatan.\n\nPederastic eros in the Christian West, while remaining mostly hidden, has nevertheless revealed itself in a variety of settings. Legal records are one of the more important windows into this secret world, since for much of the time pederastic relations, like other forms of homosexual relations, were illegal. The expression of desire through literature and art, albeit in coded fashion, can also afford a view of the pederastic interests of the author.\n\nReflecting the conflicted outlook on male loves, some northern European writers ascribed pederastic tendencies to populations in southern latitudes. Richard Francis Burton evolved his theory of the \"Sotadic zone\", an area bounded roughly by N. Lat. 43° N. Lat. 30°, stretching from the western shores of the Mediterranean Sea to the Pacific Ocean. Likewise, Wilhelm Kroll, writing in the Pauly-Wissowa encyclopaedia in 1906, asserted that \"The roots of pederasty are found first of all in the existence of a contrary sexual feeling that is probably more frequent in southern regions than in countries with moderate climates.\"\n\nAccording to glbtq.com, during the Renaissance, \"The most conventional object of homoerotic desire was the adolescent youth, usually imagined as beardless.\"\n\nIn England, public boarding schools, with their homosocial environment, often encouraged an homoerotic atmosphere, due to the emphasis on the Classics, and homosexual relations were formed and quietly accepted, both between older and younger boys and even between teachers and pupils; however, some scandals arose around such relationships. In the mid-19th century, William Johnson Cory, a renowned master at Eton from 1845 until his forced resignation in 1872, evolved a style of pedagogic pederasty which influenced a number of his pupils. His \"Ionica,\" a work of poetry reflecting his pederastic sensibilities, was read in intellectual circles and \"made a stir\" at Oxford in 1859. Oscar Browning, another Eton master and former student of Cory, followed in his tutor's footsteps, only to be likewise dismissed in 1875. Both are thought to have influenced Oxford don Walter Pater, whose aesthetics promoted pederasty as the truest expression of classical culture.\n\nPederasty also was a theme in the work of several nineteenth-century English writers known as the \"Uranian poets\". Most now are considered no more than minor literary figures, but the most prominent Uranian representatives – Walter Pater, Gerard Manley Hopkins, and Oscar Wilde – are renowned worldwide. Both Wilde and Hopkins were deeply influenced by Pater's work. Wilde wrote of pederastic and homoerotic culture – though not in the \"elevated\" pederastic sense that it held for Pater and Hopkins – in a number of works. And though \"Hopkins often was, it must be admitted, strikingly Ruskinian in his love of Aristotelian particulars and their arrangements . . . , it was at the foot of Pater – the foremost Victorian unifier of 'eros, pedagogy, and aesthetics' – that Hopkins would ever remain.\" Another notable late-nineteenth-century writer on pederasty was John Addington Symonds, whose essays, \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\" and \"A Problem in Modern Ethics\", were amongst the first defenses of homosexuality made in the English language.\n\nThe end of the 19th century saw increasing conflict over the issue of social acceptance of pederasty. A number of other pederastic scandals erupted around this time, such as the one involving the German industrialist Friedrich Alfred Krupp, which drove him to suicide.\n\nThis strife also involved the Wandervogel movement, a youth organization emphasizing a romantic view of nature. Wandervogel took flight in 1896, the same year that the journal \"Der Eigene\" went to press. It was published by a twenty-two-year-old German, Adolf Brand, and it advocated classical pederasty as a cure for the moral flabbiness of German youth. Influenced by the ideas of Gustav Wyneken, the Wandervogel movement was quite open about its homoerotic tendencies, although this kind of affection was supposed to be expressed in a nonsexual way. The founding of Young Wandervogel happened largely as a reaction to the public scandal about these erotic tendencies, which were said to alienate young men from women.\n\nUntil the 1970s, English \"public schools\" were walled boarding schools, educating adolescent boys only, with a strong concentration on Greek and Latin classics. They continued to be \"hotbeds of pederasty\" into the 20th century. C. S. Lewis when talking about his life at Malvern College, an English public school, acknowledged that pederasty \"was the only counterpoise to the social struggle; the one oasis (though green only with weeds and moist only with foetid water) in the burning desert of competitive ambition.\"\n\nIn the Aeneid of Vergil, Nisus, a Trojan soldier, is in a relationship with Euryalus, a younger Trojan soldier. Although Vergil avoids directly describing the nature of their relationship due to the decorum of the epic poem, the nature of their relationship has been the source of academic discourse. While some believe the relationship to be platonic, others describe it as pederastic.\n\nIn modern thought, same-sex relations with adolescents is regarded as an abuse of power when the older partner is in a position of educational, religious, economic, or other form of institutional authority over the younger partner. Pederasty therefore remains widely censured and instances of it have had severe political repercussions (for example, the Mark Foley scandal, or \"Pagegate\", which broke out in the United States in 2006).\n\nSome \"gay-positive\" writers, in their work of interpreting Christian teachings, have concluded that Paul's criticism of same-sex love do not target those for whom such affections come naturally, but rather those who indulge such pleasures by choice, with the example given being \"the Hellenistic practice of erotic behavior with young males.\" Their work suggests that religious opposition to same sex relations should restrict itself to pederastic relationships, with their presumed abuse of power. But a position paper of the Anglican Church of Canada rejects that contention, claiming that,\n\nOn February 2, 1961 the Vatican issued a document, \"Instruction on the Careful Selection and Training of Candidates for the States of Perfection and Sacred Orders\", barring from the priesthood anyone who has \"perverse inclinations to homosexuality or pederasty.\"\n\nThe same year, social guidance film director Sid Davis released his now infamous film, \"Boys Beware\". Timothy Farrell narrates the film; ironically, Farrell had appeared earlier in another LGBT film, \"Glen or Glenda\". Davis plays the role of the first pederast.\n\nThough pederasty was once accepted in many cultures, some modern observers have retrospectively labeled it abusive. Enid Bloch argues that many Greek boys who were involved in paederastic relationships may have been harmed by the experience, if the relationship included anal sex. Bloch writes that the boy may have been traumatized by knowing that he was violating social customs. According to her, the \"most shameful thing that could happen to any Greek male was penetration by another male.\" In this respect Bloch is in accord with Greek sexual morality, which also recognized a difference between ethical pederasty which excluded anal sex and \"hubristic\" pederasty which was believed to debase the boy as well as the man who penetrated him.\nBloch further argues that vases showing \"a boy standing perfectly still as a man reaches out for his genitals\" indicate the boy may have been \"psychologically immobilized, unable to move or run away.\" Many other vases show the boy running away.\n\nAn unofficial ban of talking about pederasty in academia was broken only in 1905 by the German historian Erich Bethe with his study \"Dorian Boy-Love: Its Ethic, Its Idea.\" In the United States, Haworth Press withdrew from publication a volume on homosexuality in classical antiquity titled \"Same-Sex Desire and Love in Greco-Roman Antiquity and in the Classical Tradition of the West.\" This was in response to criticism from \"certain sectors\" that objected a line in the abstract of the academic Bruce Rind's controversial paper, which they said advocated pedophilia.\n\nThe publisher, in a letter to the editors, attempted to exonerate Rind from the accusation and conceded that the article was sound, but stood by his decision to withdraw it \"to avoid negative press\" and \"economic repercussions.\" Later Haworth reversed course and announced that the book and journal would be published, but without Rind's controversial essay. Mr. Rind's essay is to be published in a future \"supplementary volume\" of \"The Journal of Homosexuality\", together with counterarguments advanced by his critics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48818732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48818732", "title": "Performance science", "text": "Performance science\n\nPerformance science is the multidisciplinary study of human performance. It draws together methodologies across numerous scientific disciplines, including those of biomechanics, economics, physiology, psychology, and sociology, to understand the fundamental skills, mechanisms, and outcomes of performance activities and experiences. It carries implications for various domains of skilled human activity, often performed under extreme stress and/or under the scrutiny of audiences or evaluators. These include performances across the arts, sport, education, and business, particularly those occupations involving the delivery of highly trained skills such as in surgery and management.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1034453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034453", "title": "Podcast", "text": "Podcast\n\nA podcast or generically netcast, is an episodic series of digital audio or video files which a user can download in order to listen to. It is often available for subscription, so that new episodes are automatically downloaded via web syndication to the user's own local computer, mobile application, or portable media player.\n\nThe word was originally suggested by Ben Hammersley as a portmanteau of \"iPod\" (a brand of media player) and \"broadcast\".\n\nThe files distributed are in audio format, but may sometimes include other file formats such as PDF or EPUB. Videos which are shared following a podcast model are sometimes called video podcasts or vodcasts.\n\nThe generator of a podcast maintains a central list of the files on a server as a web feed that can be accessed through the Internet. The listener or viewer uses special client application software on a computer or media player, known as a podcatcher, which accesses this web feed, checks it for updates, and downloads any new files in the series. This process can be automated to download new files automatically, which may seem to users as though new episodes are broadcast or \"pushed\" to them. Files are stored locally on the user's device, ready for offline use. There are many different mobile applications available for people to use to subscribe and to listen to podcasts. Many of these applications allow users to download podcasts or to stream them on demand as an alternative to downloading. Many podcast players (apps as well as dedicated devices) allow listeners to skip around the podcast and control the playback speed.\n\nSome have labeled podcasting as a converged medium bringing together audio, the web, and portable media players, as well as a disruptive technology that has caused some individuals in the radio business to reconsider established practices and preconceptions about audiences, consumption, production, and distribution.\nPodcasts are usually free of charge to listeners and can often be created for little to no cost, which sets them apart from the traditional model of \"gate-kept\" media and production tools. Podcast creators can monetize their podcasts by allowing companies to purchase ad time, as well as via sites such as Patreon, which provides special extras and content to listeners for a fee. Podcasting is very much a horizontal media form – producers are consumers, consumers may become producers, and both can engage in conversations with each other.\n\n\"Podcast\" is a portmanteau word, formed by combining \"iPod\" and \"broadcast\". The term \"podcasting\" as a name for the nascent technology was first suggested by The Guardian columnist and BBC journalist Ben Hammersley, who invented it in early February 2004 while \"padding out\" an article for The Guardian newspaper. Despite the etymology, the content can be accessed using any computer or similar device that can play media files. Use of the term \"podcast\" predated Apple's addition of formal support for podcasting to the iPod, or its iTunes software.\n\nOther names for podcasting include \"net cast\", intended as a vendor-neutral term without the loose reference to the Apple iPod. This name is used by shows from the TWiT.tv network. Some sources have also suggested the backronym \"portable on demand\" or \"POD\", for similar reasons.\n\nFormer MTV video jockey Adam Curry, in collaboration with Dave Winer – co-author of the RSS specification – is credited with coming up with the idea to automate the delivery and syncing of textual content to portable audio players.\n\nPodcasting, once an obscure method of spreading information, has become a recognized medium for distributing audio content, whether for corporate or personal use. Podcasts are similar to radio programs, but they are audio files. Listeners can play them at their convenience, using devices that have become more common than portable broadcast receivers.\n\nThe first application to make this process feasible was iPodderX, developed by August Trometer and Ray Slakinski. By 2007, audio podcasts were doing what was historically accomplished via radio broadcasts, which had been the source of radio talk shows and news programs since the 1930s. This shift occurred as a result of the evolution of internet capabilities along with increased consumer access to cheaper hardware and software for audio recording and editing.\n\nIn October 2003, Matt Schichter launched his weekly chat show \"The BackStage Pass\". B.B. King, Third Eye Blind, Gavin DeGraw, The Beach Boys, and Jason Mraz were notable guests the first season. The hour long radio show was recorded live, transcoded to 16kbit/s audio for dial-up online streaming. Despite a lack of a commonly accepted identifying name for the medium at the time of its creation, \"The Backstage Pass\" which became known as \"Matt Schichter Interviews\" is commonly believed to be the first podcast to be published online.\n\nIn August 2004, Adam Curry launched his show \"Daily Source Code\". It was a show focused on chronicling his everyday life, delivering news, and discussions about the development of podcasting, as well as promoting new and emerging podcasts. Curry published it in an attempt to gain traction in the development of what would come to be known as podcasting and as a means of testing the software outside of a lab setting. The name \"Daily Source Code\" was chosen in the hope that it would attract an audience with an interest in technology.\n\n\"Daily Source Code\" started at a grassroots level of production and was initially directed at podcast developers. As its audience became interested in the format, these developers were inspired to create and produce their own projects and, as a result, they improved the code used to create podcasts. As more people learned how easy it was to produce podcasts, a community of pioneer podcasters quickly appeared.\n\nIn June 2005, Apple released iTunes 4.9 which added formal support for podcasts, thus negating the need to use a separate program in order to download and transfer them to a mobile device. While this made access to podcasts more convenient and widespread, it also effectively ended advancement of podcatchers by independent developers. Additionally, Apple issued cease and desist orders to many podcast application developers and service providers for using the term \"iPod\" or \"Pod\" in their products' names.\n\nWithin a year, many podcasts from public radio networks like the BBC, CBC Radio One, NPR, and Public Radio International placed many of their radio shows on the iTunes platform. In addition, major local radio stations like WNYC in New York City and WHYY-FM radio in Philadelphia, KCRW in Los Angeles placed their programs on their websites and later on the iTunes platform.\n\nConcurrently, CNET, \"This Week in Tech\", and later Bloomberg Radio, the \"Financial Times\", and other for-profit companies provided podcast content, some using podcasting as their only distribution system.\n\nBetween February 10 and 25 March 2005, Shae Spencer Management, LLC of Fairport, New York filed a trademark application to register the term \"podcast\" for an \"online prerecorded radio program over the internet\". On September 9, 2005, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) rejected the application, citing Wikipedia's podcast entry as describing the history of the term. The company amended their application in March 2006, but the USPTO rejected the amended application as not sufficiently differentiated from the original. In November 2006, the application was marked as abandoned.\n\nAs of September 20, 2005, known trademarks that attempted to capitalize on podcast included: ePodcast, GodCast, GuidePod, MyPod, Pod-Casting, Podango, PodCabin, Podcast, Podcast Realty, Podcaster, PodcastPeople, Podgram PodKitchen, PodShop, and Podvertiser.\n\nBy February 2007, there had been 24 attempts to register trademarks containing the word \"PODCAST\" in the United States, but only \"PODCAST READY\" from \"Podcast Ready, Inc.\" was approved.\n\nOn September 26, 2004, it was reported that Apple Inc. had started to crack down on businesses using the string \"POD\", in product and company names. Apple sent a cease and desist letter that week to Podcast Ready, Inc., which markets an application known as \"myPodder\". Lawyers for Apple contended that the term \"pod\" has been used by the public to refer to Apple's music player so extensively that it falls under Apple's trademark cover. Such activity was speculated to be part of a bigger campaign for Apple to expand the scope of its existing iPod trademark, which included trademarking \"IPOD\", \"IPODCAST\", and \"POD\". On November 16, 2006, the Apple Trademark Department stated that \"Apple does not object to third-party usage of the generic term 'podcast' to accurately refer to podcasting services\" and that \"Apple does not license the term\". However, no statement was made as to whether or not Apple believed they held rights to it.\n\nPersonal Audio, a company referred to as a \"patent troll\" by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, filed a patent on podcasting in 2009 for a claimed invention in 1996. In February 2013, Personal Audio started suing high-profile podcasters for royalties, including \"The Adam Carolla Show\" and the \"HowStuffWorks\" podcast. US Congressman Peter DeFazio's previously proposed \"SHIELD Act\" intended to curb patent trolls.\n\nIn October 2013, the EFF filed a petition with the US Trademark Office to invalidate the Personal Audio patent.\n\nOn August 18, 2014, the Electronic Frontier Foundation announced that Adam Carolla had settled with Personal Audio.\n\nOn April 10, 2015, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office invalidated five provisions of Personal Audio's podcasting patent.\n\nAn enhanced podcast can display images synchronized with audio. These can contain chapter markers, hyperlinks, and artwork, all of which is synced to a specific program or device. When an enhanced podcast is played within its specific program or device, all the appropriate information should be displayed at the same time and in the same window, making it easier to display materials.\n\nA podcast novel (also known as a serialized audiobook or podcast audiobook) is a literary format that combines the concepts of a podcast and an audiobook. Like a traditional novel, a podcast novel is a work of long literary fiction; however, this form of the novel is recorded into episodes that are delivered online over a period of time and in the end available as a complete work for download. The episodes may be delivered automatically via RSS, through a website, blog, or another syndication method. These files are either listened to directly on a user's computer or loaded onto a portable media device to be listened to later.\n\nThe types of novels that are podcasted vary from new works from new authors that have never been printed, to well-established authors that have been around for years, to classic works of literature that have been in print for over a century. In the same style as an audiobook, podcast novels may be elaborately narrated with separate voice actors for each character and sound effects, similar to a radio play. Other podcast novels have a single narrator reading the text of the story with little or no sound effects.\n\nPodcast novels are distributed over the Internet, commonly on a weblog. Podcast novels are released in episodes on a regular schedule (e.g., once a week) or irregularly as each episode is released when completed. They can either be downloaded manually from a website or blog or be delivered automatically via RSS or another method of syndication. Ultimately, a serialized podcast novel becomes a completed audiobook.\n\nSome podcast novelists give away a free podcast version of their book as a form of promotion. Some such novelists have even secured publishing contracts to have their novels printed. Podcast novelists have commented that podcasting their novels lets them build audiences even if they cannot get a publisher to buy their books. These audiences then make it easier to secure a printing deal with a publisher at a later date. These podcast novelists also claim the exposure that releasing a free podcast gains them makes up for the fact that they are giving away their work for free.\n\nA video podcast (sometimes shortened to \"vodcast\") includes video clips. Web television series are often distributed as video podcasts.\n\n\"Dead End Days\" (2003–2004) is commonly believed to be the first video podcast. That serialized dark comedy about zombies was broadcast from 31 October 2003 through 2004.\n\nSince the spread of the Internet and the use of Internet broadband connection TCP, which helps to identify various applications, a faster connection to the Internet has been created and a wide amount of communication has been created. Video podcasts have become extremely popular online and are often presented as short video clips, usually excerpts of a longer recording. Video clips are being used on pre-established websites, and increasing numbers of websites are being created solely for the purpose of hosting video clips and podcasts. Video podcasts are being streamed on intranets and extranets, and private and public networks, and are taking communication through the Internet to new levels.\n\nMost video clips are now submitted and produced by individuals. Video podcasts are also being used for web television, commonly referred to as Web TV, a rapidly growing genre of digital entertainment that uses various forms of new media to deliver to an audience both reruns of shows or series and content created or delivered originally online via broadband and mobile networks, web television shows, or web series. Examples include Amazon Video, Hulu, and Netflix. Other types of video podcasts used for web television may be short-form, anywhere from 2–9 minutes per episode, typically used for advertising, video blogs, amateur filming, journalism, and convergence with traditional media.\n\nVideo podcasting is also helping build businesses, especially in the sales and marketing sectors. Through video podcasts, businesses both large and small can advertise their wares and services in a modern, cost-effective way. In the past, big businesses had better access to expensive studios where sophisticated advertisements were produced, but now even the smallest businesses can create high-quality media with just a camera, editing software, and the Internet.\n\nIn a two-year study, 2012-2013, conducted by a South African university a question was raised; over the years of podcast development, is podcasting socially inclusive. The results of this study concluded with minor quarks, podcasting is socially inclusive.\n\nAn oggcast is a podcast recorded and distributed exclusively in the Vorbis audio codec with the Ogg container format, and/or other similarly free codecs/formats. For example, a podcast distributed both in the non-free MP3 format and the free Ogg format would not technically meet the definition of an oggcast. In contrast, a podcast distributed in both the Vorbis and Speex codecs would meet the strict definition of an oggcast. The term oggcast is a combination of the word \"ogg\" from the term Ogg Vorbis, and the syllable \"cast\", from \"broadcast\".\n\nThe term was coined for the fifth season of the \"Gnu World Order\" by Klaatu in 2010, when the show declared itself \"the world's first oggcast\". At the time, the show was one of the few that released only in free formats, with no MP3 feed as an option. This gave way to other shows using the term, with hosts gathering in the IRC channel on the Freenode network to compare notes.\n\n\"The Linux Link Tech Show\", one of the longer running Linux podcasts still in production, has a program in the Ogg Vorbis format in its archives from January 7, 2004.\n\nOggcasters tend to be broadcasters who prefer not to use audio and video codecs that have patent and/or licensing restrictions, such as the MP3 codec.\n\nRecording and distributing podcasts in the Ogg Vorbis audio format has advantages. Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome web browsers both support playing Vorbis files directly in the browser without requiring plugins. Vorbis may produce better audio quality with a smaller file size than alternative codecs such as AAC or MP3. However, this has not been proven conclusively. Ogg Vorbis is not bound by patents and is considered \"free software\" in the sense that no corporate entity owns the rights to the format. Some people feel that this is a safer container for their multimedia content for this reason. However, oggcasters can generally not reach as wide of an audience as more traditional podcasters. This is mainly due to the lack of native Ogg Vorbis support in Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Apple's Safari web browser, and the lack of Ogg Vorbis support in many mobile audio devices.\n\nOggcast Planet maintains a central list of oggcasts.\n\nA political podcast focuses on current events, lasts usually a half hour to an hour, often with a relaxed and conversational tone, and features journalists and politicians and pollsters and writers and others with credentials in the public sphere. Most political podcasts have a host-guest interview format and are broadcast each week based on the news cycle. Political podcasts have blossomed in the past few years in the United States because of the long election cycle. Larger news sites such as the \"Radio Atlantic\" and the \"Spectator\" have started weekly political podcasts in recent years, as well as smaller podcasts such as the Bruderhof's \"Life Together\" podcast and Danny Anderson's \"Sectarian Review\" and Pod Save America.\n\nA podguide is an enhanced audio tour podcast. It is a single audio file where each chapter displays a picture and a number of what to look at a certain stopover. The numbers correspond to the numbers on a map that can be downloaded via the link incorporated into the artwork of the chapters in the podguide. Podguides are in the m4a format and can only be listened to through iTunes or an iPod. It is like a soundseeing tour but with pictures and a map, so users can take the tour themselves.\n\nCommunities use collaborative podcasts to support multiple contributors podcasting through generally simplified processes, and without having to host their own individual feeds. A community podcast can also allow members of the community (related to the podcast topic) to contribute to the podcast in many different ways. This method was first used for a series of podcasts hosted by the Regional Educational Technology Center at Fordham University in 2005. Anders Gronstedt explores how businesses like IBM and EMC use podcasts as an employee training and communication channel.\n\nThe podcast industry is very profitable. Over 50 million people listen to podcasts each month. A small, yet efficient number of listeners are also podcast creators. Creating a podcast is reasonably inexpensive. It requires just a microphone, laptop or other personal computer, and a room with some sound blocking. Podcast creators tend to have a good listener base because of their relationships with the listeners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35391721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35391721", "title": "Public interest law", "text": "Public interest law\n\nPublic interest law loosely, refers to legal practices undertaken to help poor or marginalized people, or to effect change in social policies in the public interest, on 'not for profit' terms (\"pro bono publico\"). In general terms it means a legal action initiated in the court of law for the protection of Public Interest.\n\nIt is not a body of law or a legal field, matters lawyers work on. Rather, it denotes the clientele they represent. Instead of serving powerful economic interests, it stands for the advocacy of otherwise under-represented or vulnerable individuals, especially those living in poverty. It has grown to encompass a broader range of activities, typically the field of non-lawyers like civil rights, civil liberties, women's rights, consumer rights, environmental protection, and so on. Nevertheless, a common ethic for public-interest lawyers in a growing number of countries remains “fighting for the little guy”.\n\nAt the end of the communist period in the early 1990s, the national legal systems of Central and Eastern Europe were still in a formative stage. The most important source of legal authority for the new human rights groups came from outside the region: the Council of Europe, with its European Convention on Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nOver time, in the mid-1990s, U.S. experiences became more relevant. The Council of Europe's prerequisite that lawyers use their own country's courts first to seek legal remedies before turning to the European bodies gradually became more than a pro forma exercise, and civil society organizations began to make more effective use of domestic means of adjudication. But by the time local activists were ready to consider the utility of impact litigation, test cases, and other tactics familiar from the U.S. experience, they already understood that their ultimate tactical weapon in any piece of litigation was to use the threat or reality of a supportive decision at the European Court of Human Rights. With this background in mind, it made more sense for the promoters of public interest law in Central and Eastern Europe to talk about \"strategic litigation\" than about public interest litigation. Using the instrumentality of the European Court of Human Rights effectively required a strategic approach. Not all human rights cases were likely to receive a favorable ruling; a negative ruling could produce more damage to the human rights cause than no ruling at all. The European Court had a rich case law that could provide clues to how a future case might be decided, and there were procedural aspects, such as the requirement to exhaust domestic remedies, to consider.\n\nThe core lesson from the U.S. experience for local activists was how courts could be used effectively as a tool for civil society engagement in governance.\nThe changes to the Italian electoral law from 2014 to 2017 were both \"caused by actions born from the bottom (...) the result of a methodical, studied and concerted action. It has been featured by university professors, constitutional and electoral law-makers, parliamentarians and other elected representatives (...), representatives of civil society and ordinary citizens. Their names are, as voters, in more than twenty introductory pleadings (quotations or appeals)\", all of them brought pro bono.\n\nPublic interest law (公益法, pronounced Gong Yi Fa) is an accepted term in China, where the basic institutions supporting the rule of law are still extremely nascent. China does not have a common-law system in which lawyers are expected to play a key role in “making law.” Nevertheless, a small but effective community of lawyers has gained acceptance of public interest litigation as a legitimate means of resolving social issues and contributing to a harmonious society, and non-governmental actors have significantly improved the enforcement of rights for migrant workers, women, children and those suffering from environmental degradation, among others. For example, public interest lawyers in China have filed lawsuits in court successfully challenging workplace sexual harassment and the involuntary confinement of healthy people to mental hospitals.\n\nChinese reformers believe that one avenue for speeding the development of public interest law is implementing an associational standing rule by which organizations can instigate lawsuits to protect the interests of its members. Currently, China’s Civil Procedure Law is undergoing revision. One of the proposed amendments would create a form of associational standing. In theory, the new law would give domestic NGOs the power to file lawsuits in their own name on behalf of their members, but the proposed amendment has engendered spirited debate and its fate is unclear.\n\nIn Hong Kong public interest law is an emerging field. The chief vehicle for pursuing public interest claims is judicial review. This is the process by which decisions of the government are challenged in the courts. There has been a surge in judicial review cases since 2000. Environmental issues and minority rights are among the most litigated areas.\n\nOne of the pioneers in public interest law in Hong Kong was Pamela Baker. In the late 1980s she litigated a series of landmark courtroom cases challenging the government’s treatment of Vietnamese refugees. In 1995 the Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor was established with the aim of promoting better human rights protection in Hong Kong. Today, the majority of cause lawyers who represent citizens and social groups in human rights and public policy litigation on a consistent basis in Hong Kong are also members of political parties or active participants in social movements outside the courts.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the Legal Aid Department provides funding to legal services for those who pass the means and merits test. The two Legal Aid Schemes that it operates, namely the Ordinary Legal Aid Scheme (OLAS) and the Supplementary Legal Aid Scheme (SLAS) have facilitated the practice of public interest law through narrowing the resource inequality between economically disadvantaged litigants and the government. However, NGOs and charitable organizations are not eligible to get legal aid. The NGOs and Charitable organizations contributed to opening of avenues for people who deserved justice but lacked interest to approach courts and helped them in becoming petitioners to get justice.\n\nApart from legal aid, the Hong Kong Bar Association and The Law Society of Hong Kong jointly provides the Duty Lawyer Scheme which offers free legal representation to eligible defendants on the first day of court appearance. They also run the Free Legal Advice Scheme at their Legal Advice Centres within nine District Offices in Hong Kong with the aim to provide one-off preliminary legal advice to the general public without imposing any means test. The Hong Kong Bar Association and The Law Society of Hong Kong operate their own Bar Free Legal Service Scheme and Free Legal Consultation Scheme respectively where enrolled law firms and barristers specializing in different fields volunteer to give consultations on a pro bono basis.\n\nIn addition, unlike in the United States where NGOs and public interest law groups routinely bring public interest lawsuits on behalf of aggrieved individuals, in-house counsel working in NGOs and charities in Hong Kong are not allowed to directly represent the people these organizations serve. Some commentators believe that the inability of NGOs to directly represent clients in legal proceedings has dampened the growth of public interest law in Hong Kong.\n\nLaw schools in Hong Kong also organize various programs to promote the idea of \"pro bono\" legal service to students. Pro bono committees of law firms in Hong Kong also meet on a bimonthly basis in the Hong Kong Legal Community Roundtable, a forum for international law firms to discuss development of pro bono work in Hong Kong and the region.\n\n\"Public Interest Litigation\" or PIL right since its inception in the Indian judicial system, has shown some good examples of safeguarding the rights of the people of India and has strengthened the position of the Supreme Court of India as preeminent guardian of Fundamental Rights enumerated in the Indian Constitution. It was introduced in India around 1979-80 by the Supreme Court judges, Justice V. R. Krishna Iyer along with Justice P. N. Bhagwati. And since then there had been instances when the Courts are keen to decide the matters of public importance without delay, as the case in Shyam sundar where the court accepted the matter even when the application was made by a letter sent through post.\n\n“Public interest law” is a term that became widely adopted in the United States during and after the social turmoil of the 1960s. It built on a tradition exemplified by Louis Brandeis, who before becoming a U.S. Supreme Court justice incorporated advocacy for the interests of the general public into his legal practice. In a celebrated 1905 speech, Brandeis decried the legal profession, complaining that “able lawyers have to a large extent allowed themselves to become adjuncts of great corporations and have neglected their obligation to use their powers for the protection of the people.” In the late 1960s and 1970s, large numbers of American law school graduates began to seek “relevance” in their work—wishing to affect the social issues that were so visibly and hotly debated within American society at that time. They defined themselves as public interest lawyers in order to distinguish themselves from the “corporate adjuncts” referred to by Brandeis.\n\nSumming up the movement's history in the United States, Stanford University Law Professor Deborah Rhode writes: \"Public interest lawyers have saved lives, protected fundamental rights, established crucial principles, transformed institutions, and ensured essential benefits for those who need them most...In virtually every major American social reform movement of the last half century, public interest lawyers have played an important role.\"\nPublic interest law is institutionalized in the United States(USA). Nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that work to promote and protect human rights using the U.S. legal system, fight to protect the environment, or advocate on behalf of consumers, call themselves public interest law organizations. A large community of lawyers practices public interest law in the form of providing legal aid free of charge to those who cannot afford to pay for it. However, the grim reality remains that lawyers are underpaid and grossly overworked, offering perfunctory representation. Clinical legal education, which is well established in the United States, provides opportunities for law students to do practical legal work on basic legal matters as well as more complex public interest issues, such as women’s rights, anti-discrimination law, constitutional rights, and environmental protection, among others. Some law schools have public interest law centers, which advise law students interested in pursuing public interest law careers. Pro bono programs at bar associations and law firms provide opportunities for commercial lawyers to donate time to public interest law activities.\n\nIn law, public interest is a defence against certain lawsuits (for instance some libel suits in the United Kingdom) and an exemption from certain laws or regulations (for instance freedom of information laws in the UK). Also, judges in common law systems can make judgements on the grounds of public policy, a related term.\n\n\n\"Note: This Bibliography is adapted from \"Public Interest Law Practice: A Selective Bibliography,\"a project of the Public Interest Law Committee at Rutgers School of Law, Newark, compiled by Paul Axel-Lute.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30538377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30538377", "title": "Public science", "text": "Public science\n\nPublic science is an increasingly popular term for research that is conducted amongst, or includes, the public. Two traditions of public science have emerged, one based on participatory action research and another based on science outreach.\n\nThe participatory action research approach seeks to develop a critical framework for making systematic inquiry and analysis a public enterprise. It is committed to valuing knowledges that have been historically marginalized and delegitimized (i.e., youth, prisoner, immigrant, farmer) alongside traditionally recognized knowledges (i.e., scholarly). Through the formation of research collectives, it aims to share the various knowledges and resources held by its individual members so members can participate as equally as possible. The choice of appropriate research questions, design, methods and analysis as well as useful research products are decided collectively. Centres for this form of public science include the Public Science Project and the Society for Participation, Engagement, Action and Knowledge Sharing. \n\nExamples of public science projects in the participatory action research tradition include the Morris Justice Project and Our Food.\n\nThe science outreach approach has some similarities to citizen science but typically describes projects that are conducted outdoors or in another type of public or accessible space such as a public park, metro stop, library, university campus, etc. Similar to public art, there are aspects of collaboration, community support and involvement, and even site specificity involved. \n\nPublic science efforts in the science outreach tradition include Science on the Buses, in which city buses in many major European Union cities were decorated with large informational science posters in November 2002. Likewise, a project in Toronto placed “advertisements” with science facts on buses in Toronto during July 2009.\n\n\"Science City\" is another example of a public science initiative that ran from June 1994 through May 1995. Created by staff and consultants from the New York Hall of Science, \"Science City\" was an outdoor exhibition that utilized the street, fences, buildings and other public structures in New York City to attract the \"non-museum-going\" public to the science in everyday life. The exhibition asked questions such as \"Why is it warmer in the city?\", \"What pulses under the street?\" and \"What's under the sidewalk?\" to help increase public awareness about the science and technology that runs invisibly underneath modern urban life. \n\nScience Cafes, founded by the public science pioneer Duncan Dallas are a further public science effort that initiates a discussion on a science topic in pubs or cafes, usually with a local researcher in attendance to answer questions and present information.\n\nScience festivals can also be grouped into this category of public science efforts, with modern incarnations of festivals including a range of learner-centered activities and events conducted in public spaces. \n\nPublic science initiatives often attempt to reach new audiences (particularly, non-experts who might not actively seek out science), in addition to existing science outreach audiences, by hosting events in alternative informal learning environments. By definition, such public science projects are outside the walls of the science center or science museum, where the main focus of the particular space is not typically science outreach.\n\nAn example of a specific public science initiative in astronomy is “From Earth to the Universe” (FETTU), a project of the International Year of Astronomy 2009 (IYA2009). FETTU displayed large-scale images of astronomical objects with contextual information and supplementary materials and activities in non-traditional and mostly public locations such as parks, airports, art festivals, shopping malls, and others (see examples at http://www.fromearthtotheuniverse.org/event_photos.php). By 2011, FETTU had been exhibited at about 1000 sites worldwide, with 50 sites in the United States. One result from FETTU demonstrated a trend towards more non-self-selective audiences for science communications in these public spaces. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "22351741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22351741", "title": "Regulatory focus theory", "text": "Regulatory focus theory\n\nRegulatory focus theory (RFT) is a goal pursuit theory formulated by Columbia University psychology professor and researcher E. Tory Higgins regarding people's perceptions in the decision making process. RFT examines the relationship between the motivation of a person and the way in which they go about achieving their goal. RFT posits two separate and independent self-regulatory orientations: prevention and promotion (Higgins, 1997).\n\nThis psychological theory, like many others, is applied in communication, specifically in the subfields of nonverbal communication and persuasion.Chronic regulatory focus is measured using the Regulatory Focus Questionnaire (Higgins et al., 2001) or the Regulatory Strength measure. Momentary regulatory focus can be primed or induced.\n\nTo understand RFT, it is important to understand another of E. Tory Higgins' theories: regulatory fit theory. When a person believes that there is \"fit\", they will involve themselves more in what they are doing and \"feel right\" about it. Regulatory fit should not directly affect the hedonic occurrence of a thing or occasion, but should influence a person's assurance in their reaction to the object or event.\n\nRegulatory fit theory suggests that a match between orientation to a goal and the means used to approach that goal produces a state of regulatory fit that both creates a feeling of rightness about the goal pursuit and increases task engagement (Higgins, 2001, 2005). Regulatory fit intensifies responses, such as the value of a chosen object, persuasion, and job satisfaction.\n\nRegulatory fit does not increase the assessment of a decision; instead when someone feels \"right\" about their decision, the experience of \"correctness and importance\" is transferred to the ensuing assessment of the chosen object, increasing its superficial worth. Research suggests that the \"feeling right\" experience can then sway retrospective or prospective evaluations. Regulatory fit can be manipulated incidentally (outside the context of interest) or integrally (within the context of interest).\n\nRFT refers to when a person pursues a goal in a way that maintains the person's own personal values and beliefs, also known as \"regulatory orientation\". This theory operates on the basic principle that people embrace pleasure but avoid pain, and they then maintain their regulatory fit based on this standard.\n\nThe \"regulatory focus\" is basically the way in which someone approaches pleasure but avoids pain. An individual's regulatory focus concentrates on desired end-states, and the approach motivation used to go from the current state to the desired end-state. This theory differentiates between a \"promotion-focus\" on hopes and accomplishments, also known as gains. This focus is more concerned with higher level gains such as advancement and accomplishment.\n\nAnother focus is the \"prevention-focus\" based on safety and responsibilities, also known as non-losses. This focus emphasizes security and safety by following the guidelines and the rules.\n\nThese two regulatory focuses regulate the influences that a person would be exposed to in the decision-making process, and determine the different ways they achieve their goal, as discussed by RFT. An individual's regulatory orientation is not necessarily fixed. While individuals have chronic tendencies towards either promotion or prevention, these preferences may not hold for all situations. Furthermore, a specific regulatory focus can be induced.\n\nThe value taken from interaction and goal attainment can be either positive or negative. The decision has positive value when people attempt to attain their goal in a way that fits their regulatory orientation and it will have negative value when people attempt to attain their goal in a way that does not fit their regulatory orientation. Regulatory fit allows value to be created by intensifying the commitment, based on one of the regulatory focus orientations. Making choices and fulfilling objectives are considered as activities, and with any activity, people can be more or less involved. When this involvement is strong, it can intensify the feelings and values about this activity, and the approach to the activity determines whether they are or are not satisfied with the outcome and method of achieving the outcome.\n\nThis theory has noteworthy implications for increasing the value of life. For example, in interpersonal conflict, if each person experiences \"fit\", each one will be satisfied with and committed to the outcome. In the broad sense, for people to appreciate their own lives, they need to be satisfied and \"feel right\" about what they are doing, and the way they are doing it. If it is not satisfying, it is known as \"non-fit\", and they will not reach their desired goal.\n\nRegulatory focus theory, according to Higgins, views motivation in a way that allows an understanding of the foundational ways we approach a task or a goal. Different factors can motivate people during goal pursuit, and we self-regulate our methods and processes during our goal pursuit. RFT proposes that motivational strength is enhanced when the manner in which people work toward a goal sustains their regulatory orientation. Achieving a goal in a way that is consistent to a person's regulatory orientation leads to an individual sense of importance to the event. The impact of motivation is considered calculated and this creates a greater sense of commitment to the goal. The more strongly an individual is engaged (i.e., involved, occupied, fully engrossed) in an activity, the more intense the motivational force experienced. Engagement is of great importance to attain and motivate in order to reach a goal. Engagement serves as intensifier of the directional component of the value experience. An individual who is strongly engaged in a goal pursuits will experience a positive target more positively and a negative target more negatively.\n\nIndividuals can pursue different goals with diverse regulatory orientations and in unlike ways. There are two different kinds of regulatory orientations that people use to obtain their goals: \"promotion-focus orientation\" and \"prevention-focus orientation\". These terms are derived from E. Tory Higgins's Theory of Regulatory Focus. In which, he adds to the notion that people regulate their goal-oriented behavior in two very distinct ways, coined \"promotion-focus orientation\" and \"prevention-focus orientation\"\n\nE. Tory Higgins uses this example: there is Student A and Student B, and they both have the shared goal to make an \"A\" in a class they are both taking in college. Student A uses a \"promotion-focus orientation\" which slants them towards achieving their goal and towards advancement, growth and life accomplishment. This would cause Student A to view the goal as an ideal that satisfies their need for accomplishment. Student B uses a \"prevention-focus orientation\" where the goal is something that should be realized because it fulfills their need for security, protection and prevention of negative outcomes. Student A uses an eager approach where they read extra materials to obtain their goal of an \"A\". Student B uses a vigilant approach where they become more detail oriented and pay careful attention to completing all of the course requirements.\n\nBoth forms of regulatory orientation can work to fulfill goals, but the choice of orientation is based on individual preferences and style. When a person pursues their goal in the focus that fits their regulatory orientation, they are more likely to pursue their goal more eagerly and aggressively than if they were using the other focus.In this case each student has different styles. They both feel more comfortable in persuading their goal. The outcome in this experiment would have been different if the students were given an undesirable choice.\n\nWhen people make decisions, they often envision the possible \"pleasure or pain\" of the possible outcomes that the focus orientation will produce. A person imagining making a pleasing choice is more likely to engage in promotion-focus orientation because envisioning the possible outcome of success maintains eagerness about the outcome but does not place importance on vigilance. A person imagining the possible pain by making an undesirable choice maintains more vigilance but less eagerness.\n\nA person with promotion-focus orientation is more likely to remember the occasions where the goal is pursued by using eagerness approaches and less likely to remember occasions where the goal is pursued by vigilance approaches. A person with prevention-focus orientation is more likely to remember events where the goal is pursued by means of vigilance than if it was pursued using eagerness approaches.\n\nWhen relating regulatory focus theory to persuasion, it is important to remember that RFT is a goal-attainment theory, and that RFT can spawn feelings of rightness/wrongness which in turn may produce formulations for judgments.\n\nThe feelings of rightness give an individual more commitment to the information coming in and therefore can avoid endangering their regulatory fit which in turn changes their regulatory focus and accepting a probable motive to change. If a person experiences feelings of wrongness they will suffer negative emotions and deem the experience \nand information as a threat to their regulatory fit and therefore a threat to their regulatory focus and their goal.\n\nStudies have been done where fit and focus have been applied to show their applicability to consumer purchasing, health advisories, and social policy issues. To be persuaded is to change your prior feelings, actions, and/or beliefs on a matter to where you agree with the persuader.\n\nThe \"fit\" involved in RFT plays a large role in such issues and stories because it can be a device to help an individual receive and review the experience during a particular message delivery. Positive reinforcement and feelings of rightness while decoding the message creates a stronger engagement and relationship with processing the message, and negative reinforcement and feelings of wrongness lessens the engagement and attachment.\n\nResearchers found that targeting the two different regulatory focus orientations, and their coinciding types of fit, works as an effective process to aid in persuasive charm or pull when they introduced a manner of persuasion where the framing of the message was everything and the content was irrelevant to uphold or interrupt a person's regulatory fit and follow the pattern of logic used in regulatory orientation.\n\nLee and Aaker (2004) conducted an experiment that involved whether or not to give their information in a prevention-focus- or promotion-focus-concerning way. The study involved an advertisement for a grape juice drink, which they split into two to create prevention-focus concerns (disease-preventing) and then promotion-focus concerns (energy enhancement). In doing so, they demonstrated that rather than trying to know each individual recipient's qualities, one needs only to start by nailing the focus (prevention/promotion) and then framing the message so that it creates that \"rightness\".\n\nSome may confuse RFT with regulatory fit, regulatory relevance, message matching, and source attractiveness in such an example. The extent of similarities between closely related theories of RFT, such as ones stated above, make it hard to clarify when this theory is applicable or apparent in respect to the persuasion process.\n\nRFT can be a useful outline for a better understanding of the effects of nonverbal cues in persuasion and impression formation. Regulatory Fit Theory suggests that the effect of a cue cannot be understood without remembering what the cue means given a recipient's focus orientation.\n\nNonverbal cues can be used by the message source to vary delivery style, more specifically to convey eagerness or vigilance, of a given message in a way that will produce regulatory fit in message recipients of different focus orientations.\n\nAdvancement implies eager movement forward, so eagerness is conveyed by gestures that involve animated, broad opening movements such as hand movements projecting outward, forward leaning body positions, fast body movement, and fast speech rate. Caution implies vigilant carefulness, so vigilance should be conveyed by gestures that show precision like slightly backward-leaning body positions, slower body movement, and slower speech rate.\n\nAn eager nonverbal delivery style will result in greater message effectiveness for promotion-focus recipients than for prevention-focus recipients, while the opposite is true for a vigilant nonverbal style.\n\nThere are various aspects, which may contribute to whether or not a message's persuasive element is successful. One aspect is the effect of nonverbal cues and their association with persuasive appeals based on the message recipient's motivational regulatory orientation. This determines the recipient's impression of the source during impression formation.\n\nResearch has found that nonverbal cues are an essential element of most persuasive appeals. RFT creates the background that allows a prediction for when and for whom a nonverbal cue can have an effect on persuasion. When nonverbal cues and signals are used appropriately, they increase the effectiveness of persuasion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49605932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49605932", "title": "Sex symbol", "text": "Sex symbol\n\nA sex symbol is a famous person or fictional character widely regarded to be very sexually attractive.\n\nThe term \"sex symbol\" was first used in the mid-1950s in relation to the popularity of certain film stars and pin-up models, including Marilyn Monroe, Brigitte Bardot, and Raquel Welch. This concept was a reflection of the post-World War II increase of sexual and economic emancipation of women. \n\nIn the 20th century, sex symbols could be male as well as female: actors such as the romantic Sessue Hayakawa and the athletic Douglas Fairbanks were popular in the 1910s and 1920s. Archetypal screen lover Rudolph Valentino's death in 1926 caused mass hysteria among his female fans. In Hollywood, many film stars were seen as sex symbols, such as Errol Flynn, Gary Cooper, and Clark Gable. The \"bad boy\" image of the 1950s was epitomized by sex symbols such as James Dean and Marlon Brando.\n\nIn his Elvis Presley obituary, Lester Bangs credited him as \"the man who brought overt blatant vulgar sexual frenzy to the popular arts in America,\" in the 1950s and 1960s, through his overtly suggestive dance moves.\n\nWith regard to fiction, Rotten Tomatoes states that the 1930s cartoon character Betty Boop is \"the first and most famous sex symbol on animated screen\". Jessica Rabbit (voiced by Kathleen Turner) from the 1988 live-action/animation crossover film \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\" has been described as a sex symbol as well.. Toot Braunstein (voiced by Tara Strong) from the adult animated sitcom Drawn Together is also considered as a sex symbol.\n\nVideo games have had a few characters that are considered sex symbols; one example would be Lara Croft, who has had several appearances in mainstream media. Other notable sex symbols include Rayne, the first video game character that appeared in \"Playboy\", in its October 2004 US issue's article, \"Gaming Grows Up\"; and Nina Williams, voted \"Hottest\" Female Fighting Character in \"Guinness World Records, Gamers Edition 2008\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40930170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40930170", "title": "Sexecology", "text": "Sexecology\n\nSexecology (also ecosexuality) is a radical form of environmental activism based around nature fetishism, the idea of the earth as a lover. It invites people to treat the earth with love rather than see it as an infinite resource to exploit. It was founded by Elizabeth Stephens and Annie Sprinkle, who describe themselves as \"two ecosexual artists-in-love\", whose manifesto is to make environment activism \"more sexy, fun, and diverse\". Sexecology employs absurdist humor, performance art and sex-positivity, which Stephens claims \"may produce new forms of knowledge that hold potential to alter the future by privileging our desire for the Earth to function with as many diverse, intact and flourishing ecological systems as possible.\" \" The couple promote education, events such as the ecosex symposium, and activism, such as protecting the Appalachian Mountains from mountain top removal.\n\nSexecology conceives of the earth not as a mother, but as a lover. This conceptual shift invites people to engage their bodies and senses in acts of environmental preservation.\n\nUnlike ecofeminism, sexecology does not see an intrinsic link between women and nature; some of the limitations of ecofeminism which sex ecology indirectly addresses are \"the reliance on women's biological functions to establish a connection between women and nature, the uncritical over-privileging of women's experiences, the inappropriateness of designating ideal female characteristics, and the regressive political implications of associating women with nature\". \"The formulation of an Eco-Sexual identity is a practice of an erotic eco-logic, deconstructing heteronormative constructions of gender, sex, sexuality, and nature in order to continually queer and destabilize identities, actively form and retain spaces of lack that necessitate interdependency, and engage a permeable sensuous self in perpetual sensorial reciprocity with the sensing and sensible more-than-human environment. It is an identity identified by desire rather than a stable essence or being, and it is a desire for the more-than-human environment in which the human subject is sensorially implicit.\"\n\nProponents of this movement are called \"ecosexuals\"; they are unafraid to engage in and embrace their erotic experience with the earth, such as bathing naked, having sex with vegetables or having an orgasm in a waterfall. Stephens describes ecosexuals as people who \"... are related to cyborgs and are not afraid of engaging in intercourse with nature and/or with technology for that matter. We make love with the Earth through our senses.\"\n\nEcosexuals range from those who use sustainable sex products and like being nude in nature to those who \"roll around in the dirt having an orgasm covered in potting soil\" and those who \"masturbate under a waterfall\" \"[Sprinkle and Stephens] have officiated wedding ceremonies where they and fellow ecosexuals marry the earth, the moon, and other natural entities\" They have also stated that they believe there are over 100,000 people who identify as ecosexual worldwide\nStefanie Iris Weiss wrote a book about using sustainable sex products called \"Eco-sex: Go Green Between the Sheets and Make Your Love Life Sustainable\". She brings up the environmental impact and the carbon footprint we leave behind when using condoms, lube, and other sex products. The overall purpose of the book is to bring awareness of the environmental impact of current sex products while introducing more eco-friendly alternatives.\n\nSexecology seeks to direct attention towards “the ways in which sex and sexuality affect the larger nonhuman world.” Ecosexuality is an orientation directed toward the non-human material world. With this direction, ecosexuality makes a bold statement that “these human bodies are part of the nonhuman material world.” The blur between human and non-human entities is essential to Sprinkles and Stephens’ demonstration of sexecology.\n\nSexecology was influenced by contemporary theories around posthumanism and the relationships between humans and nonhumans.\n\n\"Haraway’s work has guided my understanding of the material consequences and the theoretical underpinnings embedded in human/nonhuman relationships that matrix our world. This has helped me understand how human exceptionalism has been constructed and privileged throughout the history of religion and science as well as in other secular practices in western culture. Human exceptionalism, in collaboration with global capitalism, has created the isolated space necessary for the ongoing practices that have produced the dangerously degraded environmental conditions in which we now live. The belief systems and ideologies that allow some people to think that they have the Darwinian survival skill and the rights that accompany those skills to use or destroy other human and non humans is now causing the kind of environmental degradation that affects the whole system sooner or later.\"\n\n“The Love Art Lab projects aim to instill hope, create an antidote to fear, and act as a call for action.” It is a private demonstration into the work of the two founders of the movement, Sprinkles and Stephens, as the research how to become \"lovers with the earth. The performances can be privately booked by contacting the two and are meant to be demonstrational, informative, and \"radical.\"\n\nSprinkles and Stephens have performed a number of \"weddings to the earth\" across the world intended to break the barrier between human sexuality and nature. The performances include \"Wedding to the Dirt, Wedding to Lake Kallavesi, Wedding to the Coal, Wedding to the Rocks, Wedding to the Snow, Wedding to the Moon, Wedding to the Appalachian Mountains, Wedding to the Earth, and Wedding to the Sea\", to date. The intention, according to Sprinkles, is to \"…shift the metaphor from ‘Earth as Mother’ to ‘Earth as Lover´\" \n\nSprinkles and Stephens have performed a two women show 25 Ways to Make Love to the Earth (Theatre Piece) at the Kosmos Theatre in Vienna in 2010 to demonstrate how to \"make love with the earth\", including talking, singing, dancing, and stroking natural objects. The performances are educational as well as self-promoting of the movement.\n\nThe aesthetic strategies of sexecology are influenced by Joseph Beuys' concept of social sculpture, which sees art as having the potential to transform society.\n\n\"... the production of visible art may effect the production of invisible ideological and class relations. For Joseph Beuys, sculpture and artistic creativity hold the potential to reshape the educational and governmental institutions that produce ideological subjects, as well as social, political, and economic systems. Art, Beuys argues, is the necessary condition for the production of a revolutionary society because it can both unravel the old order and engage everyone in the production of a new social order.\"\n\nEcosexuals have held a number of educational workshops. They have engaged in on-site environmental activism, such as \"Occupy Bernal\" and protests against mountaintop removal, as shown in the film \"Goodbye Gauley Mountain: An Ecosexual Love Story.\"\n\n\"Goodbye Gauley Mountain: An Ecosexual Love Story\" (2013) is a autoethnographic documentary film by Elizabeth Stephens with Annie Sprinkle about the environmental issue of Mountaintop removal in West Virginia, United States. West Virginia native Stephens returns to her childhood home to create a film that incorporates autobiography, a brief history of the coal industry, an inventory of activist strategies, an eco-sexual mini-manifesto, and finally, an example of the performance art Stephens and Sprinkle often employ to express their ecosexuality. Stephens presents a community struggling to rectify their love of their natural mountainous environment with the fact that its destruction via MTR provides the local economy. The piece explores the negative consequences of mountaintop removal, both cosmetic and environmental, and culminates in an exploration of ecosexuality, followed by wedding ceremony in which Stephens and Sprinkle \"marry\" the mountain. “Ecosexuality inserts an ‘erotic’ humor that plays against the horrific subject matter. So far the feedback that I’ve received at film previews makes me realize that these are effective strategies for creating space to briefly cut the feeling of despair that MTR evokes.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50227895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50227895", "title": "Sexual racial preference", "text": "Sexual racial preference\n\nSexual racial preference is the individual's sexual preference of specific races. It is an inclination towards potential sexual or romantic partners on the basis of perceived racial identity. Not everyone agrees that this should be classified as racism, some argue that distinguishing among partners on the basis of perceived race is not racism at all but a justifiable personal preference. The origins of sexual racism can be explained by looking at its history, especially in the US, where the abolition of slavery and the Reconstruction Era had significant impacts on interracial mixing. Attitudes towards interracial relationships, and indeed marriage, have increased in positivity in the last 50 years. In 1968, 73% of US citizens disapproved of the right to marry inter-racially, whereas this figure dropped to 17% by 2007, this illustrating the reduction in discriminatory attitudes towards interracial dating. Irrespective of this, there still remains the issue of sexual racism in the online dating world, in that preferences appear to follow a racial hierarchy. Sharing the basic premise, originating from the 'taboo' nature of interracial relations, individuals of other racial groups are classified as forbidden sexual objects; the result of a racial fetish.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in 1865, the white Americans showed an increasing fear of racial mixture. The remnants of the racial divide became stronger post-slavery as the concept of whiteness developed. There was a widely held belief that uncontrollable lust threatens the purity of the nation. This increased white anxiety about interracial sex, and has been described through Montesquieu's climatic theory in his book the Spirit of the Laws, which explains how people from different climates have different temperaments, \"The inhabitants of warm countries are, like old men, timorous; the people in cold countries are, like young men, brave.\" At the time, black women held the jezebel stereotype, which claimed black women often initiated sex outside of marriage and were generally sexually promiscuous. This idea stemmed from the first encounters between European men and African women. As the men were not used to the extremely hot climate they misinterpreted the women's lack of clothing for vulgarity. Similarly, black men were stereotyped for having a specific lust for white women. This created tension, as if white men were having sex with black women because they were more lustful, this meant black men would lust after white women in the same way, this threatened the white male dominance that was apparent at the time, increasing the fear of interracial interactions.\n\nThere are a few potential reasons as to why such strong ideas on interracial sex developed. The Reconstruction Era following the Civil War started to disassemble traditional aspects of Southern society. The Southerners who were used to being dominant were now no longer legally allowed to run their farms using slavery. Many whites struggled with this reformation and attempted to find loopholes to continue the exploitation of black labour. Additionally, the white Democrats were not pleased with the outcome and felt a sense of inadequacy among white men. This led to them taking out their frustration on the black population. This radical reconstruction of the South was deeply unpopular and slowly unravelled leading to the introduction of the Jim Crow laws. There was an increased the sense of white dominance and sexual racism among the Southern people.\n\nThere were general heightened tensions following the end of the failed civil war in 1865, and this increased the sexual anxiety in the population. Races did not want to mix, the whites were feeling inadequate and wanted to take back control. The Ku Klux Klan then formed in 1867, which led to violence and terrorism targeting the black population. There was a rise in lynch mob violence where many black men were accused of rape. This was not just senseless violence, but an attempt to preserve 'whiteness' and prevent racial blur, the whites wanted to remain dominant and make sure there was no interracial sexual activity. For example, mixed race couples that chose to live together were sought out and lynched by the KKK. The famous case of Emmett Till who was lynched at the age of fourteen for supposedly whistling at a white women shows the prominence of white male anxiety in the 1950s. When the Jim Crow laws were eventually overturned, it took years for the court to resolve the numerous acts of discrimination.\n\nSexual racism exists in both the heterosexual and homosexual communities across the globe. The prevalence of interracial couples demonstrate how attitudes have changed in the last 50 years. A case that has perhaps received heightened publicity is that of Mildred and Richard Loving. The couple lived in Virginia yet had to marry outside the state due to the anti-miscegenation laws present in nearly half of the US states in 1958. Once married, the pair returned to Virginia, and were both arrested in their home for the infringement of the Racial Integrity Act, and each sentenced to a year in prison. Prior to the repeal of these laws in 2000, several attempts were made to void the sentence, ultimately the couple resorted to relocation to avoid further prejudice. \n\nAround a similar time was the controversy surrounding Seretse and Ruth Khama. Seretse was the chief of an eminent Botswanan tribe, and Ruth an English student. The pair married in 1948 but experienced frequent discrimination from the onset of the relationship, including Seretse's removal from his tribal responsibilities as chief. For nearly 10 years, Seretse and Ruth lived as exiles in Britain, as the racism towards their relationship remained strong. British officials hoped that their asylum in the country would reduce their desire to continue the marriage. Once the couple were allowed to return home in 1956, they became prominent figures the movement for racial and social justice, contributing to Seretse's election as president of Botswana in 1966. Later, they both continued to fight laws surrounding interracial marriage.\n\nMore recent examples portray the increasingly accepting attitudes of the majority to interracial relationships and marriage. In 2013, Bill de Blasio was elected as Mayor of New York City, accompanied by his wife, Chirlane McCray. The pair are one of the first interracial couples to stand in power side by side. Both de Blasio and McCray are active political figures, and although they are not exempt from racial discrimination, the attitudes of the world to interracial marriage are much more positive and optimistic than in previous decades. Across much of the world, it is ever increasingly the situation that interracial couples can live, marry and have children without prosecution that was previously rife, due to major changes in law along with reductions in discriminatory attitudes. Sexual racism also exists in the heterosexual community in online dating.\n\nIn the last 15 years, online dating has overtaken previously preferred methods of meeting with potential partners, surpassing both the occupational setting and area of residence as chosen locations. This spike is consistent with an increase in access to the internet in homes across the globe, in addition to the number of dating sites available to individuals differing in age, gender, race, sexual orientation and ethnic background. Along with this, there has been a rise in online sexual racism, whereby partner race is now the most highly selected preference chosen by users when creating their online profiles, displacing both educational and religious characteristics. Research has indicated a progressive acceptance of interracial relationships by White individuals. The majority of White Americans are not against interracial relationships and marriage, however these beliefs are not illustrated in subsequent marital rates between interracial couples, such that no more than 4% of White Americans will wed outside their own race. In fact, less than 46% of White Americans are willing to date an individual of any other race. Overall, African Americans appear to be the most open to interracial relationships, yet are the least preferred partner by other racial groups. However, regardless of stated preferences, racial discrimination still occurs in online dating.\n\nEach group significantly prefers to date intra-racially. White Americans are the least open to interracial dating, and select preferences in the order of Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans and then African American individuals last at 60.5%, 58.5% and 49.4% respectively. African American preferences follow a similar pattern, with the most preferred partner belonging to the Hispanic group (61%), followed by White individuals (59.6%) and then Asian Americans (43.5%). Both Hispanic and Asian Americans prefer to date a White individual (80.3% and 87.3%, respectively), and both are least willing to date African Americans (56.5% and 69.5%). In all significant cases, Hispanic Americans are preferred to Asian Americans, and Asian Americans are significantly preferred over African Americans. Hispanic Americans are less likely to be excluded in online dating partner preferences by whites seeking a partner, as Latinos are often viewed as a racial group that is increasingly assimilating more into White American culture.\n\nIn addition to general racism in online dating, there is further exclusion differences between certain genders within racial groups, such that women of any race are significantly less likely to date inter-racially than a male of any race. Specifically, Asian men and Black women face more obstacles to acceptance online. White women are most likely to exclude Asian men, likely due to their amplified effeminate portrayal in the media. This exclusion remains present even when considering high earning Asian individuals with an advanced educational background. Increased education does however influence choices in the other direction, such that a higher level of schooling is associated with more optimistic feelings towards interracial relationships. White men are most likely to exclude Black women, as opposed to women of another race. High levels of previous exposure to a variety of racial groups creates a more accepting attitude. Sexual racism in online dating, in addition to the outside world, is also influenced by the partner selectors area of residence. Those residing in more Southern regions, particularly in American states, are less likely to have been in an interracial relationship, and are unlikely to inter-racially date in the future. Location is also related to the individuals current and previous religious practices; those who engaged in regular religious customs at age 12 are less likely to inter-racially date. Moreover, those from a Jewish background are significantly more likely to enter an interracial relationship than those from a Protestant background, indicating differences in levels of sexual racism present, which translate into the virtual world of online dating.\n\nCurrently, there are websites specifically targeted to different couple matches, such that singles can sign up online and focus on one particular partner quality, such as race, religious beliefs or ethnicity. In addition to this, there are online dating services that target race-specific partner choices, and a selection of pages dedicated to interracial dating that allow users to select partners based on age, gender and particularly race. Online dating services experience controversy in this context as debate is cast over whether statements such as \"no Asians\" or \"not attracted to Asians\" in user profiles, are racist or just signify individual preference. Ethnic minorities who feel they lack dating prospects as a result of their race, sometimes refer to themselves as \"ethnicels\".\n\nAsian men are often represented in media, both mainstream and LGBT, as being feminized and desexualized. LGBT Asian men often report sexual racism from white LGBT men. The gay Asian-Canadian author Richard Fung has written that while black men are portrayed as hypersexualized, gay Asian men are portrayed as being undersexed. Fung also wrote about feminizing depictions of Asian men in gay pornography, which often focuses on gay Asian men's submission to the pleasure of white men. According to Fung, gay Asian men tend to ignore or display displeasure with races such as Arabs, blacks, and other Asians but seemingly give sexual acceptance and approval to gay white men. White gay men are more frequently than other racial groups to state \"No Asians\" when seeking partners. In interracial gay male pornography, Asian men are usually portrayed as submissive \"bottoms\".\n\nAsian American women also report similar discrimination in lesbian, gay, bisexual (LGB) communities. According to a study by Sung, Szymanski, and Henrichs-Beck (2015), Asian American participants who identified as lesbian or bisexual often reported invisibility, stereotyping, and fetishism in LGB circles and the larger U.S. culture. This is in addition to the heterosexism and invisibility they felt in Asian American communities.\n\nRacial sexism is also prevalent in gay online dating. Phua and Kaufman (2003) noted that men seeking men online were more likely than men seeking women to look at racial traits. Race is often used to advertise oneself or as a criterion in seeking a partner, according to a study looking at Manhunt profiles. In Callander, Newman, and Holt's (2012) study, White participants self-disclosed their racial identity less often than non-White participants, with the implication that Whiteness was the norm and non-Whites expected to self-disclose their racial identity. They cite one profile description as an example: \"I shouldn't have to ask for a picture, or your age, or your ethnicity. Have it available straight away or I'll just pass over your profile.\"\n\nIn a qualitative study conducted by Paul, Ayala, and Choi (2010) with Asian and Pacific Islanders (API), Latino, and African American men seeking men, participants interviewed endorsed racial preference as a common criteria in online dating partner selection. This reflects the racist power hierarchies often seen in broader spheres of society where Eurocentric discourses are often the standard, and non-Eurocentric discourses are the exceptions.\n\nIn another study by Callander, Newman, and Holts, researchers found that attitudes towards sexual racism was often tolerated, with many participants feeling that racial preference was not racism. They quoted Watts from the Huffington Post, who argued that sexual attraction and racism are not the same:\n\nThis suggests that people find it possible to view larger systemic racial preference as problematic, while viewing racial preferences in romantic or sexual personal relationships as not problematic. Researchers noted that there is a general hesitation to call racial preference \"racist\", with many defending racial preference as saving time.\n\nIn that same study, researchers found that attitudes towards sexual racism were similar to attitudes about generic racism. That is, patterns of sexual racism seems to follow similar patterns of general racism. For example, they found that higher levels of education was associated with more positive attitudes about multiculturalism and less positive attitudes about racial sexism. They also found that experiences of exclusion online due to race was correlated with more accepting views of multiculturalism and less accepting attitudes about sexual racism, regardless of racial identity. These findings suggest that being more aware of racism in general, due to experience or education, and racism's impact had an effect on racial preference such that it was seen as less desirable.\n\nAs well as race-based sexual rejection, sexual racism also manifests in the form of the hypersexualisation of specific ethnic groups. Freudians theorize that sexual fetishism, people of one race can form sexual fixations towards individuals of a separate generalised racial group. This collective stereotype is established through the perception that an individual's sexual appeal derives entirely from their race, and is therefore subject to the prejudices that follow.\n\nRacial fetishism as a culture is often perceived, in this context, as an act or belief motivated by sexual racism. The objectification and reductionist perception of different races, for example, East Asian women, or African American men, relies greatly on their portrayal in forms of media that depict them as sexual objects. An example of such a medium includes pornography. An instance of this hypersexualisation is commented upon in Artist and Designer Donna Choi's illustrative series targeting the specific fetishisation of Asian women, named, \"Does Your Man Suffer From Yellow Fever?\" (2013). In said illustration, Choi uses satire to depict a white man's harmful perception of a \"china doll stereotype\" towards Asian woman and how she is an object to his desires. Choi's intention comes across through implying the presence of an obvious dehumanisation of Asian women in the eyes of another race. This is a deliberate commentary on the fetishisation rooted within the social issue of sexual racism.\n\nThe effects of Racial Fetishism as a form of Sexual Racism, is discussed in research conducted by Plummer. Plummer used qualitative interviews within given focus groups, and found that specific social locations came up as areas in which sexual racism commonly manifest. These mentioned social locations included pornographic media, gay clubs and bars, casual sex encounters as well as romantic relationships. This high prevalence was recorded within Plummer's research to be consequentially related to the recorded lower self-esteem, internalised sexual racism, and increased psychological distress in participants of colour. People subject to this form of racial discernment are targeted in a manner well put by Hook. Hook's historical overview of J.M. Coetzee's novel, largely addressed Coetzee's depictions of racial otherness within South Africa. Additionally, Coetzee goes on to write about how the otherness and social detachment from the colonials was what fabricated present racial stereotypes. Such stereotypes are what is said to encourage the perception of other racial groups as \"fantasmatic objects\"; a degrading and generalising view of different racial populations.\n"}
{"id": "164070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164070", "title": "Sexual ritual", "text": "Sexual ritual\n\nSexual rituals fall into two categories: culture-created, and natural behaviour, the human animal having developed \"sex rituals\" from evolutionary instincts for reproduction, which are then integrated into society, and elaborated to include aspects such as marriage rites, dances, etc. Arguably indeed, 'sex in its more ritualized and symbolic varieties...has moulded the shape of civilization'.\n\nSometimes sexual rituals are highly formalized and/or part of religious activity, as in the cases of Hieros gamos, the hierodule and the OTO. Contemporary sacred sexual rituals have been tagged as 'structured, symbolic, manifestation, ceremonies, tradition, everyday, habit, grounding, magic, solemn'.\n\nPart of the rites of passage of growing up are what have been termed 'rites of separation from the asexual world...followed by rites of incorporation into the world of sexuality'. These may be formal or semi-formal—'for some students, going to college is partly a sexual ritual, like the ceremonial dances of the whooping crane'—or take the form of a more private induction: 'formal and artificial...the impression that a long-established rite was to be enacted, among Staffordshire figurs and \"papier-mâché\" trays, with the compelling, detached formality of nightmare'.\n\nFreud was particularly interested in Ethnological accounts of 'the \"ceremonial\" (purely formal, ritual, or official) coitus, which takes place' in connection with 'the taboo of virginity'.\n\nFreud also noted that in 'numerous examples of marriage ceremonies there can be no doubt that people other than the bridegroom, for example his assistants and companions (our traditional \"groomsmen\"), granted full sexual access to the bride'. To his followers, 'the \"wedding as orgy\", with the bride taking on all the men present, is the clear historical reality behind the modern jokes...and the climactic line-up or \"gang\"-kissing of the bride, by all the men present'.\n\nIn such a view, 'other examples of sacred or permitted public coitus of all women with all men do survive, in similarly modified \"kissing\" form', as under the mistletoe 'to revive the dying sun at the winter solstice, when the strongest human \"life-magic\", namely ritual intercourse, is to be deployed'.\n\nTo the sociologist looking upon 'sexual intercourse as interaction ritual...sexual intercourse is the ritual of love; it both creates and recreates the social tie (since Durkheimian rituals need to be repeated periodically, as solidarity runs down), and symbolizes it'. In similar fashion, Margot Anand has pointed out that 'rituals pervade our daily life and give it a sense of ceremony and celebration(...)a ritual, through your own unique symbolic gestures...will help you transform your lovemaking into a special and sacred act'.\n\nErving Goffman has noted however 'the considerable informational delicacy of this form of interaction', and how 'individuals may use darkness to ensure strategic ambiguity'.\n\nIn perversion, sexual rituals may emerge as a necessary part of sexual activity. For the criminologist, 'sexual ritual involves repeatedly engaging in an act or series of acts in a certain manner because of a sexual need'. Within a relationship, 'the Compulsive libido type takes advantages of opportunities to use the specific sexual ritual that causes intense arousal, and in its stronger form, the Compulsive lover can only arouse using the sexual object or ritual\".\n\nIn any relationship however, 'a sexual habit that becomes routine or stylised...can lead to a sexual ritual', so that 'if you don't have a way to talk to your partner about your sexual relationship, you may find yourself...stuck in sexual rituals that could be limiting your sexual enjoyment': as a wife might say, '\"Same old technique, same old Lewis. It's you all right, I'd know that old routine anywhere'. Thus one's sex life may all 'be about rituals: the ritual of sex in the morning, or the ritual of sex at night; and the ritual of sex at anniversaries, and the ritual of sex at Christmas'.\n\nIn the Buddhist art of India, Bhutan, Nepal and Tibet, yab-yum is the male deity in sexual union with his female consort. The symbolism is associated with Anuttarayoga tantra where the male figure is usually linked to compassion (\"\") and skillful means (\"upāya-kauśalya\"), and the female partner to 'insight' (\"prajñā\").\n\nThe symbolism of union and sexual polarity is a central teaching in Tantric Buddhism, especially in Tibet. The union is realised by the practitioner as a mystical experience within one's own body. Yab-yum is generally understood to represent the primordial (or mystical) union of wisdom and compassion.\n\nTantric Buddhism is itself an outcrop of Tantrism, advanced techniques of which included 'the ritual sex act (Maithuna) which was a feature of Tantric yoga'. Given that 'sex is holy to a Tantric...Tantric art, writings and religious rituals glorify sex'.\n\nA sex organ 'makes an admirable fertility symbol, and has been worshipped as such privately from time to time, or even publicly...gives dramatic promise of productivity and protection'. Such \"worship\" may only become more common in late modernity, as 'in our secular culture sexuality often replaces religion as a means of pursuing the meaning of life'.\n\nAlan Watts maintains that 'when you are in love with someone, you do indeed see them as a divine being...through a tremendous outpouring of psychic energy in total devotion and worship for this other person'. A woman may 'want someone who adores me...like he was adoring my breasts with his hands'. A man (more ambivalently) may muse on 'the white breasts he worships; adores; is scared of; detests'. For Shakespeare, 'this is the liver-vein, which makes flesh a deity, a green goose a goddess; pure, pure idolatry'.\n\nIn the further reaches of chick lit, ' the male organ...becomes a tower of strength, a tree trunk in girth, the pillar that sustains the universe...a Pillar of Hercules, sustaining heaven'—evidence perhaps that 'the phallic religious tendency is alive in the modern and the civilized...a compulsive fascination' with what Jung termed 'the phallus as the quintessence of life and fruitfulness'. Correspondingly, the Western adept may borrow, in the quest 'to create a Sacred Space...names given to the vagina in the East, including Valley of Joy, Great Jewel, Pearl, Lotus Blossom, Moist Cave, Ripe Peach, Enchanted Garden, and Full Moon'.\n\nIn the \"Satyricon\", the hero is throughout 'hounded by the mighty rage of Priapus of Hellespont'—almost certainly because early on he 'has offended Priapus...by impersonating him in some sexual ceremonies'.\n\n"}
{"id": "29089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29089", "title": "Snuff film", "text": "Snuff film\n\nA snuff film, or snuff movie, is \"a movie in a purported genre of movies in which a person is actually murdered or commits suicide\". It may or may not be made for financial gain, but is supposedly \"circulated amongst a jaded few for the purpose of entertainment\". Some filmed records of executions and murders exist, but in those cases, the death was not specifically staged for financial gain or entertainment.\n\nThe first known use of the term \"snuff movie\" is in a 1971 book by Ed Sanders, \"The Family: The Story of Charles Manson's Dune Buggy Attack Battalion\". He alleges that The Manson Family was involved in making such a film in California to record their murders.\n\nThe noun \"snuff\" originally meant the part of a candle wick that has already burned; the verb \"snuff\" meant to cut this off, and by extension to extinguish or kill. The word has been used in this sense in English slang for hundreds of years. It was defined in 1874 as a \"term very common among the lower orders of London, meaning to die from disease or accident\".\n\nAccording to Geoffrey O'Brien, \"whether or not commercially distributed 'snuff' movies actually exist, the possibility of such movies is implicit in the stock B-movie motif of the mad artist killing his models, as in \"A Bucket of Blood\" [1959], \"Color Me Blood Red\" [1965], or \"Decoy for Terror\" [1967]\" also known as \"Playgirl Killer\". The concept of \"snuff films\" being made for profit became more widely known with the commercial film \"Snuff\" (1976). This low-budget exploitation horror film, originally titled \"Slaughter\", was directed by Michael and Roberta Findlay. In an interview decades later, Roberta Findlay said the film's distributor Allan Shackleton had read about snuff films being imported from South America and retitled \"Slaughter\" to \"Snuff\", to exploit the idea; he also added a new ending that depicted an actress being murdered on a film set. The promotion of \"Snuff\" on its second release suggested it featured the murder of an actress: \"The film that could only be made in South America... where life is CHEAP\", but that was false advertising. Shackleton put out false newspaper clippings that reported a citizens group's crusading against the film and hired people to act as protesters to picket screenings.\n\nThe first two films in the Japanese \"Guinea Pig\" series are designed to look like snuff films; the video is grainy and unsteady, as if recorded by amateurs. The sixth film in the series, \"Mermaid in a Manhole\", allegedly served as an inspiration for Japanese serial killer Tsutomu Miyazaki, who murdered several preschool girls in the late 1980s.\n\nIn 1991, actor Charlie Sheen became convinced that \"Flower of Flesh and Blood\" (1985), the second film in the series, depicted an actual homicide and contacted the FBI. The Bureau initiated an investigation but closed it after the series' producers released a \"making of\" film demonstrating the special effects used to simulate the murders.\n\nThe Italian director Ruggero Deodato was charged after rumors that the depictions of the killing of the main actors in his film \"Cannibal Holocaust\" (1980) were real. He was able to clear himself of the charges after the actors made an appearance in court.\n\nOther than graphic gore, the film contains several scenes of sexual violence and the genuine deaths of six animals onscreen and one off screen, issues which find \"Cannibal Holocaust\" in the midst of controversy to this day. It has also been claimed that \"Cannibal Holocaust\" is banned in over 50 countries, although this has never been verified. In 2006, \"Entertainment Weekly\" magazine named \"Cannibal Holocaust\" as the 20th most controversial film of all-time.\n\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "3425953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3425953", "title": "Social innovation", "text": "Social innovation\n\nSocial innovations are new strategies, concepts, ideas and organizations that aim to meet social needs resulting from working conditions, education, community development, and health. These ideas are created with the goal of extending and strengthening civil society. Social innovation includes the social \"processes\" of innovation, such as open source methods and techniques and also the innovations which have a social purpose—like activism, online volunteering, microcredit, or distance learning.\n\nProminent innovators associated with the term include Pakistani Akhter Hameed Khan, Bangladeshi Muhammad Yunus, the founder of Grameen Bank which pioneered the concept of microcredit for supporting innovations in many developing countries such as Asia, Africa and Latin America, and inspired programs like the Infolady Social Entrepreneurship Programme of Dnet (A Social Enterprise). \n\nSocial Innovation has an inter-sectoral approach and is universally applicable. Social Innovations are launched by a variety of actors, including research institutions, companies and independent organizations, which tend to use their respective definitions of Social Innovation. Therefore, it is worth discussing what distinguishes it from other forms of social work or innovation. \n\nSocial Innovation focuses on the process of innovation, how innovation and change take shape (as opposed to the more traditional definition of innovation, giving priority to the internal organization of firms and their productivity). It likewise centers on new work and new forms of cooperation (business models), especially on those that work towards the attainment of a sustainable society.\n\nThe Young Foundation, in order to distinguish between social and business innovation, stressed that social innovation is developed and diffused via organisations, whose primary purposes are not centred on mere profit maximisation. The Bureau of European Policy Advisers more precisely defined social innovation as socially oriented in both ends and means. According to these influential definitions, social innovation is characterised by: the capacity to address social needs that traditional policy seems increasingly unable to tackle; the empowerment of groups and individuals; and the willingness to change social relations. Hence, social innovation is often presented as a way to increase the quality of social services and their cost-effectiveness, offering equivalent, if not superior, outcomes despite considerable budget constraints.\n\nSocial innovation can take place within government; the for-profit sector, the nonprofit sector (also known as the third sector), or in the spaces between them. Research has focused on the types of platforms needed to facilitate such cross-sector collaborative social innovation.\n\nSocial entrepreneurship, like social enterprise, is typically in the nonprofit sector excluding both for-profit and public organizations. Both social entrepreneurship and social enterprise are important contributions to social innovation by creating social value and introducing new ways of achieving goals. Social entrepreneurship brings \"new patterns and possibilities for innovation\" and are willing to do things that existing organizations are not willing to do.\n\nSocial innovation is often an effort of mental creativity which involves fluency and flexibility from a wide range of disciplines. The act of social innovation in a sector is mostly connected with diverse disciplines within the society. The social innovation theory of 'connected difference' emphasizes three key dimensions to social innovation. First, innovations are usually new combinations or hybrids of existing elements, rather than completely new. Second, their practice involves cutting across organizational or disciplinary boundaries. Lastly, they leave behind compelling new relationships between previously separate individuals and groups. Social innovation is also gaining visibility within academia.\n\nSince 2014, a subdomain of social innovation has been defined in relation to the introduction of digital technologies. The subdomain is called digital social innovation and refers to \"a type of social and collaborative innovation in which innovators, users and communities collaborate using digital technologies to co-create knowledge and solutions for a wide range of social needs and at a scale and speed that was unimaginable before the rise of the Internet\".\n\nSocial innovation was discussed in the writings of figures such as Peter Drucker and Michael Young (founder of the Open University and dozens of other organizations) in the 1960s. It also appeared in the work of French writers in the 1970s, such as Pierre Rosanvallon, Jacques Fournier, and Jacques Attali. However, the themes and concepts in social innovation existed long before. Benjamin Franklin, for example, talked about small modifications within the social organization of communities that could help to solve everyday problems. Many radical 19th century reformers like Robert Owen, founder of the cooperative movement, promoted innovation in the social field and all of the great sociologists including Karl Marx, Max Weber and Émile Durkheim focused attention on broader processes of social change. Other theories of innovation became prominent in the 20th century, many of which had social implications, without putting social progress at the center of the theory. Joseph Schumpeter, for example, addressed the process of innovation directly with his theory of creative destruction and his definition of entrepreneurs as people who combined existing elements in new ways to create a new product or service. Beginning in the 1980s, writers on technological change increasingly addressed how social factors affect technology diffusion.\n\nThe article \"Rediscovering Social Innovation\" mentions how social innovations are dependent on history and the change in institutions. The article discusses the ten recent social innovations reflecting current change to include:\n\nOver the last two decades social innovation has gained significant popularity as a strategy to tackle new social risks including population ageing and its health correlates (Hubert, 2010; Mulgan et al., 2007, 2010; Murray, Caulier-Grice and Mulgan, 2010). However, as other concepts recently developed within the academic debate – among them, social capital (Ferragina, 2012) – social innovation might soon turn out to be simply another way to juxtapose the qualifier \"social\" to the private sector jargon, in order to avoid heated discussions on structural inequalities (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015).\n\nIn the context of ‘neoliberal austerity’, a strong call in favour of social innovation might hide the attempt to shift public attention from structural deficiencies and disparities to individual and group responsibility, following the vision: \"doing more with less\". In order to guarantee universal coverage and universal social rights, however, the welfare state system cannot be managed with the logic of mere cost-effectiveness alone (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015). A Universal coverage is the precondition for any well-functioning economy, not the other way around. As such, the enhancement of \"politically motivated policies under the pretence of budget cuts\" can be particularly dangerous in its consequences for population health (Kleinert and Horton, 2013, p. 1074). Social innovation per se might not be able to substantially tackle pressing social needs. Rather, the all-innovating and self-empowering jargon currently in vogue might disguise a dangerous inattention to structural inequalities, adversely affecting health outcomes across the board, but especially of the poorest. Among the therapies prescribed by the neoliberal orthodoxy – liberalisation, deregulation, devolution, individual or group empowerment – social innovation might soon reveal itself as a convenient buzzword, an eclectic concept to dissimulate political choices, legitimated by the doctrine of budgetary constraints. The redistribution of resources \"from past to present generations\" – keeping constant the overall public spending – and the shift from a \"transfer-based\" to a \"service-based\" welfare state would represent a truly innovative approach to social policy, offering a credible and responsible alternative to the magic wand of social innovation.\n\nAcademic research, blogs and websites feature social innovation, along with organizations working on the boundaries of research and practical action. Topics include:\n\n\nThe US created an Office for Social Innovation in the White House, which is funding projects that combine public and private resources. with foundations that support social innovation. In 2010, the US government listed 11 investments made by its 'Social Innovation Fund', with public funding more than matched by philanthropic organizations. This fund focuses on partnerships with charities, social enterprises, and business. Moreover, educational institutions are now increasingly supporting teaching and research in the area of social innovation. In addition to pioneered efforts by institutions such as the Harvard Business School's Initiative on Social Enterprise (launched 1993) and Said Business School's Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (launched 2003), INSEAD and other universities now offer short-term programs in Social Innovation, and a few such as Cambridge Judge Business School, University of Cambridge and Goldsmiths, University of London offer Masters courses dedicated entirely to the study of theory and practice in relation to social entrepreneurship and innovation.\n\nPublic policy makers support social innovation in the UK, Australia, China and Denmark, as well. The European Union’s innovation strategy was the first well-funded research and development strategy to emphasize social innovation.\n\nIn 2002, the South Australian government, led by Premier and Social Inclusion Minister Mike Rann, embraced a ten-year social innovation strategy with big investments and a focus on reform in areas such as homelessness, school retention, mental health and disability services.\n\nThe Common Ground and Street to Home homelessness initiatives and the Australian Centre for Social Innovation were established in Adelaide and many reforms trialed in South Australia have been adopted nationally throughout Australia. This initiative, headed by Monsignor David Cappo, South Australia's Social Inclusion Commissioner, was advised by 'Thinkers in Residence' Geoff Mulgan and New York social entrepreneur Rosanne Haggerty.\n\nLin and Chen, in \"The Impact of Societal and Social innovation: a case-based approach\" have argued that social innovation's goal is to produce actions that are \"socially valuable and good for many\".\n\nIn governance, its main role is to enhance and maximize the trust of citizens through active involvement in society, whether in the public or private sphere. Social innovation's role in curbing corruption is carried out through two main mediums. Firstly, it is institutionalized through actors (in the public and the private sectors), and secondly, it is executed with new tools available, specifically ICTs.\n\n\"Corruption cannot be tackled from the top, it has to be confronted from the grassroots\" according to John Githongo, a Kenyan member of Transparency International. The Stanford Social Innovation Review develops that grassroots innovations emerge through a combination of social and ethical capital. That is especially true when the system in which they lie fails to accommodate to people's needs.\n\nIn the fight against corruption, individuals or groups of citizens have used their position to lead battles against corruption. An example is the case of RosPil.net, a crowdsourcing website relying on anonymous tips and alerts to uncover and expose corruption in Russia, whether in the private or the public sector. The collective action permits a growing flow of information and offers, on a daily basis, around three promising tip-offs.\n\nAnother example is the initiative Agenda Pública, a Civil Society Organisation, which is paving way for transparent governance in Brazil by relying on the education of the country's public administrators, specifically in more remote and isolated rural areas. Agenda Pública trained more than 5,000 administrators in policy development and basic infrastructure, in order to promote effective parameters for transparency. They do so by making sure that environmental needs and basic financial, education and overall health are met to circumvent bribing.\n\nA UNDP study conducted amongst women grassroots organization around the world demonstrated that \"79% of women are better able to stand up against corruption if affiliated with a community group\". Another poll suggested that electing women into power in countries heavily affected by corruption should be strongly accompanied by an affiliation to a mobilized grassroots women's group. Moreover, 83% of female respondents gave preferences to organized women's leadership to pursue anti-corruption policies. Innovation lies mainly in the introduction of programmes facilitating access to information as well as a governance agenda designed to augment women's engagement in participatory monitoring.\n\nRich and Moberg in \"Beyond Governments\" claim that companies need to take the largest step against corruption and must engage in collective governance in order to include public policy and standards in their core business. It would be way to promote good practices, specifically socially responsible investing.\n\nFor example, in 2006, the corporate sector fully funded and instigated the creation and development of the Business Code of Conduct for Combating Corruption in Malawi. It is considered an anti-corruption task force which works hand in hand with local groups, members of governments, civil society and the media.\n\nAnderson, Wu and Cho argue that good governance and its benefits can be extrapolated through effective e-governance. The simplification of administrative task and open data transparency, coupled with a clear policy on corruption can have a substantial impact.They also advocate for the strengthening of the delivery of services by the public sector.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the government introduced in 2016 the Open Government National Action Plan with one of the main aim being improved transparency. One of the main commitments is the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Innovation Hub. It is the use of social innovation to mobilize social actors and entrepreneurs against corruption. It is perceived that it will \"catalyze and connect [an] innovation approach\" while promoting the sharing of good practices. Their plan of action has been supported by Switzerland, Indonesia, Spain, Georgia, Australia, the UAE, France and Norway.\n\nIn Kosovo, Support to Anti-Corruption Efforts in Kosovo (SAEK) has been developed in order to strengthen the capacities of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Agency (KAA). They are using innovative ICT, web2.0 and social media technologies as a way to connect the government and younger generations by utilizing the potential of new technologies as well as \"giving citizens the opportunity to voice concerns, share observations online and to make these visible to the public while raising the awareness on the level and form of corruption occurring in Kosovo\". SAEK is considered a success as in the year it was launched, more than 1024 cases of corruption were reported (with half of them now resolved).\n\nAccording to the Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for Development (part of the United Nations): \"in addition to being an important technology sector in its own right, information and communication technology (ICT) is important for linking agents in the innovation system\".\n\nOpen data is currently arising as a corruption-fighting mechanism. Indeed, as transparency in government data increases and becomes accessible to all, there will be opportunities for better accountability as it will increase the odds of uncovering governmental misconduct (specifically in government activities, budgets and expenditures for citizens). Its applications are various, including but not restricted to: following the money, open contracting, changing incentives and enabling cross-sector collaboration.\n\nIn 2015, one of the G20 priorities was to reduce corruption and to promote good governance. The Anti-Corruption Working Group (ACWG) developed the Anti-Corruption Open Data Principles in order to leverage open data as one of the key actions to create and foster accountability and transparency. The principles are directly derived from the International Open Data Charter, which specifies the release and use of government data to reduce the reach of corruption.\n\nTransparency International and the Web Foundation carried out a study on certain member countries of the G20 (Brazil, France, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa) to evaluate the effect of the principles on their fight against corruption.\n\nIn Indonesia, for example (Corruption in Indonesia), it is estimated that corruption has cost up to IDR 31,077 trillion to the country. Through public information availability, the country has tried to foster and promote its anti-corruption actions by utilizing its legal and institutional frameworks. Nonetheless, the access to datasets remains scarce while the lack of education amongst staff and citizens impedes the use of data as a tool against corruption.\n\nData mining was a crucial tool used in the famous anti-corruption investigation of the Panama Papers by way of the initiative of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The amount of data reached was 2.6 terabytes or 11.5 billion documents. The implementation of a graph database allowed for better efficiency in the research and analysis of the documents as it found hidden links between accounts and owners that would have been hard to dig up otherwise. Mar Cabra, ICIJ Data Editor, claimed that the software used made them feel like: \"we [had] superpowers\".\n\nSocial media is amongst the newest factors that has been shown by researchers to reduce the impact of corruption.\n\nSocial media platforms have created a multi-way communication which contradicts the one-way channel of traditional media. It enables individuals to share experiences in a quick and cheap manner through its platforms. It facilitates exchanges of geographically separated individuals which makes it an important tool as a dialogue platform.\n\nIn many countries, cases of human rights violations and corruption have started to come out publicly. They challenge the status quo of the government holding the monopoly over information.\n\nThe World Economic Forum established in 2014 that social media could be a useful tool to drive anti-corruption because of its ability to advance commentary and information provision to the population. It is also useful because of its key role in investigating through collective action participation. They use the example of I Paid A Bribe, an Indian website inviting users to input their daily contact with corruption and whether they paid a bribe or not to a public servant.\n\nPetty corruption can be fought by the emergence of cashless payments, and more generally in a cashless economy.\n\nIn Kenya, M-Pesa was launched to allow people to transfer money through mobile phones. It is used by almost two-thirds of the population and is gaining momentum as it is opening its technology to other countries (Tanzania for example).\n\nAs traffic police is seen as one of the most notorious sources of corruption, M-Pesa proposed to create cashless payments on public buses to avoid the extortion of bribes.\n\nWhile there are currently some logistical and regulatory problems preventing it from getting traction, mobile banking is seen as a potential tool to fight petty corruption, specifically if it is accompanied by the proper framework for legislative action and good governance.\nLiterature on social innovation in relation to territorial/regional development covers innovation in the social economy, i.e. strategies for satisfaction of human needs; and innovation in the sense of transforming and/or sustaining social relations, especially governance relations at the regional and local level. Beginning in the late 1980s, Jean-Louis Laville and Frank Moulaert researched social innovation. In Canada CRISES initiated this type of research. Another, larger project was SINGOCOM a European Commission Framework 5 project, which pioneered so-called \"Alternative Models for Local Innovation\" (ALMOLIN). These models were further elaborated through community actions covered by KATARSIS and SOCIAL POLIS. More recent works focus on the societal role of the economic life in terms of innovations in social practices and social relations at the local and regional levels. Social Innovation, therefore, is increasingly seen as a process and a strategy to foster human development through solidarity, cooperation, and cultural diversity.\n\nThe EU funded URBACT programme is designed to help cities to exchange and learn around urban policies. The URBACT methodology can be seen as a social innovation action planning approach. A typical URBACT network would have ten cities working on a specific theme such as active inclusion or regenerating disadvantaged neighbourhoods. They examine good practice and then working through a local support group use the results to inform their local action plan.\n\nThe Social Innovation Europe initiative, funded by the European Commission's Directorate General for Enterprise and Industry, was set up to map social innovation at a European level, by creating a directory of grass-roots examples of social innovation from across the 27 member states.\n\nThe European Commission funded the SELUSI study between 2008 - 2013 that looked at over 550 social ventures and examined how these insights can spark change and innovation at a much larger scale. It looked at business models of social ventures in five countries - UK being one of them – identifying which specific practices evolved by social ventures are particularly successful, and how and by whom – be it social enterprise, public sector body or mainstream business – they can be most effectively scaled-up.\n\nThe European Commission has launched a new initiative (project) in 2013 under FP7 funding, with the aim to build a network of incubators for social innovation across regions and countries. This network facilitates identification of 300 social innovation examples and facilitates its scaling. The network is organised in a way to identify new models for scaling of social innovations across various geographical clusters in collaboration with each other, communicating the ideas, finding the tools and funds, developing business plans and models in order to promote the new promising ideas throughout Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "325028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=325028", "title": "Technological escalation", "text": "Technological escalation\n\nTechnological escalation describes the situation where two parties in competition tend to employ continual technological improvements in their attempt to defeat each other. Technology is defined here as a creative invention, either in the form of an object or a methodology. An example is the mutual escalation seen between e-mail spammers and the programmers of spam filters and other anti-spam techniques. Although escalation is usually meant negatively, if two companies are in an escalating competition to produce the best widget, the consumer benefits because they get a choice between better and better widgets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "361239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361239", "title": "Technological utopianism", "text": "Technological utopianism\n\nTechnological utopianism (often called techno-utopianism or technoutopianism) is any ideology based on the premise that advances in science and technology could and should bring about a utopia, or at least help to fulfill one or another utopian ideal.\n\nA techno-utopia is therefore an ideal society, in which laws, government, and social conditions are solely operating for the benefit and well-being of all its citizens, set in the near- or far-future, as advanced science and technology will allow these ideal living standards to exist; for example, post-scarcity, transformations in human nature, the avoidance or prevention of suffering and even the end of death.\n\nTechnological utopianism is often connected with other discourses presenting technologies as agents of social and cultural change, such as technological determinism or media imaginaries.\n\nDouglas Rushkoff, a leading theorist on technology and cyberculture claims that technology gives everyone a chance to voice their own opinions, fosters individualistic thinking, and dilutes hierarchy and power structures by giving the power to the people. He says that the whole world is in the middle of a new Renaissance, one that is centered on technology and self-expression. However, Rushkoff makes it clear that “people don’t live their lives behind a desk with their hands on a keyboard” \n\nA tech-utopia does not disregard any problems that technology may cause, but strongly believes that technology allows mankind to make social, economic, political, and cultural advancements. Overall, Technological Utopianism views technology’s impacts as extremely positive.\n\nIn the late 20th and early 21st centuries, several ideologies and movements, such as the cyberdelic counterculture, the Californian Ideology, transhumanism, and singularitarianism, have emerged promoting a form of techno-utopia as a reachable goal. Cultural critic Imre Szeman argues technological utopianism is an irrational social narrative because there is no evidence to support it. He concludes that it shows the extent to which modern societies place faith in narratives of progress and technology overcoming things, despite all evidence to the contrary.\n\nKarl Marx believed that science and democracy were the right and left hands of what he called the move from the realm of necessity to the realm of freedom. He argued that advances in science helped delegitimize the rule of kings and the power of the Christian Church.\n\n19th-century liberals, socialists, and republicans often embraced techno-utopianism. Radicals like Joseph Priestley pursued scientific investigation while advocating democracy. Robert Owen, Charles Fourier and Henri de Saint-Simon in the early 19th century inspired communalists with their visions of a future scientific and technological evolution of humanity using reason. Radicals seized on Darwinian evolution to validate the idea of social progress. Edward Bellamy’s socialist utopia in \"Looking Backward\", which inspired hundreds of socialist clubs in the late 19th century United States and a national political party, was as highly technological as Bellamy’s imagination. For Bellamy and the Fabian Socialists, socialism was to be brought about as a painless corollary of industrial development.\n\nMarx and Engels saw more pain and conflict involved, but agreed about the inevitable end. Marxists argued that the advance of technology laid the groundwork not only for the creation of a new society, with different property relations, but also for the emergence of new human beings reconnected to nature and themselves. At the top of the agenda for empowered proletarians was \"to increase the total productive forces as rapidly as possible\". The 19th and early 20th century Left, from social democrats to communists, were focused on industrialization, economic development and the promotion of reason, science, and the idea of progress.\n\nSome technological utopians promoted eugenics. Holding that in studies of families, such as the Jukes and Kallikaks, science had proven that many traits such as criminality and alcoholism were hereditary, many advocated the sterilization of those displaying negative traits. Forcible sterilization programs were implemented in several states in the United States.\n\nH.G. Wells in works such as \"The Shape of Things to Come\" promoted technological utopianism.\n\nThe horrors of the 20th century – namely fascist dictatorships and the world wars – caused many to abandon optimism. The Holocaust, as Theodor Adorno underlined, seemed to shatter the ideal of Condorcet and other thinkers of the Enlightenment, which commonly equated scientific progress with social progress.\n\nA movement of techno-utopianism began to flourish again in the dot-com culture of the 1990s, particularly in the West Coast of the United States, especially based around Silicon Valley. The Californian Ideology was a set of beliefs combining bohemian and anti-authoritarian attitudes from the counterculture of the 1960s with techno-utopianism and support for libertarian economic policies. It was reflected in, reported on, and even actively promoted in the pages of \"Wired\" magazine, which was founded in San Francisco in 1993 and served for a number years as the \"bible\" of its adherents.\n\nThis form of techno-utopianism reflected a belief that technological change revolutionizes human affairs, and that digital technology in particular – of which the Internet was but a modest harbinger – would increase personal freedom by freeing the individual from the rigid embrace of bureaucratic big government. \"Self-empowered knowledge workers\" would render traditional hierarchies redundant; digital communications would allow them to escape the modern city, an \"obsolete remnant of the industrial age\".\n\nSimilar forms of \"digital utopianism\" has often entered in the political messages of party and social movements that point to the Web or more broadly to new media as harbingers of political and social change. Its adherents claim it transcended conventional \"right/left\" distinctions in politics by rendering politics obsolete. However, techno-utopianism disproportionately attracted adherents from the libertarian right end of the political spectrum. Therefore, techno-utopians often have a hostility toward government regulation and a belief in the superiority of the free market system. Prominent \"oracles\" of techno-utopianism included George Gilder and Kevin Kelly, an editor of \"Wired\" who also published several books.\n\nDuring the late 1990s dot-com boom, when the speculative bubble gave rise to claims that an era of \"permanent prosperity\" had arrived, techno-utopianism flourished, typically among the small percentage of the population who were employees of Internet startups and/or owned large quantities of high-tech stocks. With the subsequent crash, many of these dot-com techno-utopians had to rein in some of their beliefs in the face of the clear return of traditional economic reality.\n\nIn the late 1990s and especially during the first decade of the 21st century, technorealism and techno-progressivism are stances that have risen among advocates of technological change as critical alternatives to techno-utopianism. However, technological utopianism persists in the 21st century as a result of new technological developments and their impact on society. For example, several technical journalists and social commentators, such as Mark Pesce, have interpreted the WikiLeaks phenomenon and the United States diplomatic cables leak in early December 2010 as a precursor to, or an incentive for, the creation of a techno-utopian transparent society. Cyber-utopianism, first coined by Evgeny Morozov, is another manifestation of this, in particular in relation to the Internet and social networking.\n\nBernard Gendron, a professor of philosophy at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, defines the four principles of modern technological utopians in the late 20th and early 21st centuries as follows:\n\n\nRushkoff presents us with multiple claims that surround the basic principles of Technological Utopianism:\n\n\nCritics claim that techno-utopianism's identification of social progress with scientific progress is a form of positivism and scientism. Critics of modern libertarian techno-utopianism point out that it tends to focus on \"government interference\" while dismissing the positive effects of the regulation of business. They also point out that it has little to say about the environmental impact of technology and that its ideas have little relevance for much of the rest of the world that are still relatively quite poor (see global digital divide).\n\nIn his 2010 study \"System Failure: Oil, Futurity, and the Anticipation of Disaster\", Canada Research Chairholder in cultural studies Imre Szeman argues that technological utopianism is one of the social narratives that prevent people from acting on the knowledge they have concerning the effects of oil on the environment.\n\nIn a controversial article \"Techno-Utopians are Mugged by Reality\", Wall Street Journal explores the concept of the violation of free speech by shutting down social media to stop violence. As a result of British cities being looted consecutively, Prime British Minister David Cameron argued that the government should have the ability to shut down social media during crime sprees so that the situation could be contained. A poll was conducted to see if Twitter users would prefer to let the service be closed temporarily or keep it open so they can chat about the famous television show X-Factor. The end report showed that every Tweet opted for X-Factor. The negative social effects of technological utopia is that society is so addicted to technology that we simply can't be parted even for the greater good. While many Techno-Utopians would like to believe that digital technology is for the greater good, it can also be used negatively to bring harm to the public.\n\nOther critics of a techno-utopia include the worry of the human element. Critics suggest that a techno-utopia may lessen human contact, leading to a distant society. Another concern is the amount of reliance society may place on their technologies in these techno-utopia settings. These criticisms are sometimes referred to as a technological anti-utopian view or a techno-dystopia.\n\nEven today, the negative social effects of a technological utopia can be seen. Mediated communication such as phone calls, instant messaging and text messaging are steps towards a utopian world in which one can easily contact another regardless of time or location. However, mediated communication removes many aspects that are helpful in transferring messages. As it stands today, most text, email, and instant messages offer fewer nonverbal cues about the speaker’s feelings than do face-to-face encounters. This makes it so that mediated communication can easily be misconstrued and the intended message is not properly conveyed. With the absence of tone, body language, and environmental context, the chance of a misunderstanding is much higher, rendering the communication ineffective. In fact, mediated technology can be seen from a dystopian view because it can be detrimental to effective interpersonal communication. These criticisms would only apply to messages that are prone to misinterpretation as not every text based communication requires contextual cues. The limitations of lacking tone and body language in text based communication are likely to be mitigated by video and augmented reality versions of digital communication technologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12166425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12166425", "title": "Teen dating violence", "text": "Teen dating violence\n\nTeen dating violence is the physical, sexual, or psychological / emotional abuse (or violence) within a dating relationship among adolescents. Intimate partner violence (IPV) has been a well examined and documented phenomenon in adults; however, there has not been nearly as much study on violence in adolescent dating relationships, and it is therefore not as well understood. The research has mainly focused on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nIntimate partner violence (IPV) in adolescents is an important realm of study as, in addition to the usual negative effects of abuse, this violence occurs at a critical period in the social and mental development of a person. This is also an important topic from a gender studies perspective as almost 32% of male adolescents engage in some form of violence, whether sexual, physical or emotional, towards their partners while adolescent violence from females is nearly half of that rate. Also, according to the United States public health authority, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), \"[a]dolescents and adults are often unaware that teens experience dating violence.\"\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents indicates that the rates are similar for the number of girls and boys in heterosexual relationships who report experiencing IPV, or that girls in heterosexual relationships are more likely than their male counterparts to report perpetrating IPV. Ely et al. stated that, unlike domestic violence in general, equal rates of IPV perpetration is a unique characteristic with regard adolescent dating violence, and that this is \"perhaps because the period of adolescence, a special developmental state, is accompanied by sexual characteristics that are distinctly different from the characteristics of adult.\" Wekerle and Wolfe theorized that \"a mutually coercive and violent dynamic may form during adolescence, a time when males and females are more equal on a physical level\" and that this \"physical equality allows girls to assert more power through physical violence than is possible for an adult female attacked by a fully physically mature man.\"\n\nRegarding studies that indicate that girls are as likely or more likely than boys to commit IPV, the authors emphasize that substantial differences exist between the genders, including that girls are significantly more likely than boys to report having experienced severe IPV, such as being threatened with a weapon, punched, strangled, beaten, burned, or raped, and are also substantially more likely than boys to need psychological help or experience physical injuries that require medical help for the abuse, and to report sexual violence as a part of dating violence. They are also more likely to take IPV more seriously. By contrast, boys are more likely to report experiencing less severe acts, such as being pinched, slapped, scratched or kicked. Girls are more likely to report committing less serious forms of IPV, including as a means of self-defense, whereas boys are more likely to report committing more severe acts of IPV, including threats, physical violence and controlling a partner. That girls are more likely to engage in IPV as a result of self-defense is supported by findings that previous victimization is a stronger predictor of perpetration in females than in males. Other research indicates that boys who have been abused in childhood by a family member are more prone to IPV perpetration, while girls who have been abused in childhood by a family member are prone to lack empathy and self-efficacy; but the risks for the likelihood of IPV perpetration and victimization among adolescents vary and are not well understood.\n\nThere is a common misconception that aggression is stable over time. That is, young people who are labeled as or considered to be violent and aggressive at any point in time are then assumed to be dangerous for the rest of their lives. This is a contentious issue because there is a desire to protect both parties involved (or that have the potential to become involved) in teen dating violence. While classifying the perpetrator as a threat may be detrimental to his or her life and future relationships, not classifying the perpetrator this way may put future partners at risk.\n\nThere is considerable debate over whether we as a society have an accurate picture of the prevalence and severity of teen dating violence by gender. It is important to note that although male and female adolescents do not differ in \"overall frequency of violence in dating relationships,\" females are subject to \"significantly higher levels of severe violence\". This fact begs the question of whether abuse should be evaluated based on “severity” and how that can and should be measured, or if all abuse should be considered equally harmful.\n\nAge of consent is an issue that cannot be ignored in the discussion of teenage dating violence. Teenage sex is regulated in such a way that \"age of consent laws render teenagers below a certain age incapable of consent to sexual activity with adults, and sometimes with peers\". In some cases, the adult may be just a few months older than the minor. There are a number of states in which \"age of consent statutes are used to prosecute consensual sex between two persons both under the age of consent.\" This type of prosecution has been deemed unconstitutional in some states by citing violation of privacy rights, but remains in effect in other states. Sexual behavior and aggression can be so deeply intertwined that the legality of underage consensual sex is sure to have an effect on teen dating violence.\n\nSignificant research has been done on the causes behind violent behavior in adolescent dating relationships with the intention of guiding the creation of dating violence prevention programs, and in turn has provided findings on the roles of nature and nurture in the development of such behavior with a strong favor towards nurture factors. A study published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health examined the potential association between a spectrum of childhood adverse experiences and physical violence in relationships before age 21 for both members. The subjects were asked questions about violence in their adolescent relationships, as either victim or perpetrator, and their childhood surrounding twelve different adversities: parental death, parental divorce, long-term separation from parent, parental mental illness, parental substance abuse disorder, parental criminality, inter-parental violence, serious physical illness in childhood, physical abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, and family economic adversity. The results demonstrated a strong positive correlation between ten out of the twelve childhood adversities and physically violent behavior in a teen relationship, with 13.8% responding with experiences of sexual violence, and 11.6% experiencing inter-parental violence. This points to a strong influence of experience, or nature, on violent tendencies in adolescent relationships. Multiple other studies corroborate these findings, citing childhood bullying, assault, and maltreatment as significant indicators for future violence in adolescent dating. Though there has been little explicit study of the relationship between nature and teen dating violence, there has been proven correlation between testosterone levels and violent tendencies that could come to fruition in adolescent dating relationships. Higher testosterone levels “manifests itself in various intensities and forms from; thoughts, anger, verbal aggressiveness, competition, dominance behavior, to physical violence.” A study published in the International Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism reported, “Testosterone plays a significant role in the arousal of these behavioral manifestations in the brain centers involved in aggression and on the development of the muscular system that enables their realization. There is evidence that testosterone levels are higher in individuals with aggressive behavior, such as prisoners who have committed violent crimes.” However, the study also noted that many cases of high testosterone levels are disarmed through socialization. Overall, because children are exposed to relationships early in their life through their parents and being so malleable at a young age, most evidence points to an adverse experience or experiences in childhood as fodder for such behavior in adolescence.\n\nThe literature on IPV among adolescents primarily focuses on Caucasian youth, and there are yet no studies which focus specifically on IPV in adolescent same-sex romantic relationships.\n\nWhile dating, domestic and sexual violence affect women regardless of their age, teens and young women are especially vulnerable. Young people ages 12 to 19 experience the highest rates of rape and sexual assault, and people age 18 and 19 experience the highest rates of stalking. Approximately one in three adolescent girls in the United States is a victim of physical, emotional, or verbal abuse from a dating partner—a figure that far exceeds victimization rates for other types of violence affecting youth Mark Green, former Wisconsin Representative said \"if the numbers we see in domestic violence (dating violence) were applied to terrorism or gang violence, the entire country would be up in arms, and it would be the lead story on the news every night\". According to \"Women's Health\", \"81% of parents surveyed either believed dating violence is not an issue or admit they don't know if it's an issue\", this is concerning because of the growth of dating abuse in teenagers relationships. Dating violence has advanced through the years by the means of communication technology. A survey conducted by Teenage Research Unlimited stated that \"[10] percent of teens have been threatened physically via e-mail, IM, text messaging, chat rooms, etc.\"\n\nA 2008 meta-analysis, which examined 62 empirical research studies between 1996 and 2006, relating to domestic violence in heterosexual intimate relationships from adolescence through to adulthood in the United States, reported on research findings that consistently show that adolescent females commit significantly more acts of domestic violence in intimate relationships than adolescent males. It stated, however, that the \"data also suggest that females who commit acts of domestic violence may experience more violent or frequent IPV victimization than males\" and that \"[t]he highest rates [for female-perpetrated IPV] were found for emotional violence, followed by physical and sexual violence. Prevalence rates varied widely within each population, most likely due to methodological and sampling differences across studies.\" The authors added, \"Few longitudinal studies existed, limiting the extent to which we could identify developmental patterns associated with female perpetrated intimate partner violence.\" They found a few studies which reported prevalence rates of IPV perpetration among females at two or more time points, which they stated made \"it difficult to obtain a clear picture of the developmental patterns associated with this type of violence.\" There was also only one study that reported on prevalence rates over time for female perpetrated IPV among adolescents. \"This study found a significant increase in prevalence over a six month period; however, they measured lifetime perpetration of IPV, therefore, it is unclear if there was an actual increase or simply an accumulation of violence,\" stated the authors. \"Together, these studies provide very limited evidence that female perpetration of IPV may follow a similar developmental trajectory as other forms of violence. [...] Unfortunately, many of the studies included in this review used modified or alternative instruments making it difficult to accurately compare prevalence estimates.\"\n\nIn a 2009 survey, the CDC found that 9.8% of high school students in the U.S. reported having been intentionally physically hurt by their boyfriend or girlfriend in the preceding 12 months. A 2011 CDC nationwide survey of the U.S. population reported that 23% of females and 14% of males who ever experienced rape, other physical violence, or stalking by an intimate partner first experienced some form of partner violence between 11 and 17 years of age. The ages between 16 and 24 are when youth are the most susceptible to dating violence. Also, according to the CDC, one in ten teens will be physically abused between seventh and twelfth grade. Because of this abuse, victims are more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, employ precarious sexual conduct, develop eating disorders, and attempt suicide. The above numbers are notable in their magnitude and in their discrepancy, indicating that at some point between birth and high school a huge number of males are learning that it is useful and acceptable to abuse their dating partners in some way. The reciprocal of males learning violent behaviors is that women are not learning this fact and are instead learning through our culture and through violence directed at them that they are to be submissive. Males learning violent behaviors coupled with females thinking it normative creates a cycle of women being abused, learning to accept it and imparting this idea to their children and repeating the process. According to a study conducted by Susan M. Sanders she found that many adolescents do not always view aggressive behavior as violent or abusive and roughly 77.6% young girls agreed that after a physical altercation such as being kicked by their partner that they would cease to date them. The study conducted demonstrated that many adolescents, primarily females were more susceptible to leave only after a physical altercation took place. With these studies it was found that once a physical altercation took place the victim would then view it as abusive and eventually desire to leave the relationship. Adolescent dating violence is a subject which must be understood in order for true equality between the sexes to be achieved and to help stop partner violence in adults before it occurs.\n\nIn the United States, the National Conference of State Legislators (NCSL) states that \"[p]olicymakers can play a role in preventing teen dating violence\". and lists those states that currently have laws requiring school boards to develop and adopt programs to address this issue. Further, according to NCSL \"[i]n 2011 at least eight states have introduced legislation to address teen dating violence\". On January 31, 2011, President Obama proclaimed February 2011 to be \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month\". In 2006 the U.S. first recognized \"National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Week\", sponsored by Senator Mike Crapo, to \"increase public awareness and education of the prevalence of teen dating violence among our nation's teens\". The first week in February was so recognized through 2009. Beginning in 2010, Senator Crapo joined the Department of Justice in recognizing the month of February as Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.\n\nThe National Dating Abuse Helpline, created by National Domestic Violence Hotline, is a 24-hour nationwide Web-based and telephone resource created to help teens and young people who are experiencing dating abuse. They offer information on building healthy relationships and how to recognize warning signs. It is the only helpline in the country serving all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.\n\n\nIn 2010, a campaign by the Home Office featured adverts targeting \"boys and girls aged 13 to 18\" via television, radio, Internet, and poster campaigns. The campaign followed research by the NSPCC indicating that approximately one-quarter of 13- to 17-year-old females had experienced physical abuse from a dating partner.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29597238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29597238", "title": "The Cool Stuff Collective", "text": "The Cool Stuff Collective\n\nThe Cool Stuff Collective is a British children's television programme, which was produced for three series that aired on the ITV Network and CITV respectively from 13 September 2010 to 24 December 2011. The show featured reviews of the latest and forthcoming video games, gadgets, films and music. CITV also broadcast a similar format programme called \"Play The Game\" in 2004. Sy Thomas presented the programme for the majority of its run, with Vicky Letch and The Blowfish later taking over for the final series.\n\n\nIn 2011, the programme was found to have breached Ofcom's rules on product placement. Ofcom stated that many of the items featured on the show ended with \"overt encouragements\" to consider purchase of the product.\n"}
{"id": "19231811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19231811", "title": "Volunteer Center", "text": "Volunteer Center\n\nVolunteer Centers or Volunteer Centres exist primarily to foster and develop volunteerism in the community as a whole. In general they do 4 things: Promote volunteerism, capacity building for effective local volunteering, provide leadership on issues relating to volunteerism, provide leadership on issues relating to volunteerism and connect people with opportunities to serve.\n\n\"Volunteer Centres\" in the UK are sometimes known as \"volunteer bureaux\" or \"volunteer development agencies\". Working to a national model they provide support at a local level for individual volunteers and volunteer involving organisations. They have six core functions, which combined seek to promote and develop volunteering in local communities and link potential volunteers with volunteer involving organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "56419774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56419774", "title": "Whisper network", "text": "Whisper network\n\nA whisper network describes a chain of information privately passed between people, typically a list of powerful people in an industry alleged as being sexual harassers or abusers. The information is often shared between women by word of mouth, online in private communities, in forums, via spreadsheets, and sometimes using crowd-sourced documents. The stated purpose of maintaining these lists is to warn potential victims of \"people to avoid\" in their industry. Whisper networks also purportedly help victims realize they are not alone so they can find each other and come forward together about a serial abuser. The term \"whisper network\" was newly popularized during the #MeToo movement after several private lists were published outside private networks, for example the Shitty Media Men list, the California State Capitol list, and the Harvey Weinstein Google doc. Karen Kelsky created a less controversial list called \"Sexual Harassment In the Academy: A Crowdsourced Survey\" which had grown to over 2000 entries by the end of 2017, and includes stories without actually naming the accusing and accused parties. Kelsky said she hoped the list would help demonstrate the scope of sexual misconduct in the academic field, and it has resulted in the investigation of twelve men at the University of Michigan.\n\nPublishing whisper networks to the public has been widely criticized for spreading unsubstantiated rumors which can damage reputations, though there continues to be debate on the best alternatives to anonymous sharing for women who have been punished or ignored by official channels yet would still like to warn other women. It has been noted that certain vulnerable groups rarely get access to these private lists, for example women who are young and women of color. As a result, these groups rarely receive any protection from whisper networks unless they are published. The main problem with trying to protect more potential victims by publishing whisper networks is determining the best mechanism to verify allegations. Some suggestions have included strengthening unions in vulnerable industries so workers can report directly to the union, maintaining industry hotlines which have the power to trigger third-party investigations, and creating public systems that allow anonymous reporting with the ability to connect victims who report the same perpetrator. Several apps have been developed which offer various ways for women to report sexual misconduct, and some of these apps have the ability to connect victims with each other. Sex workers regularly share “bad date lists” and St. James Infirmary Clinic (which offers health and safety services for sex workers), created a “Bad Date” app that allows sex workers to anonymously log incidents with clients who have threatened, extorted, robbed, or been violent, potentially warning other sex workers in the future.\n"}
