{"id": "41270069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41270069", "title": "AccuSystems", "text": "AccuSystems\n\nAccuSystems LLC is an American company headquartered in Pueblo, Colorado that develops, licenses, supports, and sells document imaging software and electronic document management, primarily to the banking and finance industries. Over 200 banks currently use AccuSystems' software.\n\nIn 2002, AccuSystems made its first sale to People's Bank.\n\nAccuSystems' software, known as AccuAccount, is mainly used to electronically scan, store, and manage loan files and any other associated paperwork. In September 2010, AccuSystems announced the acquisition of Xtria RMS. Financial institutions use the Xtria RMS software, now known as Tickler, to track exceptions electronically.\n\nIn 2012, AccuSystems won the BankNews Innovative Solutions Award for Management Software Solutions.\n\nIn 2013, BankTech published a survey taken by AccuSystems that surveyed 80 community banks. The survey found that only 12% of banks are using paperless systems for issuing loans. The study is often used when discussing paperless systems in the US's banking industry.\n"}
{"id": "13037670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13037670", "title": "Association of Booksellers for Children", "text": "Association of Booksellers for Children\n\nThe Association of Booksellers for Children (ABC) is an American non-profit trade association whose mission is to support the business of independent children's bookselling and the creation of quality children's books. \n\nThe membership of the organization is made up of independent children's booksellers, publishers, authors & illustrators, and other industry professionals. In addition to its advocacy work, the ABC undertakes a number of annual projects on its members' behalf, such a programming at the annual BookExpo America (BEA), the creation of various printed materials on literacy and best books, the dissemination of industry news, maintenance of a proprietary list-serv, an annual book award, The E.B. White Read Aloud Award, and collaborations with other industry trade groups like the Children's Book Council (CBC) and the American Booksellers Association (ABA).\n\n"}
{"id": "4822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4822", "title": "Board of directors", "text": "Board of directors\n\nA board of directors is a recognized group of people who jointly oversee the activities of an organization, which can be either a for-profit business, nonprofit organization, or a government agency. Such a board's powers, duties, and responsibilities are determined by government regulations (including the jurisdiction's corporations law) and the organization's own constitution and bylaws. These authorities may specify the number of members of the board, how they are to be chosen, and how often they are to meet.\n\nIn an organization with voting members, the board is accountable to, and might be subordinate to, the organization's full membership, which usually vote for the members of the board. In a stock corporation, non-executive directors are voted for by the shareholders and the board is the highest authority in the management of the corporation. The board of directors appoints the chief executive officer of the corporation and sets out the overall strategic direction. In corporations with dispersed ownership, the identification and nomination of directors (that shareholders vote for or against) are often done by the board itself, leading to a high degree of self-perpetuation. In a non-stock corporation with no general voting membership, the board is the supreme governing body of the institution; its members are sometimes chosen by the board itself.\n\nOther names include board of directors and advisors, board of governors, board of managers, board of regents, board of trustees, or board of visitors. It may also be called \"the executive board\" and is often simply referred to as \"the board\".\n\nTypical duties of boards of directors include:\n\nThe legal responsibilities of boards and board members vary with the nature of the organization, and between jurisdictions. For companies with publicly trading stock, these responsibilities are typically much more rigorous and complex than for those of other types.\n\nTypically, the board chooses one of its members to be the \"chairman\" (often now called the \"chair\" or \"chairperson\"), who holds whatever title is specified in the by-laws or articles of association. However, in membership organizations, the members elect the president of the organization and the president becomes the board chair, unless the by-laws say otherwise.\n\nThe directors of an organization are the persons who are members of its board. Several specific terms categorize directors by the presence or absence of their other relationships to the organization.\n\nAn inside director is a director who is also an employee, officer, chief executive, major shareholder, or someone similarly connected to the organization. Inside directors represent the interests of the entity's stakeholders, and often have special knowledge of its inner workings, its financial or market position, and so on.\n\nTypical inside directors are:\n\nAn inside director who is employed as a manager or executive of the organization is sometimes referred to as an executive director (not to be confused with the title executive director sometimes used for the CEO position in some organizations). Executive directors often have a specified area of responsibility in the organization, such as finance, marketing, human resources, or production.\n\nAn outside director is a member of the board who is not otherwise employed by or engaged with the organization, and does not represent any of its stakeholders. A typical example is a director who is president of a firm in a different industry. Outside directors are not employees of the company or affiliated with it in any other way.\n\nOutside directors bring outside experience and perspectives to the board. For example, for a company that only serves a domestic market, the presence of CEOs from global multinational corporations as outside directors can help to provide insights on export and import opportunities and international trade options. One of the arguments for having outside directors is that they can keep a watchful eye on the inside directors and on the way the organization is run. Outside directors are unlikely to tolerate \"insider dealing\" between insider directors, as outside directors do not benefit from the company or organization. Outside directors are often useful in handling disputes between inside directors, or between shareholders and the board. They are thought to be advantageous because they can be objective and present little risk of conflict of interest. On the other hand, they might lack familiarity with the specific issues connected to the organization's governance and they might not know about the industry or sector in which the organization is operating.\n\n\nIndividual directors often serve on more than one board. This practice results in an interlocking directorate, where a relatively small number of individuals have significant influence over a large number of important entities. This situation can have important corporate, social, economic, and legal consequences, and has been the subject of significant research.\n\nThe process for running a board, sometimes called the board process, includes the selection of board members, the setting of clear board objectives, the dissemination of documents or board package to the board members, the collaborative creation of an agenda for the meeting, the creation and follow-up of assigned action items, and the assessment of the board process through standardized assessments of board members, owners, and CEOs. The science of this process has been slow to develop due to the secretive nature of the way most companies run their boards, however some standardization is beginning to develop. Some who are pushing for this standardization in the USA are the National Association of Corporate Directors, McKinsey Consulting and The Board Group.\n\nA board of directors conducts its meetings according to the rules and procedures contained in its governing documents. These procedures may allow the board to conduct its business by conference call or other electronic means. They may also specify how a quorum is to be determined.\n\nMost organizations have adopted \"Robert's Rules of Order\" as its guide to supplement its own rules. In this book, the rules for conducting board meetings may be less formal if there is no more than about a dozen board members present. An example of the informality is that motions are not required if it's clear what is being discussed.\n\nHistorically, nonprofit boards have not uncommonly had large boards with up to twenty-four members, but a modern trend is to have smaller boards as small as six or seven people. Studies suggest that after seven people, each additional person reduces the effectiveness of group decision-making.\n\nThe role and responsibilities of a board of directors vary depending on the nature and type of business entity and the laws applying to the entity (see types of business entity). For example, the nature of the business entity may be one that is traded on a public market (public company), not traded on a public market (a private, limited or closely held company), owned by family members (a family business), or exempt from income taxes (a non-profit, not for profit, or tax-exempt entity). There are numerous types of business entities available throughout the world such as a corporation, limited liability company, cooperative, business trust, partnership, private limited company, and public limited company.\n\nMuch of what has been written about boards of directors relates to boards of directors of business entities actively traded on public markets. More recently, however, material is becoming available for boards of private and closely held businesses including family businesses.\n\nA board-only organization is one whose board is self-appointed, rather than being accountable to a base of members through elections; or in which the powers of the membership are extremely limited.\n\nIn membership organizations, such as a society made up of members of a certain profession or one advocating a certain cause, a board of directors may have the responsibility of running the organization in between meetings of the membership, especially if the membership meets infrequently, such as only at an annual general meeting. The amount of powers and authority delegated to the board depend on the bylaws and rules of the particular organization. Some organizations place matters exclusively in the board's control while in others, the general membership retains full power and the board can only make recommendations.\n\nThe setup of a board of directors vary widely across organizations and may include provisions that are applicable to corporations, in which the \"shareholders\" are the members of the organization. A difference may be that the membership elects the officers of the organization, such as the president and the secretary, and the officers become members of the board in addition to the directors and retain those duties on the board. The directors may also be classified as officers in this situation. There may also be ex-officio members of the board, or persons who are members due to another position that they hold. These ex-officio members have all the same rights as the other board members.\n\nMembers of the board may be removed before their term is complete. Details on how they can be removed are usually provided in the bylaws. If the bylaws do not contain such details, the section on disciplinary procedures in \"Robert's Rules of Order\" may be used.\n\nIn a publicly held company, directors are elected to represent and are legally obligated as fiduciaries to represent owners of the company—the shareholders/stockholders. In this capacity they establish policies and make decisions on issues such as whether there is dividend and how much it is, stock options distributed to employees, and the hiring/firing and compensation of upper management.\n\nTheoretically, the control of a company is divided between two bodies: the board of directors, and the shareholders in general meeting. In practice, the amount of power exercised by the board varies with the type of company. In small private companies, the directors and the shareholders are normally the same people, and thus there is no real division of power. In large public companies, the board tends to exercise more of a supervisory role, and individual responsibility and management tends to be delegated downward to individual professional executives (such as a finance director or a marketing director) who deal with particular areas of the company's affairs.\n\nAnother feature of boards of directors in large public companies is that the board tends to have more \"de facto\" power. Many shareholders grant proxies to the directors to vote their shares at general meetings and accept all recommendations of the board rather than try to get involved in management, since each shareholder's power, as well as interest and information is so small. Larger institutional investors also grant the board proxies. The large number of shareholders also makes it hard for them to organize. However, there have been moves recently to try to increase shareholder activism among both institutional investors and individuals with small shareholdings.\n\nA contrasting view is that in large public companies it is upper management and not boards that wield practical power, because boards delegate nearly all of their power to the top executive employees, adopting their recommendations almost without fail. As a practical matter, executives even choose the directors, with shareholders normally following management recommendations and voting for them.\n\nIn most cases, serving on a board is not a career unto itself. For major corporations, the board members are usually professionals or leaders in their field. In the case of outside directors, they are often senior leaders of other organizations. Nevertheless, board members often receive remunerations amounting to hundreds of thousands of dollars per year since they often sit on the boards of several companies. Inside directors are usually not paid for sitting on a board, but the duty is instead considered part of their larger job description. Outside directors are usually paid for their services. These remunerations vary between corporations, but usually consist of a yearly or monthly salary, additional compensation for each meeting attended, stock options, and various other benefits. such as travel, hotel and meal expenses for the board meetings. Tiffany & Co., for example, pays directors an annual retainer of $46,500, an additional annual retainer of $2,500 if the director is also a chairperson of a committee, a per-meeting-attended fee of $2,000 for meetings attended in person, a $500 fee for each meeting attended via telephone, in addition to stock options and retirement benefits.\n\nIn some European and Asian countries, there are two separate boards, an executive board for day-to-day business and a supervisory board (elected by the shareholders and employees) for supervising the executive board. In these countries, the CEO (chief executive or managing director) presides over the executive board and the chairman presides over the supervisory board, and these two roles will always be held by different people. This ensures a distinction between management by the executive board and governance by the supervisory board and allows for clear lines of authority. The aim is to prevent a conflict of interest and too much power being concentrated in the hands of one person. There is a strong parallel here with the structure of government, which tends to separate the political cabinet from the management civil service. In the United States, the board of directors (elected by the shareholders) is often equivalent to the supervisory board, while the executive board may often be known as the executive committee (operating committee or executive council), composed of the CEO and their direct reports (other C-level officers, division/subsidiary heads).\n\nThe development of a separate board of directors to manage/govern/oversee a company has occurred incrementally and indefinitely over legal history. Until the end of the 19th century, it seems to have been generally assumed that the general meeting (of all shareholders) was the supreme organ of a company, and that the board of directors merely acted as an agent of the company subject to the control of the shareholders in general meeting.\n\nHowever, by 1906, the English Court of Appeal had made it clear in the decision of \"Automatic Self-Cleansing Filter Syndicate Co Ltd v Cuninghame\" [1906] 2 Ch 34 that the division of powers between the board and the shareholders in general meaning depended on the construction of the articles of association and that, where the powers of management were vested in the board, the general meeting could not interfere with their lawful exercise. The articles were held to constitute a contract by which the members had agreed that \"the directors and the directors alone shall manage.\"\n\nThe new approach did not secure immediate approval, but it was endorsed by the House of Lords in \"Quin & Axtens v Salmon\" [1909] AC 442 and has since received general acceptance. Under English law, successive versions of Table A have reinforced the norm that, unless the directors are acting contrary to the law or the provisions of the Articles, the powers of conducting the management and affairs of the company are vested in them.\n\nThe modern doctrine was expressed in \"John Shaw & Sons (Salford) Ltd v Shaw\" [1935] 2 KB 113 by Greer LJ as follows:\n\nA company is an entity distinct alike from its shareholders and its directors. Some of its powers may, according to its articles, be exercised by directors, certain other powers may be reserved for the shareholders in general meeting. If powers of management are vested in the directors, they and they alone can exercise these powers. The only way in which the general body of shareholders can control the exercise of powers by the articles in the directors is by altering the articles, or, if opportunity arises under the articles, by refusing to re-elect the directors of whose actions they disapprove. They cannot themselves usurp the powers which by the articles are vested in the directors any more than the directors can usurp the powers vested by the articles in the general body of shareholders.\nIt has been remarked that this development in the law was somewhat surprising at the time, as the relevant provisions in Table A (as it was then) seemed to contradict this approach rather than to endorse it.\n\nIn most legal systems, the appointment and removal of directors is voted upon by the shareholders in general meeting or through a proxy statement. For publicly traded companies in the U.S., the directors which are available to vote on are largely selected by either the board as a whole or a nominating committee. Although in 2002 the New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ required that nominating committees consist of independent directors as a condition of listing, nomination committees have historically received input from management in their selections even when the CEO does not have a position on the board. Shareholder nominations can only occur at the general meeting itself or through the prohibitively expensive process of mailing out ballots separately; in May 2009 the SEC proposed a new rule allowing shareholders meeting certain criteria to add nominees to the proxy statement. In practice for publicly traded companies, the managers (inside directors) who are purportedly accountable to the board of directors have historically played a major role in selecting and nominating the directors who are voted on by the shareholders, in which case more \"gray outsider directors\" (independent directors with conflicts of interest) are nominated and elected.\n\nDirectors may also leave office by resignation or death. In some legal systems, directors may also be removed by a resolution of the remaining directors (in some countries they may only do so \"with cause\"; in others the power is unrestricted).\n\nSome jurisdictions also permit the board of directors to appoint directors, either to fill a vacancy which arises on resignation or death, or as an addition to the existing directors.\n\nIn practice, it can be quite difficult to remove a director by a resolution in general meeting. In many legal systems, the director has a right to receive special notice of any resolution to remove him or her; the company must often supply a copy of the proposal to the director, who is usually entitled to be heard by the meeting. The director may require the company to circulate any representations that he wishes to make. Furthermore, the director's contract of service will usually entitle him to compensation if he is removed, and may often include a generous \"golden parachute\" which also acts as a deterrent to removal.\n\nA recent study examines how corporate shareholders voted in director elections in the United States. It found that directors received fewer votes from shareholders when their companies performed poorly, had excess CEO compensation, or had poor shareholder protection. Also, directors received fewer votes when they did not regularly attend board meetings or received negative recommendations from a proxy advisory firm. The study also shows that companies often improve their corporate governance by removing poison pills or classified boards and by reducing excessive CEO pay after their directors receive low shareholder support.\n\nBoard accountability to shareholders is a recurring issue. In 2010, the \"New York Times\" noted that several directors who had overseen companies which had failed in the financial crisis of 2007–2010 had found new positions as directors. The SEC sometimes imposes a ban (a \"D&O bar\") on serving on a board as part of its fraud cases, and one of these was upheld in 2013.\n\nThe exercise by the board of directors of its powers usually occurs in board meetings. Most legal systems require sufficient notice to be given to all directors of these meetings, and that a quorum must be present before any business may be conducted. Usually, a meeting which is held without notice having been given is still valid if all of the directors attend, but it has been held that a failure to give notice may negate resolutions passed at a meeting, because the persuasive oratory of a minority of directors might have persuaded the majority to change their minds and vote otherwise.\n\nIn most common law countries, the powers of the board are vested in the board as a whole, and not in the individual directors. However, in instances an individual director may still bind the company by his acts by virtue of his ostensible authority (see also: the rule in \"Turquand's Case\").\n\nBecause directors exercise control and management over the organization, but organizations are (in theory) run for the benefit of the shareholders, the law imposes strict duties on directors in relation to the exercise of their duties. The duties imposed on directors are fiduciary duties, similar to those that the law imposes on those in similar positions of trust: agents and trustees.\n\nThe duties apply to each director separately, while the powers apply to the board jointly. Also, the duties are owed to the company itself, and not to any other entity. This does not mean that directors can never stand in a fiduciary relationship to the individual shareholders; they may well have such a duty in certain circumstances.\n\nDirectors must exercise their powers for a proper purpose. While in many instances an improper purpose is readily evident, such as a director looking to feather his or her own nest or divert an investment opportunity to a relative, such breaches usually involve a breach of the director's duty to act in good faith. Greater difficulties arise where the director, while acting in good faith, is serving a purpose that is not regarded by the law as proper.\n\nThe seminal authority in relation to what amounts to a proper purpose is the Supreme Court decision in Eclairs Group Ltd v JKX Oil & Gas plc (2015). The case concerned the powers of directors under the articles of association of the company to disenfranchise voting rights attached to shares for failure to properly comply with notice served on the shareholders. Prior to that case the leading authority was \"Howard Smith Ltd v Ampol Ltd\" [1974] AC 821. The case concerned the power of the directors to issue new shares. It was alleged that the directors had issued a large number of new shares purely to deprive a particular shareholder of his voting majority. An argument that the power to issue shares could only be properly exercised to raise new capital was rejected as too narrow, and it was held that it would be a proper exercise of the director's powers to issue shares to a larger company to ensure the financial stability of the company, or as part of an agreement to exploit mineral rights owned by the company. If so, the mere fact that an incidental result (even if it was a desired consequence) was that a shareholder lost his majority, or a takeover bid was defeated, this would not itself make the share issue improper. But if the sole purpose was to destroy a voting majority, or block a takeover bid, that would be an improper purpose.\n\nNot all jurisdictions recognised the \"proper purpose\" duty as separate from the \"good faith\" duty however.\n\nDirectors cannot, without the consent of the company, fetter their discretion in relation to the exercise of their powers, and cannot bind themselves to vote in a particular way at future board meetings. This is so even if there is no improper motive or purpose, and no personal advantage to the director.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that the board cannot agree to the company entering into a contract which binds the company to a certain course, even if certain actions in that course will require further board approval. The company remains bound, but the directors retain the discretion to vote against taking the future actions (although that may involve a breach by the company of the contract that the board previously approved).\n\nAs fiduciaries, the directors may not put themselves in a position where their interests and duties conflict with the duties that they owe to the company. The law takes the view that good faith must not only be done, but must be manifestly seen to be done, and zealously patrols the conduct of directors in this regard; and will not allow directors to escape liability by asserting that his decision was in fact well founded. Traditionally, the law has divided conflicts of duty and interest into three sub-categories.\n\nBy definition, where a director enters into a transaction with a company, there is a conflict between the director's interest (to do well for himself out of the transaction) and his duty to the company (to ensure that the company gets as much as it can out of the transaction). This rule is so strictly enforced that, even where the conflict of interest or conflict of duty is purely hypothetical, the directors can be forced to disgorge all personal gains arising from it. In \"Aberdeen Ry v Blaikie\" (1854) 1 Macq HL 461 Lord Cranworth stated in his judgment that:\n\nHowever, in many jurisdictions the members of the company are permitted to ratify transactions which would otherwise fall foul of this principle. It is also largely accepted in most jurisdictions that this principle can be overridden in the company's constitution.\n\nIn many countries, there is also a statutory duty to declare interests in relation to any transactions, and the director can be fined for failing to make disclosure.\n\nDirectors must not, without the informed consent of the company, use for their own profit the company's assets, opportunities, or information. This prohibition is much less flexible than the prohibition against the transactions with the company, and attempts to circumvent it using provisions in the articles have met with limited success.\n\nIn \"Regal (Hastings) Ltd v Gulliver\" [1942] All ER 378 the House of Lords, in upholding what was regarded as a wholly unmeritorious claim by the shareholders, held that:\n\nAnd accordingly, the directors were required to disgorge the profits that they made, and the shareholders received their windfall.\n\nThe decision has been followed in several subsequent cases, and is now regarded as settled law.\n\nDirectors cannot compete directly with the company without a conflict of interest arising. Similarly, they should not act as directors of competing companies, as their duties to each company would then conflict with each other.\n\nTraditionally, the level of care and skill which has to be demonstrated by a director has been framed largely with reference to the non-executive director. In \"Re City Equitable Fire Insurance Co\" [1925] Ch 407, it was expressed in purely subjective terms, where the court held that:\n\nHowever, this decision was based firmly in the older notions (see above) that prevailed at the time as to the mode of corporate decision making, and effective control residing in the shareholders; if they elected and put up with an incompetent decision maker, they should not have recourse to complain.\n\nHowever, a more modern approach has since developed, and in \"Dorchester Finance Co Ltd v Stebbing\" [1989] BCLC 498 the court held that the rule in \"Equitable Fire\" related only to skill, and not to diligence. With respect to diligence, what was required was:\n\nThis was a dual subjective and objective test, and one deliberately pitched at a higher level.\n\nMore recently, it has been suggested that both the tests of skill and diligence should be assessed objectively and subjectively; in the United Kingdom, the statutory provisions relating to directors' duties in the new Companies Act 2006 have been codified on this basis.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, the law provides for a variety of remedies in the event of a breach by the directors of their duties:\n\nHistorically, directors' duties have been owed almost exclusively to the company and its members, and the board was expected to exercise its powers for the financial benefit of the company. However, more recently there have been attempts to \"soften\" the position, and provide for more scope for directors to act as good corporate citizens. For example, in the United Kingdom, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors of companies \"to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole\" and sets out the following six factors regarding a director's duty to promote success:\n\nThis represents a considerable departure from the traditional notion that directors' duties are owed only to the company. Previously in the United Kingdom, under the Companies Act 1985, protections for non-member stakeholders were considerably more limited (see, for example, s.309 which permitted directors to take into account the interests of employees but which could only be enforced by the shareholders and not by the employees themselves). The changes have therefore been the subject of some criticism.\n\nMost companies have weak mechanisms for bringing the voice of society into the board room. They rely on personalities who weren't appointed for their understanding of societal issues. Often they give limited focus (both through time and financial resource) to issues of corporate responsibility and sustainability. A Social Board has society designed into its structure. It elevates the voice of society through specialist appointments to the board and mechanisms that empower innovation from within the organisation. Social Boards align themselves with themes that are important to society.These may include measuring worker pay ratios, linking personal social and environmental objectives to remuneration, integrated reporting, fair tax and B-Corp Certification. \n\nSocial Boards recognise that they are part of society and that they require more than a licence to operate to succeed.They balance short-term shareholder pressure against long-term value creation, managing the business for a plurality of stakeholders including employees, shareholders, supply chains and civil society.\n\nThe Sarbanes–Oxley Act of 2002 has introduced new standards of accountability on boards of U.S. companies or companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges. Under the Act, directors risk large fines and prison sentences in the case of accounting crimes. Internal control is now the direct responsibility of directors. The vast majority of companies covered by the Act have hired internal auditors to ensure that the company adheres to required standards of internal control. The internal auditors are required by law to report directly to an audit board, consisting of directors more than half of whom are outside directors, one of whom is a \"financial expert.\"\n\nThe law requires companies listed on the major stock exchanges (NYSE, NASDAQ) to have a majority of independent directors—directors who are not otherwise employed by the firm or in a business relationship with it.\n\nAccording to the Corporate Library's study, the average size of publicly traded company's board is 9.2 members, and most boards range from 3 to 31 members. According to Investopedia, some analysts think the ideal size is seven. State law may specify a minimum number of directors, maximum number of directors, and qualifications for directors (e.g. whether board members must be individuals or may be business entities).\n\nWhile a board may have several committees, two—the compensation committee and audit committee—are critical and must be made up of at least three independent directors and no inside directors. Other common committees in boards are nominating and governance.\n\nDirectors of Fortune 500 companies received median pay of $234,000 in 2011. Directorship is a part-time job. A recent National Association of Corporate Directors study found directors averaging just 4.3 hours a week on board work. Surveys indicate that about 20% of nonprofit foundations pay their board members, and 2% of American nonprofit organizations do. 80% of nonprofit organizations require board members to personally contribute to the organization, as BoardSource recommends. This percentage has increased in recent years.\n\nAccording to John Gillespie, a former investment banker and co-author of a book critical of boards, \"Far too much of their time has been for check-the-box and cover-your-behind activities rather than real monitoring of executives and providing strategic advice on behalf of shareholders\". At the same time, scholars have found that individual directors have a large effect on major corporate initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions and cross-border investments.\n\nThe issue of gender representation on corporate boards of directors has been the subject of much criticism in recent years. Governments and corporations have responded with measures such as legislation mandating gender quotas and comply or explain systems to address the disproportionality of gender representation on corporate boards. A study of the French corporate elite has found that certain social classes are also disproportionately represented on boards, with those from the upper and, especially, upper-middle classes tending to dominate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34228532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34228532", "title": "Burford Brown", "text": "Burford Brown\n\nBurford Brown is a brand of brown eggs marketed in the United Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "38053091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38053091", "title": "Business History Review", "text": "Business History Review\n\nThe Business History Review is a scholarly quarterly published by Cambridge University Press for Harvard Business School. \"Business History Review\" is a peer-reviewed academic journal covering the field of business history. It was established in 1954 by Harvard University Press as the continuation of the \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\".\n\nThe journal is one of the leading scholarly journals in the field of business history alongside \"Enterprise & Society\" and \"Business History\".\n\nThe \"Business History Review\" traces it origins to 1926 with the publication of Harvard’s \"Bulletin of the Business Historical Society\". The Bulletin aimed “to encourage and aid the study of the evolution of business in all periods and in all countries” and devoted much space to describing the growing archival collections of Harvard’s Baker Library. Henrietta Larson, whose \"Guide to Business History\" (1948) also documented the scope of available research materials, was editor from 1938 to 1953.\n\nIn 1954, the \"Bulletin\" changed its name to \"Business History Review\" and took its current format of publishing peer-reviewed research articles and book reviews. In these years, the intellectual framework of the field of business history was defined by the work of Alfred D. Chandler Jr., who published 11 research articles in the journal. One of the most popular (with 212 Google Scholar cites) was his 1959 piece “The Beginnings of ‘Big Business’ in American Industry,” which explored the question of why large, vertically integrated corporations were formed in the late nineteenth-century and why they took the structure they did. Another highly cited article (240 Google Scholar cites) from 1970 was “The Emerging Organizational Synthesis in American History” by Louis Galambos, which also focused on explaining the growth of bureaucratic structures in the United States.\n\nIn 1974, \"Business History Review\" published its first special issue on the multinational corporation. Included in the issue was an article on oil companies operating in South America by Mira Wilkins, who pioneered the field of international business history. The journal also expanded its focus beyond the workings of business enterprise to cover business-government relations. In 1975, Thomas K. McCraw, who edited the journal from 1994 to 2005, published “Regulation in America: A Review Article.” In 2011, the current editors, Walter A. Friedman and Geoffrey Jones (academic), listed the \"BHR\"'s core subjects as innovation, globalization, entrepreneurship, business and the environment, business and government, and business and democracy. In 2015, the journal had an impact factor of .625 (with a 5-year impact factor of .895) and was rated as a 4 by the British Academic Journal Guide (a 4* is the highest rating).\n\n"}
{"id": "4746507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4746507", "title": "Business process mapping", "text": "Business process mapping\n\nBusiness process mapping refers to activities involved in defining what a business entity does, who is responsible, to what standard a business process should be completed, and how the success of a business process can be determined.\n\nThe main purpose behind business process mapping is to assist organizations in becoming more effective. A clear and detailed business process map or diagram allows outside firms to come in and look at whether or not improvements can be made to the current process.\n\nBusiness process mapping takes a specific objective and helps to measure and compare that objective alongside the entire organization's objectives to make sure that all processes are aligned with the company's values and capabilities.\n\nInternational Organization for Standardization or ISO 9001 : 2015 encourages a process approach to quality management. It is important to understand how each process relates to other processes within the organization and how those interactions impact Quality Management.\n\nThe first structured method for documenting process flow, the flow process chart, was introduced by Frank Gilbreth to members of ASME in 1921 as the presentation “Process Charts—First Steps in Finding the One Best Way”. Gilbreth's tools were quickly integrated into industrial engineering curricula. In the early 1930s, an industrial engineer, Allan H. Mogensen began training business people by using these tools of industrial engineering at his Work Simplification Conferences in Lake Placid, New York. A 1944 graduate of Mogensen's class, Art Spinanger, took the tools back to Procter and Gamble where he developed their work simplification program called the Deliberate Methods Change Program. Another 1944 graduate, Ben S. Graham, Director of Formcraft Engineering at Standard Register Industrial, adapted the flow process chart to information processing with his development of the multi-flow process chart to display multiple documents and their relationships. In 1947, ASME adopted a symbol set derived from Gilbreth's original work as the ASME Standard for Process Charts.\n\nBusiness process mapping, also known as process charts, has become much more prevalent and understood in the business world in recent years. Process maps can be used in every section of life or business.\nThe Major Steps of Process Improvement using Process Mapping \n\nProcess mapping is capable of supporting several important business goals:\n\n\nProcess mapping has overlapped with software development incorporating tools that can attach metadata to activities, drivers and triggers to provide some automation of software process coding.\n\nQuality improvement practitioners have noted that various graphical descriptions of processes can be useful. These include: detailed flow-charts, work flow diagrams and value stream maps. Each map is helpful depending on the process questions and theories being considered. In these situations process map implies the use of process flow and the current understanding of the causal structure.\n\nSix Sigma practitioners use the term Business Process Architecture to describe the mapping of business processes as series of cross-functional flowcharts. Under this school of thought, each flowchart is of a certain level (between 0 and 4) based on the amount of detail the flowchart contains. A level 0 flowchart represents the least amount of detail, and usually contains one or two steps. A level 4 flowchart represents the most amount of detail, and can include hundreds of steps. At this level every task, however minor, is represented.\n\nFlowchart is a primary type of business process mapping. It consists of some symbols such as arrows, circles, diamonds, boxes, ovals, or rectangles. The type of Flowchart just described is sometimes referred to as a \"detailed\" flowchart because it includes in detail, the inputs, activities, decision points, and outputs of any process.\n\nThe example is Proposed Patient Appointment Procedure. It starts with \"preparation of appointment book\" followed by a decision whether the appointment is shore or fleet. If the appointment is fleet, inform patient they can call 1500 to make own appointments for next few days, if the appointment is shore, confirm 24 hours prior to appointment. Next confirm that the patient confirmed. If a patient did not call, the appointment is canceled, otherwise the patient is given a confirmation number. Finally confirm that the patient showed for the appointment. If not, a standby patient is placed in the appointment slot, the appointment book is marked \"Failure\" and a failure report is submitted from front desk to fleet liaison. If a patient showed for appointment, put \"Patient showed\" in appointment book.\n\nAn easy example to follow is making breakfast:\n\nWe must first understand that making breakfast is a process. The ingredients are the inputs and the final breakfast ready to be served is the output. This graph shows the breakdown of each process vertically and horizontally. For instance, cooking ingredients is broken down into all of the different tasks that need to be done: cook bacon, cook eggs, toast bread, and fry potatoes. These tasks are then broken down further below. In order to cook eggs, one must first heat the pan, pour the mixture, stir mixture, add pepper, and remove eggs. This is a prime example of how process mapping can be used in any situation/process in order to understand all of the different parts so that we can complete the process with a better understanding for more efficiency.\nAlthough this is just a simple example, many aspects of business, including supply chain, operations, marketing, finance, and accounting, use similar process mapping activities to improve efficiency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24964373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24964373", "title": "Business relationship management", "text": "Business relationship management\n\nBusiness relationship management (BRM) is a formal approach to understanding, defining, and supporting inter-business activities related to business networking.\n\nBusiness relationship management consists of knowledge, skills, and behaviors (or \"competencies\") that foster a productive relationship between a service organization (e.g. Human Resources, Information technology, a finance department, or an external provider) and their business partners.\n\nBRM is distinct from enterprise relationship management and customer relationship management although it is related. It is of larger scope than a liaison who aligns business interests with IT deliverables.\n\nStrategic business partners (what used to be referred to as shared services or service providers) require a common methodology to drive true business innovation and strategy. These strategic business partners (IT, Finance, HR, external providers, etc.) are converging with the business. There is one shared business strategy with each business partner accountable for portions of the overall business value achieved. Business Relationship Management Institute, Inc started promoting this business capability in 2012 with a non-profit membership community dedicated to the BRM profession. \nThese features include:\n\nThe impact of these trends on business relationships have driven the foundation of a distinct BRM discipline.\n\nBRM is implemented via organizational roles, a discipline, and an organizational capability.\n\nThe BRM discipline is research-based and has been verified and enhanced for over a decade. It is used in organizations worldwide and is effective for shared services, external service providers and others. A goal of the discipline is to enable stakeholders to develop, evaluate, and use high-value networking relationships.\n\nThe BRM organizational role is a link between a service provider and the business. The role acts as a connector, orchestrator, and navigator between the service provider and one or more business units.\n\nOne goal of BRM is to provide a complete model of business relationships and their value over time, in order to make their various aspects both explicit and measurable. A mature BRM model will ultimately support strategic business research and development efforts as well as tools and techniques that implement BRM principles.\n\nThe approach to the BRM modeling process is to identify and describe various aspects of business relationships in terms of:\n\nAssets and products derived from the BRM model are meant to inform and support:\n\nThe BRM model will identify and categorize business relationships according to type. Each type has a discrete and clear purpose, characterized by a unique combination of roles, functions, and activities, and instances of each type can be identified, quantified, and analyzed. Some examples of these relationship types are business-to-business, business-to-consumer, and business-to-employee.\n\nThe BRM model identifies two roles, provider and consumer; a given business by necessity participates in both roles.\n\nThe concept of the business relationship lifecycle builds on charting the complex changing values of business relationships over time in contrast to simple transactional value.\n\nExamples of BRM lifecycles include:\n\nThe goals of BRM require that its concepts and principles be identifiable and measurable. Given the model, a person should be able to identify the business relationships that they are engaged in, and measure them in terms like quantity or duration. The same holds for any aspect of BRM, such as type, role, or principle.\n\nEvery business relationship has a purpose that requires the participation of multiple roles to accomplish. The purpose of a given business relationship is discrete and quantifiable.\n\nThe BRM model should attempt to model and quantify reputation and trust.\n\nEvery relationship, and every interaction within it, contributes to reputation. Reputation mitigates risk and reduces friction within business processes. Concern for reputation incentivizes good behavior.\n\nAbsence of trust will cause a business relationship to fail. Trust increases efficiency and enables conflict resolution. The relationship between trust as a traditional core concept and in its emerging 'radical' form as a component of online community must be described.\n\nThe BRM model needs to account for and align with models of corporate governance, including business ethics, legal constraints, and social norms as they apply to business relationships.\n\nThe BRM model should define the boundaries of business relationships within the larger continuum of interpersonal relationships. In addition to governance issues, the model should examine if there are optimal levels of personal connection, and whether they differ by type, role, or other attribute. The model should help define boundaries that optimize effectiveness while supporting good governance practices.\n\nThe BRM model of exchange and reciprocity must extend traditional dimensions to account for not only financial exchange, but also time, money, knowledge, and reputation exchanges. These are a key feature of business relationships.\n\nIn 2013, the Business Relationship Management Institute (BRMI) was founded, which publishes a guide that offers a \"comprehensive foundation-level overview of the art and practice of Business Relationship Management.\" BRMI offers a Business Relationship Management Professional (BRMP) designation, as well as a Certified Business Relationship Manager (CBRM) designation. These are globally accredited and administered by their partner, APMG-International.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4569345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4569345", "title": "CTQ tree", "text": "CTQ tree\n\nCTQ trees (critical-to-quality trees) are the key measurable characteristics of a product or process whose performance standards or specification limits must be met in order to satisfy the customer. They align improvement or design efforts with customer requirements.\n\nCTQs are used to decompose broad customer requirements into more easily quantified elements. CTQ trees are often used as part of six sigma methodology to help prioritize such requirements. \n\nCTQs represent the product or service characteristics as defined by the customer/user. Customers may be surveyed to elicit quality, service and performance data. They may include upper and lower specification limits or any other factors. A CTQ must be an actionable, quantitative business specification.\n\nCTQs reflect the expressed needs of the customer. The CTQ practitioner converts them to measurable terms using tools such as DFMEA. Services and products are typically not monolithic. They must be decomposed into constituent elements (tasks in the cases of services).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18551130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18551130", "title": "Citizen enterprise", "text": "Citizen enterprise\n\nThe term citizen enterprise started to be used in the United States in 2008 to describe businesses that practice corporate social responsibility (CSR).\n\nIn some countries, such as Papua New Guinea, the term is used to describe companies owned by citizens of that country, rather than by foreigners.\n\nIt should not be confused with social enterprise, which is a more complex notion involving origin, ownership and participation as well as objectives, activities and the use of profits.\n"}
{"id": "878401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878401", "title": "Cost estimation models", "text": "Cost estimation models\n\nCost estimation models are mathematical algorithms or parametric equations used to estimate the costs of a product or project. The results of the models are typically necessary to obtain approval to proceed, and are factored into business plans, budgets, and other financial planning and tracking mechanisms.\n\nThese algorithms were originally performed manually but now are almost universally computerized. They may be standardized (available in published texts or purchased commercially) or proprietary, depending on the type of business, product, or project in question. Simple models may use standard spreadsheet products.\n\nModels typically function through the input of parameters that describe the attributes of the product or project in question, and possibly physical resource requirements. The model then provides as output various resources requirements in cost and time. Some models concentrate only on estimating project costs (often a single monetary value). Little attention has been given to the development of models for estimating the amount of resources needed for the different elements that comprise a project.\n\nOther models are used to calculate costs of equipment, which provides more accuracy than models on a project level. Usage of these models is dependent on required accuracy and the phase of the project and its estimate.\n\nCost modeling practitioners often have the titles of cost estimators, cost engineers, or parametric analysts.\n\nTypical applications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38151875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38151875", "title": "Court auction", "text": "Court auction\n\nCourt auction is an auction which takes place at a public location designated by the court.\n\nIf a property owner fails to pay the mortgage, the mortgage holder can foreclose on that property. If the owner is unable to make sufficient payments, the property can be sold at auction. The time and place of the auction is published in official records.\n\nIn case the value of the debt being foreclosed on is substantially less than the market value of the real property, this can finish the trouble for the debitor by paying all the credits.\n\nIn Germany the court may suspend the auction for 6 months on the debtor's justified request. Justification may be hardship, e.g. if debtor has a physical disability and cannot find adequate housing. The creditor can object up to twice if the result of the auction is not sufficient to fulfil the claim. The bidder must deposit security in the amount of 10%. The highest bidder becomes the owner of the real property. If the claim is greater than the market value of the real property, debts are handled in an insolvency proceeding.\n\nSpanish mortgage holders are responsible for the full amount of the loan to the bank in addition to penalty interest charges, and court fees.\n\nHistorically, the vast majority of judicial foreclosures have been unopposed, since most defaulting borrowers have no money with which to hire counsel. The highest bidder at the auction becomes the owner of the real property, free and clear of interest of the former owner. In 2009 there was a growing consensus that the deepening collapse of the housing market was at the heart of the country’s acute economic downturn. The rules for court auction differ in the states.\n\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54332547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54332547", "title": "Data blending", "text": "Data blending\n\nData blending is a process whereby big data from multiple sources are merged into a single data warehouse or data set. It concerns not merely the merging of different file formats or disparate sources of data but also different varieties of data. Data blending allows business analysts to cope with the expansion of data which they need to make critical business decisions based on good quality business intelligence.\n\nData blending has been described as different to data integration due to the requirements of data analysts to merge sources very quickly, too quickly for any practical intervention by data scientists.\n\nThe most common custom metadata question is: “How can this dataset blend with (join or union to) my other datasets?”. A 2015 Forrester Consulting study found that 52% of companies are blending 50 or more data sources - and 12% are blending over 1,000 sources.\n\n"}
{"id": "17961199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17961199", "title": "Editorial-related advertising", "text": "Editorial-related advertising\n\nEditorial-related advertising is associated with the concept of contextual advertising but differs in its ability to match advertising to content in a much more specific manner. Where contextual advertising is keyword based, editorial-related advertising is able to also take in the content of the whole article and match on a conceptual level, rather than simply looking for the existence of pre-selected words. For example, there is no chance that an auto mechanic could advertise next to an article about the Detroit Pistons. It has many different ways to go and one would be to not.\n\nThis specificity also ensures that:\n\nAdvertisers can supply a number of specifically targeted pages, each with their own message to attract users to their 'microsite'. This 'microsite' is housed within a publication on a searchable vertical directory. Advertisers who are not completely related to the publication will not be considered for the program. This creates a directory resource of related suppliers within the publication's website that is also optimized for search engine traffic.\n\n"}
{"id": "38328166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38328166", "title": "Energy broker", "text": "Energy broker\n\nEnergy brokers assist clients in procuring electric or natural gas from energy wholesalers/suppliers. Since electricity and natural gas are commodities, prices change daily with the market. It is challenging for most businesses without energy managers to obtain price comparisons from a variety of suppliers since prices must be compared on exactly the same day. In addition, the terms of the particular contract offered by the supplier influences the price that is quoted. An energy broker can provide a valuable service if they work with a large number of suppliers and can actually compile the sundry prices from suppliers. An important aspect of this consulting role is to assure that the client understands the differences between the contract offers. Under some State Laws they use the term \"Suppliers\" to refer to energy suppliers, brokers, and aggregators, however there are very important differences between them all.\n\nEnergy brokers do not own or distribute energy, nor are allowed to sell energy directly to you. They simply present the rates of a wholesaler, or supplier.\n\nEnergy consultants offer a lot more than procuring energy contracts from a supplier. In the UK and Europe where there is a lot of legislation and increasing pressure for businesses and countries to do more to reduce their energy consumption a lot of services from brokers now help ensure businesses meet a lot of compliance and accreditation requirements such as the ESOS (energy saving opportunity scheme), ISO 50001, ISO 14001, Energy Performance Certificates and Display Energy Certificates.\nOther services include helping companies reduce energy consumption with the aim of meeting national and international carbon emission standards. Services include, energy health checks, energy audits, carbon zero, carbon offsetting and energy saving consulting.\n\nAdditional services such as arranging a power purchase agreement, energy export contracts can be procured as well as energy monitoring and reporting technology and solutions are also offered by energy consultants.\n\nIn the USA, energy brokers can serve residential, commercial and government entities that reside in energy deregulated states. In the UK, and some countries in Europe, the entire market is deregulated.\n\nEnergy brokers typically do not charge up front fees to provide rates. If an entity purchases energy through a broker, the broker's fee is usually included in the rate the customer pays. Some brokers will charge a fixed fee for their consulting services.\n\nNot all energy brokers are consultants; However, the energy brokers who are also consultants will perform a more detailed analysis of a consumers' usage pattern in order to provide a custom rate, which typically results in more cost savings for the consumer. Typically, they do not need any more information than that of an energy broker, because they can pull usage information from the local utility company. There are some national energy brokers that use auditing teams to verify their client's invoices.\n"}
{"id": "651421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651421", "title": "Faculty consulting", "text": "Faculty consulting\n\nConsulting by faculty members is the use of scholarly expertise for the benefit of organizations outside the scholarly community through friendship, volunteering or in return for some sort of compensation.\n\nUniversities have widely varying policies on faculty consulting, generally limiting the proportion of a faculty member's time, which may be spent on consulting, and instituting rules to avoid conflicts of interest.\n\nConsulting is distinguished from activities, which are scholarly or creative, from public service, and from outside activities which are unrelated to the area of scholarly expertise. For instance, a professor of history who designs sailboats on the side is not considered to be consulting, although a professor of engineering might be.\n\n"}
{"id": "30305432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30305432", "title": "Foresight (psychology)", "text": "Foresight (psychology)\n\nForesight is the ability to predict, or the action of predicting, what will happen or what is needed in the future. Studies suggest that much of human daily thought is directed towards potential future events. Because of this and its role in human control on the planet, the nature and evolution of foresight is an important topic in psychology. Recent neuroscientific, developmental, and cognitive studies have identified many commonalities to the human ability to recall past episodes. \"Science\" magazine selected new evidence for such commonalities one of the top ten scientific breakthroughs of 2007. However, there are fundamental differences between mentally travelling through time into the future (i.e., foresight) versus mentally travelling through time into the past (i.e., episodic memory).\n\nForesight has been classified as a behaviour (covert and/or overt) in management, a review, analysis, and synthesis of past definitions and usages of the foresight concept into a generic definition, in order to make the concept measurable.\n\nSpe\n\"Degree of analyzing present contingencies and degree of moving the analysis of present contingencies across time, and degree of analyzing a desired future state or states a degree ahead in time with regard to contingencies under control, as well as degree of analyzing courses of action a degree ahead in time to arrive at the desired future state.\"\n\nPrediction market are exchange-traded markets created for the purpose of trading the outcome of events. This economic theory is credited to economists Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich Hayek. Prediction Market gives the ability to aggregate information and make accurate predictions based on the Efficient Market Hypothesis, which states that assets prices are fully reflecting all available information. For instance, existing share prices always include all the relevant related information for the stock market to make accurate predictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "40191928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40191928", "title": "Greater Reading Expo Center", "text": "Greater Reading Expo Center\n\nThe Greater Reading Expo Center was an exhibition center located just north of Reading, Pennsylvania and access from the Warren Street Bypass (Route 12.) It had 30 meeting rooms, two food courts, and a total area of over 270,000 square feet on one floor. The expo center opened in 2006 and closed in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "43697811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43697811", "title": "Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank", "text": "Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank\n\nThe Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank (Hungarian: Magyar Ipar-és Kereskedelmi Bank) was an important Hungarian bank in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nIt was a mediocre bank until the appointment of István Tisza - a prominent businessman and politician - as its president. Under his direction, it became the largest bank of Hungary within a decade.\n"}
{"id": "2531827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2531827", "title": "Inc. (magazine)", "text": "Inc. (magazine)\n\nInc. is an American weekly magazine which publishes about small businesses and startups. The magazine publishes annual lists of the 500 and 5000 fastest-growing privately held small companies in the U.S., called the \"Inc. 500\" and \"Inc. 5000\". It was founded in 1979 and is based in New York City.\n\n\"Inc.\" was founded in Boston by Bernie Goldhirsh, and its first issue appeared in April 1979. Goldhirsh was an MIT-trained engineer who worked at Polaroid and on ballistic missiles before becoming an entrepreneur and founding \"Sail\" magazine, which he sold for $10 million, using the profits to found \"Inc.\" Paul W. Kellam, who had joined Goldhirsh's company as editor of \"Marine Business\", was tapped as the first editor. Goldhirsh kept a low profile, and longtime editor George Gendron was the \"public face\" of the magazine for two decades. Though long considered the younger upstart compared to most business publications, \"Inc.\" suffered following the dot-com era as titles like \"Fast Company\" seemed to grab more attention, but the tech crash and subsequent retrenchment saw the magazine stabilize its circulation and image. In 2000, widowed and battling cancer, Goldhirsh sold the magazine to Gruner + Jahr for a reported price of over $200 million. The magazine was purchased in 2005 by Morningstar founder, Joe Mansueto, and \"Inc.\" and its sister magazine \"Fast Company\" constitute the publishing arm of Mansueto Ventures. \n\nThe magazine is based in New York City, and its editor-in-chief is Eric Schurenberg. In December 2013, Schurenberg was appointed as President of \"Inc.\", replacing the long-tenured Bob LaPointe. In late January 2014, \"Inc.\" announced that Reuters opinion editor, James Ledbetter, would take over as editor of the magazine and web site.\n\nIn October 1981, \"Inc.\" became the first magazine to feature Steve Jobs on its cover, alongside the proclamation, \"This man has changed business forever.\"\n\n\"Inc.\" produces the radio show \"Inc. Radio\" in association with Entertainment Radio Network. \"Inc.\" publishes books under the imprint An Inc. Original in association with Greenleaf Book Group.\n\nThe Inc. 500 is an annual list of the 500 fastest-growing private companies in the United States, introduced in 1982. The Inc. 5000 is an expansion of the Inc. 500, which ranks the country’s top 5000 fastest-growing private companies and also features a special ranking of the top 10% of the list as the Inc. 500.\n\nThe Inc. 5000 is ranked according to percentage revenue growth over a three-year period. To qualify, companies must have been founded and generating revenue by the first week of the starting calendar year, and therefore able to show three full calendar years of sales. Additionally, they had to be U.S.-based, privately held, and independent—not subsidiaries or divisions of other companies—as of December 31 of the last year measured. Revenue in the initial year must have been at least $100,000, and revenue in the most recent year must have been at least $2 million.\n\nIn its first issue in 1979, \"Inc.\" magazine published the Inc. 100, a list of the fastest-growing publicly held small companies; in 1982, the list was expanded to become the Inc. 500, and in 2007, it was expanded again to become the Inc. 5000.\n\nThe Inc. 500 | 5000 Conference and Awards Ceremony is an annual event that promotes the list publication. The event also offers workshops and lectures by key speakers.\n\nThis annual conference brings together the current year's class of Inc. 500 | 5000 honorees, the list's alumni, as well as entrepreneurs from the general public. The event has featured a number of well-known business and political figures and expert speakers including: Bill Clinton, Bob Berry, Marshall Goldsmith, Scott Cook, Bernard Marcus, and Thomas Friedman.\n\nThe Inc. 5000 expanded to a European edition, which was released on February 24, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13889958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13889958", "title": "Incremental operating margin", "text": "Incremental operating margin\n\nIncremental operating margin is the increase or decrease of income from continuing operations before stock-based compensation, interest expense and income-tax expense between two periods, divided by the increase or decrease in revenue between the same two periods.\n"}
{"id": "3620743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3620743", "title": "Information silo", "text": "Information silo\n\nAn information silo, or a group of such silos, is an insular management system in which one information system or subsystem is incapable of reciprocal operation with others that are, or should be, related. Thus information is not adequately shared but rather remains sequestered within each system or subsystem, figuratively trapped within a container like grain is trapped within a silo: there may be a lot of it, and it may be stacked quite high and freely available within those limits, but it has no effect outside those limits. Such data silos are proving to be an obstacle for businesses wishing to use data mining to make productive use of their data. \nInformation silos occur whenever a data system is incompatible or not integrated with other data systems. This incompatibility may occur in the technical architecture, in the application architecture, or in the data architecture of any data system. However, since it has been shown that established data modeling methods are the root cause of the data integration problem , most data systems are at least incompatible in the data architecture layer.\n\nIn management the term silo mentality often refers to information silos in organizations. Silo mentality is caused by divergent goals of different organizational units. It can also be described as a variant of the principal-agent problem. Silo mentality preferably occurs in larger organizations and can lead to a decreased performance and has a negative impact on the corporate culture. Silo mentality can be countered by the introduction of shared goals, the increase of internal networking activities and the flattening of hierarchies. \n\nPredictors for the occurrence of silos are \n\nThis should not be confused with a data silo in computing, like application virtualization, operating-system-level virtualization, or a separation kernel.\n\nThe term functional silo syndrome was coined in 1988 by Phil S. Ensor (1931–2018) who worked in organizational development and employee relations for Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company, Eaton Corporation, and as a consultant. \"Silo\" and \"stovepipe\" (as in \"stovepipe organization\" and \"stovepipe system\") are now used interchangeably and applied broadly. Phil Ensor's use of the term \"silo\" reflects his rural Illinois origins and the many grain silos he would pass on return visits as he contemplated the challenges of the modern organizations with which he worked.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19885252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19885252", "title": "Internet booking engine", "text": "Internet booking engine\n\nAn Internet booking engine (IBE) is a website that allows consumers and travel agents to book flights, hotels, holiday packages, insurance and other services online. \n\nIn the early days of American aviation, passengers were very few and the airlines did not fly regularly as at present. Ticket fares were regulated by the Civil Aeronautics Board. All routes, fares and flight schedules were published in the Official Airline Guide and travel agents requested reservations by phone or telex. As the number of passengers flying annually began to grow, this manual system could not cope and the airlines looked at upgrading their method of ticketing.\n\nIn 1946 American Airlines were the very first to come out with an automated booking system. This was called the Electromechanical Reservisor which comprised a temporary storage of magnetic drums. The airline’s operators had to do the actual lookups as travel agents could not directly query this system.\n1953 marked the birth of complex airline reservation systems when American Airlines launched the SABRE (Semi-Automatic Business Research Environment) reservation system. Next came DATAS by Delta, Apollo by United Airlines and PARS by Trans World Airlines. Eventually these were replaced by complex computer reservations systems (CRSs). Originally operated by airlines, CRSs were later extended for the use of travel agents who could query the systems and make reservations themselves.\nIn the early 1980s CRSs were extended with more features and the new systems were able to book and sell tickets for multiple airlines where the earlier CRSs could handle only one. These newly developed systems were called global distribution systems (GDS). Eventually airlines divested their direct holdings in GDS companies, with the notable exception of the Asian carriers who remain owners of the following GDSs: Abacus, Topas, Axess, Infini and Travelsky. In addition Amadeus has Air France/ KLM, Lufthansa and Iberia as minority shareholders.\n\nThrough a GDS, travel agents could easily retrieve the information needed about many airlines. They had greater information-searching and booking capabilities.\n\nYet passengers themselves needed a travel agent’s assistance when making a booking. If any passenger wanted to book a seat or to go through a schedule they would have to contact the travel agents. So the airlines needed a web-based booking system which will allow the passengers to directly retrieve information about the air schedules, make booking etc. That is when the Internet booking engines (IBEs) were introduced. IBEs are used by nearly every airline at present to cut off extra expenses and to support instant booking and payment.\n\nAn internet booking engine allows a customer to specify their travel requirements such as city of departure, destination, departure date, return date and class of travel. Once this information is received, the IBE will offer a list of available air tickets, hotels and excursions which the customer can then book.\n\nThe real value of an IBE is in the business rules and processes that package the content and provide the capability to shop and purchase. This includes packaging and pricing rules, customized displays for different customers and channels, business rules, and check out and payment processes.\n\nAn IBE is installed on the home page of an airline to enable easy access for customers. When shoppers enter their travel preferences the IBE contacts the GDS or CRS/HRS (computer reservations system) to receive the relevant information which is then shown to the user in an appropriate interface.\n\nThe flights and fares may differ according to type of customer accessing the IBE. For example, corporate members or frequent flyers may have access to discounted fares or will enjoy privileges such as redemption of loyalty points against the airfare.\n\nWith the Super Passenger Name Record (Super PNR) function an IBE offers the capability of booking non-air elements such as hotels, cars, holidays and insurance.\n\nAfter the customer has finished selecting their flights they must choose a payment method. There are several options to choose from; credit card payment, redeeming frequent flyer program (FFP) points or miles in exchange for a flight ticket, discount vouchers as well as alternative payment methods such as PayPal or direct transfers from a customer's bank account - the number of options mostly depending on the point-of-sale country. If a customer prefers to pay in cash they will need to visit an airline office to complete the purchase. Once the customer has completed the payment process, a Passenger Name Record (PNR) is created in the airline's reservation systems and an e-ticket will be issued. \n\nAs the IBE is an online booking system the interface is often in HTML. With the growth of broadband, technologies such as Ajax or Flash are now used to support the change of the user’s interactivity.\n\nAn IBE has real time connectivity to a credit card clearance agency as most payments are made through credit card. Some IBEs offer multi-lingual and multi-currency support for customer convenience.\n\nA good security system which supports authentication and authorization is a must for an IBE.\n\nIBE providers keep adding new features to internet booking engines such as multiple search options so that a customer can book the flight in a manner that suits his/her requirements. If the customer is “schedule sensitive” or needs to adhere to specific travel dates, the IBE offers ticket fares giving priority to the travel calendar. Some IBEs also support passengers who desire to have multiple stops on their way to their destination. As many passengers are very concerned about the ticket price, the IBE of an airline shows a comparison between the low and high ticket fares, with the services included in each.\n\nA user may be able to access a seat map and reserve a preferred seat which is available. The selection of a front row, aisle seat, or window seat is possible. This feature, which is known as web check-in, allows a passenger to check-in online and print their own boarding pass.\n\nCarbon offset programs are also a new feature offered through IBEs. Here, a passenger can contribute to the airline’s environmental initiatives by making a special donation at the time of booking a ticket.\n\nThere are also IBE providers who now focus solely on the Vacation Condo, Vacation Villa and Vacation Apartment rental industries along with IBE providers who focus on smaller boutique and independent family owned motel and hotels.\n\nMore recently, the leisure, tour and activity market has been digitalized by IBE providers focussing solely on this segment.\n\nOnline travel bookings will represent almost a third of worldwide volume by the end of 2012, according to yStats.com \"Global Online Travel Report 2012\" report.\n\nMost of the growth of online travel booking has come from the development of travel websites that allow booking of flights, hotels, and car rentals. In the past 15 years, there has been a significant shift towards more online booking. This shift started with the creation of internet booking engine websites which search across multiple independent travel sites & booking engines.\n\n"}
{"id": "5134073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5134073", "title": "Ivey Index", "text": "Ivey Index\n\nThe Ivey Purchasing Managers Index (IPMI) is jointly sponsored by the Purchasing Management Association of Canada (PMAC) and the Richard Ivey School of Business. The Ivey Purchasing Managers Index measures month-to-month changes in dollars of purchases as indicated by a panel of purchasing managers from across Canada.\n"}
{"id": "11055061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055061", "title": "Journal of International Business Studies", "text": "Journal of International Business Studies\n\nThe Journal of International Business Studies is a double blind peer-reviewed academic journal and the official publication of the Academy of International Business. It is published by Palgrave Macmillan and covers research on international business. The journal was established in 1970 and is edited by Alain Verbeke (University of Calgary). According to the Journal Citation Reports its 2016 impact factor is 5.869.\n\n\nAs of January 2011, the top 5 most cited articles were:\n\nThe \"JIBS Decade Award\" was established in 1996 to recognize the most influential paper published in the volume a decade prior. The award is sponsored by Palgrave Macmillan. A selection committee evaluates the five most cited papers published in the volume of the year concerned and decides on the most influential paper. A special session is held at the Academy of International Business annual conference including a retrospective presentation from the award winner in addition to additional commentary. In 2009, the Decade Award was extended to include the 1970-1985 volumes of the journal, which had not previously been included.\n\n"}
{"id": "20153125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20153125", "title": "Legal governance, risk management, and compliance", "text": "Legal governance, risk management, and compliance\n\nLegal Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance or \"LGRC\", refers to the complex set of processes, rules, tools and systems used by corporate legal departments to adopt, implement and monitor an integrated approach to business problems.\nWhile Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance refers to a generalized set of tools for managing a corporation or company, Legal GRC, or LGRC, refers to a specialized – but similar – set of tools utilized by attorneys, corporate legal departments, general counsel and law firms to govern themselves and their corporations, especially but not exclusively in relation to the law.\nOther specializations within the realm of governance, risk management and compliance include IT GRC and financial GRC. Within these three realms, there is a great deal of overlap, particularly in large corporations that have legal and IT departments, as well as financial departments.\n\nLegal governance refers to the establishment, execution and interpretation of processes and rules put in place by corporate legal departments in order to ensure a smoothly-run legal department and corporation.\n\nLegal risk management refers to the process of evaluating alternative regulatory and non-regulatory responses to risk and selecting among them. Even with the legal realm, this process requires knowledge of the legal, economic and social factors, as well as knowledge of the business world in which legal teams operate. In an organizational setting, risk management refers to the process by which an organization sets the risk tolerance, identifies potential risks and prioritizes the tolerance for risk based on the organization’s business objectives, and manages and mitigates risks throughout the organization.\n\nLegal compliance is the process or procedure to ensure that an organization follows relevant laws, regulations and business rules. The definition of legal compliance, especially in the context of corporate legal departments, has recently been expanded to include understanding and adhering to ethical codes within entire professions, as well. There are two requirements for an enterprise to be compliant with the law, first its policies need to be consistent with the law. Second, its policies need to be complete with respect to the law.\nThe role of legal compliance has also been expanded to include self-monitoring the non-governed behavior with industries and corporations that could lead to workplace indiscretions.\nWithin the LGRC realm, it is important to keep in mind that if a strong legal governance component is in place, risk can be accurately assessed and the monitoring of legal compliance be carried out efficiently. It is also important to realize that within the LGRC framework, legal teams work closely with executive teams and other business departments to align their goals and ensure proper communication.\n\nLegal Consistency is a property that declares enterprise policies to be free of contradictions with the law. Legal Consistency has been defined as not having multiple verdicts for the same case \n. The antonym Legal Inconsistency is defined as having two rule that contradict each other. Other common definitions of consistency refer to “treating similar cases alike”. In the enterprise context, legal consistency refers to “obedience to the law”. In the context of legal requirements validation, legal consistency is defined as, \" Enterprise requirements are legally consistent if they adhere to the legal requirements and include no contradictions.\"\n\nLegal Completeness is a property that declares enterprise policies to cover all scenarios included or suggested by the law. Completeness suggests that there are no scenarios covered by the law that cannot be implemented in the enterprise. In addition, it implies that all scenarios not allowed by the law are not allowed by the enterprise.\n\nEnterprise policies are said to be legally complete if they contain no gaps in the legal sense. Completeness can be thought of in two ways: Some scholars make use of a concept of ‘obligational’ completeness such as Ayres and Gertner. \nAccording to this usage, a system or a contract is ‘obligationally’ complete if it specifies what each party is to do in every situation, even if this is not the optimal action to take under some circumstances. Others discuss ‘enforceability’ completeness in the sense that failing to specify key terms can lead a court to characterize a system as being too uncertain to enforce (May & Butcher v the King 1934), and hence a system may be complete with respect to enforceability. This leads to the following definition: enterprise regulations or requirements are legally complete if it specifies what each party is to do in each situation while covering all gaps in the legal sense.\n\nLebogang says. Like the Sarbanes-Oxley act, legal industry thought leaders saw a need for a new framework for legal GRC, and borrowed heavily from IT, RIM and other industries to try to come up with new, clear processes and rules to make navigating the choppy waters of the post-financial crisis legal world go as smoothly as possible.\n\nThe Legal GRC Center for Innovation is a nonprofit institute for the advancement of the concepts and applications of Legal GRC. The LGRC Center for Innovation serves as a forum for legal industry leaders to discuss and determine ways to systematize and streamline within the legal industry. The membership of the LGRC-CFI is made up of a group of [thought leaders] in the legal, business, IT, and RIM fields. They meet in online forums and at periodic conventions and summits to determine best practices for Legal GRC. The LGRC-CFI also publishes a blog and several industry-specific white papers regularly. The LGRC Center for Innovation addresses legal governance, risk management, and compliance exclusively.\n\nThe Institute on Governance (IOG), although it does not address LGRC exclusively, is a useful resource for knowledge on governance in general, and has collected some significant basics about legal governance online.\nThe IOG is an independent, Canadian, nonprofit [think tank] founded in 1990 to promote better governance for public benefit. Through our research and services we help public organizations and societies realize their objectives by putting good governance into practice.\n\nThe Association of Corporate Counsel (\"ACC\"), formerly the American Corporate Counsel Association (\"ACCA\"), is an association of in-house counsel, attorneys who work for corporations. The association publishes the magazine ACC Docket and arranges one of the United States’ largest annual meetings for in-house attorneys. ACC was founded in 1982. It currently has more than 24,000 members from over 10,500 corporations in 77 countries.[1]\nThe ACC does not address LGRC exclusively, but can be credited with laying some foundations for corporations – the original practitioners of governance, risk management, and compliance – and legal departments to begin to work together on overarching issues of governance, risk management, and compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "75470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75470", "title": "Life-cycle cost analysis", "text": "Life-cycle cost analysis\n\nLife-cycle cost analysis (LCCA) is a tool to determine the most cost-effective option among different competing alternatives to purchase, own, operate, maintain and, finally, dispose of an object or process, when each is equally appropriate to be implemented on technical grounds. For example, for a highway pavement, in addition to the initial construction cost, LCCA takes into account all the user costs, (e.g., reduced capacity at work zones), and agency costs related to future activities, including future periodic maintenance and rehabilitation. All the costs are usually discounted and total to a present-day value known as net present value (NPV). This example can be generalized on any type of material, product, or system.\n\nIn order to perform an LCCA scoping is critical - what aspects are to be included and what not? If the scope becomes too large the tool may become impractical to use and of limited ability to help in decision-making and consideration of alternatives; if the scope is too small then the results may be skewed by the choice of factors considered such that the output becomes unreliable or partisan. Usually, the LCCA term implies that environmental costs are not included, whereas the similar Whole-Life Costing, or just Life Cycle Analysis (LCA), generally has a broader scope, including environmental costs.\nTo help building and facility managers make sound decisions, the US Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) provides guidance and resources on applying LCCA that permits the cost-effectiveness of energy and water efficiency investments to be evaluated (see NIST Handbook 135). This document includes an introduction to LCCA.\n\nLife cycle cost can be conducted in two approaches: deterministic and probabilistic method.\n"}
{"id": "795618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=795618", "title": "List of American advertising characters", "text": "List of American advertising characters\n\nThis is a list of notable nationally exposed mascots and characters created specifically for advertising purposes, listed alphabetically by the product they represent.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40649427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40649427", "title": "List of sports venues with the name Toyota", "text": "List of sports venues with the name Toyota\n\nThis is a List of sports venues with the name Toyota.\n\n\nFormer venues with Toyota naming rights:\n\nThe following are all located in the city of Toyota and are named after the municipality, without naming rights to the brand. Meanwhile, the city itself is named after the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "20635304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20635304", "title": "Managerial hubris", "text": "Managerial hubris\n\nManagerial hubris is the unrealistic belief held by managers in bidding firms that they can manage the assets of a target firm more efficiently than the target firm's current management. Managerial hubris is one reason a manager may choose to invest in a merger that on average generates no profits.\n\n"}
{"id": "11988019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11988019", "title": "Managerial psychology", "text": "Managerial psychology\n\nManagerial psychology is a sub-discipline of industrial and organizational psychology, which focuses on the efficacy of individuals, groups and organizations in the workplace. Its purpose is to specifically aid managers in gaining a better understanding of the psychological patterns common among individuals and groups within any given organisation. Managerial psychology can be used to predict and prevent harmful psychological patterns within the workplace and can also be implemented to control psychological patterns among individuals and groups in a way that will benefit the organisation long term. (Robbins, SP et al.2010).\n\nIf in the early stages managerial psychologists used to study the problems of fatigue, boredom, and other working conditions that could impede efficient work performance. More recently, their contributions have expanded to include learning, perception, personality, emotions, training, leadership, effectiveness, needs and motivational forces, job satisfaction, decision-making processes, performance appraisals, attitude measurement, employee-selection techniques, work design, and job stress(Robbins, SP et al.2010). This means that they apply psychology principles to the workplace and use their skills to study workplace productivity, morale, employee screening or organizational development. Apart from this, they can also train and screen job applicants, assist with organizational development, and consult with corporations on a problem-solving basis.\n\n\nHerzberg et al.’s (1959) seminal two-factor theory of motivation theorized that satisfaction and dissatisfaction were not two opposite extremes of the same sequence, but two separate entities caused by quite different facets of work – these were labelled as “hygiene factors” and “motivators”. Hygiene factors are characterized as extrinsic components of job design that contribute to employee dissatisfaction if they are not met. Examples include: supervision, working conditions, company policies, salary, and relations with co-workers. Motivators, however, are intrinsic to the job itself and include aspects such as achievement, development, responsibility and recognition. On the other hand, intrinsic factors have long been acknowledged as important determinants of motivation. There is a longstanding debate as to whether hygiene factors really contribute to job satisfaction (Furnham et al., 1999; Warr, 1987). Most job satisfaction and motivation research literature is concerned with organisational or situational predictors (such as pay and supervision) (Locke, 1976) while neglecting individual differences (Staw and Ross, 1985). O’Reilly et al. (1980) discovered that individuals’ significantly differ in the way they perceive their jobs, even if the job description and the tasks they had to perform remained constant, thus suggesting that some individual differences must have an effect on work attitudes.\n\nStaw et al. (1986) argued that individual disposition may have a profound influence over how the working world is perceived (i.e. what is important to the individual), and this is likely to affect the type of jobs that are sought.\n\nIt was first introduced in Gosling et al., (2003) and the ten items of this measure are scored using a seven-point scale, with two statements (one reversed) used to measure each personality variable. The authors report extensive data showing good reliability and validity of this instrument.\n\nThis inventory introduced in Furnham et al., (2005) consists of 37 items and requires individuals to report the extent to which intrinsic (e.g.responsibility and personal growth) and extrinsic (e.g. pay and benefits) components are important to them on a six-point scale. The WVQ is a revised version of Mantech’s(1983) questionnaire. Previous studies have indicated that between two and four factors tend to be extracted, and that these often correspond to Herzberg et al.’s (1959) hygiene and motivator factors .\n\nThis scale introduced in Warr et al., (1979) consists of 15 items, seven of which measure intrinsic satisfaction, whilst the remaining eight measure extrinsic job satisfaction. Responses are given on a seven-point scale and can be summed to create and overall satisfaction score as well as an intrinsic and extrinsic value.\n\nIn a recent issue of Journal of Managerial Psychology published in 2009 is presented an experiment with 202 full-time employees (81 males, mean age=38.3 and 121 females, mean age= 28.4) working in very different jobs in the retail, manufacturing and healthcare to investigate the extent to which personality and demographic factors explain variance in motivation and job satisfaction as defined by Herzberg et al.’s (1959) two-factor theory. Every person was given 3 questionnaires ( The ten item personality inventory, The work values questionnaire (WVQ), The job satisfaction scale) and had to complete them via a website.\n\nAs predicted, personality and demographic variables were significant correlates of the extracted factors, accounting for between 9 and 15.2 per cent of the variance. Similarly, personality and demographic variables were also significantly related to all three job satisfaction scores and accounted for between 10.5 and 12.7 per cent of the variance. As expected, conscientiousness was a significant correlate of job satisfaction scores in both correlational and regressional analyses. Contrary to expectations, age, job tenure and years working full-time were not significantly related to job satisfaction scores; however, in line with predictions and the two-factor theory, job status was significantly associated with these scores.\n\nNegative relationships were observed between the security and conditions factor and job status, as well as years in full-time employment. These results suggest that individuals with low job status (e.g. graduate positions and non-managerial roles) are more concerned with working conditions and clarity in their work than those of a higher status and individuals who have been working for longer periods.\n\nThese results further validate the contention that work attitudes are not the product of situational factors alone, and that both literature and organisations should further investigate the variables that contribute to these values with the intention of increasing job satisfaction and performance, through effective selection methods and pervasive job interventions.\n\nAbraham Maslow developed the Hierarchy of Needs model in 1940-50s USA, and the Hierarchy of Needs theory remains valid today for understanding human motivation, management training, and personal development. Maslow's ideas surrounding the Hierarchy of Needs concern the responsibility of employers to provide a workplace environment that encourages and enables employees to fulfill their own unique potential (self-actualization).\n\nWhile Maslow referred to various additional aspects of motivation, he expressed the Hierarchy of Needs in these five clear stages.\n\n\nDouglas McGregor, an American social psychologist, proposed his famous X-Y theory in his 1960 book 'The Human Side Of Enterprise'. Theory X and Theory Y are still referred to commonly in the field of management and motivation. McGregor's ideas suggest that there are two fundamental approaches to managing people. Many managers tend towards theory x, and generally get poor results. Enlightened managers use theory y, which produces better performance and results, and allows people to grow and develop.\n\n\n\nSee also Need theory\n\nDavid McClelland in his 1961 book, \"The Achieving Society \" identified three motivators that he believed we all have: a need for achievement, a need for affiliation, and a need for power. People will have different characteristics depending on their dominant motivator. According to McClelland, these motivators are learned (which is why this theory is sometimes called the Learned Needs Theory).\n\nMcClelland says that, regardless of our gender, culture, or age, we all have three motivating drivers, and one of these will be our dominant motivating driver. This dominant motivator is largely dependent on our culture and life experiences.\n\nPeople motivated by achievement need challenging, but not impossible, projects. They thrive on overcoming difficult problems or situations, so make sure you keep them engaged this way. People motivated by achievement work very effectively either alone or with other high achievers.\n\nWhen providing feedback, give achievers a fair and balanced appraisal. They want to know what they're doing right – and wrong – so that they can improve.\n\nPeople motivated by affiliation work best in a group environment, so try to integrate them with a team (versus working alone) whenever possible. They also don't like uncertainty and risk. Therefore, when assigning projects or tasks, save the risky ones for other people.\n\nWhen providing feedback to these people, be personal. It's still important to give balanced feedback, but if you start your appraisal by emphasizing their good working relationship and your trust in them, they'll likely be more open to what you say. Remember that these people often don't want to stand out, so it might be best to praise them in private rather than in front of others.\n\nThose with a high need for power work best when they're in charge. Because they enjoy competition, they do well with goal-oriented projects or tasks. They may also be very effective in negotiations or in situations in which another party must be convinced of an idea or goal.\n\nWhen providing feedback, be direct with these team members. And keep them motivated by helping them further their career goals\n\n"}
{"id": "245529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245529", "title": "Mandatory labelling", "text": "Mandatory labelling\n\nMandatory labelling or labeling (see spelling differences) is the requirement of consumer products to state their ingredients or components.\n\nMoral purchasing and problems like allergies are two things which are enabled by labelling. It is mandated in most developed nations, and increasingly in developing nations, especially for food products, \"e.g.\" \"Grade A\" meats. With regard to food and drugs, mandatory labelling has been a major battleground between consumer advocates and corporations since the late 19th century.\n\nBecause of past scandals involving deceptive labelling, countries like the United States and Canada require most processed foods to have a Nutrition facts label on the label, and the table's formatting and content must conform to strict guidelines. The European Union equivalent is the slightly different Nutrition information table, which may also be supplemented with standardized icons indicating the presence of allergens.\n\nIn China, all clothing is labelled with the factory of origin, including telephone and fax numbers, although this information is not available to buyers outside China, who see only a generic Made In China tag.\n\nThe development genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about the mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies. Advocates of such labelling claim that the consumer should make the choice whether to expose themselves to any possible health risk from consuming such foods. Detractors point to studies that conclude genetically modified food is safe, and point out that for many commodity products, the identity of the grower and the custody chain are not known.\n\nVoluntary labelling and co-marketing of products deemed desirable is another matter usually carried out by entirely different means, \"e.g.\" Slow Food. There has been increased regulatory interest in substantiating these claims, and in some jurisdictions, food labels require regulatory approval before use.\n\nAn interesting halfway is those labels that are considered mandatory by one buying population and effectively preclude purchase if they are not there, e.g. kosher, vegan, and the aforementioned GMO-free label now seen on many organic products.\n\nAreas in which mandatory labelling is being discussed include:\n\n"}
{"id": "35223220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35223220", "title": "Nordic Business Forum", "text": "Nordic Business Forum\n\nNordic Business Forum (NBF) is a Finnish company, based in Jyväskylä. The company is best known for its annual business conference in Helsinki, the capital of Finland.\nThe annual main event, Nordic Business Forum, gathers together over 7500 attendees from over 40 countries, 17.4% of the attendees being CEOs. \n\nNordic Business Forum 2011 concentrated on responsibility. The main topic was Strength from Responsible Choices and all the 1800 seats were sold out. The main speaker was the former Vice President of U.S. Al Gore.\n\n In 2012 the main theme of Nordic Business Forum was growth, with sub-themes business growth, personal growth and growth of well-being.\n\nThe speakers included:\n\nNordic Business Forum 2013 gathered over 3,300 guests under one roof. The seminar was sold out already by the end of February 2012, 7 months prior to the actual event date.\n\nThe main theme of Nordic Business Forum 2013 was Leadership. Sub-topics included self-leadership, sales leadership and innovation leadership.\n\nThe speakers included:\n\nNordic Business Forum 2014 gathered over 5,300 guests to the Exhibition & Convention Center in Helsinki. This was the first time the seminar was organized in Helsinki. The seminar was sold out already 4 months prior to the event. In addition to the attendees on the spot, there were also hundreds of people watching the seminar through live stream.\n\nThe main theme of Nordic Business Forum 2014 was Forward. Sub-topics included Choosing Excellence, Building the Future and Growing with Purpose.\n\nThe speakers included:\n\nThe Nordic Business Forum 2015 is held 1–2 October, in the Helsinki Exhibition and Convention Center, in Finland.\n\nThe speakers include:\n"}
{"id": "27034424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27034424", "title": "Open-book contract", "text": "Open-book contract\n\nIn an open-book contract, the buyer and seller of work/services agree on (1) which costs are remunerable and (2) the margin that the supplier can add to these costs. The project is then invoiced to the customer based on the actual costs incurred plus the agreed margin. It is essentially the same as what is known (especially in the U.S.) as a cost-plus contract.\n\nThis contract form is popular to ensure that a competitive price is obtained, for instance in cases where tender competitions are impractical. It is also useful if the work is difficult to specify precisely up front, or if the buyer is not willing to pay for the risk-premium that sellers typically add when giving fixed prices.\n\nFrequently, an incentive is included for the supplier to give a realistic price and to minimize the costs during the project. Typically, the mechanism for such an incentive is that the supplier gets a bonus or penalty calculated as a percentage of the difference between the real cost of the project and an estimate provided up front. (Note: Setting the percentage at 100% would make the pricing identical to that of an EPCI contract).\n\nOpen-book contracts in third-party logistics services were popularised by John Anthony Harvey CBE, head of Tibbett & Britten Group plc, between 1984 and 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "6406997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6406997", "title": "Ordinary course of business", "text": "Ordinary course of business\n\nIn law, the ordinary course of business covers the usual transactions, customs and practices of a certain business and of a certain firm. This term is used particularly to judge the validity of certain transactions. It is used in several different sections of the Uniform Commercial Code of the United States.\n\nSection 1-201 of the Uniform Commercial Code defines a \"Buyer in the ordinary course of business\" by a four-part test:\n\n"}
{"id": "3125659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125659", "title": "Output contract", "text": "Output contract\n\nAn output contract is an agreement in which a producer agrees to sell his or her entire production to the buyer, who in turn agrees to purchase the entire output. Example: an almond grower enters into an \"output contract\" with an almond packer: thus the producer has a \"home\" for output of nuts, and the packer of nuts is happy to try the particular product. The converse of this situation is a requirements contract, under which a seller agrees to supply the buyer with as much of a good or service as the buyer wants, in exchange for the buyer's agreement not to buy that good or service elsewhere.\n\nUniform Commercial Code comment section 2-306: A term which measures the quantity by the output of the seller or the requirements of the buyer, means such actual output or requirements that may occur in good faith. Good faith cessation of production terminates any further obligations thereunder and excuses further performance by the party discontinuing production. However, the cessation of production must be in light of bankruptcy or other similar situations. The yield of less profit from a sale than expected does not excuse further performance of an output contract. See Feld vs. Henry S. Levy & Sons, Inc. (New York, 1975) or Technical Assistance International, Inc. vs. United States (U.S. Court of Appeals, 1998).\n"}
{"id": "32142197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32142197", "title": "PACE Institute of Leadership and Management", "text": "PACE Institute of Leadership and Management\n\nPACE Institute of Management (PACE) was established in 2001 as a pioneer in business education in Vietnam. Headquartered in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, PACE delivers public training programs, in-house training services, seminars, conferences, and publishing.\n\nThe institute has support from business community and intellectuals in the country to develop not-profit educational projects: Institute of Potential Leaders (IPL), Business Knowledge Portal (DoanhTri.vn), GoodBooks (SachHay.com), and OneBook.\n\nDuring the past five years, the institute has invited several notable scholars and thinkers to speak in Vietnam to introduce new concepts and perspectives related to Vietnam and the larger South East Asia region. Speakers have included Michael E. Porter, the father of the modern strategy field; Paul Krugman, the 2008 Nobel Laureate in Economics; and Philip Kotler, the father of modern marketing.\n\nPACE has a publishing arm known as DT Books (previously PACE Books) that has acquired the rights to publish and translate many books on education, business, and management.\n\nTo date, more than 70,000 entrepreneurs and directors from corporations, local, and foreign companies have attended PACE public training programs and utilized PACE in-house training services.\n\n"}
{"id": "3069932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3069932", "title": "PerForm", "text": "PerForm\n\nPerForm and PerForm PRO were electronic form programs, initially designed to work under GEM in DOS. Later versions were designed to work in Windows 3.1, at which point it was succeeded by FormFlow. \n\nThe initial version of PerForm was created in 1988 and was the first product released by Canadian software firm Delrina, which became best known for its later fax software program, WinFax. Chief Technical Officer Bert Amato and President of the company Mark Skapinker came up with the idea for the product while working as consultants that what their clients wanted was a way to fill in forms electronically, rather than an easier way to create paper-based forms from a computer. The program consisted of two parts: a form design module which gave users a graphical user interface for creating and arranging form elements, using tools largely familiar to those using desktop publishing or paint programs of the era, and a separate form filling program which would display the resulting form that the user could then fill in. Those entering information into the forms could not change or alter the forms; they were limited to adding information in the various form fields on screen. Some of the potential uses of the program included being able to create invoices, payment records, personnel and payroll forms, and just about any other standardized form that may have been required. Later versions of the program had some integration with Delrina's popular WinFax program, enabling users to fax material to clients based on information entered into PerForm. \n\nThere was significant and long-term uptake of electronic forms products within governmental agencies both in Canada and the United States, the latter spurred on in particular by the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act to reduce the total amount of paperwork handled by the United States government. One of the firm's early major software deals included a multi-year agreement to sell PerForm to the U.S. Navy in 1990. Soon after the software was installed on Compaq laptops that accompanied U.S. troops during the First Gulf War, where it was used to requisition \"everything from Coca-Cola to privies\". Other significant volume sales went to 3M and Rockwell International. What helped set apart Delrina's electronic forms from its competitors in product reviews included its easy-to-use interface, its extensive development tools, and its comparatively low price. It also scored highly when it came to workflow and routing functions as well as security features. In early 1991 InfoWorld selected PerForm Pro\nas its \"Product of the Year\" in the electronic forms\ncategory, and PC World Magazine gave the product it's \"Best Buy\" designation. PerForm proved to be successful in its niche, effectively capturing the retail market by 1993.\n\nThe electronic forms division of Delrina was sold to JetForm in 1996. JetForm in turn was bought by Adobe, and the electronic forms products were officially discontinued in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1796566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1796566", "title": "Poverty industry", "text": "Poverty industry\n\nThe terms poverty industry or poverty business refer to a wide range of money-making activities that attract a large portion of their business from the poor because they are poor. Businesses in the poverty industry often include payday loan centers, pawnshops, rent-to-own centers, casinos, liquor stores, lotteries, tobacco stores, credit card companies, and bail-bond services. Illegal ventures such as loansharking might also be included. The poverty industry makes roughly US$33 billion a year in the United States. In 2010, elected American federal officials received more than $1.5 million in campaign contributions from poverty-industry donors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45000327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45000327", "title": "Privatier", "text": "Privatier\n\nPrivatier ([], also spelled Privatus, with the feminine forms Privata or Privatière, meaning \"private person\") is a French word that was used from the 19th century in Germany and some other countries as a title by members of bourgeois families of substantial financial means in lieu of another professional title. Much like rentier, it denoted someone who did not have to work to make a living, and who lived off their assets of some size, e.g. interest, profits from investments, real estate and current assets. Sometimes, the title was used by affluent businessmen after they had wholly or largely retired from their former activity. For example, in Thomas Mann's novel \"Buddenbrooks\", the character Alois Permaneder, a former merchant, uses this title after his marriage to Tony Buddenbrook, after receiving a substantial dowry from her wealthy family, at which point he retires from business.\n"}
{"id": "27701207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27701207", "title": "Process ontology", "text": "Process ontology\n\nIn philosophy, a process ontology refers to a universal model of the structure of the world as an ordered wholeness. Such ontologies are fundamental ontologies, in contrast to the so-called applied ontologies. Fundamental ontologies do not claim to be accessible to any empirical proof in itself, but to be a structural design pattern, out of which empirical phenomena can be explained and put together consistently. Throughout Western history, the dominating fundamental ontology is the so-called substance theory. However, fundamental process ontologies are becoming more important in recent times, because the progress in the discovery of the foundations of physics spurred the development of a basic concept able to integrate such boundary notions as \"energy,\" \"object\", and those of the physical dimensions of space and time.\n\nIn computer science, a process ontology is a description of the components and their relationships that make up a process. A formal process ontology is an ontology in the knowledge domain of processes. Often such ontologies take advantage of the benefits of an upper ontology. Planning software can be used to perform plan generation based on the formal description of the process and its constraints. Numerous efforts have been made to define a process/planning ontology.\n\nA process may be defined as a set of transformations of input elements into output elements with specific properties, with the transformations characterized by parameters and constraints, such as in manufacturing or biology. A process may also be defined as the workflows and sequence of events inherent in processes such as manufacturing, engineering and business processes.\n\nThe Process Specification Language (PSL) is a process ontology developed for the formal description and modeling of basic manufacturing, engineering and business processes. This ontology provides a vocabulary of classes and relations for concepts at the ground level of event-instances, object-instances, and timepoints. PSL’s top level is built around the following:\n\nIn a process/planning ontology developed for the ontology Cyc, classes and relations above the ground level of PSL allow processes to be described purely at the type-level. The ground level of PSL uses the primitives of event-instance, object-instance, and timepoint description. The types above the ground level of PSL have also been expressed in PSL, showing that the type-level and the ground level are relatively independent. The type-levels for the Cyc process ontology above this ground level use the following concepts:\n\nThe project SUPER (Semantics Utilised for Process management within and between EnteRprises) has a goal of the definition of ontologies for Semantic Business Process Management (SBPM), but these ontologies can be reused in diverse environments. Part of this project is to define an Upper Process Ontology (UPO) that ties together all other SUPER ontologies. The results of the project SUPER include the UPO and a set of ontologies for processes and organizations. Most of the ontologies are written in WSML, and some are also written in OCML.\n\nA candidate model for the UPO was DDPO (DOLCE+DnS Plan Ontology), a planning ontology which specifies plans and distinguishes between abstract and executable plans. DOLCE (Descriptive Ontology for Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering) aims at capturing the ontological categories underlying natural language and human commonsense. DnS (Descriptions and Situations), is a constructivist ontology that allows for context-sensitive redescriptions of the types and relations postulated by other given ontologies (or ground vocabularies). Together in DDPO, DOLCE and DnS are used to build a Plan Ontology that includes physical and non-physical objects (social entities, mental objects and states, conceptualizations, information objects, constraints), events, states, regions, qualities, and constructivist situations. The main target of DDPO is tasks, namely the types of actions, their sequencing, and the controls performed on them.\n\nThe ontology oXPDL is a process interchange ontology based on the standardised XML Process Definition Language (XPDL). The purpose of oXPDL is to model the semantics of XPDL process models in standardized Web ontology languages such as OWL and WSML, while incorporating features of existing standard ontologies such as PSL, RosettaNet, and SUMO.\n\nThe General Formal Ontology (GFO) is an ontology integrating processes and objects. GFO includes elaborations of categories like objects, processes, time and space, properties, relations, roles, functions, facts, and situations. GFO allows for different axiomatizations of its categories, such as the existence of atomic time-intervals vs. dense time. Two of the specialties of GFO are its account of persistence and its time model. Regarding persistence, the distinction between endurants (objects) and perdurants (processes) is made explicit within GFO by the introduction of a special category, a persistant. A persistant is a special category with the intention that its instances \"remain identical\" over time. With respect to time, time intervals are taken as primitive in GFO, and time-points (called \"time boundaries\") are derived. Moreover, time-points may coincide, which is convenient for modelling instantaneous changes.\n\nThe multi metamodel process ontology (m3po) combines workflows and choreography descriptions so that it can be used as a process interchange ontology. For internal business processes, Workflow Management Systems are used for process modelling and allow describing and executing business processes. For external business processes, choreography descriptions are used to describe how business partners can cooperate. A choreography can be considered to be a view of an internal business process with the internal logic not visible, similar to public views on private workflows. The m3po ontology unifies both internal and external business processes, combining reference models and languages from the workflow and choreography domains. The m3po ontology is written in WSML. The related ontology m3pl, written in PSL using the extension FLOWS (First Order Logic for Web Services), enables the extraction of choreography interfaces from workflow models.\n\nThe m3po ontology combines features of the following reference models and languages:\n\nThe m3po ontology is organized using five key aspects of workflow specifications and workflow management. Because different workflow models put a different emphasis on the five aspects, the most elaborate reference model for each aspect was used and combined into m3po.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36721370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36721370", "title": "Product defect", "text": "Product defect\n\nA product defect is any characteristic of a product which hinders its usability for the purpose for which it was designed and manufactured. \n\nProduct defects arise most prominently in legal contexts, where the term is applied to \"anything that renders the product not reasonably safe\". The field of law that addresses injuries caused by defective products is called products liability.\n\nA wide range of circumstances can render a product defective. The product may have a design defect, resulting from the product having been poorly designed or tested, so that the design itself yields a product that can not perform its desired function. Even if the design is correct, the product may have a manufacturing defect if it was incorrectly manufactured, for example if the wrong materials are used. A product may also be considered legally defective if it lacks appropriate instructions for its use, or appropriate warnings of dangers accompanying normal use or misuse of the product.\n\nA product that is defective in some way that does not render it dangerous might still be sold, with a discounted price reflecting the defect. For example, where a clothing manufacturer discovers that a line of shirts have been made with slightly uneven sleeves, the manufacturer may choose to sell these shirts at a discount, often through at outlet store and with the label cut off to indicate that the quality is not intended to reflect on the brand.\n"}
{"id": "2633364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2633364", "title": "Registered office", "text": "Registered office\n\nA registered office is the official address of an incorporated company, association or any other legal entity. Generally it will form part of the public record and is required in most countries where the registered organization or legal entity is incorporated. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and many other common law countries, the registered office address does not have to be where the organization conducts its actual business or trade, and it is not unusual for law firms, accountants or incorporation agents to provide the official registered office address service. In the United Kingdom all statutory correspondence for an incorporated organization (e.g. formal notices, service of process, tax and government communications) is posted or hand delivered to the registered office address as recorded on the Companies House register. A registered physical office address is required for incorporated organizations to receive official correspondence and formal notices from government departments, investors, banks, shareholders and the general public.\n\nUnder regulations implemented in the UK on 1 October 2009, company directors may now also use a registered office address instead of their private home address for contact on the Companies House register.\n\nThe company's full registered name must be visible to the public on the premises. The Company's records previously had to be kept at the registered office and available for public inspection. Since 1 October 2009 it has been possible for companies to designate a single alternative inspection location (SAIL) as a place to keep their records which must be available for public inspection.\n\nIn many other countries the address with which a company is registered must be where its headquarters or seat is located, and this will often determine the subnational registry at which the company must be registered.\n\n"}
{"id": "31019179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31019179", "title": "Sibos (conference)", "text": "Sibos (conference)\n\nSibos (Swift International Banking Operations Seminar), is an annual banking and financial conference organized by the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) in various cities around the world. It has been held most frequently in cities in Europe, such as Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Berlin, and Helsinki, as well as other cities (such as Boston) in North America and Sydney in Australia. In recent years, it has also been held more frequently in Asia, Oceania, and other regions.\n\nThe first Sibos was held in 1978 in Brussels. The Sibos in 1990 was held in Berlin shortly after the fall of the Berlin Wall.\nThe conference has an annual turnout of over 7,000 participants from around the world representing the financial services industry. The highest turnout was in the 2010 conference held at Amsterdam which had about 9,600 participants.\n\nPeople who work in financial markets around the world participate as exhibitors and attendees and discuss issues relevant to the financial industry. Topics at the 2009 event in Hong Kong were integrated risk management, innovation, and cash/treasury management.\n\n"}
{"id": "37040021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37040021", "title": "Single customer view", "text": "Single customer view\n\nA single customer view is an aggregated, consistent and holistic representation of the data held by an organisation about its customers that can be viewed in one place, such as a single page. The advantage to an organisation of attaining this unified view comes from the ability it gives to analyse past behaviour in order to better target and personalise future customer interactions. A single customer view is also considered especially relevant where organisations engage with customers through multichannel marketing, since customers expect those interactions to reflect a consistent understanding of their history and preferences. However, some commentators have challenged the idea that a single view of customers across an entire organisation is either natural or meaningful, proposing that the priority should instead be consistency between the multiple views that arise in different contexts.\n\nWhere representations of a customer are held in more than one data set, achieving a single customer view can be difficult: firstly because customer identity must be traceable between the records held in those systems, and secondly because anomalies or discrepancies in the customer data must be data cleansed. As such, the acquisition by an organisation of a single customer view is one potential outcome of successful master data management. Since 31 December, 2010, maintaining a single customer view, and submitting it within 72 hours, has become mandatory for financial institutions in the United Kingdom due to new rules introduced by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.\n\n"}
{"id": "27135498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27135498", "title": "Small Business Lending Index", "text": "Small Business Lending Index\n\nThe Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index (SBLI) is an economic indicator from Thomson Reuters Indices and PayNet Inc. Because small businesses generally respond to changes in economic conditions more rapidly than larger businesses do, the Thomson Reuters/PayNet Small Business Lending Index serves as a leading indicator of the economy.\n\nThe index, utilizing small business loan origination data from major lenders, measures the volume of loans to Small Businesses normalized to a base year - 2005. Seasonally adjusted, the index is presented as an absolute as well as by a percent change versus the prior year. \nIt is published monthly as follows:\n\nThe index has its highest correlation with GDP change as a leading indicator, leading between 2 and 5 months in advance. The index undergoes periodic checks to examine the accuracy of the estimates over time.\n\nAll data is collected by PayNet, Inc. PayNet collects real-time loan information from more than 350 leading U.S. lenders. Its proprietary database encompasses over 19 million current and historic contracts worth over $1.5 trillion. \n\nPayNet primarily collects data from small business lenders in the United States, conducts research and analysis, develops and implements estimation methodologies and disseminates statistics to customers. Because PayNet receives its source data over time, estimates are routinely revised to reflect more complete source data. Preliminary and Revised estimates are reported as calculated without any reference to previously reported estimates for the same month. In addition, PayNet undertakes periodic studies that examine the accuracy of the estimates over time and for the existence of any systemic overstatement or understatement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276495", "title": "Small business", "text": "Small business\n\nSmall businesses are privately owned corporations, partnerships, or sole proprietorships that have fewer employees and/or less annual revenue than a regular-sized business or corporation. Businesses are defined as \"small\" in terms of being able to apply for government support and qualify for preferential tax policy varies depending on the country and industry. Small businesses range from fifteen employees under the Australian \"Fair Work Act 2009\", fifty employees according to the definition used by the European Union, and fewer than five hundred employees to qualify for many U.S. Small Business Administration programs. While small businesses can also be classified according to other methods, such as annual revenues, shipments, sales, assets, or by annual gross or net revenue or net profits, the number of employees is one of the most widely used measures.\n\nSmall businesses in many countries include service or retail operations such as convenience stores, small grocery stores, bakeries or delicatessens, hairdressers or tradespeople (e.g., carpenters, electricians), restaurants, guest houses, photographers, very small-scale manufacturing, and Internet-related businesses such as web design and computer programming. Some professionals operate as small businesses, such as lawyers, accountants, dentists and medical doctors (although these professionals can also work for large organizations or companies). Small businesses vary a great deal in terms of size, revenues and regulatory authorization, both within a country and from country to country. Some small businesses, such as a home accounting business, may only require a business license. On the other hand, other small businesses, such as day cares, retirement homes and restaurants serving liquor are more heavily regulated, and may require inspection and certification from various government authorities.\n\nResearchers and analysts of small or owner-managed businesses generally behave as if nominal organizational forms (e.g., partnership, sole-trader, or corporation), and the consequent legal and accounting boundaries of owner-managed firms are consistently meaningful. However, owner-managers often do not delineate their behavior to accord with the implied separation between their personal and business interests. Lenders also often contract around organizational (corporate) boundaries by seeking personal guarantees or accepting privately held assets as collateral. Because of this behavior, researchers and analysts may wish to be cautious in the way they assess the organizational types and implied boundaries in contexts relating to owner-managed firms. These include analyses that use traditional accounting disclosures, and studies that view the firm as defined by some formal organizational structure.\n\nThe concepts of small business, self-employment, entrepreneurship, and startup overlap to certain degree but also carry important distinctions. \nThese four concepts often conflated with each other. \n\nBelow are the key differences of these concepts in summary:\n\nFrom the summaries, we can see that many small businesses are sole proprietor operations consisting solely of the owner, but small businesses can have a small number of employees. When big firms start out, they are known as startups, but not all small businesses are startups that aim to become bigger. \nMany of these small businesses offer an existing product, process or service, and they do not aim at growth. In contrast, startups aim for growth and often offer an innovative product, process or service, and the entrepreneurs of startups typically aim to scale up the company by adding employees, seeking international sales, and so on, a process which is financed by venture capital and angel investments. Successful entrepreneurs have the ability to lead a business in a positive direction by proper planning, to adapt to changing environments and understand their own strengths and weakness. Spectacular success stories stem from startups that expanded in growth. Examples would be Microsoft, Genentech, and Federal Express which all embody the sense of new venture creation on small business.\n\nSelf-employment provides works primarily for the founders. Entrepreneurship refers all new businesses, including self-employment and businesses that never intend to grow big or become registered, but startups refer to new businesses that intend to grow beyond the founders, to have employees, and grow large.\n\nThe legal definition of \"small business\" varies by country and by industry. In addition to number of employees, methods used to classify small companies include annual sales (turnover), value of assets and net profit (balance sheet), alone or as a combination of factors.\n\n\nSmall businesses are usually not dominant in their field of operation.\n\nThe table below serves as a useful guide to business size nomenclature.\n\nBusiness size definitions (by number of employees)\n\n\nIn 2016 a study that examined the demographic of small business owners was published. The study showed that the median American small business owners were above the age of 50. The ages were distributed as: 51% over 50 years old, 33% between the ages 35–49, and 16% being under the age of 35. As for sex: 55% were owned by males, 36% by females, and 9% being equal ownership of both males and females. As for race: 72% were white/Caucasian, 13.5% were Latinos, 6.3% were African American, 6.2% were Asian, and 2% as other. As for educational background: 39% had obtained a bachelor's degree or higher, 33% had some college background, and 28% received at least a high school diploma.\n\nThe United States census data for the years 2014 and 2015 shows the women's ownership share of small businesses by firm size. The data explains percentages owned by women along with the number of employees including the owner. Generally, the smaller the business, the more likely to be owned by a woman. The data shows that about 22% of small businesses with 100-500 employees were owned by women, a percentage that rises the smaller the business. 41% of businesses with just 2-4 employees were run by women, and in businesses with just one person, that person was a woman 51% of the time.\n\nFranchising is a way for small business owners to benefit from the economies of scale of the big corporation (franchiser). McDonald's and Subway are examples of a franchise. The small business owner can leverage a strong brand name and purchasing power of the larger company while keeping their own investment affordable. However, some franchisees conclude that they suffer the \"worst of both worlds\" feeling they are too restricted by corporate mandates and lack true independence. It is an assumption that small business are just franchisees, but the truth is many franchisers are also small businesses, Although considered to be a successful way of doing business, literature has proved that there is a high failure rate in franchising as well, especially in UK, where research indicates that out of 1658 franchising companies operating in 1984, only 601 remained in 1998, a mere 36%.\n\nA retailers' cooperative is a type of cooperative which employs economies of scale on behalf of its retailer members. Retailers' cooperatives use their purchasing power to acquire discounts from manufacturers and often share marketing expenses. They are often recognized as \"local groups\" because they own their own stores within the community. It is common for locally owned grocery stores, hardware stores, and pharmacies to participate in retailers' cooperatives. Ace Hardware, True Value, and NAPA are examples of a retailers' cooperative. Retail cooperatives also allow consumers to supply their own earnings and gain bargaining power outside of the business sector. Retail cooperatives mainly reside within small communities where local businesses are often shut down.\n\nMany small businesses can be started at a low cost and on a part-time basis, while a person continues a regular job with an employer or provides care for family members in the home. In developing countries, many small businesses are sole-proprietor operations such as selling produce at a market stall or preparing hot food to sell on the street, that provide a small income. In the 2000s, a small business is also well suited to Internet marketing; because, it can easily serve specialized niches, something that would have been more difficult prior to the Internet revolution which began in the late 1990s. Internet marketing gives small businesses the ability to market with smaller budgets. Adapting to change is crucial in business and particularly small business; not being tied to the bureaucratic inertia associated with large corporations, small businesses can respond to changing marketplace demand more quickly. Small business proprietors tend to be in closer personal contact with their customers and clients than large corporations, as small business owners see their customers in person each week.\n\nOne study showed that small, local businesses are better for a local economy than the introduction of new chain stores. By opening up new national level chain stores, the profits of locally owned businesses greatly decrease and many businesses end up failing and having to close. This creates an exponential effect. When one store closes, people lose their jobs, other businesses lose business from the failed business, and so on. In many cases, large firms displace just as many jobs as they create.\n\nIndependence is another advantage of owning a small business. A small business owner does not have to report to a supervisor or manager. In addition, many people desire to make their own decisions, take their own risks, and reap the rewards of their efforts. Small business owners possess the flexibility and freedom to making their own decisions within the constraints imposed by economic and other environmental factors. However, entrepreneurs have to work for very long hours and understand that ultimately their customers are their bosses.\n\nSeveral organizations in the United States also provide help for the small business sector, such as the Internal Revenue Service's Small Business and Self-Employed One-Stop Resource.\nSmall businesses (often carried out by family members) adjust quicker to the changing conditions; however, they are closed to the absorption of new knowledge and employing new labor from outside.\n\nSmall businesses often face a variety of problems, some of which are related to their size. A frequent cause of bankruptcy is under capitalization. This is often a result of poor planning rather than economic conditions. It is a common \"rule of thumb\" that the entrepreneur should have access to a sum of money at least equal to the projected revenue for the first year of business in addition to his or her anticipated expenses. For example, if the prospective owner thinks that he or she will generate $100,000 in revenues in the first year with $150,000 in start-up expenses, then he or she should have not less than $250,000 available. Start-up expenses are often grossly underestimated adding to the burden of the business. Failure to provide this level of funding for the company could leave the owner liable for all of the company's debt should he or she end up in bankruptcy court, under the theory of under capitalization.\n\nIn addition to ensuring that the business has enough capital, the small business owner must also be mindful of contribution margin (sales minus variable costs). To break even, the business must be able to reach a level of sales where the contribution margin equals fixed costs. When they first start out, many small business owners under price their products to a point where even at their maximum capacity, it would be impossible to break even. Cost controls or price increases often resolve this problem.\n\nIn the United States, some of the largest concerns of small business owners are insurance costs (such as liability and health), rising energy costs, taxes, and tax compliance. In the United Kingdom and Australia, small business owners tend to be more concerned with excessive governmental red tape.\n\nContracting fraud has been an ongoing problem for small businesses in the United States. Small businesses are legally obligated to receive a fair portion (23 percent) of the total value of all the government's prime contracts as mandated by the Small Business Act of 1953. Since 2002, a series of federal investigations have found fraud, abuse, loopholes, and a lack of oversight in federal small business contracting, which has led to the diversion of billions of dollars in small business contracts to large corporations.\n\nAnother problem for many small businesses is termed the 'Entrepreneurial Myth' or E-Myth. The mythic assumption is that an expert in a given technical field will also be expert at running that kind of business. Additional business management skills are needed to keep a business running smoothly. Some of this misunderstanding arises from the failure to distinguish between small business managers as entrepreneurs or capitalists. While nearly all owner-managers of small firms are obliged to assume the role of capitalist, only a minority will act as entrepreneur. The line between an owner-manager and an entrepreneur can be defined by whether or not their business is growth oriented. In general, small business owners are primarily focused on surviving rather than growing; therefore, not experiencing the five stages of the corporate life cycle (birth, growth, maturity, revival, and decline) like an entrepreneur would.\n\nAnother problem for many small businesses is the capacity of much larger businesses to influence or sometimes determine their chances for success. Business networking and social media has been used as a major tool by small businesses in the UK, but most of them just use a \"scatter-gun\" approach in a desperate attempt to exploit the market which is not that successful. Over half of small firms lack a business plan, a tool that is considered one of the most important factors for a venture's success. Business planning is associated with improved growth prospects. Funders and investors usually require a business plan. A plan also serves as a strategic planning document for owners and CEOs, which can be used as a \"bible\" for decision-making \n\nAn international trade survey indicated that the British share of businesses which are exporting rose from 32% in 2012 to 39% in 2013. Although this may seem positive, in reality the growth is slow, as small business owners shy away from exporting due to actual and perceived barriers.\nLearning the basics of a foreign language could be the solution to open doors to new trade markets, it is a reality that not all foreign business partners speak English. China is stated to grow by 7.6% in 2013 and still sadly 95% of business owners who want to export to China have no desire and no knowledge to learn their local language.\n\nWhen small business fails, the owner may file for bankruptcy. In most cases, this can be handled through a personal bankruptcy filing. Corporations can file bankruptcy, but if it is out of business and valuable corporate assets are likely to be repossessed by secured creditors, there is little advantage to going to the expense of a corporate bankruptcy. Many states offer exemptions for small business assets so they can continue to operate during and after personal bankruptcy. However, corporate assets are normally not exempt; hence, it may be more difficult to continue operating an incorporated business if the owner files bankruptcy.\nResearchers have examined small business failures in some depth, with attempts to model the predictability of failure.\n\nSmall businesses can encounter several problems related to engaging in corporate social responsibility, due to characteristics inherent in their size. Owners of small businesses often participate heavily in the day-to-day operations of their companies. This results in a lack of time for the owner to coordinate socially responsible efforts, such as supporting local charities or not-for-profit activities. Additionally, a small business owner's expertise often falls outside the realm of socially responsible practices, which contributing to a lack of participation. Small businesses also face a form of peer pressure from larger forces in their respective industries, making it difficult to oppose and work against industry expectations. Furthermore, small businesses undergo stress from shareholder expectations. Because small businesses have more personal relationships with their patrons and local shareholders, they must also be prepared to withstand closer scrutiny if they want to share in the benefits of committing to socially responsible practices or not.\nWhile small businesses employ over half the workforce in the US and have been established as a main driving force behind job creation, the quality of the jobs these businesses create has been called into question. Small businesses generally employ individuals from the Secondary labour market. As a result, in the U.S., wages are 49% higher for employees of large firms. Additionally, many small businesses struggle or are unable to provide employees with benefits they would be given at larger firms. Research from the U.S. Small Business Administration indicates that employees of large firms are 17% more likely to receive benefits including salary, paid leave, paid holidays, bonuses, insurance, and retirement plans. Both lower wages and fewer benefits combine to create a job turnover rate among U.S. small businesses that is three times higher than large firms. Employees of small businesses also must adapt to the higher failure rate of small firms, which means that they are more likely to lose their job due to the firm going under. In the U.S. 69% of small businesses last at least two years, but this percentage drops to 51% for firms reaching five years in operation. The U.S. Small Business Administration counts companies with as much as $35.5 million in sales and 1,500 employees as \"small businesses\", depending on the industry. Outside government, companies with less than $7 million in sales and fewer than five hundred employees are widely considered small businesses.\n\nCyber crime, in the business world can be broken down into 4 main categories. They include loss of reputation and consumer confidence, cost of fixing the issue, loss of capital and assets, and legal difficulties that can come from these problems. Loss of reputation and consumer confidence can be impacted greatly after one attack. Many small businesses will struggle to gain confidence and trust in their customers after being known for having problems prior. Cost of fixing the cyber attack would require experts outside of their field to further the investigation and find the problem. Being down for a business means losing money at the same time. This could halt the online operations and mean the business could potentially be down for a long period of time. Loss of capital and assets ties well in with the cost of fixing the issue. During a cyber attack, a business may lose their funds for that business. Worst-case scenario, a business may actually lose all their working capital and funds. The legal difficulties involved with cyber crime can become pricy and hurt the business itself for not having standard security measures and standards. Security not only for the business but more importantly the customer should be number one priority when dealing with security protocol.\n\nThe monetary dollar damage caused by cyber crime in 2016 equalled out to be over 1.33 billion dollars in the United States alone. In 2016, California alone had over 255 million dollars reported to the IC3. The average company this year in the United States amounted to 17.36 million dollars in cyber crime attacks. Certain cyber attacks can vary on how long it takes to solve a problem. It can take upwards to 69 days for an average everyday attack on a business. The types of attacks include viruses and malware issues. Employee activities within the workspace can also render a cyber attack. Employees using mobile devices or remote work access off the job makes it easier for a cyber attack to occur.\n\nAlthough small businesses have close relationships with their existing customers, finding new customers and reaching new markets is a major challenge for small business owners. Small businesses typically find themselves strapped for time to do marketing, as they have to run the day-to-day aspects of the business. To create a continual stream of new business and find new clients and customers, they must work on marketing their business continuously. Low sales (result of poor marketing) is one of the major reasons of small business failure. Common marketing techniques for small business include business networking (e.g., attending Chamber of Commerce events or trade fairs), \"word of mouth\" promotion by existing customers, customer referrals, Yellow pages directories, television, radio, and outdoor ads (e.g., roadside billboards), print ads, and Internet marketing. TV ads can be quite expensive, so they are normally intended to create awareness of a product or service. Another means by which small businesses can advertise is through the use of \"deal of the day\" websites such as Groupon and Living Social. These Internet deals encourage customers to patronize small businesses.\n\nMany small business owners find internet marketing more affordable. Google AdWords and Yahoo! Search Marketing are two popular options of getting small business products or services in front of motivated web searchers. Social media has also become an affordable route of marketing for small business. It is a fraction of the cost of traditional marketing and small businesses are able to do it themselves or find small social marketing agencies that they can hire out for a small fee. Statistically, social media marketing has a higher lead-to-close rate than traditional media. Successful online small business marketers are also adept at utilizing the most relevant keywords in their website content. Advertising on niche websites that are frequented by potential customers can also be effective, but with the long tail of the Internet, it can be time intensive to advertise on enough websites to garner an effective reach.\n\nCreating a business website has become increasingly affordable with many do-it-yourself programs now available for beginners. A website can provide significant marketing exposure for small businesses when marketed through the Internet and other channels. Some popular services are WordPress, Joomla Squarespace, Wix and EXAI . Social media has proven to be very useful in gaining additional exposure for many small businesses. Many small business owners use Facebook and Twitter as a way to reach out to their loyal customers to give them news about specials of the day or special coupons, generate repeat business and reach out to new potential clients. The relational nature of social media, along with its immediacy and twenty-four-hour presence lend intimacy to the relationships small businesses can have with their customers, while making it more efficient for them to communicate with greater numbers. Facebook ads are also a very cost-effective way for small businesses owners to reach a targeted audience with a very specific message. In addition to the social networking sites, blogs have become a highly effective way for small businesses to position themselves as experts on issues that are important to their customers. This can be done with a proprietary blog and/or by using a back-link strategy wherein the marketer comments on other blogs and leaves a link to the small business' own website. Posting to a blog about the company's business or service area regularly can increase web traffic to a company website.\n\nMarketing plan\n\nIn the US, small businesses (fewer than five hundred employees) account for more than half the non-farm, private GDP and around half the private sector employment. Regarding small business, the top job provider is those with fewer than ten employees, and those with ten or more but fewer than twenty employees comes in as the second, and those with twenty or more but fewer than one hundred employees comes in as the third (interpolation of data from the following references). The most recent data shows firms with fewer than twenty employees account for slightly more than 18% of the employment. \n\nAccording to \"The Family Business Review,\" \"There are approximately seventeen million sole-proprietorship in the US. It can be argued that a sole-proprietorship (an unincorporated business owned by a single person) is a type of family business\" and \"there are twenty-two million small businesses (fewer than five hundred employees) in the US and approximately 14,000 big businesses.\" Also, it has been found that small businesses created the newest jobs in communities, \"In 1979, David Birch published the first empirical evidence that small firms (fewer than 100 employees) created the most new jobs\", and Edmiston claimed that \"perhaps the greatest generator of interest in entrepreneurship and small business is the widely held belief that small businesses in the United States create most new jobs. The evidence suggests that small businesses indeed create a substantial majority of net new jobs in an average year.\" The U.S. Small Business Administration has found small businesses have created two-thirds of net new private sector jobs in the US since 2007. Local businesses provide competition to each other and also challenge corporate giants. Of the 5,369,068 employer firms in 1995, 78.8 percent had fewer than ten employees, and 99.7 percent had fewer than five hundred employees.\n\nSmall businesses use various sources available for start-up capital:\n\nSome small businesses are further financed through credit card debt—usually a poor choice, given that the interest rate on credit cards is often several times the rate that would be paid on a line of credit at a bank or a bank loan. Recent research suggests that the use of credit scores in small business lending by community banks is surprisingly widespread. Moreover, the scores employed tend to be the consumer credit scores of the small business owners rather than the more encompassing small business credit scores that include data on the firms as well as on the owners. Many owners seek a bank loan in the name of their business; however, banks will usually insist on a personal guarantee by the business owner.\n\nIn the United States, the Small Business Administration (SBA) runs several loan programs that may help a small business secure loans. In these programs, the SBA guarantees a portion of the loan to the issuing bank, and thus, relieves the bank of some of the risk of extending the loan to a small business. The SBA also requires business owners to pledge personal assets and sign as a personal guarantee for the loan. The 8(a) Business Development Program assists in the development of small businesses owned and operated by African Americans, Hispanics, and Asians. Canadian small businesses can take advantage of federally funded programs and services. See Federal financing for small businesses in Canada (grants and loans).\n\nOn October 2010, Alejandro Cremades and Tanya Prive founded the first equity crowdfunding platform for small businesses in history as an alternative source of financing. The platform operates under the name of Rock The Post.\n\nSmall businesses often join or come together to form organizations to advocate for their causes or to achieve economies of scale that larger businesses benefit from, such as the opportunity to buy cheaper health insurance in bulk. These organizations include local or regional groups such as Chambers of Commerce and independent business alliances, as well as national or international industry-specific organizations. Such groups often serve a dual purpose, as business networks to provide marketing and connect members to potential sales leads and suppliers, and also as advocacy groups, bringing together many small businesses to provide a stronger voice in regional or national politics. In the case of independent business alliances, promoting the value of locally owned, independent business (not necessarily small) through public education campaigns is integral to their work.\n\nThe largest regional small business group in the United States is the Council of Smaller Enterprises, located in Greater Cleveland.\nUnited Kingdom trade and Investment (www.ukti.gov.in) gives out research in different markets around the world, also research in program planning and promotional activities to exporters. The BEXA (British Exporters Association) role is to connect new exporters to expert services, it can provide details about regional export contacts, who could be made informally to discuss issues. Trade associations and all major banks could often provide links to international groups in foreign markets, some could also help set up joint venture, trade fairs etc.\n\nA number of youth organizations, including 4-H, Junior Achievement, and Scouting have special interactive programs and training to help young people run their own small business under adult supervision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25716685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25716685", "title": "TopGun Designation", "text": "TopGun Designation\n\nThe TopGun Designation in the capital markets is awarded by Brendan Wood International. The designation is based upon over 10,000 debriefings globally with portfolio managers, CEOs, CFOs, other senior corporate executives, leading broker analysts and traders.\n\nCorporates executives assess their TopGun Investment Bankers. TopGun Portfolio managers are awarded based upon the evaluations provided by leading broker analysts.\n\nInfluential investors nominate TopGun CEOs, CFOs, Companies, and the Boards who earn their highest investor confidence votes. Investors also evaluate their top broker analyst and institutional sales professionals. TopGun traders are awarded based on the input from buy side traders.\n\nRecipients often include the TopGun designation in their resumes and on their websites. The designation has been featured on many leading news outlets.\n\nThe designation is awarded annually or every two years depending on the discipline and capital markets activity.\n\nThe first ever TopGun Ball was held in Toronto for charity, “A Fusion of Performance and Philanthropy”, and will be mirrored in Palm Beach, New York City, London and Hong Kong.\n\nhttps://archive.is/20130123212734/http://www.forbes.com/2009/06/22/top-gun-ceos-intelligent-investing-survey_slide.html\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20100119084916/http://kinross.com/about-kinross/our-history/2009.aspx\nhttp://www.canadianbusiness.com/markets/marketwire/article.jsp?content=20090902_181511_12_ccn_ccn\nhttp://blogs.reuters.com/great-debate/tag/topgun-ceo/\n\n"}
{"id": "21041941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21041941", "title": "Viability study", "text": "Viability study\n\nA Viability study is an in depth investigation of the profitability of the business idea to be converted into a business enterprise.\n\nThis type of report studies a situation (for example, a problem or opportunity) and the plan for doing something about it, then determines whether that plan is \"feasible\". This would involve determining whether it is technologically possible to achieve and whether it is practical in the current technological, economical and social scenario. The feasibility report does not provide a simple \"Yes\" or \"No\" answer, but is used in the analysis of a decision. It is not just a tool to provide a recommendation, it is also used to gather data and give reasoning behind the recommendation given, to be later used in evaluation.\n\nThis study is the most important especially to people who plan to start their own business.\n\nThis type of report examines either a stated need or a selection of choices, or in some cases both. The report is a collection of analysis and evaluation of the situation, and generally will examine the strengths and weaknesses, opportunities and threats in the situation, take them into account, and be combined with the feasibility report in order to give a recommendation. Sometimes a recommendation can be given to do nothing, if all options currently possible would prove unbeneficial. The recommendation report answers the question \"Which option should we choose?\" (or \"Which are the best options?\") by allowing a recommendation to be made. This can be linked into the analysis of the continuum of choice in the scenario.\n\nThis type of report provides an opinion or judgment rather that is based on the above two report, along with additional data available. It provides a studied opinion on the value or worth of something. This type of report compares the object of the analysis to a set of requirements (or criteria) and determines how well it meets those requirements. Generally, the evaluation report will feature an overall recommendation on the course of action to be taken.\n"}
