{"id": "1139419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1139419", "title": "Africanization", "text": "Africanization\n\nAfricanization or Africanisation (lit., making something African) has been applied in various contexts, notably in geographic and personal naming and in the composition of the civil service e.g. via processes such as indigenization.\n\nAfricanization has referred to the modification of place names and personal names to reflect an \"African\" identity. In some cases, changes are not a change of transliteration rather than of the European name.\n\nIn many cases during the colonial period, African place names were Anglicized or Francized.\n\nVarious African countries have undergone name changes during the previous century as the result of consolidations and secessions, territories gaining sovereignty, and regime changes.\n\n\nOther name changes take place when an African person converts to or from Islam or another religion. (See Islamic name.)\n\nExamples:\n\nIn some countries immediately following their independence, \"Africanization\" was the name given to racial policies, affirmative action intended to increase the number of Africans in civil service (which had historically been dominated by whites or Asians.)\n\nThe term Africanization, abbreviated as the numeronym \"A12n,\" has been applied to discussion of internationalization and localization of software and content in African languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "45467653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45467653", "title": "Angelets", "text": "Angelets\n\nThe Angelets, or “the Angelets of the Earth” (in Catalan, \"“els Angelets de la Terra”\"), were peasants who rose up from 1667 to 1675 against the French authorities of the Roussillon province. The group of conflicts of the period is subsumed under the name of “the Revolt of the Angelets”. The cause was the instituting of the gabelle (salt tax) in 1661 — a measure contrary to traditional constitutions of the earldom (the earldom of Roussillon and Cerdanya, the lands of the crown of Majorca from 1276 to 1344).\n\nThe revolt first concerned the county of Vallespir, then it won those of Conflent and Roussillon.\n\nThe reason why the revolts are referred to as “angelets” is unknown. One of the explanations advanced is the popular belief according to which the angels know the mountains well; another is the faculty that they have of appearing and disappearing.\n\nAs for the word \"“miquelets,”\" it refers primarily to Catalan mercenaries but sometimes to armed peasants. There is thus confusion among the ancient authors, particularly in relation to the war of Holland: They designate under the name “\"miquelets\"” all those who, in the province of Roussillon, oppose the king of France — though it be angelets or Catalan mercenaries in the service of the king of Spain.\n\nArchangel Michael is the patron saint of the miquelets and the wool-workers of Prats-de-Mollo, he who gave a sacred tint to one revolt that reclaimed liberties with the patriotic cry of \"“Visca la terra!”\" (“Long live the Land!”)\n\nOn May 8, 1659, the Catalan Revolt came to an end, and on November 7, the Treaty of the Pyrenees was signed between the Spanish and the French monarchies. The agreement notably foresaw a sharing of the principality of Catalonia between the two sovereigns. The crown of France annexed five comarques (corresponding to the two Counts, minus lower Cerdanya and Llívia):\n\n\nLouis XIV engaged himself with respecting the local customs. But, since June 1660, he replaced Catalan institutions and agencies with his own political, judiciary, and fiscal structures. He created a sovereign Council at Perpignan. Then he named a steward.\n\nResistance to the new master began in March 1661. Having come to settle a disagreement between the inhabitants of Ayguatébia and those of Oreilla, the viguier (magistrate) Marsal was violently attacked. He succeeded in escaping, but the notary and the domestic who accompanied him were killed. Immediately, the comarque of Conflent was subjected to a tax intended to pay the sometent français (the militia).\n\nThe gabelle, a tax on salt, had been abolished by the Catalan courts since the time of King James II of Majorca, in 1283. In 1661, the French reestablished it. Its revenue was intended to finance the maintenance and construction of fortresses, as well as the payment of French functionaries. The measure was very unpopular. The king of France’s misuse of this tax’s revenue — to the detriment of Perpignan, which was only cashing an insignificant part of it — was considered an abjuration of the royal oath to respect the capital privileges of the comarque of Roussillon. The consuls of Perpignan protested. But the sovereign Council’s decision rejected the municipal complaint and imposed the will of the Louvre.\n\nIn Vallespir, a country of pastures, salt was necessary for feeding livestock and preserving meat. The inhabitants sent for it from the other side of the wholly new border. The tax made its price rise inordinately. In 1667, the peasants of Vallespir refused to pay it.\n\nSmuggling was organized. The inspectors tracked down the traffickers in order to try to put an end to this activity. The peasants reacted, transforming themselves into veritable guerrilla fighters, harassing the French soldiers and especially the functionaries of the salt tax. An armed resistance was organized under the leadership of Joseph of Trinxeria, a merchant of Prats-de-Mollo.\n\nThe insurgents spread themselves in the county of Vallespir. In 1667, they hid in the villages of Serralongue and Montferrer. The following year, they attacked the hotel of Amélie-les-Bains, where the tax collectors are housed. They besieged the deputy provost Maniel in the church of Saint-Laurent-de-Cerdans. The repression did not rest: eight inhabitants were condemned to death and 51 put into slavery. This did nothing to discourage the smugglers.\n\nThe president of the sovereign Council, the collaborator Francesc de Segarra, offered a reward of 100 gold \"doubles tournois\" (coins) to whoever would give information against the leaders of the resistance. On September 14, 1668, he left with 300 soldiers to make base at Arles in order to begin a harsh suppression. The punitive expedition was routed at Llop pass and had to retreat to Arles.\n\nFor several years, the rebels, knowing the terrain well, inflicted substantial losses on the French troops. From August 3, 1667 to June 30, 1668, they also pursued and eliminated a good number of salt tax inspectors.\n\nThe authorities of the salt tax resolved to negotiate: The armed struggle ceased and, in exchange, the townships of Vallespir could obtain smuggled salt. Through the “Compromise of Céret,” the salt tax inspectors began to put an end to the controls and to coordinate with the council of each village, as to who would be charged from then on with the distribution of salt to the inhabitants.\n\nIn 1669, in Conflent, Joan Miquel Mestre, called “the Righteous Heir,” demanded a similar arrangement for Baillestavy. From September to November, he kept track of the customs officers. It was at that moment that the revolts were referred to under the name of “angelets.” Mestre was stopped by chance on the road from Camprodon on January 22, 1670 by the governor of Prats-de-Mollo. This set off a revolt on the part of the inhabitants, led by Josep de la Trinxeria and his lieutenant Damià Nohell, son of the mayor of Serralongue. They took the governor’s wife and children hostage and negotiated their release in return for that of the Righteous Heir. The exchange completed, the angelets returned via the Tech, seeing their troops grow to 1,500 men.\n\nAt this moment the revolt not only began again but also intensified considerably. The fighting stretched to all of Vallespir: On February 27, 1670, the insurgents seized Arles, from which they chased the garrison and killed the mayor. From March 31 to April 2, they besieged Céret, the capital of Vallespir.\n\nThe angelets held the high valley of Tech as well as Conflent. This was when the French sent an army of 4,000 soldiers. Avoiding offering an easy target on the route from the valley, they progressed through the mountains of Haut-Conflent that separated the two comarques, in order to take Vallespir from the rear. The technique of guerrilla warfare did not allow for maintaining a lined-up battle, on open terrain, facing a complete army: On May 5, the angelets were defeated at the Queen’s Pass, at the food of the Guillem Flat. Some took refuge in the principality of Catalonia; others hid in the mountains. The last bastion of the angelets having been defeated, the village of Py was sentenced to be razed. Salt had to be scattered over its ruins.\n\nHostilities were revived by the Franco-Dutch War (1672–78), of which the Spanish front became one of the theaters. The struggle of the population then took the character of an anti-French uprising. The angelets collaborated with the Spanish monarchy (1673).\n\nThe village and church of Ayguatébia were burned by French troops on February 7, 1673.\n\nThe year 1674 was particularly difficult for the French, in the province of Roussillon. They would face conspiracies (Villefranche and Perpignan) and an entry of Spanish troops.\n\nThe angelets were involved in the Villefranche Conspiracy, which aimed to reunite the Counties at the principality of Catalonia, on “Holy Saturday” in 1674.\n\nThe conspiracy was discovered. Its leader, Manuel Descatllar, was arrested. He was transferred to Perpignan where, under terrible torture, he confessed all his activities. He was executed in the square of La Loge on April 20, 1674. As for his companion Francesc Puig i Terrats, he was condemned to death and had his throat cut in public, in front of his own house, on May 16. His body was quartered. The four parts of him were exhibited at four points in the city. Many other conspirators paid for their involvement through the loss of their civic and patrimonial rights.\n\nThe population was always in question. The king of Spain’s troops crossed the frontier and took the fort of Bellegarde (beginning 1674). They controlled a great part of the province (Cerdagne and Vallespir, a part of Roussillon and of Conflent) after they won the Battle of Maureillas over the French army on July. It was only in 1675 that the Count of Schomberg, taking advantage of the Spanish withdrawal of troops to face the recent Revolt of Messina, took back Bellegarde and routed them once and for all.\n\nThe region was now overrun with the French troops. The repression reached the whole population: imprisonment, sentencing to the galleys, executions, confiscation of goods, and heavy fines imposed on the communes (that of Prats-de-Mollo was of 3,500 pounds, that of Saint-Laurent was of 1,600 pounds).\n\nThe revolt of the angelets was considered finished in 1675.\n\nThe hatreds were so exacerbated, and the cost of suppression was so high, that Louis XIV tried to exchange the Counties in return for Flanders. But Charles II of Spain refused.\n\nThe revolt being completely put out, the king of France renounced this exchange during negotiations of the Treaty of Nijmegen, which put an end, in 1678, to the Franco-Dutch War.\n"}
{"id": "39320762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39320762", "title": "Ariel Castro kidnappings", "text": "Ariel Castro kidnappings\n\nThe Ariel Castro kidnappings took place between 2002 and 2004 when three young women — Michelle Knight, Amanda Berry, and Georgina \"Gina\" DeJesus — were kidnapped by Ariel Castro and held captive in his home in the Tremont neighborhood of Cleveland, in the U.S. state of Ohio. They were subsequently imprisoned until May 6, 2013, when Berry escaped with her six-year-old daughter and contacted the police. Knight and DeJesus were rescued by responding officers and Castro was arrested within hours.\n\nOn May 8, 2013, Castro was charged with four counts of kidnapping and three counts of rape. Castro pleaded guilty to 937 criminal counts of rape, kidnapping, and aggravated murder as part of a plea bargain. He was sentenced to life plus 1,000 years in prison without the possibility of parole. One month into his sentence, Castro committed suicide by hanging himself with bedsheets in his prison cell.\n\nAriel Castro was born on July 11, 1960, in Yauco, Puerto Rico, to Pedro Castro and Lillian Rodriguez. When he was a child, his parents divorced. Shortly after the divorce, Castro moved to the mainland with his mother and three siblings. The family first settled in Reading, Pennsylvania, and later moved to Cleveland, Ohio, where Castro's father and several other extended family members were living. Castro had nine siblings. According to Castro's uncle, his family knew the DeJesus family and had lived in the same West Cleveland neighborhood. Castro was a 1979 graduate of Cleveland's Lincoln-West High School.\n\nCastro met his future girlfriend, Grimilda Figueroa, when his family moved into a house across the street from hers in the 1980s. They lived with both sets of parents, but moved into their own home at 2207 Seymour Avenue in 1992. Their home was a two-story, , four-bedroom, one-bathroom house with a unfinished basement built in 1890 and remodeled in 1956. According to Figueroa's sister, Elida Caraballo, when the couple moved into their new home, \"all hell started breaking loose\". Caraballo and her husband Frank claim Castro beat Figueroa, breaking her nose, ribs, and arms. He also threw her down a flight of stairs, cracking her skull. In 1993, Castro was arrested for domestic violence but was not indicted by a grand jury.\n\nFigueroa moved out of the home in 1996 and secured custody of her four children. Police assisted in the move and detained Castro, but did not pursue charges. Castro continued to threaten and attack Figueroa after she left him, according to Caraballo. A 2005 filing by Figueroa in Cuyahoga County Domestic Relations Court accused Castro of inflicting multiple severe injuries on her and of \"frequently abduct[ing]\" her daughters. A temporary restraining order against Castro was granted, but was dismissed a few months later. Figueroa died in 2012 due to complications from a brain tumor.\n\nBefore his arrest at the age of 52, Castro worked as a bus driver for the Cleveland Metropolitan School District until he was fired for \"bad judgment\", including making an illegal U-turn with children on his bus, using his bus to go grocery shopping, leaving a child on the bus while he went for lunch, and leaving the bus unattended while he took a nap at home. He was earning $18.91 per hour when he was discharged. At the time of his arrest, Castro's home was in foreclosure due to three years (2010–12) of unpaid real estate taxes.\n\nAll of Castro's victims were kidnapped after accepting a ride from Castro. He drove each to his home, lured them inside, took them to the basement, and restrained them. The house at 2207 Seymour Avenue, where they were held, was located in Cleveland's residential Tremont neighborhood, where they had all disappeared. It has since been demolished.\n\nMichelle Knight (born April 23, 1981) disappeared on August 23, 2002, after leaving a cousin's house. She was 21 years old at the time. On the day of her disappearance, she was scheduled to appear in court for a child custody case involving her son, who was in the custody of the state.\n\nFollowing Knight's rescue, police acknowledged that limited resources had been spent on investigating her disappearance, in part because she was an adult. Knight was believed to have run away voluntarily due to anger over losing custody of her son. According to Cleveland Deputy Police Chief Ed Tomba, she \"was the focus of very few tips\". Her removal from the National Crime Information Center database fifteen months after she disappeared has been criticized. Cleveland Police and the FBI maintain that her inclusion or exclusion had no bearing on her rescue.\n\nAmanda Marie Berry (born April 22, 1986) disappeared on April 21, 2003, the day before her 17th birthday. She was last heard from when she called her sister to tell her that she was getting a ride home from her job at a Burger King at West 110th Street and Lorain Avenue. The FBI initially considered Berry a runaway until a week after her disappearance, when an unidentified male used her cell phone to call her mother, saying, \"I have Amanda. She's fine and will be coming home in a couple of days\".\n\nBerry was featured in a 2004 segment of Fox's \"America's Most Wanted\" (re-aired in 2005 and 2006), which linked her to Gina DeJesus, who by that point had also gone missing in Cleveland. Berry and DeJesus were profiled on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" and \"The Montel Williams Show\", where in 2004 self-proclaimed psychic Sylvia Browne told Berry's mother, Louwana Miller, that her daughter was dead and that she was \"in water\". This pronouncement devastated her mother, causing her to take down pictures and give away Berry's computer. However, Miller continued to search for Berry until her death from heart failure in 2006. After Berry was found alive in 2013, Browne received criticism for the false declaration that Berry was dead.\n\nIn July 2012, Robert Wolford, a prison inmate who previously lived in Tremont, claimed to have information about the location of Berry's body and led police to an empty lot on Cleveland's West Side, where a fruitless search was conducted. Wolford was sentenced in January 2013 to four-and-a-half years in prison for obstruction of justice, making a false report, and making a false alarm.\n\nOn December 25, 2006, Berry gave birth to a daughter at 2207 Seymour Avenue. DNA evidence has confirmed that Castro was the biological father of the child.\n\nGeorgina \"Gina\" Lynn DeJesus (born February 13, 1990) went missing at age 14. She was last seen at a payphone at about 3 p.m. on April 2, 2004, on the way home from her middle school at West 105th Street and Lorain Avenue. DeJesus and her friend, Castro's daughter Arlene, had called Figueroa for permission to have a sleepover at DeJesus's house, but Figueroa replied they could not and the two girls parted ways. Arlene was the last person to see DeJesus before her disappearance.\n\nDeJesus was taken under the impression that she was being dropped off, and trusted Castro because she was friends with his teenage daughter. Because no one witnessed DeJesus's abduction, an AMBER Alert was not issued, which angered DeJesus's father. He said in 2006, \"The Amber Alert should work for any missing child … Whether it's an abduction or a runaway, a child needs to be found. We need to change this law\".\n\nA year after DeJesus' disappearance, the FBI released a composite sketch and description of a male suspect, described as \"Latino, 25 to 35 years of age, , , with green eyes, a goatee and possibly a pencil-thin beard\". According to court records, Castro was , ; he had brown eyes and a goatee.\n\nDeJesus was featured in the aforementioned \"America's Most Wanted\" segment, which linked her to Berry. The disappearances received regular media attention over the years, continuing into 2012, while the families held public vigils. Castro attended at least two of these vigils, reportedly participated in a search party, and tried to get close to the DeJesus family. While a journalism student in 2004, Castro's son Anthony interviewed DeJesus's mother for an article about the disappearances in the \"Plain Press\". Police kept an active investigation open, offering a $25,000 reward for information.\n\nAfter Knight's kidnapping, Castro took her upstairs, tied her hands and feet together, and pulled her up using her hands, feet, and neck. He left her there for three days without food. Prosecutors at Castro's sentencing wrote that diaries kept by the women \"speak of forced sexual conduct, of being locked in a dark room, of anticipating the next session of abuse, of the dreams of someday escaping and being reunited with family, of being chained to a wall, of being held like a prisoner of war, of missing the lives they once enjoyed, of emotional abuse, of his threats to kill, of being treated like an animal, of continuous abuse, and of desiring freedom\". The women were kept in locked upstairs bedrooms, where they were forced to use plastic toilets that were \"emptied infrequently\". They were fed one meal a day, and allowed to shower twice a week at most.\n\nKnight told police that Castro had impregnated her at least five times, and had induced miscarriages each time through beatings: hitting with dumbbells, punching, and slamming her against walls. Starvation was also included. Knight's grandmother told reporters that she would require facial reconstruction surgery due to the beatings she endured; she also lost hearing in one ear. At one point, Knight had a pet dog while in captivity, but Castro killed the dog by snapping its neck after it bit him while trying to protect Knight. DeJesus told law enforcement she was raped but did not believe she was ever impregnated.\n\nIn December 2006, Castro allegedly ordered Knight to assist in the birth of Berry's child, which took place in a small inflatable swimming pool, and threatened to kill Knight if the baby did not survive. At one point, the baby stopped breathing, but Knight was able to resuscitate her. Castro occasionally took the child out of the house, including to visit his mother; the girl called Castro \"daddy\" and Castro's mother \"grandmother\". In 2013, he showed one of his adult daughters a picture of the child and said that she was his girlfriend's daughter from another man. He had told others who saw her that she was his granddaughter.\n\nAccording to a statement from Cleveland Police, officers visited Castro's home only once following the kidnappings to discuss an unrelated incident. Castro did not appear to be home at the time and was later interviewed elsewhere. Although neighbors claimed to have called the police about suspicious activity observed at the home, police have said they have no record of any such calls. Castro's son Anthony reported that there were certain areas of the house that were inaccessible due to being locked. He also mentioned an occasion where, three weeks before the women's escape, Castro asked him if Berry would ever be found. Anthony said he told Castro that Berry was likely dead, to which Castro responded: \"Really? You think so?\"\n\nNBC affiliate WKYC reported that during Castro's interrogation, he recalled each of the three abductions in great detail and indicated that they were unplanned crimes of opportunity. According to WKYC's sources, Castro did not have an \"exit plan\" and believed that he would eventually be caught. He referred to himself as \"coldblooded\" and a sex addict. Police found a suicide note in Castro's home in which he allegedly discussed the abductions and wrote that his money, videos and possessions should be given to the kidnapped women if he were caught.\n\nOn May 6, 2013, Berry was finally able to make contact with Castro's neighbors, leading to her escape with her 6-year-old daughter, and the rescue of DeJesus and Knight by authorities. According to police, when Castro left the house that day, Berry realized that he failed to lock the home's \"big inside door\", although the exterior storm door was bolted. She did not attempt to break through the outer door because \"she thought [Castro] was testing her\", according to the police report. Previously, Castro tested the women by leaving the house partially unlocked and exits unsecured. If they attempted to escape, he beat them. Instead, Berry screamed for help when she saw neighbors through the screen. \n\nNeighbor Angel Cordero responded to the screaming but was unable to communicate with Berry, because he spoke little English. Another neighbor, Charles Ramsey, joined Cordero at the house's front door during the rescue. A hole was kicked through the bottom of the storm door, and Berry crawled through, carrying her daughter; Ramsey said Berry told him that she and her child were being kept inside the house against her will. Upon being freed, she went to the house of another Spanish-speaking neighbor and called 9-1-1, saying;\n\nResponding police officers entered Castro's house. As they walked through an upstairs hallway with guns drawn, they announced themselves as Cleveland Police. After peeking out from a slightly opened bedroom door, Knight entered the hallway and leaped into an officer's arms, repeatedly saying, \"You saved me.\" Soon afterward, DeJesus entered the hallway from another room. Knight and DeJesus walked out of the home, and all three women, plus the child, were taken to MetroHealth Medical Center. Berry and DeJesus were released from the hospital the next day. Knight was discharged four days later, on May 10.\n\nCastro was arrested on May 6, 2013. He was charged with four counts of kidnapping and three counts of rape on May 8, which carry prison sentences of ten years to life in Ohio. Two of Castro's brothers were also initially taken into custody, but were released on May 9 after police announced that they had no involvement in the kidnappings.\n\nCastro made his first court appearance at the Cleveland Municipal Court on May 9, where bail was set at $2 million per kidnapping charge, adding to a total of $8 million. Additional charges were reported to be pending, including aggravated murder (for intentional induction of miscarriages), attempted murder, assault, a charge for each alleged instance of rape, and a kidnapping charge for each day each captive was allegedly held. On May 14, Castro's attorneys said he would plead \"not guilty\" to all charges if indicted for kidnapping and rape.\n\nA Cuyahoga County grand jury returned a true bill of indictment against Castro on June 7. It contained 329 counts, including two counts of aggravated murder (under different sections of the Ohio criminal code) for his alleged role in the termination of one of the women's pregnancies. The indictments covered only the period from August 2002 to February 2007. The county prosecutor, Timothy J. McGinty, stated that the investigation was ongoing, and that any further findings would be presented to the grand jury. McGinty said that pursuing a death penalty specification would be considered following completion of indictment proceedings.\n\nAfter entering a not guilty plea for Castro on June 12, one of his attorneys, Craig Weintraub, said that although some of the charges against Castro were indisputable, \"it is our hope that we can continue to work toward a resolution to avoid having an unnecessary trial about aggravated murder and the death penalty\". He noted, \"We are very sensitive to the emotional strain and impact that a trial would have on the women, their families and this community\". Castro was found competent to stand trial on July 3.\n\nOn July 12, a Cuyahoga County grand jury returned a true bill of indictment for the remainder of the period after February 2007. It brought the total to 977 counts: 512 counts of kidnapping, 446 of rape, seven of gross sexual imposition, six of felonious assault, three of child endangerment, two of aggravated murder, and one of possession of criminal tools. On July 17, Castro pleaded not guilty to the expanded indictment.\n\nCastro pleaded guilty on July 26 to 937 of the 977 charges against him, including charges of kidnapping, rape, and aggravated murder, as part of a plea bargain which called for consecutive sentences of life in prison plus 1,000 years, all without parole. Under the plea deal, Castro forfeited his right to appeal, and could not profit in any way due to his crimes. He also forfeited his assets, including his home, which prosecutors said would be demolished. Castro was told by Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Court Judge Michael Russo, \"You will not be getting out. Is that clear?\" to which Castro responded, \"I do understand that, your honor.\" Castro also made comments about his \"addiction to pornography\" and \"sexual problem\", but was cut off by Judge Russo, who said such issues could be discussed at the August 1 sentencing hearing. A law firm representing Berry, DeJesus, and Knight released a statement that the three women were \"relieved by today's plea. They are satisfied by this resolution to the case, and are looking forward to having these legal proceedings draw to a final close in the near future\".\n\nAt the sentencing hearing on August 1, Castro was sentenced to consecutive life terms in prison, plus 1,000 years, all without any possibility of parole. He was also fined $100,000. The court forfeited all of his property and assets to the Cuyahoga County government. Before his sentencing, Castro addressed the court for twenty minutes, in which he said he was \"a good person\" and \"not a monster\", but that he was addicted to sex and pornography, and had \"practiced the art of masturbation\" from a young age. He claimed that he had never beaten or tortured the women, and insisted that \"most\" of the sex he had with them \"was consensual\". He shifted between an apologetic tone and blaming the FBI for failing to catch him, as well as his victims themselves, insisting to the court that when he had sex with them he discovered they were not virgins. He would alternatively shift back into apologetic comments, saying: \"I hope they can find in their hearts to forgive me because we had a lot of harmony going on in that home\".\n\nThe sentencing judge also heard from Knight and family members of Berry and DeJesus. Knight told Castro: \"You took eleven years of my life away. I spent eleven years in hell, now your hell is just beginning. I will overcome all that has happened, but you will face hell for eternity. I will live on, you will die a little every day as you think of the eleven years of atrocities that you inflicted on us... I can forgive you, but I will never forget.\"\n\nOn July 9, 2013, Knight, Berry, and DeJesus broke their public silence for the first time since their rescue by releasing a video statement thanking the public for their support. An attorney for Berry and DeJesus said the women \"still have a strong desire for privacy\" and did not wish to speak to the media about their ordeal. The Cleveland Courage Fund, a bank account set up to help the women in their transition to independent life, had collected approximately $1.05 million at the time of the video's release. Before Berry's disappearance, her grandfather had promised to give her a classic Chevrolet Monte Carlo from the year Berry was born. He kept the car after her kidnapping, in case she was still found alive. After her rescue, Berry called her grandfather, and asked if he still had the car, which he did, although it was in need of restoration from having gone unused. Several automotive shops offered to perform the restoration for free.\n\nIn an interview with \"People\" magazine on the first anniversary of her rescue, Knight discussed some of her ordeals as well as her life leading up to her abduction. Since her rescue, she legally changed her first name to Lily, and began to get several tattoos as her way of coping with the healing process. Knight also revealed that her son was adopted by his foster parents while she was in captivity, and that while she wanted to see him, she does not want to bring him into the ordeal she has had to deal with, and planned to see him after he becomes an adult. Knight planned to open a restaurant, dreamed of getting married — which she did in 2016 — and adopt children. Knight also planned to reunite with Berry and DeJesus in the future, but began focusing on getting her own life back on track. Berry and DeJesus received honorary diplomas from John Marshall High School in 2015.\n\nAs part of the plea bargain, the house where Castro lived, and where he had held the women captive, was demolished on August 7, 2013. Knight was present and handed out yellow balloons, which she said represented missing children, to the gathered crowd. The balloons were released before DeJesus's aunt began the demolition with a swing of a crane.\n\nOn the evening of September 3, 2013, one month into his life sentence, Castro was found hanging with a bed sheet in his detention cell at the Correctional Reception Center in Orient, Ohio. Prison staff performed CPR on Castro before he was taken to the Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center in Columbus, where he was pronounced dead shortly thereafter. The following day, Franklin County coroner Dr. Jan Gorniak announced that a preliminary autopsy had found the cause of Castro's death to be suicide by hanging.\n\nOn October 10, 2013, the Ohio Department of Rehabilitation and Correction released a report that suggested Castro may have died accidentally from auto-erotic asphyxiation rather than suicide. Gorniak rejected the possibility, standing by her ruling of suicide. The report also said two prison guards had falsified logs documenting their observation of Castro hours before he was found dead. Castro was not on suicide watch at the time of his death, but had been subject to routine checks every thirty minutes due to his notoriety.\n\nA consultant's report was released on December 3, and officially concluded that \"all available evidence pointed to suicide, including a shrine-like arrangement of family pictures and a Bible in Castro's cell, an increasing tone of frustration in his prison journal and the reality of spending the rest of his life in prison while subject to constant harassment.\" The Ohio State Highway Patrol also reviewed the case and reached the same conclusion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20896854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20896854", "title": "Belyayev circle", "text": "Belyayev circle\n\nThe Belyayev circle () was a society of Russian musicians who met in Saint Petersburg, Russia between 1885 and 1908, and whose members included Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Alexander Glazunov, Vladimir Stasov, Anatoly Lyadov, Alexander Ossovsky, Witold Maliszewski, Nikolai Tcherepnin, Nikolay Sokolov, Alexander Winkler among others. The circle was named after Mitrofan Belyayev, a timber merchant and amateur musician who became a music philanthropist and publisher after hearing the music of the teenage Glazunov.\n\nThe Belyayev circle believed in a national style of classical music, based on the achievements of the composer group The Five which preceded it. One important difference between composers in the Belyayev circle and their counterparts in the Five was an acceptance in the necessity of Western-styled academic training; this was an attitude passed down by Rimsky-Korsakov, who taught many of the composers in the circle at the Saint Petersburg Conservatory. While these composers were more open to Western compositional practices and influences, especially through the music of Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, they closely followed many of the compositional practices of the Five to the point of mannerism, especially in their depiction of folkloric subject matter.\n\nThe Belyayev circle came to dominate musical life in St. Petersburg. Composers who desired patronage, publication or public performance of their works through Belyayev were compelled to write in a musical style accepted by Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov. There was also peer pressure to compose in this style, as well as a distrust of composers who did not do so. Several composers who believed in the philosophy of the Belyayev circle became professors and heads of music conservatories in Russia, which extended the influence of the group past the physical confines of St. Petersburg and timewise well into the 20th century.\n\nBelyayev was one of a growing number of Russian nouveau-riche industrialists who became patrons of the arts in mid- to late-19th century Russia; their number included Nadezhda von Meck, railway magnate Savva Mamontov and textile manufacturer Pavel Tretyakov. While Nadezhda von Meck insisted on anonymity in her patronage in the tradition of \"noblesse oblige\", Belyayev, Mamontov and Tretyakov \"wanted to contribute conspicuously to public life\". Because of their cultural and political orientation, they were more likely than the aristocracy to support native talent, and were more inclined to support nationalist artists over cosmopolitan ones. This was not due to any social or political agenda implicit in the art, but due to the Russianness of the art itself. This included the music of the composers Belyayev chose to support.\n\nAn amateur viola player and chamber music enthusiast, Belyayev hosted \"quartet Fridays\" at his home in St. Petersburg. A frequent visitor to these gatherings was Rimsky-Korsakov. Belyayev became a music patron after he had heard the First Symphony by the sixteen-year-old Glazunov, who had been discovered by Balakirev and tutored by Rimsky-Korsakov in musical composition, counterpoint and orchestration. Not only did Glazunov become a fixture of the \"quartet Fridays\", but Belyayev also published Glazunov's work and took him on a tour of Western Europe. This tour included a visit to Weimar, Germany to present the young composer to famed Hungarian composer and pianist Franz Liszt.\n\nSoon Belyayev became interested in other Russian composers. In 1884 he set up an annual Glinka prize, named after pioneer Russian composer Mikhail Glinka (1804–1857). In 1885 he founded his own music publishing firm, based in Leipzig, Germany, through which he published works by Glazunov, Rimsky-Korsakov, Lyadov and Borodin at his own expense. By publishing in Leipzig, Belyayev could offer the double benefit of higher quality music printing than was available in Russia at the time, plus the protection of international copyright which Russia did not offer. At Rimsky-Korsakov's suggestion, Belyayev also founded his own concert series, the Russian Symphony Concerts, open exclusively to Russian composers. Among the works written especially for this series were the three by Rimsky-Korsakov by which he is currently best known in the West—\"Scheherazade\", the \"Russian Easter Festival Overture\" and \"Capriccio espagnol\". To select which composers to assist with money, publication or performances from the many who now appealed for help, Belyayev set up an advisory council made up of Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov. They would look through the compositions and appeals submitted and suggest which composers were deserving of patronage and public attention.\n\nThe musical scene in St. Petersburg came to be dominated by the Belyayev circle since Rimsky-Korsakov had taught many of its members at the Conservatory there. Since Glazunov, Lyadov and Rimsky-Korsakov acted in an advisory capacity to the Belyayev enterprises, and thus became channels of Belyayev's largesse, composers who wished to be part of this circle and who desired Belyayev's patronage had to write in a musical style approved by these three men. Because of this stricture, Rimsky-Korsakov's style became the preferred academic style—one that young composers had to follow if they hoped to have any sort of career. In this sense, the Belyayev circle acted as a compositional guild. The better pupils from the St. Petersburg Conservatory received initiation by their invitation to the \"quartet Fridays\", and admission to the circle \"guaranteed well remunerated publication by Edition Belieff, Leipzig, and performance in the Russian Symphony Concert programs\". Thus, the Belyayev circle \"set up an establishment that governed all aspects of musical creation, education and performance\".\n\nThe Belyayev circle ran counter in its philosophy to the artistic movement and magazine \"Mir iskusstva\" (, \"World of Art\"). \"Mir iskusstva\" \"identified with the artistic values of the [Russian] aristocracy\" in its cosmopolitanism and belief of a universal culture. The composers of the Belyayev circle, like the Five before it, believed in a national, realist form of Russian classical music that should stand apart in its style and characteristics from Western European classical music. In this sense, the Belyayev composers shared similar goals with the Abramtsevo Colony and Russian Revival in the sphere of fine arts. Another way \"Mir iskusstva\" disagreed with the Belyayev circle was that they believed the composers under Belyayev were practicing art for art's sake, much like a social program. This practice ran counter to their belief in focusing on \"art as the spiritual expression of the individual's creative genius\", as they felt Alexander Pushkin had done in his poetry and Tchaikovsky in his music. Alfred Nurok commented in an 1899 review in \"Mir iskusstva\":\n\nMusicologist Richard Taruskin writes, \"Within the Belyayev circle a safe conformism became increasingly the rule\". Concert programs needed to be filled with new Russian works, and new works had to be published to offer to the music public. It was therefore necessary \"to dip rather deep into the pool of available Conservatory trained talent\", and the circle became known for the number of less-than-first-rate talents harbored within it. Critic and composer César Cui, who had been part of the Five along with Rimsky-Korsakov, derisively called these younger composers \"clones\". Though there was some snobbism involved in criticism of the Belyayev circle, there was also enough truth in the issue of conformism to cause the circle some embarrassment.\nA contributing factor to this conformism was the gradual academization of composers in the nationalist circle, fueled by Rimsky-Korsakov's efforts in this regard with his students. An increasing number of these students joined the Belyayev circle; the result was \"the emergence of production-line 'Russian style' pieces, polished and correct, but lacking originality\".\n\nThe composers who formed the Belyayev circle were nationalistic in their outlook, as were the Five before them. Like the Five, they believed in a uniquely Russian style of classical music that utilized folk music and exotic melodic, harmonic and rhythmic elements, as exemplified by the music of Balakirev, Borodin and Rimsky-Korsakov. Unlike the Five, these composers also believed in the necessity of an academic, Western-based background in composition. The necessity of Western compositional techniques was something that Rimsky-Korsakov had instilled in many of them in his years at the St. Petersburg Conservatory. Compared to the \"revolutionary\" composers in Balakirev's circle, Rimsky-Korsakov found those in the Belyayev circle to be \"progressive ... attaching as it did great importance to technical perfection, but ... also broke new paths, though more securely, even if less speedily...\"\n\nGlazunov's attitude toward outside influences was typical of the Belyayev circle. He studied Tchaikovsky's works and \"found much that was new ... that was instructive for us as young musicians. It struck me that Tchaikovsky, who was above all a lyrical and melodic composer, had introduced operatic elements into his symphonies. I admired the thematic material of his works less than the inspired unfolding of his thoughts, his temperament and the constructural perfection.\" Rimsky-Korsakov noted \"a tendency toward eclecticism\" among the composers in the Belyayev circle, as well as a \"predilection ... for Italian-French music of the time of wig and farthingale [that is, the eighteenth century], music introduced by Tchaikovsky in his \"Queen of Spades\" and \"Iolanthe\"\".\n\nNevertheless, while the Belyayev circle was more tolerant of outside influence to a certain degree than their predecessors under Balakirev, they still followed the compositional practices of the Five closely. Maes writes, \"The harmonies of Mussorgsky's coronation scene in \"Boris\", the octatonicism of \"Mlada\" and \"Sadko\", Balakirev's folk-song stylizations, Rimsky-Korsakov's colorful harmonization—all these served as a store of recipes for writing Russian national music. In the portrayal of the national character ... these techniques prevailed over the subjects portrayed\".\n\nUnlike their predecessors in the Five, composers in the Belyayev circle did not concern themselves greatly with folklorism—the invention or adaptation of folklore to newly written stories or songs, or to folklore that is reworked and modified for modern tastes. They also did not travel to other parts of Russia to actively search for folk songs, as Balakirev had done. When the Belyayev composers produced folkloric works, \"they simply imitated Balakirev's or Rimsky-Korsakov's styles\".\n\nOne of the Belyayev composers, Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov, continued the Five's work in musical orientalism—the use of exotic melodic, harmonic and rhythmic elements to depict the middle- and far-eastern parts of the Russian Empire. He wrote three operas set in an oriental background and composed in Balakirev's style—\"Ruth\", \"Azra\" and \"Izmena\". The story for the last of these operas \"deals with the struggle between Christians and Muslims during the sixteenth-century occupation of Georgia by the Persians\". Ippolotov-Ivanov is best known in the West for his two sets of \"Caucasian Sketches\" \"an orientalist orchestral work modeled on Balakirev and Borodin\".\n\nLyadov wrote in a \"fantastic\" vein akin to Rimsky-Korsakov's, especially in his tone poems based on Russian fairy tales, \"Baba Yaga\", \"Kikimora\" and \"The Enchanted Lake\". This style of musical writing was based on extensive use of the whole tone scale and the octatonic scale to depict supernatural or magical characters and events, hence the term \"fantastic\". Though he would break from the Belyayev aesthetic in subsequent works, Igor Stravinsky wrote his ballet \"The Firebird\" in a similar musical style.\n\nDespite Rimsky-Korsakov's denial of bias among composers of the Belyayev circle, musicologist Solomon Volkov mentions that they and the Five shared a mutual suspicion of compositions that did not follow its canon. This proved especially true of the First Symphony of Sergei Rachmaninoff, a Moscow composer and protege of Tchaikovsky. Rimsky-Korsakov, whose own musical preferences in his later years were not overly progressive, may have sounded an advance warning on hearing the symphony in rehearsal when he told Rachmaninoff, \"Forgive me, but I do not find this music at all agreeable\". By the reports of many present, the rehearsal that Rimsky-Korsakov had heard, conducted by Glazunov, was both a disaster as a performance and a horrific travesty of the score. The premiere, held in St. Petersburg on March 28, 1897, went no better. Cui wrote in his review of the work, among other things, \"If there were a conservatory in Hell, and if one of its talented students were to compose a programme symphony based on the story of the Ten Plagues of Egypt, and if he were to compose a symphony like Mr. Rachmaninoff's, then he would have fulfilled his task brilliantly and would delight the inhabitants of Hell\". The symphony was not performed again in Rachmaninoff's lifetime, and while Rachmaninoff did not destroy or disavow the score, he suffered a psychological collapse that led to a three-year creative hiatus.\n\nMaes writes that the composers who formed the Belyayev circle have often been described as \"important links to, and pathbreakers for\" modernist Russian composers such as Stravinsky and Sergei Prokofiev. This, he asserts, is actually a false assumption which suggests that modernism was the result of a gradual process. The truth, Maes suggests, was that modernist music in Russia was a much more radical break from the Belyayev circle than many have claimed. Rimsky-Korsakov's extensive use of the octatonic scale and other harmonic experiments \"was a gold mine for those bent on a modernist revolution,\" Maes writes. \"However, the renewing force had still to be liberated from the cliches and routines into which the Belyayev aesthetic had been pressed\".\n\nBias toward the musical aesthetics practiced by the Belyayev circle would continue at the St. Petersburg Conservatory after Rimsky-Korsakov's retirement in 1906, with his son-in-law Maximilian Steinberg in charge of composition classes at the Conservatory through the 1920s. Dmitri Shostakovich would complain about Steinberg's musical conservatism, typified by such phrases as \"the inviolable foundations of the \"kuchka\"\" and the \"sacred traditions of Nikolai Andreyevich [Rimsky-Korsakov]\". Nor was this traditionalism limited to St. Petersburg. Well into the Soviet era, many other music conservatories remained run by traditionalists such as Ippolitov-Ivanov in Moscow and Reinhold Glière in Kiev. Because of these individuals, Maes writes, \"the conservatories retained a direct link with the Belyayev aesthetic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31961763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31961763", "title": "Biography in literature", "text": "Biography in literature\n\nWhen studying literature, biography and its relationship to literature is often a subject of literary criticism, and is treated in several different forms. Two scholarly approaches use biography or biographical approaches to the past as a tool for interpreting literature: literary biography and biographical criticism. Additionally, two genres of fiction rely heavily on the incorporation of biographical elements into their content, biographical fiction and autobiographical fiction.\n\nA literary biography is the biographical exploration of the lives of writers and artists. Biographies about artists and writers are sometimes some of the most complicated forms of biography. Not only does the author of the biography have to write about the subject of the biography but also must incorporate discussion of the individual's literary works into the biography itself. Literary biographers must balance the weight of commentary on the individual works against the biographical content to create a coherent narrative. This balance is affected by the degree of biographical elements in an author's literary works. The close relationship between writers and their work relies on ideas that connect human psychology and literature and can be examined through psychoanalytic theory.\n\nLiterary biography tends to have a plethora of autobiographical sources. Elizabeth Longford, a biographer of Wilfrid Blunt, noted, \"Writers are articulate and tend to leave eloquent source material which the biographer will be eager to use.\" However, some authors and artists go out of their way to discourage the writing of their biographies, as was the case with Kafka, Eliot, Orwell and Auden. Auden said, \"Biographies of writers whether written by others or themselves are always superfluous and usually in bad taste... His private life is, or should be, of no concern to anybody except himself, his family and his friends.\"\n\nWell-received literary biographies include Richard Ellmann's \"James Joyce\" and George Painter's \"Marcel Proust\".\n\nBiographical criticism is the deliberate use of biographical information to shed light on the difference created by experience between an author and his audience, and so provide insight into how to understand that particular work.\n\nBiographical fiction is a type of historical fiction that takes a historical individual and recreates elements of his or her life, while telling a fictional narrative, usually in the genres of film or the novel. The relationship between the biographical and the fictional may vary within different pieces of biographical fiction. It frequently includes selective information and self-censoring of the past. The characters are often real people or based on real people, but the need for \"truthful\" representation is less strict than in biography. \n\nThe various philosophies behind biographical fiction lead to different types of content. Some asserts itself as a factual narrative about the historical individual, like Gore Vidal's \"Lincoln\". Other biographical fiction creates two parallel strands of narrative, one in the contemporary world and one focusing on the biographical history, such as Malcolm Bradbury's \"To the Hermitage\" and Michael Cunningham's \"The Hours\". No matter what style of biographical fiction is used, the novelist usually starts the writing process with historical research.\n\nBiographical fiction has its roots in late 19th and early 20th-century novels based loosely on the lives of famous people, but without direct reference to them, such as George Meredith's \"Diana of the Crossways\" (1885) and Somerset Maugham's \"The Moon and Sixpence\" (1919). During the early part of the 20th century this became a distinct genre, with novels that were explicitly about individuals' lives.\n\nAutobiographical fiction, or autofiction, is fiction that incorporates the author's own experience into the narrative. It allows authors to both rely and reflect on their own experience. However, the reading of the autobiographical fiction need not always be associated with the author. Such books may be treated as distinct fictional works.\n\n"}
{"id": "2910007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2910007", "title": "Character arc", "text": "Character arc\n\nA character arc is the transformation or inner journey of a character over the course of a story. If a story has a character arc, the character begins as one sort of person and gradually transforms into a different sort of person in response to changing developments in the story. Since the change is often substantive and leading from one personality trait to a diametrically opposite trait (for example, from greed to benevolence), the geometric term \"arc\" is often used to describe the sweeping change. In most stories, lead characters and protagonists are the characters most likely to experience character arcs, although it is possible for lesser characters to change as well. A driving element of the plots of many stories is that the main character seems initially unable to overcome opposing forces, possibly because they lack skills or knowledge or resources or friends. To overcome such obstacles, the protagonist must change, possibly by learning new skills, to arrive at a higher sense of self-awareness or capability. Protagonists can achieve such self-awareness by interacting with their environment, by enlisting the help of mentors, by changing their viewpoint, or by some other method.\n\nThroughout the trajectory of narratives with a tripartite structure, character arcs often unfold beside the narrative arc in the following way:\n\nDuring the first act, the character arc is established or re-established for at least one character, the main character (the protagonist), within the exposition (noument) of the environment including relationships to other characters. Later in the first act, a dynamic, on-screen incident, known as the inciting incident, or catalyst occurs that confronts the protagonist, whose attempts to deal with this incident lead to a second and more dramatic situation, known as the first turning point. After the first turning point, life will never be the same for the protagonist and raises a dramatic question that will be answered in the climax of the story. The dramatic question should be framed in terms of the protagonist's call to action, for example, Will X recover the diamond? Will Y get the girl? Will Z capture the killer?\n\nDuring the second act, also referred to as \"rising action\", the character arc develops as the protagonist attempts to resolve the problem initiated by the first turning point, only to discover ever-worsening situations, which often lead to the learning of new skills, the discovery of capabilities, and (sometimes late in the second act if at all) the raising of self-awareness.\n\nDuring the third act, including the climax, \"falling action\" and resolution (denouement), the narrative arc is completed although the character arc typically is not. During the climax, because the main tensions of the story are brought to their most intense point and the dramatic question is answered, a character arc reaches a place where the character gains a new sense of who they are becoming. As the plot and its subplots resolve, the character arc's emphasis shifts from the learning of any new skills or the discovery of dormant capabilities to the awakening of a higher level of self-awareness, which in turn changes who the character is becoming.\n\nSome examples include:\n\n\nSome examples include:\n\n\nLike a story arc, which often is composed of many narrative arcs, the character arc is not confined within the limits of one narrative. The character arc may extend over to the next story, a sequel, or another episode. In episodic TV series, the character arc functions as a narrative hook that writers often use to ensure viewers continue watching.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221283", "title": "Coat of arms of Sweden", "text": "Coat of arms of Sweden\n\nThe coat of arms of the Kingdom of Sweden () has a lesser and a greater version.\n\nThe usage of the coats of arms is regulated by Swedish Law, Act 1970:498, which states (in unofficial translation) that \"in commercial activities, the coats of arms, the flag or other official insignia of Sweden may not be used in a trademark or other insignias for products or services without proper authorisation. This includes any mark or text referring to the Swedish State which this can give the commercial mark a sign of official endorsement. This includes municipal coats of arms which are registered.\"\n\nAny representation consisting of three crowns ordered two above one are considered to be the lesser coat of arms, and its usage is therefore restricted by law 1970:498.\n\nThe arms of Sweden were first formally codified by law in 1908. This law also formally codifies the differences between the \"greater\" and \"lesser\" arms. The present law prescribing the two arms dates from 1982.\n\nThe greater coat of arms is blazoned in Swedish law as follows:\n\n\"A shield azure, quartered by a cross Or with outbent arms, and an inescutcheon containing the dynastic arms of the Royal House. In the first and fourth fields three open crowns Or, placed two above one. In the second and third fields three sinisterbendwise streams argent, a lion crowned with an open crown Or armed gules. The inescutcheon is party per pale the arms for the House of Vasa (Bendwise azure, argent and gules, a \"vasa\" Or); and the House of Bernadotte (Azure, issuant from a wavy base a bridge with three arches and two towers embattled argent, in honor point an eagle regardant with wings inverted resting on thunderbolts Or, and in chief the Big Dipper constellation of the same). The main shield is crowned by a royal crown and surrounded by the insignia of the Order of the Seraphim. Supported by two lions regardant, crowned and with forked tails Or armed gules, standing on a compartment Or. All surrounded by ermine mantling, crowned with a royal crown and tied up with tasseladorned strings Or.\"\n\nThe greater arms may also be displayed only with the crowned escutcheon. While the arms have undergone significant changes over the years, such as changing the inescutcheon with the ruling dynasty, they are based on arms created by King Karl Knutsson in 1448.\n\nThe escutcheon used in the greater blazon has in total five elements: 4 quarterings on the main escutcheon (two coats of arms duplicated), and three coat of arms incorporated into an escutcheon of pretense. However, Bernadotte never used any stars in the arms of Pontecorvo (neither as Prince of Pontecorvo, nor as King of Sweden and Norway). The stars were introduced as an element in the royal coat of arms in the 19th century, chosen as a symbol of Sweden's eternal existence, as in the poem by Esaias Tegnér:\n\nThis symbol became especially popular through its allusion to the name that had been borne by so many famous Swedish kings. Ursa Major, or as it is called in Swedish, \"Karlavagnen\" (Charles' Wain), adds a Swedish accent to the Bernadotte dynastic coat of arms much in the same way as do the Vasa arms.\n\nThe arms are supported by two lions with forked tails (\"queue fourchée\"), facing away from the shield and crowned with Royal Crowns. For centuries, the lion has been an important element in Swedish heraldry and especially for the State Coat of Arms. The shield may be surmounted by the Collar of the Order of Seraphim, the foremost order in Sweden, and the highest honour the Swedish state can bestow on an individual.\n\nBesides being the official national coat of arms, the greater coat of arms is also the personal coat of arms of the king, and as such he can decree its use as a personal coat of arms by other members of the Royal House, with the alterations and additions decided by him.\n\nBlazon: \"The greater state arms consist of a head shield azure, quartered by a cross or with outbent arms, and an inescutcheon containing the dynastic arms of the Royal House.\n\nIn the first and fourth fields three coronets or, placed two above one. In the second and third fields three sinisterbendwise streams argent, a lion crowned with an open crown or with armaments gules. The inescutcheon is party per pale the arms for the House of Vasa and the House of Bernadotte. The main shield is crowned by a royal crown and surrounded by the insignia of the Order of the Seraphim. Supported by two lions regardant or crowned, with parted tails and armaments gules, standing on a postament. All surrounded by hermine mantling crowned with a royal crown and tied up with tasseled strings or.\"\n\nThe lesser coat of arms is mainly used by the Government of Sweden and subordinate government authorities. As such it may be joined by insignias symbolising the activity of individual government agencies, following approval by the State Board of Heraldry. It is, for instance, embroidered on all Swedish police uniforms and in various coats of arms of the Swedish Armed Forces.\n\nBlazon: \"Azure, with three coronets Or, ordered two above one.\" Crowned with a royal crown. The shield may also be surrounded by the insignias of the Order of the Seraphim.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44185893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44185893", "title": "Facebook real-name policy controversy", "text": "Facebook real-name policy controversy\n\nThe Facebook real-name policy controversy refers to the controversy over social networking site Facebooks \"real-name system\" dictating how people register their accounts and configure their user profiles. The controversy stems from a policy that those who have been adversely affected describe as penalizing users who are in fact using their real names which Facebook has nevertheless deemed to be \"fake\", while simultaneously allowing anyone to create fake yet plausible-sounding names, as well as obviously implausible-sounding names comprising word combinations that Facebook's software fails to recognize as unlikely to be real because their alleged nonstandard spelling or confusion with fictional characters. Facebook furthermore prohibits users from accurately representing names which according to the site have \"too many words\", and prohibits initializing first names, preventing users who do so in real life from formatting their own names as they see fit.\n\nThe social networking website Facebook has maintained the real-name system policy for user profiles. According to Facebook, the real-name policy stems from the position \"that way, you always know who you're connecting with. This helps keep our community safe.\" Likewise per this policy, a \"real name\" is defined by \"your real name as it would be listed on your credit card, driver's license or student ID.\" In August 2012, Facebook estimated that more than 83 million Facebook accounts are fake accounts. As a result of this revelation, the share price of Facebook dropped below $20. Facebook has asserted that \"authentic identity is important to the Facebook experience, and our goal is that every account on Facebook should represent a real person.\"\n\nNative Americans have been repeatedly targeted due to Facebook's policy. \n\nA number of Native Americans have objected to Facebook's inquiries into their names, and to Facebook's request that they provide proof of identification or other documentation in order to use the service. Native American activists claimed to be planning to file a class action lawsuit against Facebook regarding the 'real name' policy.\n\nIn 2008, a woman in Japan named Hiroko Yoda had her Facebook account suspended over her surname, which is common in Japan, being confused with a Star Wars character of the same name.\n\nThe Dublin branch of the Irish language rights group, Misneach, started a Change.org online petition to demand the right to use Irish names on Facebook and protested outside Facebook's European headquarters in Dublin on October 7, 2015.\n\nIn 2015, one Gaelic-speaking retired policeman won the right to use his Gaelic name on Facebook, even though it was not his legal name. Some Scottish Gaelic surnames, such as NicIllAnndrais, contain more than two capital letters and are still disallowed by Facebook.\n\nIn the Spanish-influenced indigenous Chamoru culture of the Marianas, the standard naming convention has historically been for a person to use their mother's maiden name as their middle name. (Chamoru culture, having been colonized by Spain, went through a period where indigenous names and naming conventions were forcibly eradicated and replaced by what the conquering Spanish deemed acceptable.) Furthermore, using one's full name rather than simply the first and last is commonplace, if only for disambiguation purposes due to a relatively small pool of surnames. Therefore, middle names such as De Leon Guerrero and De La Cruz are frequently encountered. However, attempting to register such names as one's middle name results in a message telling users that \"Names can't have too many words.\" Therefore, many Chamoru users are forced to either run all of the words together as if they were one single word, or to initialize each word to a common acronym such as DLG or DLC.\n\nIn cases where the acronym is employed, Facebook automatically changes to lower-case all letters except the first. (Use of periods, e.g. D.L.G., will result in a message telling users that \"Profile names can't have too many periods.\") Therefore, someone commonly known in real life by a name such as Mary De Leon Guerrero Mafnas would have to resort to using what on Facebook would end up being \"Mary Dlg Mafnas\". The message is not accompanied by an option to challenge/appeal the restriction or to send Facebook documentation that the format is how one normally formats their name in real life.\n\nIn January 2015, a 23-year-old Australian bank employee claiming to be named Phuc Dat Bich posted a photo of his passport identification page to Facebook, protesting that the company had unfairly shut down his account for being \"false and misleading\". \"Is it because I'm Asian? Is it?\" he asked. The BBC reported that in Vietnamese the name is pronounced similarly to \"Phoo Da Bi\" (IPA: ). After his reinstatement, Bich posted a thank you note to supportive Facebook fans, stating he was \"glad and honoured to be able to make people happy by simply making them laugh at something that appears outrageous and ridiculous\". Subsequently \"Phuc Dat\" published a further message admitting it was a hoax.\n\nTamils do not have surnames: They have their father or mother or both father and mother's first name as initials. This standard naming practice has not been acknowledged by Facebook.\n\nFacebook's real-name policy does not reflect adopted names or pseudonyms used by the transgender community, and has led to suspending users with real names that might be thought to be fake. A user via the anonymous Android and iOS app Secret began reporting \"fake names\" which caused user profiles to be suspended, specifically targeting the stage names of drag queens.\n\nTransgender people have also been affected by the policy, including one former Facebook employee who initiated development on Facebook's custom gender options, who was suspended on the day the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" that same-sex marriage bans were unconstitutional. According to gender non-conforming activist D. Dragonetti, Facebook even disregarded their government identification when supplied.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, Chris Cox, Chief Product Officer at Facebook, offered an apology to the LGBT community and drag kings and queens: In the two weeks since the real-name policy issues surfaced, we've had the chance to hear from many of you in these communities and understand the policy more clearly as you experience it. We've also come to understand how painful this has been. We owe you a better service and a better experience using Facebook, and we're going to fix the way this policy gets handled so everyone affected here can go back to using Facebook as you were.\n\nSecular, atheist, agnostic, humanist, or users who comment or blog expressing views critical of particular religions, sects or religion in general, as well as religious people who express the opposing views critical of atheism or agnosticism very often have a legitimate need to use an alias. Some of these users could suffer rejection, retaliation or violence if their views – contrary to those of their family, friends or community – are known. In some cases, secular bloggers are exposed to imprisonment by an intolerant government, violent attacks in the street or even being killed by religious fanatics. Examples are the incarceration of activist and blogger Raif Badawi in Saudi Arabia and a string of attacks and murders of secular activists in Bangladesh or Pakistan.\n\nInternational non-profit digital rights group Electronic Frontier Foundation stated they were \"alarmed to hear that Facebook's 'real name' policy is disproportionately affecting the LGBTQ community.\"\n\nOnline magazine \"Queerty\" called Facebook's policy \"a frankly creepy overreach of authority\", adding \"There are a million reasons why someone would choose to self-identify with a name other than the one that's printed on their birth certificate. And really, it's absolutely none of your business in the first place.\"\n\nIn an interview for MAGE Magazine, Second Life entrepreneur Jennifer Ceara Firehawk stated: \"If we are not using our page to abuse or grief others they just need to leave us be. We are not hurting anyone… FB does not realize some SL people earn lindens to turn into RL (real life) money and that is how they make a living. Once you force a person to change the SL name they will lose money due to not being able to find them on FB or SL as they may use FB for their buisness [sic] or advertise. So they end up losing buisness [sic] and money.\"\n\nSeattle drag performer Olivia LaGarce started a Change.org online petition titled \"Allow performers to use their stage names on their Facebook accounts!\"\n\nOn December 15, 2015, Facebook announced in a press release that it would be providing a compromise to its real name policy after protests from groups such as the gay/lesbian community and abuse victims. The site is developing a protocol that will allow members to provide specifics as to their \"special circumstance\" or \"unique situation\" with a request to use pseudonyms, subject to verification of their true identities. At that time, this was already being tested in the U.S. Product manager Todd Gage and vice president of global operations Justin Osofsky also promised a new method for reducing the number of members who must go through ID verification while ensuring the safety of others on Facebook. The fake name reporting procedure will also be modified, forcing anyone who makes such an allegation to provide specifics that would be investigated and giving the accused individual time to dispute the allegation.\n\nThis measure was criticised by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, who pointed out that it forces the most vulnerable users to reveal intimate details of their personal lives. Furthermore, as of January 2018, there is no evidence in Facebook's policies that this measure was ever implemented.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58228011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58228011", "title": "Flag of the President of Belarus", "text": "Flag of the President of Belarus\n\nThe Flag (Standard) of the President of Belarus () is the official symbol of the President of Belarus. It is used at buildings and on vehicles to denote the presence of the President.\n\nThe presidential standard, which has been in use since 1997, was adopted by a decree called \"Concerning the Standard of the President of Republic of Belarus\".\n\nThe standard's design is an exact copy of the national flag, with the addition of the Belarusian national emblem in gold and red. The standard's ratio of 5:6 differs from that of the national flag, making the standard almost square. The Presidential Flag is framed with golden fringes.\n\nThe original version of the Presidential Standard is kept in the office of the President at the Independence Palace. The duplicates of Presidential Flag can be placed in the halls or rooms of the Independence Palace or Presidential residences if any official event is intended to be conducted in the presence of the President; on other premises when the President of Belarus is visiting; in the hall of the building, where official or other types of events are being held with the participation of the President of Belarus; and on the vehicles of the President.\n\nPresidential flag is also used during inauguration ceremony.\n\n"}
{"id": "6064657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6064657", "title": "Flags of the Dutch royal family", "text": "Flags of the Dutch royal family\n\nThe flags of the Dutch royal family are a set of flags used to identify a member of the royal family. The current system of flags for the Dutch monarch, princes, and princesses was introduced in 1908.\n\nThe current system of personal flags for the monarch and other members of the royal family was introduced in 1908. In 1907, minor modifications were introduced to the Dutch coat of arms; likewise, a new flag for the Dutch monarch was introduced the following year. These flags are designed by the High Council of Nobility (who are also responsible for heraldry of the royal family) and are granted by royal decree. Like their coats of arms, these flags are usually shared among siblings.\n\nThe flags follow a similar pattern and, although not banners of arms, are heavily influenced by heraldry. Flags of those born into the royal family feature a Nassau-blue cross on an orange field, while the colours are reversed for those who marry into the family. Males have near-square flags while those of females are swallowtailed. Elements of an individual's family coat of arms are also incorporated into the flags.\n\nThe flags are used to mark the presence of an individual in certain buildings, when on vehicles (e.g. a car or ship), or in an army unit. The flag of the monarch is flown above Huis ten Bosch Palace in The Hague (the king's private residence) and above Noordeinde Palace in The Hague (the king's official residence) when the monarch is in the Netherlands, but not necessarily when he is actually resident. Besides these two residences, the royal standard is flown above other palaces, castles or estates where and when the King is actually staying.\n\nThe flags are never flown at half-mast; during a period of mourning, a black pennon is affixed to the flagpole flying the flag.\n\nThe royal flag (), or the royal standard of the Netherlands, is the official flag of the Dutch monarch. This flag is a non-personal distinctive flag and is not changed from reign to reign. The current flag, introduced in 1908, is a square orange flag, divided in four quarters by a nassau-blue cross. These colours refer to the principality of Orange (in France) and the principality of Nassau (in Germany) from which the present royal family originates. \n\nIn the centre of the flag is the lesser coat of arms of the Kingdom (which originates as a composite of features taken from the arms of the house of Nassau and the arms of the Dutch republic) surmounted by a royal crown and surrounded by the insignia of the Grand Cross of the Military William Order. Each quarter shows a bugle-horn which originates in arms of the principality of Orange.\n\nUpon the accession of King Willem-Alexander in 2013, the monarch's flag was slightly modified: Instead of a rosette, a bow is placed in the ribbon of the Military William Order. Furthermore, the tassels on the horns now both hang down. The adjustments were applied on 30 April 2013 immediately after Willem-Alexander taking office. \n\nThe flag of a Dutch prince is rectangular in shape and of proportions 5:6. Flags of princes born into the royal family consist of a Nassau-blue cross on an orange field. \n\nInstead of the hunting horn of Orange in the upper right and the lower left quarters found in the monarch's flag, these are replaced with figures obtained from the coat of arms of the family of the prince's parent who married into the royal family. \n\nUnlike the monarch's flag, the coat of arms of the kingdom is not surrounded by the insignia of the Great Cross of the Military Order of Guillaume, but is placed within an orange circle which replaces the center of the cross.\n\nThe flag of a Dutch princess is swallowtailed in shape and of proportions 5:6. Flags of princesses born into the royal family consist of a Nassau-blue cross on an orange field while the flags of princesses by marriage are reversed. \n\nUnlike the flags for princes, the right side of the flag is devoid of the hunting horn of Orange and personal figure. However, the left portion of a princesse's flag contains the usual hunting horn of Orange and personal figure (obtained from the coat of arms of the family of the princess's parent who married into the royal family) in the upper and lower left quarters of the flag respectively.\n\nUnlike the monarch's flag, the coat of arms of the kingdom is not surrounded by the insignia of the Great Cross of the Military Order of Guillaume, but is placed either within an orange circle which replaces the center of a blue cross, or at the centre of an orange cross.\n\nIn general, the standard of a prince consort of the Netherlands is a rectangular flag with proportions 5:6 with the colours of the royal standard (i.e. the orange field and blue cross) reversed. The upper left and lower right quarters bear the lion from the Dutch coat of arms (holding arrows in one hand and brandishing a sword on the other) while the other two quarters have a personal figure taken from their personal coat of arms.\n\nIn general, the standard of a queen consort, or the wife of a prince of the Netherlands, is a flag in the form of a swallow tail. The two right quarters are empty, the upper left corner bears the orange horn taken from the arms of the Principality of Orange and the lower left quarter has a personal figure, taken from their personal coat of arms.\n\nIn both cases, the coat of arms of the kingdom is at the center of the cross.\n\n"}
{"id": "36839371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36839371", "title": "Gallery of head of state standards", "text": "Gallery of head of state standards\n\nThis gallery of head of state standards shows the Presidential or Royal Standards, a flag that is related to the head of state of that country.\n\n"}
{"id": "37701107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37701107", "title": "Generación del 51", "text": "Generación del 51\n\nGeneración del 51 is a designation for one of a series of \"generations\" of Spanish composers, identifying a group born between 1924 and 1938.\n\nMembers of this group of composers from the Basque and Castilian-speaking regions of Spain include :\nIn their earlier works, members of this generation tended toward the avant-garde, with post-Webernian serialism evident in the work of Halffter and Luis de Pablo in particular. By the end of the 1970s a mellowing of their language becomes apparent, and during the 1980s many of them began to turn to tonality of one sort or another . \n\nThe Catalan members of this generation are associated with the reforming and renewing tendencies that emerged after the post-Civil War isolation (; ):\nSoler's compositional palette involves serial techniques, and he is particularly noted for his dramatic music .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19141002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19141002", "title": "Giedroyć", "text": "Giedroyć\n\nGiedroyć (Lithuanian: Giedraitis; Russian and Belarusian: Гедройц; French: Guedroitz) is a Polish surname, originating from the Giedroyć princely family of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nThe Second and Third Editions of the Lithuanian Chronicle relate that Giedrius (Palemonids), a brother of Grand Duke Traidenis of Lithuania (late 13th century), built a castle, named it Giedraičiai, and adopted the title Prince of Giedraičiai.\n\nA document issued by Grand Duke Vytautas of Lithuania in the period 1399–1429 settled a dispute between the Bishop of Vilnius and the Princes of Giedraičiai. Numerous members of the family were recorded in the 15th and 16th centuries, and thereafter, with the title Prince.\n\nThe two lines of the family for which coherent genealogies are available (the family's \"central core\") descend from (i) Prince Aleksander (late 15th century) and (ii) Prince Bartłomiej (died in 1524).\n\nThe 1569 Act of Union inaugurating the Polish-Lithuanian Royal Commonwealth confirmed that, as previously in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, Lithuanian families of dynastic origin remained entitled to use the title Prince. Many subsequent Giedroyć family members, both of the Line of Aleksander and of the Line of Bartłomiej, were recorded with the title Prince – including several (of both Lines) whose right to the title was individually confirmed under Imperial Russian legislation of 1832. Other members did not seek such specific confirmation under the Russian Empire, but relied on confirmation of their noble status and princely origins under Russian legislation of 1801/3. The Imperial Russian heraldic authority classified these as \"of the Princes\".\n\nUnder the usage of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, as confirmed by the 1569 Act of Union, princely origins in themselves establish princely status.\n\nThe Second Edition of the Lithuanian Chronicle records that a centaur was the armorial charge of the forebears of Giedrus. A decree issued in 1401 by Władisław Jagiello, King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania, confirms the right of Prince Michał Giedroyć vel. Ratybor (baptized c.1387) to the arms Hippocentaurus \"as used by his illustrious grandfather\" Ginwill (2nd Duke of Giedrojcie and candidate to the grand ducal office of Lithuania).\n\nBut the earliest surviving illustrated Giedroyć armorial charge is a rose, on seals attached to state documents of 1431-4.\n\nThrough the 17th and 18th centuries, the centaur was used predominantly by most members of the family, sometimes in combination with the rose; while the descendants of Mikołaj (died 1657, sixth generation in the Line of Bartłomiej) continued to use the rose alone. But the centaur (sometimes with the rose, sometimes without) predominates in all the 19th century Russian records, even for the descendants of Mikołaj.\n\nAt the English College of Arms, the arms of Michal Giedroyc (born 1929, 16th generation in the Line of Bartłomiej) include both the rose and the centaur (called a sagittary in English heraldry) blazoned as follows: Per fess Or and Gules in chief a Rose Gules barbed and seeded proper and in base a Sagittary trippant to the dexter the head facing to the sinister his tail a serpent facing to the dexter holding in the hands a Bow with arrow drawn and set towards the head of the serpent all Or.\n\nEarly bearers of the Giedroyć name included:\n\n\nOther distinguished members of the two main lines of the family included:\n\n\nCurrent members of the family include:\n\n\nBearers of the name Guedroitz (the French version of the Russian version of Giedroyć) include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49343041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49343041", "title": "Gradshteyn and Ryzhik", "text": "Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\n\nGradshteyn and Ryzhik (GR) is the informal name of a comprehensive table of integrals originally compiled by the Russian mathematicians I. S. Gradshteyn and I. M. Ryzhik. Its full title today is Table of Integrals, Series, and Products.\n\nSince its first publication in 1943, it was considerably expanded and it soon became a \"classic\" and highly regarded reference for mathematicians, scientists and engineers. After the deaths of the original authors, the work was maintained and further expanded by other editors.\n\nAt some stage a German and English dual-language translation became available, followed by Polish, English-only and Japanese versions. After several further editions, the Russian and German-English versions went out of print and have not been updated after the fall of the Iron Curtain, but the English version is still being actively maintained and refined by new editors, and it has recently been retranslated back into Russian as well.\n\nOne of the valuable characteristics of \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" compared to similar compilations is that most listed integrals are referenced. The literature list contains 92 main entries and 140 additional entries (in the eighth English edition). The integrals are classified by numbers, which haven't changed from the fourth Russian up to the seventh English edition (the numbering in older editions as well as in the eighth English edition is not fully compatible).\nThe book does not only contain the integrals, but also lists additional properties and related special functions.\nIt also includes tables for integral transforms.\nAnother advantage of \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" compared to computer algebra systems is the fact that all special functions and constants used in the evaluation of the integrals are listed in a registry as well, thereby allowing reverse lookup of integrals based on special functions or constants.\n\nOn the downsides, \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" has become known to contain a relatively high number of typographical errors even in newer editions, which has repeatedly led to the publication of extensive errata lists. Earlier English editions were also criticized for their poor translation of mathematical terms and mediocre print quality.\n\nThe work was originally compiled by the Russian mathematicians Iosif Moiseevich Ryzhik (Russian: , German: ) and Izrail Solomonovich Gradshteyn (Russian: , German: ). While some contents were original, significant portions were collected from other previously existing integral tables like David Bierens de Haan's ' (1867), Václav Jan Láska's ' (1888-1894) or Edwin Plimpton Adams' and Richard Lionel Hippisley's \"Smithsonian Mathematical Formulae and Tables of Elliptic Functions\" (1922).\n\nThe first edition, which contained about 5 000 formulas, was authored by Ryzhik, who had already published a book on special functions in 1936 and died during World War II in 1941. Not announcing this fact, his compilation was published posthumously in 1943, followed by a second corrected edition in his name in 1948.\n\nThe third edition (1951) was worked on by Gradshteyn, who also introduced the chapter numbering system in decimal notation. Gradshteyn planned considerable expansion for the fourth edition, a work he could not finish due to his own death. Therefore, the fourth (1962/1963) and fifth (1971) editions were continued by Yuri Veniaminovich Geronimus (Russian: , German: ) and Michail Yulyevich Tseytlin (Russian: , German: ). The fourth edition contained about 12 000 formulas already.\n\nBased on the third Russian edition, the first German-English edition with 5 400 formulas was published in 1957 by the East-German (DVW) with German translations by and and the English texts by . In wrote:\n\nIn 1963, it was followed by the second edition, a reprint edition with a four-page inlet listing corrections compiled by Eldon Robert Hansen.\n\nDerived from the 1963 edition, but considerably expanded, the third German-English edition by was finally published in 1981; it incorporated the material of the fifth Russian edition (1971) as well.\n\nPending this third German-English edition an English-only edition by Alan Jeffrey was published in 1965. Lacking a clear designation by itself it was variously known as first, third or fourth English edition, as it was based on the then-current fourth Russian edition. The formulas were photographically reproduced and the text translated. This still held true for the expanded fourth English edition in 1980, which added chapters 10 to 17.\n\nBoth of these editions saw multiple print runs each incorporating newly found corrections. Starting with the third printing, updated table entries were marked by adding a small superscript number to the entry number indicating the corresponding print run (\"3\" etc.), a convention carried over into later editions by continuing to increase the superscript number as kind of a revision number (no longer directly corresponding with actual print runs).\n\nThe fifth edition (1994), which contained close to 20 000 formulas, was electronically reset in preparation for a CD-ROM issue of the fifth edition (1996) and in anticipation of further editions. Since the sixth edition (2000), now corresponding with superscript number \"10\", Daniel Zwillinger started contributing as well. The last edition being edited by Jeffrey before his death was the seventh English edition published in 2007 (with superscript number \"11\"). This edition has been retranslated back into Russian as \"seventh Russian edition\" in 2011.\n\nFor the eighth edition (2014/2015, with superscript number \"12\") Zwillinger took over the role of the editor. He was assisted by Victor Hugo Moll. In order to make room for additional information without increasing the size of the book significantly, the former chapters 11 (on algebraic inequalities), chapters 13 to 16 (on matrices and related results, determinants, norms, ordinary differential equations) and chapter 18 (on z-transforms) worth about 50 pages in total were removed and some chapters renumbered (12 to 11, 17 to 12). This edition contains more than 10 000 entries.\n\nIn 1995, Alan Jeffrey published his \"Handbook of Mathematical Formulas and Integrals\".\nIt was partially based on the fifth English edition of Gradshteyn and Ryzhik's \"Table of Integrals, Series, and Products\" and meant as an companion, but written to be more accessible for students and practitioners. It went through four editions up to 2008. The fourth edition also took advantage of changes incorporated into the seventh English edition of Gradshteyn and Ryzhik.\n\nInspired by a 1988 paper in which Ilan Vardi proved several integrals in \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" Victor Hugo Moll with George Boros started a project to prove all integrals listed in \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" and add additional commentary and references. In the foreword of the book \"Irresistible Integrals\" (2004), they wrote:\n\nNevertheless, the efforts have meanwhile resulted in about 900 entries from \"Gradshteyn and Ryzhik\" discussed in a series of more than 30 articles of which papers 1 to 28 have been published in issues 14 to 26 of Scientia, Universidad Técnica Federico Santa María (UTFSM), between 2007 and 2015 and compiled into a two-volume book series \"Special Integrals of Gradshteyn and Ryzhik: the Proofs\" (2014–2015) already.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12204754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12204754", "title": "Jane and Michael Stern", "text": "Jane and Michael Stern\n\nJane Grossman Stern and Michael Stern (both born 1946) are American writers who specialize in books about travel, food, and popular culture. They are best known for their \"Roadfood\" books, website, and magazine columns, in which they find road food restaurants serving classic American regional specialties and review them. Starting their hunt for regional American food in the early 1970s they were the first food writers to regard this food as being as worthy to report on as the haute cuisine of other nations. \n\nSince the Sterns began documenting regional American food in the 1970s many other writers and television personalities have used their pioneering work as inspiration. In addition to their early work with regional American food the Sterns' book \"Square Meals\" (Knopf 1985) put \"comfort foods\" like mac and cheese, meatloaf, and mashed potatoes on the culinary map. \"Square Meals\" did an audacious reverse spin on the tricked up and precious nouvelle cuisine that was beloved by food critics at that time. \n\nJane Grossman grew up in New York City, where she attended the Walden School and received a BFA in graphic design at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. Michael Stern grew up in Winnetka, Illinois, and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1968. They met as graduate students in art at Yale University and their first date, at Pepe's Pizza in New Haven, had a food focus. The couple married in 1970. The following year, Jane earned an MFA in painting from Yale and Michael changed schools and earned an MFA from Columbia University in film. Neither found work in their fields of study.\n\nAfter a short stint of producing documentaries for WNBC, a teaching job at Hunter College and another at Wesleyan University they began work on the book that eventually became the first \"Roadfood\". The book was conceived as a book on \"truck-stop dining,\" funded with an advance from a publisher. The Sterns set out in their car to travel through the United States and eat up to 12 meals daily at diners and local cafes. The resulting first edition of \"Roadfood\" was published in 1977; the most recent edition was released in 2017.\n\nIn addition to their food writing, the Sterns have written books on American popular culture, including \"The New York Times\" bestselling \"Elvis World\" (1987) and \"The Encyclopaedia of Bad Taste\" (1990). In all, they have written over 30 books. They were staff writers for \"Gourmet\" magazine for 18 years, have written for \"The New Yorker\", \"The Atlantic Monthly\", and are now contributing editors at \"Saveur\". \n\nThey are regular guests on American Public Media's public radio program, \"The Splendid Table\". They have won numerous awards, including James Beard awards, and were inducted into Who's Who of Food and Beverage in America in 1992. The Sterns founded Roadfood.com; the site was sold to Fexy Media in 2016. After the sale, the Sterns remained in charge of editorial content of their website.\n\nIn 2003, Jane Stern published \"Ambulance Girl: How I Saved Myself by Becoming an EMT\", a memoir in which she described suffering from severe clinical depression when she was in her early 50s and overcame her depression by training and working as an emergency medical technician in Connecticut. In 2005 the book was made into a television movie, \"Ambulance Girl\", for which actress Kathy Bates was nominated for an Emmy Award. The Sterns wrote a joint memoir, \"Two for the Road: Our Love Affair With American Food\", in 2006. \n\nThe couple divorced in 2008; they still write as a team. She now lives in Ridgefield, Connecticut; he and his present wife, Linda, reside in Aiken, South Carolina. \n\nIn 2011 the former couple published \"The Lexicon of Real American Food\", and Jane Stern published a book on her little known but long-standing career as a tarot card reader. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "17428410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17428410", "title": "King Arthur's family", "text": "King Arthur's family\n\nKing Arthur's family grew throughout the centuries with King Arthur's legend. Several of the legendary members of this mythical king's family became leading characters of mythical tales in their own right.\n\nIn Welsh Arthurian literature from before the time of Geoffrey of Monmouth's \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" (\"History of the Kings of Britain\"), Arthur was granted numerous relations and family members. Several early Welsh sources are usually taken as indicative of Uther Pendragon being known as Arthur's father before Geoffrey wrote, with Arthur also being granted a brother (Madog) and a nephew (Eliwlod) in these texts. Arthur also appears to have been assigned a sister in this material – Gwalchmei is named as his sister-son (nephew) in \"Culhwch and Olwen\", his mother being one Gwyar. \"Culhwch and Olwen\", the \"Vita Iltuti\" and the \"Brut Dingestow\" combine to suggest that Arthur had a mother too, named Eigyr.\n\nIn addition to this immediate family, Arthur was said to have had a great variety of more distant relatives, including maternal aunts, uncles, cousins and a grandfather named Anlawd (or Amlawdd) Wledig (\"Prince Anlawd\"). The latter is the common link between many of these figures and Arthur: thus the relationship of first cousins that is implied or stated between Arthur, Culhwch, Illtud, and Goreu mab Custenhin depends upon all of their mothers being daughters of this Anlawd, who appears to be ultimately a genealogical construct designed to allow such inter-relationships between characters to be postulated by medieval Welsh authors. Arthur's maternal uncles in \"Culhwch and Olwen\", including Llygatrud Emys, Gwrbothu Hen, Gweir Gwrhyt Ennwir and Gweir Baladir Hir, similarly appear to derive from this relationship.\n\nThe genealogies from the 13th-century Mostyn MS. 117 assert that Arthur is the son of Uthyr, the son of Custennin, the son of Cynfawr, the son of Tudwal, the son of Morfawr, the son of Eudaf, the son of Cadwr the son of Cynan, the son of Caradoc, the son of Bran, the son of Llŷr.\n\nRegarding Arthur's own family, his wife is consistently stated to be Gwenhwyfar, usually the daughter of King Ogrfan Gawr (variation: 'Gogrfan Gawr', \"[G]Ogrfan the Giant\") and sister to Gwenhwyach, although \"Culhwch\" and \"Bonedd yr Arwyr\" do indicate that Arthur also had some sort of relationship with Eleirch daughter of Iaen, which produced a son named Kyduan (Cydfan). Kyduan was not the only child of Arthur according to Welsh Arthurian tradition – he is also ascribed sons called Amr (Anir), Gwydre, Llacheu and Duran.\n\nRelatively few members of Arthur's family in the Welsh materials are carried over to the works of Geoffrey and the chivalric romancers. His grandfather Anlawd Wledic and his maternal uncles, aunts and cousins do not appear there, and neither do any of his sons or his paternal relatives. Only the core family seem to have made the journey: his wife Gwenhwyfar (who became Guinevere), his father Uther, his mother (Igerna) and his sister-son Gwalchmei (Gawain). Gwalchmei's mother – Arthur's sister – failed to make the journey, Gwyar's place being taken by Anna, the wife of Loth, in Geoffrey's account, whilst Medraut (Mordred) is made into a second sister-son for Arthur (a status he does not have in the Welsh material). \n\nIn addition, new family members enter the Arthurian tradition from this point onwards. Uther is given a new family, including two brothers and a father, while Arthur gains a sister, Morgan le Fay (first named as Arthur's sister by Chrétien de Troyes), and a new son, Loholt, in Chrétien's \"Eric and Enide\", the \"Perlesvaus\" and the Vulgate Cycle. \n\nAnother significant new family-member is Arthur's half-sister Morgause, the daughter of Gorlois and Igerna and mother of Gawain and Mordred in the French romances (replacing Geoffrey of Monmouth's Anna in this role). In the Vulgate \"Mort Artu\" we find Mordred's relationship with Arthur once more reinterpreted, as he is made the issue of an unwitting incestuous liaison between Arthur and this Morgause, with Arthur dreaming that Mordred would grow up to kill him. This tale is preserved in all the romances based on the \"Mort Artu\", and by the time of Malory's \"Le Morte d'Arthur\" Arthur has started to plot, Herod-like, to kill all children born on the same day as Mordred in order to save himself from this fate. A third half-sister, Elaine, is also added at this time. Through his sisters, Arthur is given further nephews (Gareth, Gaheris, Agravain, Ywain, and Galeschin) who become Knights of the Round Table. \n\nAlthough Arthur is given sons in both early and late Arthurian tales, he is rarely granted significant further generations of descendants; this is at least partly because of the premature deaths of his sons in these legends. Amr is the first to be mentioned in Arthurian literature, appearing in the 9th-century \"Historia Brittonum\":\n\nWhy Arthur chose to kill his son is never made clear. The only other reference to Amr comes in the post-Galfridian Welsh romance \"Geraint\", where \"Amhar son of Arthur\" is one of Arthur’s four chamberlains along with Bedwyr's son Amhren. Gwydre is similarly unlucky, being slaughtered by the giant boar Twrch Trwyth in \"Culhwch and Olwen\", along with two of Arthur's maternal uncles – no other references to either Gwydre or Arthur's uncles survive.\n\nMore is known of Arthur's son Llacheu. He is one of the \"Three Well-Endowed Men of the Island of Britain\", according to the Triad 4, and he fights alongside Cei in the early Arthurian poem \"Pa gur yv y porthaur?\". Like his father is in \"Y Gododdin\", Llacheu appears in the 12th-century and later Welsh poetry as a standard of heroic comparison and he also seems to have been similarly a figure of local topographic folklore too. Taken together, it is generally agreed that all these references indicate that Llacheu was a figure of considerable importance in the early Arthurian cycle. Nonetheless, Llacheu too dies, with the speaker in the pre-Galfridian poem \"Ymddiddan Gwayddno Garanhir ac Gwyn fab Nudd\" remembering that he had \"been where Llacheu was slain / the son of Arthur, awful in songs / when ravens croaked over blood.\"\n\nFinally, Loholt is treacherously killed by Sir Kay so that the latter can take credit for the defeat of the giant Logrin in the \"Perlesvaus\". Another son, known only from a possibly 15th-century Welsh text, is said to have died on the field of Camlann:\n\nMedraut/Mordred is an exception to this tradition of a childless death for Arthur's sons. Mordred, like Amr, is killed by Arthur – at Camlann – according to Geoffrey of Monmouth and the post-Galfridian tradition but, unlike the others, he is ascribed two sons, both of whom rose against Arthur's successor and cousin Constantine with the help of the Saxons. However, in Geoffrey's \"Historia\" (when Arthur's killing of Mordred and Mordred's sons first appear), Mordred was not yet actually Arthur's son.\n\nLater literature has expanded Arthur's family further. Richard Johnson's 16th-century romance \"Tom a Lincoln\" adds another illegitimate son, the eponymous Tom. Through Tom, Arthur is also given grandsons referred to only as the Black Knight and Faerie Knight. Other works, such as Henry Fielding's \"Tom Thumb\", Walter Scott's \"The Bridal of Triermain\" and modern film and television adaptations of Arthurian legend, have occasionally given Arthur daughters, diverging from the earlier legends.\n\n"}
{"id": "41149574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41149574", "title": "Lambeth slavery case", "text": "Lambeth slavery case\n\nOn 21 November 2013 Metropolitan Police from the Human Trafficking Unit arrested two suspects at a residential address in Lambeth, South London. A 73-year-old ethnic Indian Singaporean man, Aravindan Balakrishnan, and a 67-year-old Tanzanian woman, his wife, Chanda Pattni, had been investigated for slavery and domestic servitude. The case centred around the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought commune which was led by Balakrishnan. In the early 1980s after a police raid, Balakrishnan decided to move the group's activities underground. Balakrishnan's control over his followers intensified and the commune became a prison to his followers. On 25 October 2013, three women were rescued from the commune. These were: a 69-year-old Malaysian woman (later revealed to be Aishah Wahab), a 57-year-old Irish woman (Josephine Herivel) and a 30-year-old British woman (Katy Morgan-Davies). Katy Morgan-Davies was born into the sect and hadn't experienced the outside world until her release.\n\nAravindan Balakrishnan (known to his followers as \"Comrade Bala\") was born in Kerala, India but migrated to Singapore, Malaya, where his father was a soldier, when he was 10. Balakrishnan was a student at Raffles Institution and later the University of Singapore, where although gaining a reputation as a \"quiet chap\", he became increasingly politically active and believed that he would have been imprisoned in Singapore had he openly admitted to being a communist. In 1977, while living in London, His Singaporean citizenship – which he gained in 1960 – was revoked due to his leadership of the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought, which the Ministry of Home Affairs accused of engaging in \"activities which are prejudicial to the security\" of Singapore, and denounced him as a radical \"closely associated with Eurocommunists\". The authorities claimed that Balakrishnan and others, many of them former Singaporean students he had associated with in London, were plotting to overthrow Singapore's leader, Lee Kuan Yew.\n\nDespite believing the United Kingdom to be a fascist state due to its treatment of the people of Singapore during the Malayan Emergency, Balakrishnan emigrated to the UK in 1963 on a British Council scholarship to study at the London School of Economics, and married his wife Chandra in 1971. Over the years he built up a following by giving lectures and staging various sit-ins and protests. He was a regular attendee at London demonstrations, where he waved banners depicting the Chinese leader Mao Zedong and addressed the crowds.\n\nIn 1974, Balakrishnan and his \"small clique\" were expelled from the Communist Party of England (Marxist–Leninist) on account of \"their pursuance of conspiratorial and splittist activities ... spreading social fascist slanders against the Party and the proletarian movement\" and attempting \"to put themselves above the discipline of the Party\". The CPE(M–L) \"repudiated the metaphysical logic harmfully promoted\" by Balakrishnan in \"opposition to dialectical materialism and the concrete analysis of concrete conditions\". In response, Balakrishnan set up the Workers' Institute and launched his own publication, the \"South London Workers' Bulletin\", which accused the CPE(M–L) of being \"fascists\" and \"agents of imperialism\".\n\nBetween 1974 and 1976, his followers attempted to \"build revolutionary stable base areas in working-class communities\", primarily South London, and worked in ordinary jobs. Balakrishnan discouraged his followers from joining trade unions, describing them as agents of the \"imperialist fascist bourgeoisie\".\n\nEventually, after the more liberal members of his group drifted away, a cult of around 10 female members formed around him. The collective moved to Brixton in 1976, under the title Workers Institute of Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought. Following Mao's death in 1976, the Institute built the Mao Zedong Memorial Centre at 140 Acre Lane, Brixton, which also functioned as a communist collective of \"thirteen comrades\", with \"13 members living on the premises, half in paid work, six doing full-time revolutionary work, with a strong emphasis on women taking a leading role (apart from leading the Party Committee headed by Bala)\". Members were handed a rota of chores and only allowed to go out in pairs, which Balakrishnan claimed was because the area they lived in was \"notorious for violence\" and \"anything could happen\".\n\nFollowing a police raid on the Memorial Centre in March 1978, which the group claimed involved \"over 200 police\", including officers from the Special Patrol Group, \"under the pretext of searching for drugs\", the Workers' Institute effectively went underground, with the remaining members being convinced to end all contact with others and maintain an intense level of secrecy. Family members were later branded fascist agents and ostracised, and Balakrishnan and his captives moved to a number of properties during this time as a means for him to escape detection from the authorities. Balakrishnan convinced his followers that everything was controlled by him from the sun, the moon, wind and fires; that he could overthrow governments, control natural disasters, and make people live or die. In order to progress his cause, Balakrishnan invented \"JACKIE\" (an acronym for Jehovah, Allah, Christ, Krishna and Immortal Easwaran) – a type of dangerous, mystical machine that monitored all thought and could control minds. \n\nBalakrishnan began sexually abusing two of the women in 1979, often physically beating them and making others watch as he did so. All of the women were beaten and four (not including his wife) were said to have been sexually assaulted or engaged with sexual relations with him. Balakrishnan forced the women to swallow his ejaculate as it was \"the elixir of life\", and claimed the women he sexually abused had been trying to seduce him out of \"jealousy\" for his lover.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe two older victims are believed to have met Balakrishnan in London through, according to police, a shared political ideology, as he was the leader of the Workers' Institute of Marxism–Leninism–Mao Zedong Thought. The women were not being physically restrained, but held by \"invisible handcuffs\" after being subjected to brainwashing, emotional abuse and physical abuse by their captors. \nThe three women, who are not related, are said to have been held captive for more than 30 years with the youngest of the three thought to have spent her whole life in servitude. However it has not yet been established if she was born in the house from where she was rescued. The police were tipped off by Freedom Charity who contacted police following a phone call they had received on 18 October, during which a woman stated that she'd been held unwillingly for more than 30 years. Aneeta Prem of Freedom Charity confirmed that the Irish woman made contact with the charity after watching the ITV television documentary \"Forced to Marry\" about forced marriage in the United Kingdom. The women, who are said to be \"highly traumatised\", are now in safe accommodation.\n\nThe two suspects were bailed until April 2014, and were unable to return to the three-bedroom flat they rented from a housing association.\n\nOn 11 December 2014, it emerged that Balakrishnan had been charged with offences relating to cruelty to a person under 16, four counts of rape and 17 counts of indecent assault. Balakrishnan appeared before Westminster magistrates on 17 December 2014. His wife, Chanda Pattni, was released earlier in 2014, as there was considered to be insufficient evidence for a realistic prospect of conviction. \n\nBalakrishnan's trial started on 11 November 2015. During his trial, he acted as the only defence witness, and told jurors that a challenge to his leadership resulted in the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, and that JACKIE was responsible for the death of a Malaysian prime minister and the election of Jeremy Corbyn as Leader of the Labour Party.\n\nOn 4 December 2015, Balakrishnan was convicted of child cruelty, false imprisonment, four counts of rape, six counts of indecent assault and two counts of assault. On 29 January 2016, Balakrishnan was jailed for 23 years. \n"}
{"id": "58667966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58667966", "title": "List of 301 geniuses by IQ (Catharine Cox Miles)", "text": "List of 301 geniuses by IQ (Catharine Cox Miles)\n\nThe list of 301 geniuses by intelligence quotient below is an estimation by Catharine Cox Miles published in the \"Early Mental Traits of Three Hundred Geniuses (12A-AII table)\" during 1926. Original estimate is based in the historiometric method of Francis Galton and the Stanford Binet Scale I (1916). The list is corrected and actualized due the Flynn effect during 1916 to 2003 and contains a convertion of Stanford Binet to Weschler based in inverse error function formulas and rarity chart tables (16SD to 15SD)..\n\n"}
{"id": "54506100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54506100", "title": "List of kings of Fib", "text": "List of kings of Fib\n\nThese mythological monarchs supposedly ruled Fib, the reigns of these monarchs are mostly legendary and begin in the 7th century BCE with king Fib. The reigns of these monarchs are attributed to the Pictish chronicles, written in the 10th century during the reign of King Kenneth II of Scotland.\n\nFor later monarchs see List of Pictish Kings. Fib became a puppet state after the reign of the only true king Fib, it was a sub-kingdom from the 7th century BCE until the 9th Century CE (691 BCE - 837/843 CE) when Pictland was united under Kenneth MacAlpin, the last king to rule Pictland before Kenneth was Drest X thus making him the last king of the Fib puppet-state.\n\n"}
{"id": "21297556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21297556", "title": "List of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal", "text": "List of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal\n\nThis is a list of personal standards of the Kings of Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "12840148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12840148", "title": "List of polyglots", "text": "List of polyglots\n\nA polyglot is a person with a command of many languages. A polyglot may also be called a multilingual person; the label \"multilingual\" is used for communities as well as individual speakers.\n\nRichard Hudson, professor emeritus of linguistics at University College London, coined the term \"hyperpolyglot\" for \"people \nwho know dozens of languages well\". Other scholars apply the label to speakers of even more languages: twelve, sixteen, or in the most extreme cases, even fifty or more.\n\nIt is difficult to judge which individuals are polyglots, as there is no uncontroversial definition for what it means to \"master\" a language, and because it is not always clear where to distinguish a dialect from a language. Being able to communicate in a language does not mean the person has \"mastered\" a language. There are far fewer who have attained higher levels of multi-linguistic skill, and there is no basis for testing those levels, or at least those levels of ability have not been noted here.\n\nThis list consists of people who have been noted in news media, historical texts, or academic work as speaking five or more languages fluently. For general discussion of the phenomenon, including discussion of polyglot savants, see polyglotism.\n\nThe 2012 book \"Babel No More\" by Michael Erard highlights some polyglots around the globe, including Alexander Argüelles. Canada's Global TV also brought out a piece on hyperpolyglots on their 16x9 show, entitled \"Word Play\", featuring Canadian polyglots Axel Van Hout, Alexandre Coutu, Steven Kaufmann, James Chang and Keith Swayne. Tim Doner (US) and Richard Simcott (UK) also appear in the programme to describe their experiences speaking multiple languages.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe following list consists of deceased individuals who are associated with claims of polyglotism, by date of birth.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1702660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702660", "title": "List of wives of King Henry VIII", "text": "List of wives of King Henry VIII\n\nIn legal terms, King Henry VIII of England had only three wives, because three of his putative marriages were annulled. Unlike a divorce, where a married couple chooses to end their union, annulments essentially declare that a true marriage never took place. However, in common parlance, the so-called wives of Henry VIII were the six queens consort wedded to Henry between 1509 and his death in 1547.\n\nThe six women who were married to Henry VIII were, in chronological order:\n\nHenry's first marriage lasted nearly 24 years; the five that followed less than 10 years combined.\n\nA common mnemonic device to remember the fates of Henry's consorts is \"Divorced, beheaded, died, divorced, beheaded, survived\". There are also two rhymes:\n\nand\n\nIt is often noted that Catherine Parr \"survived him.\" In fact, Anne of Cleves also survived the king, and was the last of his queens to die. Of the six queens, Katherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, and Jane Seymour each gave Henry one child who survived infancy: two daughters and one son. All three of these children would eventually ascend to the throne: King Edward VI, Queen Mary I, and Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nCatherine Howard and Anne Boleyn, the two of Henry's queens who were beheaded, were first cousins. Several of Henry's wives worked in at least one of his other wives' service, typically as ladies-in-waiting: Anne Boleyn worked in Catherine of Aragon's service, Jane Seymour worked in Catherine of Aragon's and Anne Boleyn's, and Catherine Howard worked in Anne of Cleves's.\n\nHenry and at least four of his wives (Catherine of Aragon, Anne Boleyn, Jane Seymour, and Catherine Parr) were portrayed in opera.\n\nKatherine of Aragon (16 December 14857 January 1536; ) was Henry's first wife. Although her name is sometimes spelled \"Catherine\", Katherine of Aragon spelled and signed her name with a \"K,\" which was the accepted spelling in England. After the death of Arthur, her first husband and Henry's brother, a papal dispensation was obtained to enable her to marry Henry, though the marriage did not take place until after he came to the throne in 1509. Prospects were looking good when Katherine became pregnant in 1510, just 4 months after their marriage, but the girl was stillborn. Katherine became pregnant again in 1511, and gave birth to a boy, Henry, Duke of Cornwall, who died almost two months later. In 1513, Katherine gave birth to a stillborn boy, and gave birth to a boy who died within hours in 1515. Finally, Katherine bore him a healthy daughter in 1516, Mary. It took her two years to conceive again. This pregnancy ended in a short-lived girl. It is said that Henry truly loved Katherine of Aragon, as he himself professed it many times in declarations, etc.\n\nHenry, at the time a Roman Catholic, sought the Pope's approval for an annulment on the grounds that his marriage was invalid because Katherine had first been his brother's wife, using a passage from the Old Testament (Leviticus Chapter 20 Verse 21) to justify his stance: \"If a man shall take his brother’s wife, it is an impurity; he hath uncovered his brother’s nakedness; they shall be childless.” \nHenry had begun an affair with Anne Boleyn, who is said to have refused to become his mistress (Henry had already consummated an affair then dismissed Anne's sister, Mary Boleyn, and most historians believe that Anne wanted to avoid the same treatment). Despite the pope's refusal, Henry separated from Katherine in 1531. In the face of the Pope's continuing refusal to annul his marriage to Katherine, Henry ordered the highest church official in England, Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury, to convene a court to rule on the status of his marriage to Katherine. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer ruled the marriage to Katherine null and void. On 28 May 1533, he pronounced the King legally married to Anne (with whom Henry had already secretly exchanged wedding vows, probably in late January 1533). This led to the break from the Roman Catholic Church and the later establishment of the Church of England.\nShakespeare called Katherine \"The Queen of Earthly Queens.\"\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 11 June 1509 – 23 May 1533 (23 years, 11 months, 19 days); marriage annulled.\n\nAnne Boleyn (c.1501/150719 May 1536) was Henry's second wife and the mother of Elizabeth I. Henry's marriage to Anne, and her subsequent execution, made her a key figure in the political and religious upheaval that was the start of the English Reformation. The daughter of Sir Thomas Boleyn and his wife, Lady Elizabeth Boleyn (born Lady Elizabeth Howard), Anne was of nobler birth than Jane Seymour, Henry's later wife. She was dark-haired, with beautiful features and lively manners; she was educated in Europe, largely as a lady-in-waiting to Queen Claude of France.\n\nAnne resisted the King's attempts to seduce her in 1526 and she refused to become his mistress, as her sister, Mary Boleyn, had been. It soon became the one absorbing object of the King's desires to secure a divorce from his wife, Catherine of Aragon, so he could marry Anne. Evidence of intimacy between the King and Anne is found in a love letter written by the King, in which he expressed admiration for her \"pretty duckies\" (breasts). When it became clear that Pope Clement VII was unlikely to give the king an annulment, the breaking of the power of the Roman Catholic Church in England began.\n\nHenry had Thomas Wolsey dismissed from public office and later had the Boleyn family's chaplain, Thomas Cranmer, appointed Archbishop of Canterbury. In 1533, Henry and Anne went through a secret wedding service. She soon became pregnant and there was a second, public wedding service, which took place in London on 25 January 1533. On 23 May 1533, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Catherine null and void. Five days later, Cranmer declared the marriage of Henry and Anne to be good and valid. Soon after, the Pope launched sentences of excommunication against the King and the Archbishop. As a result of Anne's marriage to the King, the Church of England was forced to break with Rome and was brought under the king's control.\nAnne was crowned Queen Consort of England on 1 June 1533. Later that year, on 7 September, Anne gave birth to Henry's second daughter, Elizabeth. When Anne failed to quickly produce a male heir, her only son being stillborn, the King grew tired of her, annulled their marriage, and a plot was hatched by Thomas Cromwell to execute her.\n\nAlthough the evidence against her was unconvincing, Anne was beheaded on charges of adultery, incest, and high treason on 19 May 1536. Following her daughter Elizabeth's coronation as queen, Anne was venerated as a martyr and heroine of the English Reformation, particularly through the works of John Foxe. Over the centuries, Anne has inspired or been mentioned in numerous artistic and cultural works.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 May 153317 May 1536 (2 years, 11 months, 19 days); annulled, then beheaded.\n\nJane Seymour (c.roughly 150824 October 1537) was Henry's third wife. She served Catherine of Aragon and was one of Anne Boleyn's ladies-in-waiting. It is strongly believed that she is the mistress who disposed of Anne, who was executed just 10–11 days before Jane's marriage to the king. The daughter of a knight, she was of lower birth than most of Henry's wives. Finally, a year later, Jane gave birth to a healthy, legitimate male heir, Edward, but she died twelve days later, presumably because of post-natal complications. This apparently caused her husband genuine grief, as she was the only queen to receive a proper Queen's burial; when the King died in 1547, he was buried next to her.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 30 May 153624 October 1537 (1 year, 4 months, 24 days); death from complications of childbirth.\n\nAnne of Cleves (22 September 151516 July 1557) was Henry's fourth wife, for only six months in 1540, from 6 January to 9 July. Anne of Cleves was a German princess. It has been stated that Henry referred to her as \"A Flanders Mare\", which may or may not be true; nevertheless, the label has stuck with Anne. Her pre-contract of marriage with Francis I, Duke of Lorraine, was cited as grounds for an annulment. Anne agreed to this, claiming that the marriage had not been consummated, and because she hadn't resisted the annulment, was given a generous settlement, including Hever Castle, former home of Henry's former in-laws, the Boleyns. She was given the name \"The King's Sister\", and became a friend to him and his children until his death. She outlived both the King and his last two wives, making her the last of the six wives to die.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 6 January 15409 July 1540 (6 months, 3 days); annulled.\n\nCatherine Howard (c.152113 February 1542) was Henry's fifth wife between 1540–1542, sometimes known as \"the rose without a\nthorn\". Henry was informed of her alleged adultery with Thomas Culpeper on 1 November 1541.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 28 July 154023 November 1541 (1 year, 3 months, 26 days); beheaded.\n\nCatherine Parr (15125 September 1548), also spelled Kateryn, was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII, 1543–1547. She was the daughter of Sir Thomas Parr of Kendal and his wife Maud Green. Through her father, Catherine was a descendant of John of Gaunt, son of King Edward III. Through John of Gaunt's daughter Joan Beaufort, Countess of Westmoreland (Henry's great-great grandmother), she was Henry's third cousin, once removed. By Henry's paternal descent from another of John of Gaunt's children, John Beaufort, 1st Earl of Somerset, the two were also fourth cousins once removed.\n\nCatherine showed herself to be the restorer of Henry's court as a family home for his children. Catherine was determined to present the royal household as a close-knit one in order to demonstrate strength through unity to Henry's opposers. Perhaps Catherine's most significant achievement was Henry's passing of an act that confirmed both Mary's and Elizabeth's line in succession for the throne, despite the fact that they had both been made illegitimate by divorce or remarriage. Such was Henry's trust in Catherine that he chose her to rule as Regent while he was attending to the war in France and in the unlikely event of the loss of his life, she was to rule as Regent until nine-year-old Edward came of age.\n\nCatherine also has a special place in history as she was the most married queen of England, having had four husbands in all; Henry was her third. She had been widowed twice before marrying Henry. After Henry's death, she married Thomas Seymour, uncle of Edward VI of England, to whom she had formed an attachment prior to her marriage with Henry. She had one child by Seymour, Mary, and died shortly after childbirth. Lady Mary's history is unknown, but she is not believed to have survived childhood.\n\nMarriage to Henry VIII: 12 July 154328 January 1547 (3 years, 6 months, 16 days); his death at the age of 55.\n\nHenry was distantly related to all six of his wives through their common ancestor, King Edward I of England, through more than one ancestor.\n\nThe following family tree of Henry VIII's six wives is the closest lineage of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "35573211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35573211", "title": "Lunar pareidolia", "text": "Lunar pareidolia\n\nLunar pareidolia refers to the pareidolic images seen by humans on the face of the Moon. The Moon's surface is a complex mixture of dark areas (the lunar \"maria\", or \"seas\") and lighter areas (the highlands). Many cultures have seen shapes in these dark and light areas that have reminded them of people, animals or objects, often related to their folklore; the most famous are the Man in the Moon in Western folklore and the Moon Rabbit of Asia and the Americas. Other cultures perceive the silhouette of a woman, a frog, a moose, a buffalo, or a dragon (with its head and mouth to the right and body and wings to the left) in the full moon. Alternatively, the vague shape of the overall dark and light regions can resemble a Yin Yang symbol.\n\nThe Man in the Moon is an imaginary figure resembling a human face, head or body, that observers from some cultural backgrounds typically perceive in the bright disc of the full moon.\n\nIn Chinese culture, the rabbit in the moon (a companion of Chang'e) is pounding medicine. Similarly, in Japan and Korea, popular culture sees a rabbit making mochi and tteok, respectively, in the moon.\n\nIn Pre-Columbian Mesoamerica the rabbit is often associated with the moon, for example, Tecciztecatl, the Aztec moon god, was pictured as an anthropomorphic rabbit; there is also a myth involving Quetzalcoatl and the moon rabbit.\n\nIn Elizabethan England, the spots of the Moon were supposed to represent a witch carrying sticks of wood on her back, or an old man with a lantern (which was illustrated by Shakespeare in his comedy \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\"). A more recent Western image is the profile of a coiffed woman wearing a jeweled pendant, the jewel being the crater Tycho, which at full moon is very bright and has bright radiating lines (rays). In New Zealand Māori legend, the moon shows a woman with a local tree, the \"Ngaio\". However, throughout Melanesia and Polynesia, the moon is seen to be a cook over a three-stone fire.\n\nIn Chinese Mythology, Chang'e (various spellings) lives on the moon. She was mentioned in the conversation between Houston Capcom and Apollo 11 crew just before the first moon landing:\n\"The toad was seen by Chinese Taoists as ... the moon, representing Chang-O, the transformed wife of Yi, the excellent archer. ... According to Robert M. DeGraaff, in some representations of the moon-toad, the \"ling chih\" fungus is shown growing out of the creature's forehead.\"\n\nShia Muslims believe that the name of Ali Ibne-Abi Talib (Muhammad's son in law) is written on the moon. This interpretation has roots in several hadith by Muhammad where he compares Ali to the moon and himself to the sun. There are also other esoteric interpretations of this analogy in Islamic philosophy.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "368048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368048", "title": "Middle name", "text": "Middle name\n\nIn several cultures, a middle name is a portion of a personal name that is written between the person's given name and their surname. A person may be given a middle name regardless of whether it's necessary to distinguish them from other people with the same given name and surname. In cultures where a given name is expected to precede the surname, additional names are likely to be placed after the given name and before the surname, and thus called middle names. In English-speaking American culture, that term is often applied (arguably mistakenly) to names occupying that position even if the bearer would insist that that name is being mistakenly called a \"middle name\", and is actually (to mention several types of common cases): \nIn the United States, such names are specifically referred to as middle names; in most other countries, as far as they are given names and not, for example, patronymics, they would simply be regarded as second, third etc. given names. In the U.S., the \"middle name\" is often abbreviated to the middle initial (e.g. Mary Lee Bianchi becomes Mary L. Bianchi, which is usually standard for signatures) or omitted entirely in everyday use (e.g. just Mary Bianchi). An individual may have more than one middle name, or none. In the United Kingdom, for comparison, she would usually be referred to as either Mary Bianchi, M. L. Bianchi or Mary Lee Bianchi, or she may choose Lee Bianchi, and informally there may be familiar shortenings.\n\nIt is debatable how long multiple given names have existed in English-speaking countries, but it is certain that among royalty and aristocracy the practice existed by the late 17th century (and possibly earlier), as exemplified in the name of the Stuart pretender James Francis Edward Stuart (1688–1766).\n\nDespite their relatively long existence in North America, the phrase \"middle name\" was not recorded until 1835, in the periodical \"Harvardiana\".\n\nThe use of multiple middle names has been somewhat impeded recently by the increased use of computer databases that occasionally allow for only a single middle name or more commonly a middle initial in storing personal records, effectively preventing people with multiple middle names from being listed in such databases under their full name. This is worsened by longer compound names, like María del Pilar Pereyra or María de las Nieves García.\n\nThe abbreviation \"N.M.N.\" (no middle name) or \"N.M.I.\" (no middle initial), with or without periods, is sometimes used in formal documents in the United States, where a middle initial or name is expected but the person does not have one. The middle name can also be a maiden name.\n\nSince 1905, \"middle name\" has also developed a figurative usage meaning a notable or outstanding attribute of a person, as in the phrase \"discretion is my middle name.\"\n\nIn countries that primarily speak English—such as Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, the United States, and the United Kingdom—the forename of a relative is sometimes used as one's middle name to honor familial heritage. In many cases in the United States, however, a person's middle name has little or no lineage-related context, and is used instead to honor close family friends or notable public figures.\n\nIn the United States, those who choose to be known primarily by their middle name may abbreviate their first name as an initial, e.g. J. Edgar Hoover (John Edgar Hoover). Others simply omit the first name, like Woodrow Wilson (Thomas Woodrow Wilson). A rare case of an individual being given only an initial as a middle name, with the initial not explicitly standing for anything, was Harry S. Truman. (He once told reporters—apparently at odds with his own practice—that the S should thus not be followed by period.)\n\nMore than two given names are fairly common. In England they are traditionally more common among the \"upper classes\" and \"middle classes\". Examples are J. R. R. Tolkien, W.E.B. Du Bois, George H. W. Bush.\n\nMiddle names can also be used as first names. Major examples are Paul McCartney, Mitt Romney, Dakota Fanning, Elle Fanning, Sylvester Stallone, Jonathan Demme, Riley Keough, Reese Witherspoon, Hayley Orrantia, Brad Pitt, Ashton Kutcher, Meghan Markle, Rihanna, Scott Chandler, Nomar Garciaparra, Bill Mumy, Roger Waters and Jim Acosta.\n\nTraditionally, Chinese names consisted of three characters—the surname, followed by a two-character given name (\"ming\"), which is not separated into a first and middle name in usage. Two-character given names follow a naming tradition in which the first character of the given name (and thus the second character in the three-character full name) indicates the person's generation in his/her family. For example, the Yongzheng Emperor of the Qing dynasty has the given name \"Yinzhen\" (胤禛) while his brothers' names all begin with the character \"Yin\" (胤). His sons' and nephews' given names all begin with the character \"Hong\" (弘). Traditionally, the list of generational names may be decided many generations in advance by the ancestors. In such naming systems, the de facto given name is the last character of a person's full name. Even if that was the case most of the time, sometimes the person's given name is the middle character and not the last. A three-character name is both patriarchal and hierarchical, as it would inform of a person's belonging and rank within a family. During the One-child Policy, there was no need for a generation name as there was only one child in each generation. Many names in Mainland China were shortened to two-characters during this time, and there are many adults with shorter names remnant from this era. This would not be found in Taiwan or Hong Kong.\n\nA fading Chinese tradition is to use a courtesy name, called \"zì\" (字) in place of a male's given name in adulthood. Traditionally \"zì\" is given by one's father upon reaching the age of maturity at 20 years old. This name is intended for use in formal situations and formal writing and confers a status of adulthood and respect. Like the \"ming\", the \"zì\" is composed of two characters which usually reflect the meaning of the \"ming\". Prior to the 20th century, sinicized Koreans, Vietnamese, and Japanese were also referred to by their \"zì\". An alternative courtesy name is the \"hào\" (; Japanese gō; Korean: ho; Vietnamese: hiệu), which usually referred to as the pseudonym. A \"hào\" was usually self-chosen and it was possible to have more than one. It had no connection with the bearer's \"míng\" or \"zì\"; rather it was often a personal choice and may have reflected a personal belief or philosophy. Chinese adults may more frequently use the \"hào\" to refer to themselves. The \"zì\" or \"hào\" can be used independently of the given name and of each other, but the given name is almost always used with the family name in official situations.\n\nSome Chinese Americans move their Chinese given name (transliterated into the Latin alphabet) to the middle name position and use an English first name, e.g. James Chu-yu Soong, Jerry Chih-Yuan Yang, and Michelle Wingshan Kwan. The Chinese given name usually has two characters which are usually combined into a single middle name for better organizational purposes, especially with Cantonese names, such as Bruce Lee's middle name, Junfan. There are also some new immigrants whose Chinese given names are their first names followed by English middle names.\n\nThe practice of taking English and Chinese given names is also common in Malaysia, Singapore, Hong Kong, and Taiwan. However, rather than placing the Chinese given name between the English given name and the family name, it is commonly placed after the family name in these places. Under such a system, Bruce Junfan Lee would have been Bruce Lee Junfan. This practice is consistent with both the Western convention of putting the given name before the family name and the Chinese convention of putting the given name after the family name.\n\nIn Denmark and Norway, the term middle name refers to names that are originally surnames, but not part of the last name of the name bearer. The term middle name does not refer to additional given names, which are instead referred to as given names. A middle name could be e.g. one's mother's maiden name or the last name of another recent ancestor (for instance a grandparent). One can have several middle names, but it is unusual to have more than one or two. In law, middle names have a separate status. In practice, their status is similar to that of additional given names, and middle names are often omitted in everyday use, just like a person with 3 or 4 given names would only use one of them in most situations. The historical purpose of middle names is to honour some related family or person, a godparent, or even a completely unrelated person, such as a locally or nationally prominent figure. Until the 19th century, it was not unusual to have the last name of a godparent as one's middle name, even when the godparent was not a blood relative. This practice, and the use of middle names in general, however, was mostly limited to the bourgeois class and the nobility, and was seldom seen among common people. In the 20th century, the use of middle names, especially one's mother's maiden name, was more widely adopted, although it is by no means mandatory. There are few set rules for how names are constructed today; people are required to have one given name and one family name, but can have as many additional given names and middle names as they like.\n\nIn the example Carl Viggo Manthey Lange, the names Carl and Viggo are given names, while Manthey is a middle name and Lange is the family name. Manthey is his mother's maiden name. Unless his full name is used, he is correctly referred to as Mr. Lange, not as Mr. Manthey Lange. Carl Viggo Manthey Lange has a name typical of the Norwegian bourgeois class, with both his family name and his middle name being of foreign origin and being recognised surnames. Most Norwegians and Danes of the working class and peasant class used patronymics until the 19th century, when permanent family names became mandatory, first in Denmark in the early 19th century and then in Norway around 1900. A middle name is usually a recognised surname and not a patronymic. One reason middle names have become popular in the 20th century, particularly in Denmark, is that most Danish surnames originated as patronymics and are shared by a large number of people. The use of middle names in modern times serves to differentiate them from other people. For example, Danish politician Lars Løkke Rasmussen has some of the most common given and last names in Denmark (Lars and Rasmussen); his mother's maiden name is the slightly more unusual name Løkke, derived from a small agricultural property, so he uses it as a middle name, which differentiates him from other people named Lars Rasmussen.\n\nIn Sweden, the position is much the same as in Denmark. Middle names were inaugurated in the previous Name Act of 1963, then called \"tilläggsnamn\" (additional name), and are called \"mellannamn\" (middle name) as of the present Name Act of 1983. However, it had previously been more common to join e.g. the last names of both of a child's parents, or for a married woman to join her maiden name and the husband's last name, as a double name with a hyphen; and large portions of the Swedish population have not adapted to the official system to this day, i.e. for almost 50 years. People often use a hyphen between their middle name and last name themselves, and/or are spelled that way by other people and by mass media.\n\nFurthermore, when the term middle name was introduced in Swedish (\"mellannamn\") the word was assumed by many to mean the additional given names (apart from the \"name of address\" (\"tilltalsnamn\")), so since 1983 the word is being used more and more in this, officially, erratic meaning.\n\nOccasionally, Scandinavians choose to use their middle name as their surname in everyday life. So Per Gottfrid Svartholm Warg has Per and Gottfrid as his given names, where Gottfrid, not Per, is his name of address, Svartholm as his middle name and Warg as his last name, but in practice he uses Svartholm as a surname. This usage, however, is unofficial. Historically, a middle name could become part of a double-barreled surname (family name) and hence cease to be a middle name, especially if used for several generations. There are many family names of this kind, which contributes to the confusion about middle names that shall not be hyphenated. Some of these double-barreled surnames are combined with a hyphen, while others are not, so a double surname without a hyphen can sometimes be indistinguishable from a middle name followed by a family name.\n\nIn Scandinavia, there is no limit on how many given names one can have. Given names have never been referred to as middle names, apart from many in Sweden believing so, as mentioned above. The use of more than two or three given names is generally associated with the upper class. The first given name is not necessarily the name of address. For the sake of completeness, Swedish forms often ask people to fill in all their given names and to indicate which one is their \"name of address\" (\"tilltalsnamn\").\n\nTraditional middle names in Vietnamese are \"Văn\" for male names and \"Thị\" for female names. However, modern Vietnamese do not consider these to be attractive names, especially \"Thị\". Therefore, nowadays popular middle names also are popular first names. Middle names play an important role in Vietnamese full names; they could help creating beautiful names when combine with first names, distinguishing people who have the same first name (there are many common last names in Vietnam), and also distinguishing the gender of the names (unisex names are used widely in Vietnam). Hence, Vietnamese rarely abbreviate their middle names.\n\nFor Filipinos, the middle name is usually the maternal surname, which is the maiden surname of a person's mother. The use of the maternal surname as middle name is from American influence, where Filipinos adopted English naming customs, when they once used Spanish naming customs, that used two surnames (paternal and maternal) joined with the particle \"y\" (or \"e\", before \"i\"), which remains in use but became restricted to very formal purposes, police records and legal proceedings. In the Spanish naming system, the middle name corresponds to the maternal surname. The middle name (or the maternal surname) is usually being abbreviated to a middle initial. Thus, a person with the full name \"Juan Santos Macaraig\", with \"Santos\" the middle name in the present order, may become \"Juan S. Macaraig\" with the middle name abbreviated, and \"Juan Macaraig y Santos\" in the Spanish system, such as those used in names on police records, especially those seen on name placards held by a convicted person on official mug shots. The Philippine system, using \"given name-middle name-surname\" order (or \"Christian name-mother's surname-father's surname\") coincidentally follows the Portuguese naming system that uses two surnames, the first being maternal and the second being paternal.\n\nBut, the maternal surname may not be the middle name at some cases. It may be a second given name, like what the term really means, as in \"Jose P. Laurel\", where \"P.\" (a middle initial) corresponds to \"Paciano\".\n\nIn illegitimate children, the middle name is the maiden surname of the mother, and the middle name (maternal surname) of the mother as surname, but the surname become of the father's upon legal and administrative acknowledgement by his/her father. Children of a single father takes no middle name, even when the mother's identity is known. \n\nTo illustrate that, the daughter of an unmarried couple named \"Ana Cristina dela Cruz Manansala\" and \"Jose Maria Panganiban Lozada\", named '\"Maria Cristina'\", will be named \"Maria Cristina Manansala dela Cruz\" (or \"Ma. Cristina M. dela Cruz\"), with Ana Cristina's middle name, \"dela Cruz\", as surname. But once Jose Maria wants to acknowledge her as his child legally and administratively, Maria Cristina will take the surname \"Lozada\", but keep the maternal surmame \"Manansala\" as middle name, thus, \"Maria Cristina Manansala Lozada\" (or \"Ma. Cristina M. Lozada\"). As the daughter of only Jose Maria, Maria Cristina will be rather called \"Maria Cristina Lozada\" or \"Ma. Cristina Lozada\", even when the mother is known.\n\nIn married women, the middle name usually corresponds to the maiden surname, but on professional society, women usually add the husband's surname after their maiden name, keeping the maternal surname. A married woman may decline taking the husband's surname and keep her maiden name as no Philippine law compels women to take her husband's surname. Thus, a woman named \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion P. Limchauco\"), once marrying \"Juan Pablo Sanchez Marasigan\" (or \"Juan Pablo S. Marasigan\") may take the name \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco-Marasigan\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion P. Limchauco-Marasigan\"), maintaining the maternal surname \"Perez\", \"Maria Concepcion Limchauco Marasigan\" (or \"Ma. Concepcion L. Marasigan\"), taking the maiden surname \"Limchauco\" as middle name and \"Marasigan\" as married surname, or keep her maiden names, remaining \"Maria Concepcion Perez Limchauco\" upon marriage.\n\nIn Argentina, most people have a middle name. According to a study, approximately 9 out of 10 Argentines born in 2010 had a middle name given to them. It used to be even more common in the past, as it is an old tradition. It's very common to use the name of a grandparent as middle name. It is termed \"segundo nombre\" (lit. second name). However, its widespread use is slowly shrinking due to the influence of neighboring countries..\n\nActually, most of south-american, especially Hispanic citizens are acquainted with the use of compound given names, such as Maria + (second given name) or Juan + (given name), among others. This is often considered a useful way of distinguishing from similar or identical names considering that Spanish-derived surnames are strikingly common in some cultural regions (e.g. Luis Fernandez can be better distinguished if arranged as Luis Antonio Fernandez, José Luis Fernandez, Luis Eduardo Fernandez, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6654281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6654281", "title": "Natascha Kampusch", "text": "Natascha Kampusch\n\nNatascha Maria Kampusch (born 17 February 1988) is an Austrian woman who was abducted at the age of 10 on 2 March 1998 and held in a secret cellar by her kidnapper Wolfgang Přiklopil for more than eight years, until she escaped on 23 August 2006. She has written a book about her ordeal, \"3,096 Days\" (2010), upon which the 2013 German film \"3096\" is based.\n\nKampusch was raised by her mother, Brigitta Sirny (née Kampusch), and her father, Ludwig Koch, in Vienna, Austria. Her early life with her mother was reportedly not a happy one, according to Ludwig Adamovich, head of a special commission looking into possible police failures in the investigation of the kidnapping. He claimed that \"the time Kampusch was imprisoned might have been better for her than what she experienced before\", a statement absolutely denied by Brigitta Sirny, who threatened to sue the commission chief over his remarks.\n\nHer family included two adult sisters, and five nieces and nephews. Sirny and Koch separated while Kampusch was still a child and divorced after her abduction. Kampusch spent time with both of them, and had returned to her mother's home from a holiday with Koch the day before her kidnapping.\n\nThe 10-year-old Kampusch left her family's residence in Vienna's Donaustadt district on the morning of 2 March 1998, but failed to arrive at school or come home. A 12-year-old witness reported having seen her being dragged into a white minibus by two men, although Kampusch did not report a second man being present. A massive police effort followed in which 776 minivans were examined, including that of her kidnapper, Přiklopil, who lived about half an hour from Vienna by car in the Lower Austrian town of Strasshof an der Nordbahn, near Gänserndorf. Although he stated that on the morning of the kidnapping he was alone at home, the police were satisfied with his explanation that he was using the minibus to transport rubble from the construction of his home.\n\nSpeculations of child pornography rings or organ theft were offered, leading officials to also investigate possible links to the crimes of the French serial killer Michel Fourniret. Because Kampusch had carried her passport with her when she left (she had been on a family trip to Hungary a few days before), the police extended the search abroad. Accusations against Kampusch's family complicated the issue even more.\n\nDuring the eight years of her captivity, Kampusch was held in a small cellar underneath Přiklopil's garage. The entrance was concealed behind a cupboard. The cellar only had of space. It had a door made of concrete and was reinforced with steel. The room had no windows and was soundproof. For the first six months of her captivity, Kampusch was not allowed to leave the chamber at any time, and for several years of her captivity she was not allowed to leave the tiny space at night. Afterwards, she spent increasing amounts of time upstairs in the rest of the house, but each night was sent back to the chamber to sleep, as well as while Přiklopil was at work.\n\nIn later years, she was seen outside in the garden alone, and Přiklopil's business partner has said that Kampusch seemed relaxed and happy when she and Přiklopil called at his home to borrow a trailer. After her eighteenth birthday, she was allowed to leave the house with Přiklopil, but her kidnapper threatened to kill her if she made any noise. He later took her on a skiing trip to a resort near Vienna for a few hours. She initially denied that they had made the trip, but eventually admitted that it was true, although she said she had no chance to escape during that time.\n\nAccording to Kampusch's official statement after her escape, she and Přiklopil would get up early each morning to have breakfast together. Přiklopil gave her books, so she educated herself. Later, when explaining that in general she did not feel she had missed anything during her imprisonment, she noted, \"I spared myself many things, I did not start smoking or drinking and I did not hang out in bad company\". But she also said: \"I always had the thought: surely I didn't come into the world so I could be locked up and my life completely ruined. I give up in despair about this unfairness. I always felt like a poor chicken in a hen house. You saw my dungeon on television and in the media. Thus you know how small it was. It was a place to despair.\" She was given a television and radio to pass the time with, although she was initially only allowed to watch taped programmes and listen to foreign radio stations so she would not be aware of the publicised search for her. At one point, she tried to escape by jumping out of a car.\n\nA large portion of Kampusch's time upstairs was spent doing housework for Přiklopil and cooking for him. Dietmar Ecker, Kampusch's media advisor, said Kampusch told him Přiklopil \"would beat her so badly she could hardly walk. When she was beaten black and blue, he tried to smarten her up. Then he would take his camera and photograph her\". According to her autobiography, as part of her abuse, Přiklopil would starve her to make her physically weak, therefore unable to escape. Her body mass index (BMI) had reached as low as 14.8 during captivity (normal BMI: 18.5 to 25).\n\nPřiklopil had warned Kampusch that the doors and windows of the house were booby-trapped with high explosives. He also claimed to be carrying a gun and that he would kill her and the neighbours if she attempted to escape. Nevertheless, Kampusch on one occasion fantasized about chopping his head off with an axe, although she quickly dismissed the idea. She also attempted to make noise during her early years of captivity by throwing bottles of water against the walls.\nShe said that on trips out with Přiklopil, she had attempted to attract attention, but in vain.\n\nThe 18-year-old Kampusch reappeared on 23 August 2006. At 12:53 pm, when Kampusch was cleaning and vacuuming her kidnapper's BMW 850i automobile in the garden, Přiklopil got a call on his mobile phone. Because of the vacuuming noise, he walked away to take the call. Kampusch left the vacuum cleaner running and ran away, unseen by Přiklopil, who, according to the caller, completed the phone call without any sign of being disturbed or distracted. Kampusch ran for some 200 metres through gardens and a street, jumping fences, and asking passers-by to call the police, but they paid her no attention. After about five minutes, she knocked on the window of a 71-year-old neighbour known as Inge T, saying, \"I am Natascha Kampusch\". The neighbour called the police, who arrived at 1:04 pm. Later, Kampusch was taken to the police station in the town of Deutsch-Wagram.\n\nKampusch was identified by a scar on her body, by her passport (which was found in the room where she had been held), and by DNA tests. She was in good physical health , although Kampusch looked pale and shaken and weighed only ; she weighed when she disappeared eight years earlier. Kampusch grew only during her captivity.\n\nSabine Freudenberger, the first police officer to speak to Kampusch after her ordeal, said that she was astonished by her \"intelligence, her vocabulary\". After two years, Přiklopil had brought her books, newspapers and a radio, which she kept tuned mainly to Ö1, an ORF station that is known for promoting education and classical music. She also states that she constantly had a feeling that she lacked something: \"a deficit. So I wanted to make that better and I tried to educate myself, to teach myself skills. I have learned to knit for example.\"\n\nPřiklopil, knowing that the police were after him, killed himself by jumping in front of a suburban train near the Wien Nord station in Vienna. He had apparently planned to commit suicide rather than be caught, having told Kampusch that \"they would not catch him alive\".\n\nWolfgang Přiklopil (14 May 1962 – 23 August 2006) was an Austrian communications technician of Czech origin. Přiklopil was born to Karl and Waltraud Přiklopil, in Vienna, and was an only child. His father, Karl, was a cognac salesman and his mother, Waltraud, a shoe saleswoman. Přiklopil worked for a time at Siemens as a communications technician.\n\nEvidence recovery was complicated by the fact that Přiklopil's only computer was a 1980s Commodore 64, which is incompatible with modern-day data recovery programs.\n\nHe was buried under the name \"Karl Wendelberger\" on 8 September 2006 in the Piplitz family grave plot in the town of Laxenburg, south of Vienna.\n\nPřiklopil allegedly had a daughter with the sister of a business partner.\n\nBefore Kampusch escaped, Přiklopil was trying to procure false papers as a Czech citizen, in order to \"begin a new life\" with Kampusch.\n\nIn her official statement Kampusch said \"I don't want and will not answer any questions about personal or intimate details\". After Kampusch's escape, police investigated whether Přiklopil had an accomplice. Eventually, it was determined Přiklopil acted alone.\n\nIn the documentary, \"Natascha Kampusch: 3096 days in captivity\", Kampusch sympathised with her captor. She said \"I feel more and more sorry for him—he's a poor soul\", in spite of the fact that he held her captive for eight years. According to police she \"cried inconsolably\" when she was told he was dead, and lit a candle for him at the morgue. She has, however, referred to her captor as a \"criminal\".\n\nNewspapers quoting unnamed psychologists suggested Kampusch may suffer from Stockholm syndrome, but Kampusch, in her book \"3096 Tage\" (\"3,096 Days\") says this is not the case. She suggests that people who use this term about her are disrespectful of her and do not allow her the right to describe and analyse the complex relationship she had with her kidnapper in her own words.\n\nIn 2009, Kampusch became the new face of animal rights group PETA in Austria. In June, Kampusch wrote to Ilse Aigner, agriculture minister in Germany where the campaign is based, demanding freedom for zoo animals, stating: \"The animals would, if they could, flee as I did, because a life in captivity is a life full of deprivation. It is up to you whether social, intelligent and wonderful creatures are to be freed from their chains and cages where ruthless people keep them.\"\n\nIn January 2009, Vienna's public prosecutor stated that DNA tests and questioning of witnesses had led to theories being discounted that Přiklopil had an accomplice. Kampusch has also maintained that her captor acted alone.\n\nAfter reportedly \"hundreds of requests for an interview\" with the teenager, \"with media outlets offering vast sums of money\", Kampusch was interviewed by Austrian public broadcaster ORF. The interview was broadcast on 6 September 2006 with her approval. ORF did not pay for its interview, and said any proceeds from selling the interview to other channels would be forwarded to Kampusch. The interview was sold to more than 120 countries at a fee of 290 euros per minute. This money, estimated to some hundred thousand euros, was to be donated to women in Africa and Mexico by Kampusch. Likewise she was planning projects to help these women. Interest was enormous.\n\nThe newspaper \"Kronen Zeitung\" and news magazine \"NEWS\" also interviewed Kampusch. The interview was published on 6 September 2006. Both press interviews were given in return for a package including housing support, a long-term job offer, and help with her education.\n\nNew developments challenged the Austrian government in February 2008. Politicians of the conservative Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) threatened to break up the newly formed SPÖ–ÖVP (\"red–black\") coalition government in April and May 2008. Kampusch said that she had lost confidence in Austrian justice. Revelations of mistakes in the interior ministry's investigation of her kidnapping came to light, as well as statements of a policeman which were repeatedly ignored in 1998.\n\nOn 16 June 2008, the newspaper \"The Times\" published an in-depth interview with Kampusch by Bojan Pancevski and Stefanie Marsh.\n\nOn 17 February 2010, the British TV channel Five broadcast an hour-long documentary about the case, including an exclusive interview with Kampusch: \"Natascha: the Girl in the Cellar\".\n\nThe book \"Girl in the Cellar: the Natascha Kampusch Story\" by Allan Hall and Michael Leidig appeared in November 2006, written in English. Kampusch's lawyer described the book as being both speculative and premature, and therefore planned to take legal action against it.\n\nTogether with two journalists, Kampusch's mother Brigitta Sirny wrote a book about the ordeal, \"Verzweifelte Jahre\" (\"Desperate Years\"). Kampusch appeared at the initial presentation of the book in August 2007, but did not want to be photographed or interviewed. Sirny writes that she did not have much contact with Kampusch after the escape because Kampusch was shielded from the outside world.\n\nKampusch wrote a book about her ordeal, \"3096 Tage\" (\"3,096 Days\"), published in September 2010. It was adapted into a German movie, \"3096\", in 2013.\n\nOn 12 August 2016 Natascha Kampusch released her second book titled \"10 Years of Freedom\".\n\nKampusch established her own website containing personal information including pictures of herself on 5 December 2007. She had her own talk show on the new Austria TV channel, PULS 4, starting on 1 June 2008. The show had the working title of \"In Conversation with…Natascha Kampusch\" and eventually premiered as \"Natascha Kampusch trifft\" (\"Natascha Kampusch meets...\"). It ran for only three shows.\n\nOn 17 June 2010, German film-maker and director Bernd Eichinger announced that he was making a film based on Kampusch's captivity and wanted Kate Winslet to star in the film. Bernd Eichinger died on 24 January 2011; Kampusch attended his funeral.\n\nIn 2011, the Austrian film \"Michael\", which has a plot that resembles the Natascha Kampusch case, was released.\n\nOn 15 April 2012, a German newspaper reported that a movie based on her autobiography with the same name was to be made, featuring Antonia Campbell-Hughes as Kampusch and Thure Lindhardt as Přiklopil. The movie \"3096 Tage\" (3096 days) was directed by Sherry Hormann and was released on 28 February 2013.\n\nThe house where Kampusch was imprisoned was built by Přiklopil's grandfather, Oskar Přiklopil, after World War II. During the Cold War period, Oskar and his son Karl built a bomb shelter, thought to be the origin of Kampusch's dungeon. Přiklopil took over the house in 1984 following his grandmother's death.\n\nKampusch now owns the house in which she was imprisoned, saying, \"I know it's grotesque – I must now pay for electricity, water and taxes on a house I never wanted to live in\". It was reported that she claimed the house from Přiklopil's estate because she wanted to protect it from vandals and being torn down; she also noted that she has visited it since her escape. When the third anniversary of her escape approached, it was revealed she had become a regular visitor at the property and was cleaning it out possibly to move in herself.\n\nIn January 2010, Kampusch said she had retained the house because it was such a big part of her formative years, also stating that she would fill in the cellar if it is ever sold, adamant that it will never become a macabre museum to her lost adolescence. The cellar was indeed filled in, though Kampusch still owns the house.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44373964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44373964", "title": "Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan", "text": "Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan\n\nThe Nineteen Martyrs of Aklan (Filipino: \"Labinsiyam na mga Martir ng Aklan\"; Spanish: \"Diecinueve mártires de Aklan\") were Filipino patriots in Kalibo, Aklan, Philippines who were executed by musketry on March 23, 1897 at 2 am, for cooperating with the Katipunan during the Philippine Revolution against Spain.\n\nGeneral Francisco del Castillo, a close associate of Andres Bonifacio. This Aklanon Katipunero was tasked by Bonifacio to establish Katipunan in Panay Island. On March 17, 1897, the young patriot, defender of liberty and leader of the Aklan revolutionists was killed by an assassin during a fight in the present-day Pastrana Park. The untimely death of Gen. del Castillo had signaled the end of the major struggle for freedom in Aklan. His close friends, assistants and soldiers were forced to give up arms, some due to the promise of receiving amnesty. These Nineteen Men, weak from hunger and thirst and racked with rain, were bound together and forced into a black hole of a stone cell on Amadeo Street (now Nineteen Martyrs Street) in Kalibo. Here their hands were manacled and a long bamboo pole was passed through their locked arms across their mangled backs. Then they were strung high up against the wall of the cell, with their backs to the firing line, and during the first hours of March 23, they were shot to death. The few who did not die instantly were bayoneted. That was a night of darkness and terror in Kalibo.\nBut such promise was quickly broken. So on the fateful day of March 23, 1897, the Martyrs of Aklan were executed. \n\nOn March 23, 1897, all 19 prisoners were summarily executed by a firing squad in the town square. Their bodies were hastily buried in a mass grave inside a cemetery. By virtue of a Municipal Council resolution, the mortal remains of 19 martyrs were transferred to its present site at corner M. Laserna and Veterans’ Avenue on March 23, 1926.\nIn order to commemorate the death anniversary of the 19 Martyrs of Aklan, Republic Act No. 7806 was made into law setting the 23rd day of March of every year as a special public holiday in the Province of Aklan. A former general himself, President Fidel V. Ramos let Republic Act 7806 lapsed into law without his signature. And on September 1, 1994, in accordance with Article VI, Sec. 27(1) of the Constitution became law.\n\nOn the 102th martyrdom anniversary of the 19 Martyrs of Aklan on March 23, 2018, the National Historical Commission of the Philippines officially turned over to the Provincial Government of Aklan a tableau memorial in honor of the freedom heroes at the Goding Ramos Park. \n"}
{"id": "6759409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6759409", "title": "Olei Hagardom", "text": "Olei Hagardom\n\nOlei Hagardom (Hebrew: \"Those hanged in the gallows\", עולי הגרדום) refers to members of the two Jewish Revisionist pre-state underground organisations Irgun and Lehi, who were tried in British Mandate courts and sentenced to death by hanging, most of them in Acre prison. There were 12 \"Olei Hagardom\".\n\nThe term does not include members of the Nili organisation hanged by the Ottoman government during World War I.\n\nThe British Mandate for Palestine was an instrument of government instituted by the League of Nations for the administration of territories formerly under the rule of the Ottoman Empire. British rule lasted from 1917-1948.\n\nDuring the 1936–1939 Arab revolt, the militant group known as the Irgun embarked on an intensive armed campaign against Arab targets. Later British targets were added also. With the outbreak of World War II, militant actions against the British were halted, but one of the leaders of the group, Avraham Stern, insisted that the fight must go on, leading to a split in the Irgun which led to the formation of a new group, Lehi (also known as the Stern Gang). In 1944, the Irgun, now headed by Menachem Begin rejoined the fight against the British. After the end of World War II, the larger Haganah joined the fight within a union called the Jewish Resistance Movement, which lasted for just about ten months, from October 1945 until August 1946.\nThe term \"Olei HaGardom\" refers to the eight Irgun and two Lehi members who were executed during this period and a further member of each group who committed suicide prior to their intended executions. Two of the executions were carried out in Egypt in 1945. With the exception of Ben Yosef, all the executions and suicides within the British Mandate of Palestine occurred in 1947. They were tried under the Defence Emergency Regulations, enacted in September 1945. These regulations suspended Habeas Corpus and established Military courts. They prescribed the death penalty for various offences, including carrying weapons or ammunition and membership in an organization whose members commit these offenses.\n\n\nThe original list of Olei Hagardom was later extended after former Irgun commander Menachem Begin became Prime Minister of Israel.\n\nMoshe Barazani and Meir Feinstein committed suicide in their prison cell with handgrenades smuggled to them in a basket of oranges. The grenades were placed inside hollowed out orange peels. The original plan was to carry the concealed grenades with them as they were taken to the gallows then use them to carry out a suicide attack, but allegedly after they learned that Rabbi Goldman would be present at the time of the execution, the plan was dropped. Instead, Barazani and Feinstein blew themselves up in their jail cell shortly before the execution.\n\nThe Irgun adopted a policy of hostage-taking in response to British death sentences passed down on its members. After two Irgun fighters, Yosef Simchon and Michael Ashbel, were sentenced to death for raid on the Sarafand army base in 1946, the Irgun seized five British officers as hostages and threatened to hang them if the sentences were carried out. The sentences were commuted. After Dov Gruner and three other Irgun fighters captured during the Night of the Beatings were sentenced to death, the Irgun abducted a British judge and intelligence officer and threatened to kill its hostages if the sentences were carried out. The British announced an indefinite postponement in the executions, and the hostages were released, although the British later hanged the prisoners. In addition, Lehi also managed to get the death sentences of 18 of its members commuted at one point after threatening to kill 100 Britons in response.\n\nAfter Avshalom Haviv, Meir Nakar, and Yaakov Weiss were sentenced to death for their role in the Acre Prison break, the Irgun kidnapped two British Army Intelligence Corps sergeants, Clifford Martin and Mervyn Paice in Netanya. The Irgun announced that hanging its fighters would result in the subsequent hanging of the British soldiers. Haviv, Nakar, and Weiss were executed on July 29, 1947. The bodies of Clifford Martin and Mervyn Paice were subsequently found hanging from trees in a forest near Netanya. Their bodies had been booby-trapped with a homemade bomb.\n\nMenachem Begin spoke of the event saying: \"it was one of the most bitter moments of my life but the cruel action in Netanya not only saved dozens of Jews from the gallows but also broke the neck of the British occupation, because when the gallows break down, the British rule, which relied on it, breaks on its own\". After this event, there were no more executions of Jewish militants by the British.\n\nMany streets in Israel are named after Olei Hagardom, and postage stamps bearing their images have been issued. The Ramat HaHayal neighbourhood in Tel Aviv and the Armon HaNatziv neighbourhood in Jerusalem have streets bearing the name \"Olei Hagardom\" or the names of individual fighters. In Ramat Gan, there is an official square and statue honouring Dov Gruner and the Olei Hagardom. An official commemoration ceremony takes place on Yom Hazikaron at the memorial in Rishon LeZion, which stands near Olei HaGardom Street, and the Knesset holds an annual memorial service for them.\n\n"}
{"id": "51027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51027", "title": "Patronymic", "text": "Patronymic\n\nA patronymic, or patronym, is a component of a personal name based on the given name of one's father, grandfather (i.e., an avonymic), or an earlier male ancestor. A component of a name based on the name of one's mother or a female ancestor is a matronymic. Each is a means of conveying lineage.\n\nPatronymics are still in use, including mandatory use, in many countries worldwide, although their use has largely been replaced by or transformed into patronymic surnames. Examples of such transformations include common English surnames such as Johnson (son of John).\n\nThe usual noun and adjective in English is \"patronymic\", but as a noun this exists in free variation alongside \"patronym\". (The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" records the corresponding \"metronymic\" and \"metronym\", alongside \"matronymic\" but not, however, \"matronym\".) The first part of the word \"patronym\" comes from Greek πατήρ \"patēr\" \"father\" ( πατρός \"patros\" whence the combining form πατρο- \"patro\"-); the second part comes from Greek ὄνυμα \"onyma\", a variant form of ὄνομα \"onoma\" \"name\". In the form \"patronymic\", this stands with the addition of the suffix -ικός (\"-ikos\"), which was originally used to form adjectives with the sense ‘pertaining to’ (thus 'pertaining to the father's name'). These forms are attested in Hellenistic Greek as πατρώνυμος (\"patrōnymos\") and πατρωνυμικός (\"patrōnymikos\"). The form \"patronym\", first attested in English in 1834, was borrowed into English from French \"patronyme\", which had previously borrowed the word directly from Greek. \"Patronymic\", first attested in English in 1612, has a more complex history. Both Greek words had entered Latin, and, from Latin, French. The English form \"patronymic\" was borrowed through the mutual influence of French and Latin on English.\n\nIn many areas around the world, patronyms predate the use of family names. Family names in many Celtic, English, Iberian, Scandinavian, Armenian and Slavic surnames originate from patronyms, e.g. Wilson (son of William), FitzGerald (son of Gerald), Powell (from \"ap Hywel\"), Fernández (son of Fernando), Rodríguez (son of Rodrigo), Anderson or Andersen (son of Anders, Scandinavian form of Andrew), Carlson or Carlsen (son of Carl), Ilyin (of Ilya), Petrov (of Peter), Grigorovich (son of Grigory, Russian form of Gregory), Stefanović (son of Stefan, little Stefan), MacAllister (from \"mac Alistair\", meaning son of Alistair, anglicized Scottish form of Alexander) and O'Conor (from \"Ó Conchobhair\", meaning grandson/descendant of Conchobhar). Other cultures which formerly used patronyms have switched to the more widespread style of passing the father's last name to the children (and wife) as their own.\nIn Iceland, family names are unusual; Icelandic law favours the use of patronyms (and more recently, matronyms) over family names.\n\nTraditionally Muslim and non-Arabic speaking African people, such as Hausa and Fulani people usually (with some exceptions) follow the Arab naming pattern. The word or phrase meaning \"son of\" is, however, omitted. So Mohamed son of Ibrahim son of Ahmed is \"Mohamed Ibrahim Ahmed\", and Mohamed Ibrahim Ahmed's son Ali is \"Ali Mohamed Ibrahim\".\n\nEthiopians and Eritreans have no concept of family name and surname. If one is to refer to a person with a single name he/she will always use the person's given name. Ethiopian and Eritreans use a naming pattern very similar to the Arab naming pattern, but with one exception: no suffix or prefix. The full name is written as: First name (given name) followed by the father's name, and last by the grandfather's name. For example, Sara Yohannes Petros is Sara (given name) Yohannes (father's name) Petros (grandfather's name). The grandfather's name is usually only used in official documents. The father's name is not considered a middle name. Instead, it is considered a last name. The same is true for females; they do not take their husband's last name. They go independently by their given name, followed by their father's name, and then their grandfather's name, even after marriage.\n\nSome Kenyan communities used patronyms. As of 2010 the practice has largely dropped off with the use of just the father's last name as a surname.\nKalenjin use 'arap' meaning 'son of'; \nKikuyu used 'wa' meaning 'of'. Because of polygamy, matronyms were also used and 'wa' used to identify which wife the child was born of; \nMaasai use 'ole' meaning 'son of'; \nMeru use 'mto' abbreviated M' thus son of Mkindia would be M'Mkindia, pronounced Mto Mkindia.\n\nPatronymic naming is very common in parts of Mozambique. Although the practice is not universal, patronymic naming has been documented in the Zambezia province.\n\nNow not as prominent as before, Many people of southern Nigeria took their father's given name (father's first name) as their surname. It could also be the father's prominent nickname, which takes the place of a first name. An example would be a man named Kolade Fabiyi, who had a son named Dele. The son's name would now be Dele Kolade, not Dele Fabiyi. This is used to distinguish between extended family who would have the same last name, like cousin. This custom has dropped to the modern English one due to increase in British style education.\n\nSomalis use their paternal grandfather's given name as their legal surname for documentation purpose. They also use the term \"ina\" or \"iña\" meaning \"the son of\" or \"the daughter of,\" which is similar to other African- and the Arab-naming patterns. For example, the name \"Ahmed Mohamed Ali Farah\" means \"Ahmed son of Mohamed son of Ali son of Farah.\" When stating one's lineage, one will say \"Ahmed ina Mohamed\" (Ahmed, the son of Mohamed). To identify themselves and the sub=clan they belong to, Somalis memorize their long lineage back a common ancestor. Women never adopt their husbands' patronym but keep theirs for life.\n\nAmong the Zulu patronymics were used in the pre-colonial era. The prefix \"ka\" was attached to the father's name, for example Shaka kaSenzangakhona means Shaka son of Senzangakhona. The practice disappeared from everyday use with the introduction of the modern European style surname system but still remains part of traditional cultural practices, particularly in the case of chieftains and royalty where reciting lineages forms a part of many ceremonial occasions.\n\nYi people's sons' given names are based on the last one or two syllables of father's name. Hani people also have patronymic customs.\n\nAtayal people's names are followed by the name of their father, both son and daughter are patronymic. \nAmis people's son names are also followed by the father's name, while a daughter's name is followed by her mother's name.\n\nPatronymy is common in parts of India. For example, if a father is named Khurram Suleman (a Muslim masculine name), he might name his son Taha Khurram, who in turn might name his son Ismail Taha. As a result, unlike surnames, patronymics will not pass down through many generations.\n\nIn Tamil Nadu and some parts of Kerala and South Karnataka, patronymy is predominant. This is a significant departure from the rest of the country where caste names are mostly employed as surnames. This came into common use during the 1950s and 1960s when the Dravidian movement campaigned against the use one's caste as part of the name.\n\nHowever, rather than using the father's full name, only the first letter — popularly known as the initial — is prefixed to the given name. For example, if a person's given name is \"Saravanan\" and his father's \"Krishnan\", then the full name is \"K. Saravanan\" and is seldom expanded, even in official records. Only where it is forced by stipulation — such as when applying for an Indian passport which does not usually allow initials — is the initial expanded and the name rendered as \"Krishnan Saravanan\". Some families follow the tradition of retaining the name of the hometown, the grandfather's name, or both as initials. The celebrated Indian English novelist R. K. Narayan's name at birth was Rasipuram Krishnaswami Ayyar Narayanaswami, which was shortened at the behest of his writer friend, Graham Greene. Rasipuram, the first name, is a toponym and Krishnaswami Ayyar, the second name, is a patronym.\n\nIn Tamilnadu the use of initials and/or surname is up to the prerogative of the person with no strict rules. The late chief minister Karunanidhi preferred to be referred as M. Karunanidhi where the initial M stood for Muthuvel - his father's given name. M.Karunanidhi's son prefers to be referred as M.K.Stalin incorporating both his fathers and grandfather's names. However M.K.Stalin's son prefers to be referred as Udhayanidhi Stalin. Where Udhayanidhi is his given name and Stalin his father's given name as his surname rather than as an initial.\n\nLikewise, cricketer Ashwin son of Ravichandran prefers to be referred to as R.Ashwin or Ravichandran Ashwin. This is because commentators in sports often call players by their last names only and it would be embarrassing to call him by his fathers name, therefore he puts his own given name in the last.\n\nAnother upcoming trend is to expand the initials to reflect how it would sound in the native language. For example Karuppiah prefers to be called Pala. Karuppiah instead of P. Karuppiah and his son Palaniappan prefers Karu. Palaniappan. Cinema director Ranjith prefers Pa. Ranjith instead of P. Ranjith as Pa sounds closer to the name in Tamil rather than P which sounds like Pe unlike the first syllable Pa.\n\nCelebrated scientist M. Annadurai would expand his name as Mayilsami Annadurai, however he has to be referred to as Annadurai as referring to him as Mayilsami would be referring to him with his father's given name which could be embarrassing for him.\n\nWhile the usage of caste names as surnames/last names is discouraged(but not banned) in Tamil Nadu, such usage by out of state people is greeted with indifference. So Lakshmi Menon, Shilpa Shetty, Pranab Mukherjee, Somnath Chaterjee etc. are referred by their preferred names which include their caste names. Likewise old tamil names with caste in them are also fully used while referring to them such as Pasumpoan Muthuramalinga Thevar, U.Ve. Swaminatha Iyer etc.\n\nIn Maharashtra, Karnataka and Gujarat, a very common convention among the Hindu communities is to have the patronymic as the middle name. Examples:\n\n\nThis system works for both boys and girls, except that after marriage, a woman takes her husband's given name as her middle name – her new middle name is no longer a patronymic.\n\nIndians, particularly Tamils in Singapore, often continue the patronymic tradition; this entails having a single given name, followed by son / daughter of, followed by their father's name.\n\nMalaysian Indians may also follow this custom with \"son\" or \"daughter\" of being replaced by \"anak lelaki\" or \"anak perempuan\", respectively.\n\nIndians of the Muslim Isma'ili sect also have patronymic middle names which use the father's first name and the grandfather's first name plus a family name. Someone called \"Ramazan Rahim Ali Manji\" might call his son \"Karim Ramazan Rahim Manji\" and his granddaughter might be called \"Zahra Karim Ramazan Manji\".\n\nIn Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei, ethnic Malays generally follow the Arabic patronymic naming system of \"given name\" + bin/binti + \"father's name\".\n\nIn Brunei, the ruling family of the monarch uses \"given name\" + \"ibni\" + \"father's name\" instead of using bin/binti.\n\nIn Indonesia, there are a number of ethnic groups with different naming systems. The Batak of North Sumatra (Sumatra Utara) give every child the family's name. Sometimes the family's name is prefixed by Huta-, Batu-, etc., but most use Si-, such as Sitanggang, Sihombing, Sibutar-butar, Sinaga, or Sitohang. The family's name is given from the father's family. For example, if the father's name is Boggi Sinaga who married to Moetia Siregar then all children will be given family's name of Sinaga.\n\nIn Sunda a similar cultural rule is used to that of the Batak. The family's name for Sunda is -Wijaya, but this isn't true for all Sundanese families.\n\nIn Arabic, the word \"\" ( or : \"bin\", \"ben\" and sometimes \"ibni\" and \"ibnu\" to show the grammatical case of the noun) is the equivalent of the \"-son\" suffix discussed above. (The prefix ben- is used similarly in Hebrew.) In addition, \"\" () means \"daughter of\". Thus, for example, \"Ali ibn `Amr\" means \"Ali son of `Amr\". In Classical Arabic, the word \"ibn\" is written as \"bn\" between two names, since the case ending of the first name then supplies a vowel. Consequently, ibn is often written as \"b.\", as bint is often written as \"bt.,\" in name formulas rendered from Arabic into Roman characters. Thus Hisham ibn al-Kalbi is alternatively written as Hisham b. al-Kalbi. However, the pronunciation \"bin\" is dialectal and has nothing to do with either the spelling or pronunciation in Classical Arabic. The word \"Abu\" (\"Aba\" or \"Abi\" in different grammatical cases) means \"father of\", so \"Abu `Ali\" is another name for \"`Amr\".\n\nIn medieval times, an illegitimate child of unknown parentage would sometimes be termed \"ibn Abihi\", \"son of his father\" (notably Ziyad ibn Abihi.) In the Qur'an, Jesus (Isa in Arabic) is consistently termed \"`Isa ibn Maryam\" - a matronymic (in the Qur'an, Jesus has no father; see Islamic view of Jesus). An Arabic patronymic can be extended as far back as family tree records will allow: thus, for example, Ibn Khaldun gives his own full name as \"`Abd ar-Rahman ibn Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn al-Hasan ibn Muhammad ibn Jabir ibn Muhammad ibn Ibrahim ibn `Abd ar-Rahman ibn Khaldun\".\n\nPatronymics are still standard in parts of the Arab world, notably Saudi Arabia and Iraq. (In the case of Iraq, with the omitted ibn or bint.) However, most of the Arab world has switched to a family name system. As in English, the new family names are sometimes based on what was formerly a patronymic. Another form widely used in the Arab world is the usage of both the patronymic and a family name, often using both the father's and paternal grandfathers given name in sequence after the own given name, and then the family name. In Iraq for example, full names are formed by combining the given name of an individual with the given name of their father (sometimes the father is skipped and the paternal grandfather's given name is used instead, sometimes both father and paternal grandfather are used), along with the town, village, or clan name. For instance, Hayder Muhammed al-Tikriti is the son of Muhammed named Hayder, and he is from the town of Tikrit. In Saudi Arabia naming conventions are similar to Iraq's but family names are used much more often.\n\nIn Aramaic, the prefix bar- means \"son\" and is used as a prefix meaning \"son of\". In the Bible, Peter is called Bar-Jonah in and Nathanael is possibly called Bartholomew because he is the son of Tolmai (or son of Ptolemy, with \"P\" being reduced). The titles can also be figurative, for example in Acts 4:36-37 a man named Joseph is called Barnabas meaning \"son of consolation\".\n\nThe Assyrians for centuries have used the patronymic bet or bit literally meaning \"house\" in Assyrian Neo-Aramaic; however, in the context of the name it means \"from the house of [the father's name].\"\n\nJews have historically used Hebrew patronymic names after the Bar Kokhba revolt, before which the most common language was Aramaic. In the Jewish patronymic system the first name is followed by either ben- or bat- (\"son of\" and \"daughter of\", respectively), and then the father's name, mother's name, or both. In Aramaic, the first name was followed by bar- or bat- (\"son of\" and \"daughter of\", respectively).\n\nPermanent family surnames exist today, first by Sephardic Jews in 10th or 11th century Iberia and by Ashkenazi Jews in the late 18th century, when Austria passed the first law requiring Jews adopt surnames. Similar laws were passed in Prussia, Galicia, France, regions of Germany, and other countries.\n\nWhile Jews now have permanent surnames for everyday life, the patronymic form is still used in religious life. It is used in synagogue and in documents in Jewish law such as the ketubah (marriage contract). Many Sephardic Jews used the Arabic \"ibn\" instead of \"bat\" or \"ben\" when it was the norm. The Spanish family Ibn Ezra is one example.\n\nThere is a strong cultural pressure for immigrants to modern Israel to Hebraize their names. \nThis practice is especially common among Ashkenazic immigrants, because most of their names were taken during the period from the end of the 18th century to the middle of the 19th century. For example, Golda Meir was born \"Golda Mabovitch\", took the name \"Golda Meyerson\" after her marriage to American Morris Meyerson, and, upon making Aliyah and at the urging of Moshe Sharett, Hebraized her last name to Meir.\n\nIn Persian, patronymics پَتوَند are formed by names ending with the suffix \"Pur\" \"پور\" for men and \"Dokht\" \"دُخت\" for women. For example: Shahpoor (son of king) and Sinapoor (Ebne sina). Depending on country, some suffixes are more common than others. For example, in Iran, the suffix \"pur\" is common while in Afghanistan, the suffix \"Zadah\" \"زاده\" or \"Zad\" \"زاد\" is common.\n\nIn Western Europe patronyms were formerly widespread but later became confined to Scandinavia and Iceland.\n\nIn England, names ending with the suffix \"son\" were often originally patronymic. In addition, the archaic French (more specifically, Norman) prefix \"fitz\" (cognate with the modern French \"fils\", meaning \"son\"), appears in England's aristocratic family lines dating from the Norman Conquest, and also among the Anglo-Irish. Thus there are names such as Fitzgerald and Fitzhugh. Of particular interest is the name \"Fitzroy\", meaning \"son of [the] king\", which was used by illegitimate royal children who were acknowledged as such by their fathers.\n\nThe use of \"Mac\" in some form was prevalent in Scottish Gaelic, Irish and Manx, in all of which it denotes \"son\". \"Mc\" is also a frequent anglicisation in both Scotland and Ireland. In Ireland, the forms \"Mag\" and \"M'\" are encountered. The prefix \"Mac\" is used to form a patronym, such as \"Mac Coinnich\" – or the anglicized 'Mackenzie' – son of Coinneach/Kenneth. The female equivalent of \"Mac\" is \"Nic\", condensed from \"nighean mhic\" (in Scottish Gaelic) or \"iníon mhic\" (in Irish), both meaning daughter. For example, the Scottish Gaelic surname, \"Nic Dhòmhnaill\" meaning 'daughter of a son of Dòmhnall' (in English, Donald), as in \"Mairi Nic Dhòmhnaill\", or Mary MacDonald.\n\nAt the north end of the Irish Sea, in Ulster, the Isle of Man and Galloway (indeed as far north as Argyll), \"Mac\" was frequently truncated in speech to /k/, leading to such anglicisations as \"Qualtrough\" (Son of Walter) & \"Quayle\" (son of Paul, cf. MacPhail) – usually beginning with \"C\", \"K\" or \"Q\". In Ireland, this truncation resulted in surnames such as \"Guinness\" (son of Aonghus, cf. MacAonghusa) beginning usually in \"C\" or \"G\" for patronymics prefixed with Mac, and in \"H\" (e.g. \"Hurley\" (descendant of Jarlath, cf. Ua h-Iarfhlatha/O'Hurley)) for surnames prefixed with \"O\". Colloquial Scottish Gaelic also has other patronymics of a slightly different form for individuals, still in use (for more information please see: Scottish Gaelic personal naming system).\n\nBefore the 1536 Act of Union, the Welsh did not generally employ surnames, but instead used epithets (e.g. Selyf Sarffgadau, \"Selyf the Battle-Serpent\"), patronyms (e.g. Rhodri ap Merfyn, \"Rhodri son of Merfyn\"), and (much less often) matronyms (e.g. Rhodri ap Nest, \"Rhodri son of Nest\") to identify people. Welsh, as a P-Celtic language, originally used \"map\" or \"mab\" instead of the Q-Celtic \"mac\" employed in Ireland and Scotland. These were later simplified to the modern Welsh \"ap\" and \"ab\". A common practice is to use \"ab\" before a father's name beginning with a vowel (e.g., Llywelyn ab Iorwerth), but they are also employed arbitrarily in many sources.\n\nDaughters were indicated by \"ferch\" or \"verch\" (mutated from \"merch\", \"girl, daughter\"). \"Angharad verch Owain\" would be \"Angharad, daughter of Owain\".\n\nAfter the Acts of Union, this led to many Welsh surnames being variants of their father or ancestor's personal name: \"ap\" or \"ab Ieuan\" often became \"Evans\"; \"ap Rhys\", \"Price\"; \"ap\" or \"ab Owain\", \"Bowen\"; \"ap Hywel\", \"Powell\" or \"Howell\". In addition to these Anglicised baptismal and official names, patronyms continued to be commonly employed in Welsh until the Industrial Revolution, particularly in the north and west of Wales. Patronyms were sometimes employed within the English names as well by using the father's personal name as the sons' middle name.\n\nSimilar rules might apply in Cornwall were it not for its earlier inclusion into England; and therefore patronyms (e.g.[m]ap Ros>Rouse, [m]ap Richard>Pritchard, Davies, Evans) are less common than toponyms (e.g. Tresillian, Trevithick, Nanskeval/Nankeville) and occupational surnames (e.g. An Gof, [An] Gove, \"(Blacksmith)\"; Helyer (Cornish dialect - possibly a slater or huntsman (helgher)).\n\nIn Dutch, patronymics were often used in place of family names or as middle names. Patronymics were composed of the father's name plus an ending \"-zoon\" for sons, \"-dochter\" for daughters. For instance, Abel Janszoon Tasman is \"Abel son of Jan Tasman\", and Kenau Simonsdochter Hasselaer: \"Kenau, daughter of Simon Hasselaer\". In written form, these endings were often abbreviated as \"-sz.\" and \"-dr.\" respectively e.g. Jeroen Cornelisz. \"Jeroen son of Cornelis\", or Dirck Jacobsz. The endings \"-s\", \"-se\" and \"-sen\" were also commonly used for sons and often for daughters too. In the northern provinces, \"-s\", as genitive case, was almost universally used for both sons and daughters. The suffix -\"x\" as in \"Tacx\" also denoted the son or daughter of Tac, and is now integrated as a complete name.\n\nPatronymics were common in the Dutch United Provinces until the French invasion in 1795 and subsequent annexation in 1810. As the Netherlands were now a province of France, a registry of births, deaths and marriages was established in 1811, whereupon emperor Napoleon forced the Dutch to register and adopt a distinct surname.\n\nIn France, the terms \"patronyme\" and \"nom patronymique\" had long been used interchangeably to designate the family name, meaning that it is inherited from the father.\n\nThe tradition of patronymic lineage is still used among some Canadian descendants of French colonists: in the oral tradition of many Acadians, for example, \"Marc à Pierre à Gérard\" (lit. \"Marc of Pierre of Gérard\"), means \"Marc, son of Pierre, grandson of Gérard\".\n\nIn the past, both in Spanish and Portuguese, the endings \"-ez\" and \"-es\" tended to be conflated since pronunciation was quite similar in the two languages. Today, Portuguese has been fully standardized to \"-es\"; Spanish is also standardized to \"-ez\", but it is very common to see archaic endings in \"-es\". For instance, Pires/Peres and Pérez are the modern forms of \"Peterson\" in Portuguese and Spanish.\n\nIn Portugal, there are some surnames which had a patronymic genesis, while still common they no longer indicate patronymic usage. For instance, \"Álvares\" was the son of \"Álvaro\" and \"Gonçalves\" was the son of \"Gonçalo\" (it was the case of Nuno Álvares Pereira, son of Álvaro Gonçalves Pereira, son of Gonçalo Pereira). Other cases include \"Rodrigues\" (\"son of Rodrigo\"), \"Nunes\" (\"son of Nuno\") and \"Fernandes\" (\"son of Fernando\").\nIn the same way the surname Soares means son of Soeiro (in Latin Suarius). It comes from Latin Suaricius (son of Suarius); the Latin genitive suffix \"-icius/a\" was used to indicate a patronymic. Later it became Suáriz, Suárez and eventually Soares. Another theory attributes the Iberian -ez style patronymics to Germanic (Visigothic) rather than Latin influence.\n\nSpanish patronyms follow a similar pattern to the Portuguese (e.g., López: of Lope; Hernández: of Hernán; Álvarez: of Álvaro). Common endings include -ez, -az, -is, and -oz. However, not all names with similar endings are necessarily patronymic. For example, Chávez is not the son of \"Chavo\", but comes from Galician or Portuguese \"Chaves\", meaning \"keys\", and its \"s\" stands for the plural form, as in key/keys in English.\n\nA list of some Iberian patronymics:\n\nIn Norse custom patronyms and matronyms were formed by using the ending -son (later -søn and -sen in Danish, Norwegian and German) to the genitive form of the father's name to indicate \"son of\", and -dóttir (Icelandic and Faroese -dóttir, Swedish and Norwegian -dotter, Danish and Norwegian -datter) for \"daughter of\". This name was generally used as a last name although a third name, a so-called byname based on location or personal characteristic, was often added to differentiate people and could eventually develop into a kind of family name. Some Early Modern examples of the latter practice, where the patronymic was placed after the given name and was followed by the surname, are Norwegian Peder Claussøn Friis, the son of Nicolas Thorolfsen Friis (Claus in Claussøn being short for Nicolas) and Danish Thomas Hansen Kingo, the son of Hans Thomsen Kingo.\n\nEventually, most Nordic countries replaced or complemented this system with the prevailing \"international\" standard of inherited family names. In Norway, for example, the parliament passed a family name act in 1923, citing the rising population and the need to avoid the confusion of new last names in every generation. The law does allow a person to retain a patronymic as a middle name in addition to the surname, as was common in Early Modern times; this is not a common practice, but does occur, a modern example being Audhild Gregoriusdotter Rotevatn. The Danish government outlawed the practice in 1856 and eased the regulations in 1904 to deal with the limited number of patronymics. In Sweden the practice of children keeping their father's and wives keeping their husband's patronymic as a surname occurred in the 1700s but was first prevalent in the late 1800s, still present yet uncommon in the 1900s and finally abolished in 1966. In 1982 the right to use patronyms (and matronyms) was partially restored, and from 1 July 2017 parents in Sweden are free to give their children patronyms/matronyms at birth instead of inherited family names.\n\nMatronyms were used exceptionally if the child was born out of wedlock or if the mother was much more high-born or well known than the father, a historical example being Sweyn Estridsson.\n\nIn Iceland, patronymics or matronymics are still used as last names and this is in fact compulsory by law, with a handful of exceptions. The father's name (occasionally with a minor alteration for genitive) plus the word \"son\" for sons, \"dóttir\" for daughters. For example, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir (to be read in English as \"Jóhanna, daughter of Sigurð[ur]\").\n\nIn Finland, the use of patronymics was a result of relatively recent Swedish influence and remained uncommon outside official documents. Only in the 19th century did the use of patronymics gain any sort of popularity among the Finnish-speaking lower classes. Family names became obligatory in Finland by law in 1920.\n\nHistorically, patronymics were composed in Swedish fashion: the father's name and the suffix -n for genitive plus the word \"poika\" for sons, \"tytär\" for daughters. For example, Tuomas Abrahaminpoika (to be read in English as \"Tuomas, Abraham's son\") and Martta Heikintytär (to be read in English as \"Martta, Heikki's daughter\").\n\nIn Bulgarian, the patronymics are \"-ov\"/\"-ev\" and \"-ova\"/\"-eva\" for men and women, respectively. These are identical to the endings of \"family\" names in Bulgarian and some other Slavic family names (such as names in Russian and Czech). In Bulgarian official documents, the patronymic is inserted before the surname - e.g. \"Ivan Marinov Yordanov\" would be the son of \"Marin Yordanov\".\n\nThe use of patronymics was introduced in Armenia by Russians during the times of the Russian Empire and the Soviet Union. Previously to that the use of patronymics was very limited. Patronymics are usually formed by addition of \"i\" (\"of\", pronounced as ee) to the father's name, e.g. if father's name is \"Armen\", the corresponding patronymic would be \"Armeni\" (of Armen). Russified version of the same patronymic would be \"Armenovich\" for males and \"Armenovna\" for females. After Armenia re-gained its independence from the Soviet Union in 1991 a massive decline in the use of Russified patronymics occurred; nowadays few Armenians use patronymics outside of official contexts.\n\nMany Armenian surnames were once patronymics first used by distant ancestors or clan founders. These are characterized by the suffix \"-ian\" in Western Armenian, often transliterated as \"-yan\" in Eastern Armenian. These are appended to the given name, i.e. Kardashian, Asdvadzadourian, Hagopian, Khachadourian, Mardirosian, Bedrosian, Sarkissian, etc. Note that the suffix \"-ian\" was also appended to trades, as in Adakhtsakordzian (issued from the carpenter), Chalian (issued from the candlemaker, using the Turkish word \"chal\", meaning candle).\n\nOf particular note are the surnames of the children of married priests, or kahanas. Though not as common nowadays, it was customary for a long time for these children (particularly the sons) to change their last names to the name-in-religion of their father. For example, the son of Ter (Reverend) Bartev would change his last name to Ter Bartevian.\n\nIn Azeri, patronymics are formed through \"-oğlu\" (sometimes transliterated as \"ogly\") for males and \"qızı\" (often transliterated as \"gizi\" or \"kizi\") for females. Prior to the late 19th–early 20th century, patronymics were used as an essential part of a person's full name, i.e. \"Sardar Ilyas oğlu\" (\"Sardar, son of Ilyas\") and \"Mina Nabi qızı\" (\"Mina, daughter of Nabi\"), since surnames were mostly non-existent before Sovietization (with the exception of the upper and some middle-class families). After surnames were commonly adopted in Azerbaijan in the 1920s, patronymics still remained parts of full names, i.e. \"Sardar Ilyas oğlu Aliyev\" (\"Sardar Aliyev, son of Ilyas\"). Nowadays in Azerbaijan, patronymics sometimes replace surnames in unofficial use. Normally in such case, they are spelled as one word (i.e. \"Eldar Mammadoğlu\", \"Sabina Yusifqızı\"). Many Azeri surnames are also derived from Persian-style patronymics ending in \"-zadeh\" (\"Kazimzadeh\", \"Mehdizadeh\", etc.). They are found among both Caucasian and Iranian Azeris. However unlike the former, Azeris in Iran do not generally use patronymics in \"oglu\" / \"qizi\". Azeri patronymics are not to be confused with Turkish surnames in \"-oğlu\" and Greek surnames in -ογλού (\"-oglou\"), which do not have specific female versions and do not reflect names of fathers.\n\nIn Georgian, patronymics, when used, come with the addition of \"s\" to the end of the father's name, followed by \"dze\" for a man and \"asuli\" for a woman. For example, Joseph Stalin's actual name was Ioseb Besarionis Dze Jugashvili. \"s\" in Georgian is a possessive, and \"dze\" and \"asuli\" mean male and female descendant. After collapse of the USSR, patronymics in Georgia are disused as part of Russian tradition.\nGeorgian last names derive mostly from patronymics, nicknames and places of origin. Two common elements in Georgian last names, \"dze\" and \"shvili\" mean son of, and child, respectively.\n\nMost Greek surnames are patronymics by origin, albeit in various forms depending on ancestral locality. Diminutive suffixes which denote \"\"son of\", or more generally \"descendant of\"\", are produced as follows: starting with the given name Δημήτριος, \"Dēmétrios\", for example, the patronymic surnames Dēmētr\"ópoulos\" (Peloponnese), Dēmētr\"ákos\" (Laconia), Dēmētr\"éas\" (Messenian Mani), Dēmētr\"átos\" (Cephalonia), Dēmētr\"ákēs\" (Crete), Dēmētr\"iádēs\"/Dēmētr\"-ídēs\" (Pontus, Asia Minor), Dēmētr\"éllēs\" (Lesbos), Dēmétr\"oglou\" (Asia Minor) (identical to Turkish patronym \"-oğlu\"), or simply \"Dēmētríou\" (esp. common in Cyprus, the first name in the Genitive) are formed. The same principle can apply to surnames deriving from professions, for example from παπάς, \"papás\", priest, one derives the surnames \"Papadópoulos, Papadákos, Papadéas, Papadátos, Papadákēs, Papadéllēs, Papazoglou\" etc., all of which signify a \"priest's son\". The same principle(s) may apply in combination, e.g. \"Papanikoláou, Papanikolópoulos\", \"the son of the priest Nikolaos\". A daughter's family name is the same as the son's, but \"always\" declined in the Genitive, e.g. \"Dēmētropoúlou, Papanikoláou\" etc.\n\nIn addition to these surnames, \"actual\" patronymics are used in official documents as \"middle names\" preceding the surname. For example, the children of a \"Giánnēs Papadópoulos\" are, say, \"María Ioánnou Papadopoúlou\" and \"Andréas Ioánnou Papadópoulos\" (\"Ioánnou\" is the genitive case form of \"Ioánnēs\", which is the formal form of the father's name, \"Giánnēs\"). Traditionally, a married woman would adopt her husband's family name. Now, however, women in Greece can keep their own surname if they so choose.\n\nIn Hungarian, patronyms were traditionally formed with the ending \"-fi\" (sometimes spelled as \"-fy\" or \"-ffy\"). This system is no longer in common use, though traces of it can still be found in some frequent present-day surnames such as \"Pálfi\" (son of Paul), \"Győrfi\", \"Bánfi\" or in the name of the famous poet Sándor Petőfi (who chose this Hungarian form instead of his Slavic birth name \"Petrovics\"). In the Old Hungarian period (10th−16th century, see History of Hungarian), when surnames were not in common use, the full genitive was represented as in \"Péter fia András\" (\"Peter's son Andrew\"); these forms are in frequent use in charters and legal documents dated back to that time.\n\nIn Romanian, the endings \"-escu\" and \"-eanu\" were used, as in \"Petrescu\", 'son of Petre (Peter)'; many modern Romanian family names were formed from such patronymics. Less commonly, matronymics formed with the genitive form (using the prefix \"a-\") were used, as in \"Amariei\", '(son/daughter) of Maria'.\n\nIn East Slavic languages, the endings \"-ovich\", \"-evich\" and \"-ich\" are used to form patronymics for men. It would be cognate to the Latin genitive -ici, used for marking family line, and also as equivalent to: 'little' -Vladic= 'the little Vlad'-. For women, the ending is \"-yevna\", \"-ovna\" or \"-ichna\". For example, in Russian, a man named Ivan with a father named Nikolay would be known as Ivan Nikolayevich or \"Ivan, son of Nikolay\" (\"Nikolayevich\" being a patronymic). Likewise, a woman named Lyudmila with a father named Nikolay would be known as Lyudmila Nikolayevna or \"Lyudmila, daughter of Nikolay\" (\"Nikolayevna\" being a patronymic). For masculine names ending in a vowel, such as Ilya or Foma, when they are used as a base for patronymic, the corresponding endings are \"-ich\" (for men) and \"-inichna\" (for women). Examples in titles of classical Russian literature include\" The Tales of the Late Ivan Petrovich Belkin\", \"The Death of Ivan Ilyich\" and \"The Tale of How Ivan Ivanovich Quarreled with Ivan Nikiforovich\".\n\nIn Russia, the patronymic is an official part of the name, used in all official documents, and when addressing somebody both formally and among friends. Individuals are addressed by their given name followed by patronymic (e.g., \"Mikhail Nikolayevich\") in many situations including on formal occasions, by colleagues at work, by acquaintances, or when addressed by someone younger in age. It is becoming more common for younger individuals (under 50) to drop the patronymic at work. In informal situations, if a person is called by a diminutive (such as Misha for Mikhail or Nastya for Anastasia), the patronymic is not used.\n\nIn colloquial, informal speech, it is also possible to contract the ending of a patronymic: thus Nikolayevich becomes Nikolaich, and Stepan Ivanovich becomes Stepan Ivanych or simply Ivanych as the given name may be omitted altogether. In this case the contraction, if possible, is obligatory: Ivan Sergeyevich Sidorov may be called \"Sergeich\" or, more rarely, \"Sergeyevich\". In contrast to male names, if a woman is called by her patronymic name without a given name, the patronymic is usually not contracted: \"Ivanovna\" but \"Mar' Ivanna\"; \"Sergeyevna\"/\"Sergevna\" is one exception, where both forms are fine. Typically, a patronymic name alone is a familiar form of addressing an older female.\n\nVuk Karadžić reported in the 19th century that Serbs sometimes used their old family names, and sometimes patronymics. Vuk Karadžić himself used patronymic Stefanović (son of Steven), and sometimes Karadzić, old family name. However, nowadays, the patronymic names in Serbia are mostly used on legal documents, and have the form of the father's name that says the child is 'of so and so'... example: Marija Dragoljuba Pavlovic, where Dragoljub is the father's name and 'Dragoljuba' literally means 'of Dragoljub'.\n\nIn Serbia, Croatia and Bosnia, the patronymic names do not change form between masculine and feminine. Example: Marija Dragoljuba Pavlović (Dragoljub is the father's name; Dragoljuba is the form that says she is his daughter, or literally 'of Dragoljub').\n\nIn Turkish, the suffixes used to indicate paternal ancestry are \"-oğlu\" and \"-zade\", which indicate the ancestry as coming from a certain man. Like many other patronymics in other languages, with the formalization of naming conventions by laws in the late modern contemporary age many turned into surnames. After the 'Surname revolution' in 1934, many people chose professions or habitat as surnames with or without the suffix \"-oğlu\", such as \"Elbeyioğlu\", \"Bakkaloğlu\" or \"Giritlioğlu\" and with \"-zade\" such as \"Beyzade\", \"Mehmedzade\", \"Yusufzade\".\n\nIn Ukrainian, the female patronymic always ends with \"-івна\" \"(-ivna)\" or \"-ївна\" \"(-yivna)\". The male patronymic always ends with -\"ович\" \"(-ovych)\" or \"-йович\" \"(-yovych)\". Exception: \"Illia (Ілля)\" -> \"Illich (Ілліч)\" (e.g. Illia Illich Mechnikov), \"Sava (Сава)\" -> \"Savych (Савич)\", \"Iakiv (Яків)\" -> \"Iakovych (Якович)\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3488351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3488351", "title": "People", "text": "People\n\nA people is a plurality of persons considered as a whole, as is the case with an ethnic group or nation. Collectively, for example, the contemporary Frisians and Danes are two related Germanic peoples, while various Middle Eastern ethnic groups are often linguistically categorized as Semitic peoples.\n\nVarious states govern, or claim to govern, in the name of \"the people\". Both the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire used the Latin term \"Senatus Populusque Romanus\", (the Senate and People of Rome). This term was fixed to Roman legionary standards, and even after the Roman Emperors achieved a state of total personal autarchy, they continued to wield their power in the name of the Senate and People of Rome.\n\nA People's Republic is typically a Marxist or socialist one-party state that claims to govern on behalf of the people even if it in practice often turns out to be a dictatorship. Populism is another umbrella term for various political tendencies that claim to represent the people, usually with an implication that they serve the \"common people\" instead of the elite.\n\nChapter One, Article One of the Charter of the United Nations states that peoples have the right to self-determination.\n\nIn criminal law, in certain jurisdictions, criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of \"the People\". Several U.S. states, including California, Illinois, and New York, use this style. Citations outside the jurisdictions in question usually substitute the name of the state for the words \"the People\" in the case captions. Four states — Massachusetts, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Kentucky — refer to themselves as \"the Commonwealth\" in case captions and legal process. Other states, such as Indiana, typically refer to themselves as \"the State\" in case captions and legal process. Outside the United States, criminal trials in Ireland and the Philippines are prosecuted in the name of the people of their respective states.\n\nThe political theory underlying this format is that criminal prosecutions are brought in the name of the sovereign; thus, in these U.S. states, the \"people\" are judged to be the sovereign, even as in the United Kingdom and other dependencies of the British Crown, criminal prosecutions are typically brought in the name of the Crown. \"The people\" identifies the entire body of the citizens of a jurisdiction invested with political power or gathered for political purposes.\n\n"}
{"id": "25912361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912361", "title": "Photobiography", "text": "Photobiography\n\nPhotobiography is a \"person's biography as revealed through photographs\". This is a neologism that was used for the first time in the French language in \"Manifeste photobiographique\" (1983), written by Gilles Mora and co-written with Claude Nori.\n\nGenerally, the photobiography illustrate and tell the facts of life of famous people, such as Abraham Lincoln, Martin Luther King, Albert Einstein, or Eleanor Roosevelt. Although photobiographical publications have been used for commercial purposes, several academics researches in France and in the United States \"have been trying to redefine it since the end of the 1990s\". Generally, photobiography tend to show more pictures than text, although some writers have combined these two practices in a same work, as Denis Roche, which is also a photographer. In contrast with both techniques, there has been discussion of how photography can affect an autobiographical discourse. Roland Barthes, for example, in his \"Camera Lucida\", suggests how photographs can fascinate the reader like no other images when he describes photography as a \"pure deictic language\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30933488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30933488", "title": "Prophets and messengers in Islam", "text": "Prophets and messengers in Islam\n\nProphets in Islam () include \"messengers\" (\"rasul\", pl. \"rusul\"), bringers of a divine revelation via an angel (Arabic: , malāʾikah); and \"prophets\" (\"nabī\", pl. \"anbiyāʼ\"), lawbringers that Muslims believe were sent by God to every person, bringing God's message in a language they can understand. Knowledge of the Islamic prophets is one of the six articles of the Islamic faith, and specifically mentioned in the Quran.\n\nMuslims believe that the first prophet was also the first human being, Adam (ادم), created by Allah (الله). Many of the revelations delivered by the 48 prophets in Judaism and many prophets of Christianity are mentioned as such in the Quran but usually in slightly different forms. For example, the Jewish Elisha is called Eliyas, Job is Ayyub, Jesus is Isa, etc. The Torah given to Moses (Musa) is called \"Tawrat\", the Psalms given to David (Dawud) is the \"Zabur\", the Gospel given to Jesus is \"Injil\".\n\nUnique to Islam is Muhammad (Muhammad ibn ʿAbdullāh), who Muslims believe is the \"Seal of the Prophets\" (\"Khatam an-Nabiyyin\", i.e. the last prophet); and the Quran, revealed to Muhammad but not written down by him, which Muslims believe is unique among divine revelations as the only correct one protected by God from distortion or corruption, destined to remain in its true form until the Last Day. Muslims believe Muhammad to be the last prophet, although after the prophets there are still saints (though some modern schools, such as Salafism and Wahhabism, reject the theory of sainthood).\n\nIn Muslim belief, every prophet in Islam preached the same main Islamic beliefs, the Oneness of God, worshipping of that one God, avoidance of idolatry and sin, and the belief in the Day of Resurrection or the Day of Judgement and life after death. Each came to preach Islam at different times in history and some told of the coming of the final \"Islamic prophet and messenger\" of God, who would be named \"Ahmed and Muhammad\". \n\nThis narrative is found in \"Chapter of the Ranks\", Qur'an, 61:6 as Allah asked Jesus to remind the Children of Israel but they accused him of the prophecy:\n\nوَإِذْ قَالَ عِيسَى ٱبْنُ مَرْيَمَ يَـٰبَنِى إِسْرَٰعِيلَ إِنِّى رَسُولُ ٱللهِ إِلَيْكُم مُّصَدِقًا لِّمَا بَيْنَ يَدَىَّ مِنَ ٱلتَّوْرىٰةِ وَمُبَشِّرًا بِرَسُولٍ يَأْتِى مِن بَعْدِى ٱسْمُهُ أَحْمَدُ فَلَمَّا جَآءَهُم بِٱلْبَيِّنَـٰتِ قَالُواْ هَـٰذَا سِحْرٌ مُّبينٌ \n\n\"wa-idh qāla ‘Īsā ’b·nu Maryama: \"yā Banī Israā‘īla innī Rasūlu ’llāhi ilay-kum muṣaddiqal li-mā bayna yadayya mina ’t-Tawraāti wa-mubash·shiram bi-Rasūlin ya’tī mim ba‘dī ’s·mu-huū Aḥmadu, fa-lammā jaā’a-hum bi’l-bayyināti, qālū \"hādhā siḥrum mubīn!\"\"\n\nIn Arabic and Hebrew, the term \"nabī\" (Arabic plural form: أَنْبِيَاء \"anbiyāʼ\") means \"prophet\". Forms of this noun occur 75 times in the Quran. The term \"nubuwwah\" (Arabic: نُبُوَّة meaning \"prophethood\") occurs five times in the Quran. The terms \"rasūl\" (Arabic plural: رُسُل \"rusul\") and \"mursal\" (ِArabic singular: مُرْسَل \"mursal\"; plural: مُرْسَلُون \"mursalūn\") denote \"messenger with law given/ received by GOD\" and occur more than 300 times. The term for a prophetic \"message\" (ِArabic singular: رِسَالَة \"risālah\"; plural: رِسَالَات \"risālāt\"), appears in the Quran in ten instances.\n\nThe Syriac form of \"rasūl Allāh\" (literally: \"messenger of God\"), \"s̲h̲eliḥeh d-allāhā\", occurs frequently in the apocryphal \"Acts of St. Thomas\". The corresponding verb for \"s̲h̲eliḥeh\"—\"s̲h̲alaḥ\", occurs in connection with the prophets in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nThe words \"prophet\" (Arabic: ) and \"messenger\" (Arabic: ) appear several times in the Old Testament and the New Testament.\n\nThe following table shows these words in different languages:\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible, the word \"nabi\" (\"spokesperson, prophet\") occurs more commonly, and the Hebrew word \"mal'akh\" (\"messenger\") refers to Angels in Judaism. According to Judaism, Haggai, Zaqariah, and Malachi were the last prophets, all of whom lived at the end of the 70-year Babylonian exile. With them, the authentic period of \"Nevuah\" (\"prophecy\") died, and nowadays only the \"Bath Kol\" (בת קול, lit. \"daughter of a voice\", \"voice of God\") exists (Sanhedrin 11a).\n\nIn the New Testament, however, the word \"messenger\" becomes more frequent, sometimes in association with the concept of a prophet. \"Messenger\" may refer to Jesus, to his Apostles and to John the Baptist. But the last book of the Old Testament, the Book of Malachi, speaks of a messenger that Christian commentators interpret as a reference to the future prophet John the Baptist (Yahya).\n\nIn Muslim belief, every Islamic prophet preached Islam. The beliefs of charity, prayer, pilgrimage, worship of God and fasting are believed to have been taught by every prophet who has ever lived. The Quran itself calls Islam the \"religion of Abraham\" (Ibrahim) and refers to Jacob (Yaqub) and the Twelve Tribes of Israel as being Muslim.\n\nThe Quran says\nIslam teaches that prophets were \"protected from sin\" by God, so unlike lesser human beings they cannot commit a sin. The Quran speaks of the \"Islamic prophets\" as being the greatest human beings of all time. A prophet, in the Muslim sense of the term, is a person whom God specially chose to teach the faith of Islam. Some were called to prophesy late in life, in Muhammad's case at the age of 40. Others, such as John the Baptist, were called to prophesy while still at a young age and Jesus prophesied while still in his cradle. \n\nThe Quran verse 4:69 lists various virtuous groups of human beings, among whom prophets (including messengers) occupy the highest rank. Verse 4:69 reads:\n\nBiblical stories retold in the Quran in the Arabic language (e.g., Job, Moses, Joseph (Yusuf) etc.) certainly differ from the Jewish Hebrew Bible, the Greek Old Testament and the Greek New Testament, in that the Quran always demonstrates that it is \"God's practice\" (\"sunnat Allah\") to make faith triumph finally over the forces of evil and adversity. \"We have made the evil ones friends to those without faith.\" \"Assuredly God will defend those who believe.\" Thus the Islamic Isa did not die on the cross like the Christian thought about Jesus, but deceived his enemies and ascended to heaven.\n\nThe prophets and messengers \"share no divine attributes\", and possess \"no knowledge or power\" other than that granted to them by God.\n\nMuslims believe that many prophets existed, including many not mentioned in the Quran. The Quran states: \"There is a Messenger for every community\" The \"hadith\" reports that the Prophet Muhammad said that there were approximately 124,000 prophets and 313 messengers (\"a good number\"). According to scholars such as Ibn Kathir and Shu'ayb al-Arna'oot the narration is weak, if not fabricated.\n\nMost mainstream Sunni scholars agree that prophets were males only. Still, some like Ibn Hazm, Qartubi, Ibn Hajir, and al Ash‘ari thought that the verses that mention angels speaking to Mary are proofs of her prophethood. Also, Ibn Hajir interprets the Hadith \"Many among men attained perfection but among women none attained the perfection except Mary, the daughter of `Imran; and Asiya, the wife of Pharaoh.\" He said perfection is prophethood, hence his claim that Mary and Asiya were prophets.\n\nThe revealed books are the records which Muslims believe were dictated by God to various Islamic prophets throughout the history of mankind, all these books promulgated the code and laws of Islam. The belief in all the revealed books is an article of faith in Islam and Muslims must believe in all the scriptures to be a Muslim. Muslims believe the Quran, the final holy scripture, was sent because all the previous holy books had been either corrupted or lost. Nonetheless, Islam speaks of respecting all the previous scriptures, even in their current forms.\n\nThe Quran mentions some Islamic scriptures by name, which came before the Quran:\n\nThe Quran mentions various divinely-bestowed gifts given to various prophets. These may be interpreted as books or forms of celestial knowledge. Although all prophets are believed by Muslims to have been immensely gifted, special mention of \"wisdom\" or \"knowledge\" for a particular prophet is understood to mean that some secret knowledge was revealed to him. The Quran mentions that Abraham prayed for wisdom and later received it. It also mentions that Joseph and Moses both attained wisdom when they reached full age; David received wisdom with kingship, after slaying Goliath; Lot (Lut received wisdom whilst prophesying in Sodom and Gomorrah; John the Baptist received wisdom while still a mere youth; and Jesus received wisdom and was vouchsafed the Gospel.\n\nAll messengers mentioned in the Quran are also prophets, but not all prophets are messengers.\n\nTo believe in God's messengers (Rusul) means to be convinced that God sent men as guides to fellow human beings and jinn (khalq) to guide them to the truth.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Community does not believe that messengers and prophets are different individuals. They interpret the Quranic words \"warner\" (\"nadhir\"), \"prophet\", and \"messenger\" as referring to different roles that the same divinely appointed individuals perform. Ahmadiyya distinguish only between law-bearing prophets and non-law-bearing ones. They believe that although law-bearing prophethood ended with Muhammad, non-law-bearing prophethood subordinate to Muhammad continues. The Ahmadiyya Community recognizes Mirza Ghulam Ahmad also known as Mirza Qadiani (1835–1908) as such a “prophet” of gods and the promised Messiah and Imam Mahdi of the latter days. The Lahore Ahmadiyya Movement rejects his status as a prophet, instead considering him to be a renewer of the faith. However, all other Muslims and their scholars argue and firmly establish that the Ahmadiyya community are not even Muslim due to the fact their beliefs violate the Muslim belief in Muhammad as the \"Seal of the Prophets\" (Khatam an-Nabiyyin).\n\nThe Quran mentions 25 prophets by name but also tells that God (Allah) sent many other prophets and messengers, to all the different nations that have existed on Earth. Many verses in the Qur'an discuss this:\n\n\nNumerous other people have been mentioned by scholars in the Hadith, exegesis, commentary. These people include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6182659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6182659", "title": "Qutalmish", "text": "Qutalmish\n\nQutalmish (, ) (alternative spellings: Qutulmush, Kutalmish, ) was a Turkic prince who was a member of Seljukid house in the 11th century. His son Kutalmışoglu Suleiman, founded the Sultanate of Rum in what is now Turkey.\n\nKutalmish was the son of Arslan Yabgu and a cousin of Tughril and played a vital role in the conquests of the Seljuq Turks. In 1046, he was sent with an army by Tughril to force back the Byzantine army at Ganja and was victorious. \n\nHe supported a rebellion against Tughril and contested the succession to the throne with Alp Arslan. (\"see\" Battle of Damghan (1063)) According to the historian Ali ibn al-Athir, Kutalmish knew the sciences of the stars. His son, Suleiman, was recognized as Sultan of Rûm by Malik Shah I in 1084.\n\nKutalmış is a very rare masculine Turkish given name, which is used in memory of Kutalmısh.\n"}
{"id": "179091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179091", "title": "Rat Pack", "text": "Rat Pack\n\nThe Rat Pack is a term used by the media to refer to an informal group of entertainers centered on the Las Vegas casino scene. Having its origins in a group of friends that met at the Los Angeles home of Humphrey Bogart and Lauren Bacall, by the 1960s, it was the name used by the press and the general public to refer to a later variation of the group that called itself \"the Summit\" or \"the Clan\", featuring Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Peter Lawford and Joey Bishop among others; they appeared together on stage and in films in the early 1960s, including the movies \"Ocean's 11\", \"Sergeants 3\", and \"Robin and the 7 Hoods\" (in the last film, Bing Crosby replaced Lawford). Sinatra, Martin, and Davis were regarded as the group's lead members.\n\nThe name \"The Rat Pack\" was first used to refer to a group of friends in New York. Several explanations have been offered for the famous name over the years. According to one version, the group's original \"Den Mother\", Lauren Bacall, after seeing her husband, Humphrey Bogart, and his friends return from a night in Las Vegas, said words to the effect of \"You look like a goddamn rat pack.\" \"Rat Pack\" may also be a shortened version of \"Holmby Hills Rat Pack\", a reference to the home of Bogart and Bacall which served as a regular hangout.\n\nVisiting members included Errol Flynn, Ava Gardner, Nat King Cole, Robert Mitchum, Elizabeth Taylor, Janet Leigh, Tony Curtis, Mickey Rooney, Lena Horne, Jerry Lewis and Cesar Romero.\n\nAccording to Stephen Bogart, the original members of the Holmby Hills Rat Pack were: Frank Sinatra (pack master), Judy Garland (first vice-president), Nicole Bassing (den mother), Sid Luft (cage master), Bogart (rat in charge of public relations), Swifty Lazar (recording secretary and treasurer), Nathaniel Benchley (historian), David Niven, Katharine Hepburn, Spencer Tracy, George Cukor, Cary Grant, Rex Harrison, and Jimmy Van Heusen. In his autobiography \"The Moon's a Balloon\", David Niven confirms that the Rat Pack originally included him but neither Sammy Davis, Jr. nor Dean Martin.\n\nThe 1960s version of the group included Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Peter Lawford, and Joey Bishop. Marilyn Monroe, Angie Dickinson, Juliet Prowse, Buddy Greco, and Shirley MacLaine were often referred to as the \"Rat Pack Mascots\". \n\nThe post-Bogart version of the group (Bogart died in 1957) was reportedly never called that name by any of its members – they called it \"the Summit\" or \"the Clan\". \"The Rat Pack\" was a term used by journalists and outsiders, although it remains the lasting name for the group.\n\nOften, when one of the members was scheduled to give a performance, the rest of the Pack would show up for an impromptu show, causing much excitement among audiences, resulting in return visits. They sold out almost all of their appearances, and people would come pouring into Las Vegas, sometimes sleeping in cars and hotel lobbies when they could not find rooms, just to be part of the Rat Pack entertainment experience. The Rat Pack's appearances were of unprecedented value because the city would always become flooded with high rollers, wealthy gamblers who would routinely leave substantial fortunes in the casinos' coffers. The marquees of the hotels at which they were performing as individuals would read, for example, \"DEAN MARTIN - MAYBE FRANK - MAYBE SAMMY\" as seen on a Sands Hotel sign.\n\nPeter Lawford was a brother-in-law of President John F. Kennedy (dubbed \"Brother-in-Lawford\" by Sinatra), and Kennedy spent time with Sinatra and the others when he visited Las Vegas, during which members sometimes referred to the group as \"the Jack Pack\". Rat Pack members played a role in campaigning for Kennedy and the Democrats, appearing at the July 1960 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles. Lawford had asked Sinatra if he would have Kennedy as a guest at his Palm Springs house in March 1962, and Sinatra went to great lengths (including the construction of a helipad) to accommodate the President. When Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy advised his brother to sever his ties to Sinatra because of the entertainer's association with Mafia figures such as Sam Giancana, the stay was cancelled. Kennedy instead chose to stay at rival Bing Crosby's estate, which further infuriated Sinatra. Lawford was blamed for this, and Sinatra \"never again had a good word for [him]\" from that point onwards. Lawford's role in the upcoming \"4 for Texas\" was written out, and his part in \"Robin and the 7 Hoods\" was given to Bing Crosby.\n\nOn June 20, 1965, Sinatra, Martin, and Davis, with Johnny Carson as the emcee (substituting for Bishop, who was out with a bad back), performed their only televised concert together during the heyday of the Pack at the Kiel Opera House in St. Louis, a closed-circuit broadcast done as a fundraiser for Dismas House (the first halfway house for ex-convicts) and fed live to movie theatres across the country. Thirty years later Paul Brownstein tracked down a print of the \"lost\" show in a St. Louis closet after someone noticed mysterious cameras onstage during a CBS documentary on Sinatra which filmed part of the show. It has since been broadcast on Nick at Nite (in 1998) as part of The Museum of Television & Radio Showcase series and released on DVD as part of the \"Ultimate Rat Pack Collection: Live & Swingin\".\n\nIn 1981, Dean Martin and Sammy Davis Jr., appeared together in the film \"Cannonball Run\", and were joined by Sinatra in the sequel \"Cannonball Run II\". This would be the last time that the three would appear in a movie together (Shirley MacLaine also appears in the latter film).\n\nIn December 1987, at Chasen's restaurant in Los Angeles, Sinatra, Davis, and Martin announced a 29-date tour, called \"Together Again\". At the press conference to announce the tour, Martin joked about calling the tour off, and Sinatra rebuked a reporter for using the term \"Rat Pack\", referring to it as \"that stupid phrase\".\n\nDean Martin's son, Dean Paul Martin, died in a plane crash in March 1987 on the San Gorgonio Mountain in California, the same mountain where Sinatra's mother, Dolly, was killed in a plane crash ten years earlier. Martin had since become increasingly dependent on alcohol and prescription drugs. Davis had hip replacement surgery two years previously, and was estranged from Sinatra because of Davis' use of cocaine. Davis was also experiencing severe financial difficulties, and was promised by Sinatra's people that he could earn between six and eight million dollars from the tour.\n\nMartin had not made a film or recorded since 1984, and Sinatra felt that the tour would be good for Martin, telling Davis, \"I think it would be great for Dean. Get him out. For that alone it would be worth doing\". Sinatra and Davis still performed regularly, yet had not recorded for several years. Both Sinatra and Martin had made their last film appearances together in 1984's \"Cannonball Run II\", a film which also starred Davis. This marked the trio's first feature film appearance since 1964's \"Robin and the 7 Hoods\". Martin expressed reservations about the tour, wondering whether they could draw as many people as they had in the past. After private rehearsals, at one of which Sinatra and Davis had complained about the lack of black musicians in the orchestra, the tour began at the Oakland-Alameda County Coliseum Arena on March 13, 1988, to a sold-out crowd of 14,500. \n\nDavis opened the show, followed by Martin and then Sinatra; after an interval, the three performed a medley of songs. During the show, Martin threw a lit cigarette at the audience.\n\nMartin withdrew from the tour after just five shows, with the official reason stated as being a flare-up of a kidney problem. Sinatra and Davis continued the tour under the title \"The Ultimate Event\" with Liza Minnelli replacing Martin as the third member of the trio.\n\nDavis's associate stated that Sinatra's people were skimming the top of the revenues from the concerts, as well as stuffing envelopes full of cash into suitcases after the performances. In August 1989, after Davis experienced throat pain, he was diagnosed with throat cancer which caused his death in May 1990. Davis was buried with a gold watch that Sinatra had given him at the conclusion of \"The Ultimate Event Tour\".\n\nA 1988 performance of \"The Ultimate Event\" in Detroit was recorded and shown on Showtime the following year as a tribute to the recently deceased Davis. A review in \"The New York Times\" praised Davis's performance, describing him as \"pure, ebullient, unapologetic show business.\"\n\nConcerning the group's reputation for womanizing and heavy drinking, Joey Bishop stated in a 1998 interview: \"I never saw Frank, Dean, Sammy or Peter drunk during performances. That was only a gag! And do you believe these guys had to chase broads? They had to chase 'em away!\"\n\n\nArchival footage of Lawford and Sinatra were used in the 1974 compilation film \"That's Entertainment!\".\n\nShirley MacLaine appeared in the 1958 film \"Some Came Running\" along with Sinatra and Martin. She had a major role (and Sinatra a cameo) in the 1956 Oscar-winning film \"Around the World in 80 Days\". MacLaine played a Hindu princess who is rescued by, and falls in love with, original Rat Pack associate David Niven, and Sinatra had a non-speaking, non-singing role as a piano player in a saloon, whose identity is concealed from the viewer until he turns his face toward the camera during a scene featuring Marlene Dietrich and George Raft. MacLaine appeared alongside Sinatra in the 1960 film \"Can-Can\". She also had an appearance in the 1960 film \"Ocean's 11\" as a drunken woman. The 1984 film \"Cannonball Run II\", with MacLaine, marked the final time members of the Rat Pack shared theatrical screen-time together.\n\nA biopic, \"The Rat Pack\", made by HBO in 1998, starred Ray Liotta as Sinatra, Joe Mantegna as Martin and Don Cheadle as Davis, dramatizing their private lives and, in particular, their roles in the 1960 presidential campaign of John F. Kennedy.\n\n\"Christmas with the Rat Pack\", a collection of holiday tunes sung by Sinatra, Martin and Davis, was released in 2001. \"\" went on sale in 2003. A concert featuring the three men, \"Live from the Sands\" in Las Vegas, also is available on CD.\n\n\"\" tribute show originated on stage in London in 2000 and has been running continuously since then throughout Europe and North America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7699478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7699478", "title": "Revilo", "text": "Revilo\n\nRevilo (\"Oliver\" spelt backwards) is\n\n"}
{"id": "12442282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12442282", "title": "Rokkasen", "text": "Rokkasen\n\nThe are six Japanese poets of the mid-ninth century who were named by Ki no Tsurayuki in the \"kana\" and \"mana\" prefaces to the poetry anthology \"Kokin wakashū\" (c. 905–14) as notable poets of the generation before its compilers.\n\nIn their original appearance in the prefaces of the \"Kokin wakashū\", the six \"rokkasen\" are not actually referred to with this term.\n\nThere are numerous phrases that show the conceptualization of these six as a cohesive group, but the term \"Rokkasen\" first appeared in an early Kamakura-period commentary on \"Kokin wakashū\", titled \"Sanryūshō\" 三流抄.\n\nThe members of the \"rokkasen\", and their total poems in \"Kokin wakashū,\" are as follows:\n\nIn his prefaces to the anthology \"Kokin wanashū\", Ki no Tsurayuki first praises two poets, Kakinomoto no Hitomaro and Yamabe no Akahito, from the period before the \"rokkasen\" and then praises these six poets of the generation preceding his own, but also critiques what he considers to be weaknesses in their personal styles.\n\nHis criticism in both prefaces is as follows:\n\n\"Kana preface\"\n\n\"Mana preface\"\n\nThere are varying theories on both why Tsurayuki chose these six poets and why he chose to criticize them in this manner. Helen McCullough claims that they were selected because they all had distinctive personal styles in a time of homogeneity, and that by aligning them in his commentary with the six major styles of Han Dynasty poetry, Tsurayuki was showing off his knowledge of those sources. Thomas Lammare also believes that Tsurayuki picked these poets to match the six Han styles, and focuses more on how Tsurayuki claimed these styles did not properly align heart (\"kokoro\" 心) and words (\"kotoba\" 言葉).\n\nThe concept of the \"rokkasen\" had a lasting legacy on poetic scholarship both in the pre-modern and modern periods.\n\nIn 1009–1011, Fujiwara no Kintō compiled an expanded list known as the Thirty-Six Immortals of Poetry, which came to supplant this list of six. This led to the creation of similar lists based on this pattern, such as the \"Thirty-Six Court Lady Immortals of Poetry,\" and the \"Thirty-Six Heian-period Immortals of Poetry.\"\n\nMany Japanese scholars of the twentieth century conceptualized the history of \"waka\" poetry in the ninth century as a time when it was overshadowed by Chinese poetry in the first part of the century and then returned to prominence by the end of the century. These narratives held that this time was a transitional period between the \"waka\" anthologies \"Man'yōshū\" and \"Kokin wakashū\". When discussing the \"waka\" poetry of this period, some scholars have referred to it as the Rokkasen Period (六歌仙時代 \"rokkasen jidai\"), although there has been disagreement on when this period starts. Most of the scholars agree that it ends with the reign of Emepror Kōkō, but disagree on whether it begins with Emperor Ninmyō or Emperor Montoku. Both Hidehito Nishiyama and Ryōji Shimada conclude that they believe Ninmyō is the better choice for the start of this periodization.\n\nAdditionally, all but one of the Rokkasen, Ōtomo Kuronushi, appear in the famous collection of poetry, \"Hyakunin isshū\".\n\nThirty-Six Immortals of Poetry\n\nKokin Wakashū\n"}
{"id": "32882412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32882412", "title": "Royal coat of arms of Great Britain", "text": "Royal coat of arms of Great Britain\n\nThe Royal coat of arms of Great Britain was the coat of arms representing royal authority in the sovereign state of the Kingdom of Great Britain, in existence from 1707 to 1801. The kingdom came into being on 1 May 1707, with the political union of the kingdom of Scotland and the kingdom of England, which included Wales. With the 1706 Treaty of Union (ratified by the Acts of Union 1707), it was agreed to create a single kingdom, encompassing the whole of the island of Great Britain and its outlying islands, but not Ireland, which remained a separate realm under the newly created British crown.\n\nOn 1 January 1801, the royal arms of Great Britain were superseded by those of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, when Great Britain was united with the Kingdom of Ireland by the Acts of Union of 1800 following the suppression of the Irish Rebellion of 1798.\n"}
{"id": "220541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220541", "title": "Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom", "text": "Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom\n\nThe royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom, or the Royal Arms for short, is the official coat of arms of the British monarch, currently Queen Elizabeth II. These arms are used by the Queen in her official capacity as monarch of the United Kingdom. Variants of the Royal Arms are used by other members of the British royal family; and by the British government in connection with the administration and government of the country. In Scotland, there exists a separate version of the Royal Arms, a variant of which is used by the Scotland Office. The arms in banner form serve as basis for the monarch's official flag, known as the \"Royal Standard\".\n\nIn the standard variant used outside of Scotland, the shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the three passant guardant lions of England; in the second, the rampant lion and double tressure flory-counterflory of Scotland; and in the third, a harp for Ireland. The crest is a statant guardant lion wearing the St Edward's Crown, himself on another representation of that crown. The dexter supporter is a likewise crowned English lion; the sinister, a Scottish unicorn. According to legend a free unicorn was considered a very dangerous beast; therefore the heraldic unicorn is chained, as were both supporting unicorns in the royal coat of arms of Scotland.\n\nIn the greenery below, a thistle, Tudor rose and shamrock are depicted, representing Scotland, England and Ireland respectively. This armorial achievement comprises the motto, in French, of English monarchs, \"Dieu et mon Droit\" (God and my Right), which has descended to the present royal family as well as the Garter circlet which surrounds the shield, inscribed with the Order's motto, \"Honi soit qui mal y pense\" (Shame on him who thinks evil).\nThe official blazon of the Royal Arms is:\n\nThe Royal Arms as shown above may only be used by the Queen herself. They also appear in courtrooms, since the monarch is deemed to be the fount of judicial authority in the United Kingdom and law courts comprise part of the ancient royal court (thus so named). Judges are officially Crown representatives, demonstrated by the display of the Royal Arms behind the judge's bench in all UK courts (with the exceptions of the magistrates' court in the City of London, where behind the Justices of the Peace stands a sword upright flanked by the arms of the City and the Crown). In Northern Ireland, the Royal Arms cannot be displayed in courtrooms or on court-house exteriors. There are a few exceptions, with the Royal Arms allowed to be displayed in the courtrooms of the Royal Courts of Justice in Belfast and the courts in Armagh, Banbridge, Downpatrick, Magherafelt, or Omagh. They may be shown on the exterior of court buildings that had them in place prior to the 2002 law.\n\nAs the United Kingdom is governed in the monarch's name, the British Government also uses the Royal Arms as a national symbol of the United Kingdom, and, in that capacity, the coat of arms can be seen on several government documents and forms, passports, in the entrance to embassies and consulates, etc. However, when used by the government and not by the monarch personally, the coat of arms is often represented without the helm. This is also the case with the sovereign's Scottish arms, a version of which is used by the Scotland Office.\n\nThe Royal Arms have regularly appeared on the coinage produced by the Royal Mint including, for example, from 1663, the Guinea and, from 1983, the British one pound coin. In 2008, a new series of designs for all seven coins of £1 and below was unveiled by the Royal Mint, every one of which is drawn from the Royal Arms. The full Royal Arms appear on the one pound coin, and sections appear on each of the other six, such that they can be put together like a puzzle to make another complete representation of the Royal Arms.\n\nThe monarch grants Royal Warrants to select businesses and tradespeople which supply the Royal Household with goods or services. This entitles those businesses to display the Royal Arms on their packaging and stationery by way of advertising.\n\nIt is customary (but not mandatory) for churches throughout the United Kingdom whether in the Church of England or the Church of Scotland to display the Royal Arms to show loyalty to the Crown.\n\nA banner of the Royal Arms, known as the Royal Standard, is flown from the royal palaces when the monarch is in residence, Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace being her principal abodes; and from public buildings only when the monarch is present. This protocol equally applies to the monarch's principal residences in Scotland (the Palace of Holyroodhouse and Balmoral Castle), where the Royal Standard (Scottish version) is flown. When the monarch is not in residence the Union Flag, or in Scotland the ancient Royal Standard of Scotland, is flown.\n\nThe widely sold British newspaper \"The Times\" uses the Hanoverian Royal Arms as a logo, whereas its sister publication, \"The Sunday Times\", displays the current Royal Arms.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also displayed in all courts in British Columbia, as well as in other Canadian provinces such as Ontario, where the judges are appointed by Crown authority.\n\nThe Royal Arms were also displayed by all Viceroys of Australia as representation of their Crown authority.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also used and displayed in the Supreme Courts of South Australia and Victoria.\n\nThe Royal Arms are also the coat of arms for the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n\nThe Royal Arms were controversially used by former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher as her official letterhead from .\n\nSince the Union of the Crowns in 1603, a separate version of the Royal Arms has been used in Scotland, giving the Scottish elements pride of place.\n\nThe shield is quartered, depicting in the first and fourth quarters the lion \"rampant\" of Scotland; in the second, the three lions \"passant guardant\" of England; and in the third, the harp of Ireland.\n\nThe crest atop the Crown of Scotland is a red lion, seated and forward facing, itself wearing the Crown of Scotland and holding the two remaining elements of the Honours of Scotland, namely the Sword of State and the Sceptre of Scotland. This was also the crest used in the Royal Arms of the Kingdom of Scotland. The motto, in Scots, appears above the crest, in the tradition of Scottish heraldry, and is an abbreviated form of the full motto: \"In My Defens God Me Defend\".\n\nThe supporters change sides and both appear wearing the crowns of their respective Kingdom. The dexter supporter is a crowned and chained unicorn, symbolising Scotland. The sinister supporter is a crowned lion, symbolising England. Between each supporter and the shield is a lance displaying the flag of their respective Kingdom.\n\nThe coat also features both the motto \"Nemo me impune lacessit\" (No one wounds (touches) me with impunity) and, surrounding the shield, the collar of the Order of the Thistle. On the compartment are a number of thistles, Scotland's national flower.\n\nUnlike the Acts of Union 1707 with Scotland, the Acts of Union 1800 with Ireland did not provide for a separate Irish version of the royal arms. The crest of the Kingdom of Ireland (\"on a wreath Or and Azure, a tower triple-towered of the First, from the portal a hart springing Argent attired and unguled Or\") has had little or no official use since the union. When the Irish Free State established its own seals in the 1930s, the \"Fob Seal\" used on letters of credence varied the British arms by having the harp in two quarters.\n\nThe harp quarter of the Royal Arms represents Ireland on both the English and Scottish versions. Likewise, one English quarter is retained in the Scottish version, and one Scottish quarter is retained in the English version. Thus, England, Scotland and Ireland are represented in all versions of the Royal Arms since they came under one monarch.\nBy contrast, there is no representation at all for Wales in the Royal Arms, as at the Act of Union 1707 Wales was an integral part of the Kingdom of England pursuant to the Laws in Wales Acts 1535 and 1542; thus, it has been argued Wales is represented in the English coat of arms. However the argument is somewhat disengenuous as in 1535 the Welsh Dragon was already part of the Tudor Coat of Arms. Upon the accession of the Tudor monarchs, who were themselves of Welsh descent, a Welsh Dragon was used as a supporter on the Royal Arms. This was dropped by their successors, the Scottish House of Stuart, who replaced the Tudors' dragon supporter with the Scottish unicorn\nIn the 20th century, the arms of the principality of Wales were added as an inescutcheon to the coat of arms of the Prince of Wales, and a banner of those arms with a green inescutcheon bearing the prince's crown is flown as his personal standard in Wales. The so-called Prince of Wales's feathers are a heraldic badge rather than a coat of arms upon a shield, but they are not Welsh in any case. They derive, in fact, from the English Princes of Wales (who may owe them to an exploit of Edward, the Black Prince at the Battle of Crécy) and carry the motto \"\" (German, \"I Serve\"). In any event, they do not form part of the Royal Arms, as opposed to the heraldic achievement of the Prince of Wales, who drops them upon his accession as King.\n\nThe current royal arms are a combination of the arms of the former kingdoms that make up the United Kingdom, and can be traced back to the first arms of the kings of England and kings of Scotland. Various alterations occurred over the years as the arms of other realms acquired or claimed by the kings were added to the royal arms. The table below tracks the changes in the royal arms from the original arms of King Richard I of England, and William I, King of Scots.\n\nMembers of the British royal family are granted their own personal arms which are based on the Royal Arms. Only children and grandchildren in the male line of the monarch are entitled to arms in this fashion: the arms of children of the monarch are differenced with a three-point label; grandchildren of the monarch are differenced with a five-point label. An exception is made for the eldest son of the Prince of Wales, who bears a three-point label. Since 1911, the arms of the Prince of Wales also displays an inescutcheon of the ancient arms of the Principality of Wales. \nQueens consort and the wives of sons of the monarch also have their own personal coat of arms. Typically this will be the arms of their husband impaled with their own personal arms or those of their father, if armigerous. However, the consorts of a Queen regnant are not entitled to use the Royal Arms. Thus Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh has been granted his own personal arms.\n\nCurrently the following members of the royal family have their own arms based on the Royal Arms:\n\nVarious versions of the Royal Arms are used by Her Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom, the Parliament of the United Kingdom and courts in some parts of the Commonwealth.\n\nHM Government generally uses a simplified version of the Royal Arms with a crown replacing the helm and crest, and with no compartment. In relation to Scotland, the Scotland Office and the Advocate General for Scotland use the Scottish version, again without the helm or crest, and the same was used as the day-to-day logo of the Scottish Executive until September 2007, when a rebranding exercise introduced the name \"Scottish Government\", together with a revised logo incorporating the flag of Scotland.\n\nThe Scottish Government continues to use the Arms on some official documents.\n\nThe simplified Royal Arms also feature:\n\n\nVarious courts in the Commonwealth also continue to use the Royal Arms:\n\n\nFurthermore:\n\nThis table breaks down the official blazons to enable comparison of the differences between the general coat and the coat used in Scotland.\n\n\nOf all the former Dominions only three retain elements from the British Coat of Arms:\n\n\nIreland uses the medieval arms of Ireland that are incorporated into the British Coat of Arms:\n\nAll other former Dominions have changed their coat of arms with little or no British influence:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54596263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54596263", "title": "Scaea", "text": "Scaea\n\nIn Greek mythology, Scaea (Ancient Greek: Σκαιήν means \"left, on the left hand\"), was one of the Danaids.\n\nScaea was the daughter of Danaus, king of Libya and of Europe, a queen. She was the full sister of other Danaids namely Automate, Amymone and Agave. Scaea was married to Daiphron, son of Aegyptus and later to Archander of whom she had begotten a son, Metanastes.\n\nScaea like her other sisters, except Hypermnestra, killed their husbands on their wedding night at the behest of their father Danaus. Because of the murder, later on, Scaea and her sisters were punished in afterlife, being forced to carry a jug to fill a bathtub (pithos) without a bottom (or with a leak) to wash their sins off. The water was always leaking that they would forever try to fill the tub.\n\nIn some accounts, Scaea remarried Archander while her sister Automate took as husband his brother Architeles. These two were sons of Achaeus, coming from Phthiotis to settle in Argos.\n"}
{"id": "914436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914436", "title": "Shield-maiden", "text": "Shield-maiden\n\nA shield-maiden (), in Scandinavian folklore and mythology was a female warrior. They are often mentioned in sagas such as \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\" and in \"Gesta Danorum\". Shield-maidens also appear in stories of other Germanic peoples: Goths, Cimbri, and Marcomanni. The mythical valkyries may have been based on the shield-maidens.\n\nThe historical existence of shield-maidens is heavily debated, but scholars including Neil Price, argue that they existed while others, like scholar Judith Jesch disagree, citing a lack of hard evidence for trained or regular women warriors.\n\nThere are few historic attestations that Viking Age women took part in warfare, but the Byzantine historian John Skylitzes records that women fought in battle when Sviatoslav I of Kiev attacked the Byzantines in Bulgaria in 971. When the Varangians (not to be confused with the Byzantine Varangian Guard) had suffered a devastating defeat in the Siege of Dorostolon, the victors were stunned at discovering armed women among the fallen warriors.\n\nWhen Leif Erikson's pregnant half-sister Freydís Eiríksdóttir was in Vinland, she is reported to have taken up a sword, and, bare-breasted, scared away the attacking Skrælings. The fight is recounted in the \"Greenland saga\", though Freydís is not explicitly referred to as a shield-maiden in the text.\n\nSaxo Grammaticus reported that shield-maidens fought on the side of the Danes at the Battle of Brávellir in the year 750:\nExamples of shield-maidens mentioned by name in the Norse sagas include Brynhildr in the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", Hervor in \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\", the Brynhildr of the \"Bósa saga ok Herrauðs\", the Swedish princess Thornbjǫrg in \"Hrólfs saga Gautrekssonar\" and Princess Hed, Visna and Veborg in \"Gesta Danorum\".\n\nTwo shield-maidens appear in certain translations of the \"Hervarar saga\". The first of these Hervors was known to have taken up typically masculine roles early in her childhood and often raided travelers in the woods dressed as a man. Later in her life, she claimed the cursed sword Tyrfing from her father's burial site and became a seafaring raider. She eventually settled and married. Her granddaughter was also named Hervor and commanded forces against attacking Huns. Although the saga remarks on her bravery she is mortally wounded by enemy forces and dies on the battlefield. Scholars Judith Jesch and Jenny Jochens theorize that shield-maidens' often grim fates or their sudden return to typically female roles is a testament to their role as figures of both male and female fantasy as well as emblematic of the danger of abandoning gender roles.\n\nBrynhildr of the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", along with her rival in love, Guðrún Gjúkadóttir, provides an example of how a shield-maiden compares to more conventional aristocratic womanhood in the sagas. Brynhildr is chiefly concerned with honor, much like a male warrior. When she ends up married to Gudrun's brother Gunnarr instead of Sigurðr, the man she intended to marry, Brynhildr speaks a verse comparing the courage of the two men:\nBrynhildr is married to Gunnarr and not Sigurðr because of deceit and trickery, including a potion of forgetfulness given to Sigurðr so he forgets his previous relationship with her. Brynhildr is upset not only for the loss of Sigurðr but also for the dishonesty involved. Similar to her male counterparts, the shield-maiden prefers to do things straightforwardly, without the deception considered stereotypically feminine in much of medieval literature. She enacts her vengeance directly, resulting in the deaths of herself, Sigurðr, and Sigurð's son by Guðrún. By killing the child, she demonstrates an understanding of feud and filial responsibility; if he lived, the boy would grow up to take vengeance on Brynhildr's family.\n\nGuðrún has a similar concern with family ties, but at first does not usually act directly. She is more inclined to incite her male relatives to action than take up arms herself. Guðrún is no shield-maiden, and Brynhildr mocks her for this, saying, \"Only ask what is best for you to know. That is suitable for noble women. And it is easy to be satisfied while everything happens according to your desires.\" In her later marriages, however, she is willing to kill her children, burn down a hall, and send her other sons to avenge the murder of her daughter, Svanhildr. In the world of the sagas, women can be both honorable and remorseless, much like the male heroes. While a shield-maiden does not fill a woman's typical role, her strength of character is found in even the more domestic women in these stories.\n\nGraves of female settlers containing weapons have been uncovered, but scholars do not agree how these should be interpreted. Norse immigrant graves in England and chemical analysis of the remains suggested a somewhat equal distribution of men and women, suggesting husbands and wives, while some of the women were buried with weapons. In a tie-in special to the TV series \"Vikings\" Neil Price showed that a 10th Century Birka-burial excavated in the 1970s containing a large number of weapons and the bones of two horses turned out to be the grave of a woman upon bone analysis by Anna Kjellström. In 2017, DNA analysis confirmed that the person was female; the so called Birka female Viking warrior, but others including respected scholar of the Vikings, Judith Jesch says that conclusion is premature. \n\nWhile women warriors are a staple of fantasy, they are not often referred to as shield-maidens. Some who are include Éowyn in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Thorgil in Nancy Farmer's \"The Sea of Trolls\" trilogy.\n\nIn the 2013 TV series \"Vikings\", the legendary Viking shield-maiden Lagertha, played by Katheryn Winnick, is a principal character.\n\n"}
{"id": "23419016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23419016", "title": "Sing girls", "text": "Sing girls\n\n\"Sing girls\" () is a nickname for actresses who starred alongside Stephen Chow, often as the main character's romantic interest. Many are young, new actresses who go on to receive considerable media attention after appearing in one of Chow's films, and their success is often attributed to the attention brought to them by Chow—Zhang Yuqi, for example, has been referred to as Chow's \"protégée\" after appearing in the 2007 film \"CJ7\". The Chinese word 星 \"xīng\" refers both to Chow's nickname 星爷 (\"Sing Yeh\", \"Grandmaster Sing\") and to 明星, the word for a star or celebrity.\n\nChow has not always chosen newcomer actresses to co-star with him; for example, Vicki Zhao already had a successful music and film career when she appeared as the female lead in \"Shaolin Soccer\", and Gong Li was already famous as an \"Yimou girl\" () for her frequent collaboration with director Zhang Yimou before she starred in two Stephen Chow films in the early 1990s. Many times, though, starring with Chow has been a \"Sing girl\"'s first major role and has kick-started her career, as \"King of Comedy\" did for Cecilia Cheung. Eva Huang and Kitty Zhang both gained considerable attention from media and netizens after appearing in \"Kung Fu Hustle\" and \"CJ7\", respectively, even though their roles were relatively small (Huang's role had no lines at all).\n\nKingdom Yuen appeared in numerous 1990s Stephen Chow films not as a lead female or romantic interest, but rather in minor roles as a comedic stock character.\n\nThe youngest \"Sing girl\" is 7 year old Zhang Yuwen, who appears in \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29298", "title": "Spouse", "text": "Spouse\n\nA spouse is a life partner in a marriage, civil union, or common-law marriage. The term is gender neutral, whereas a male spouse is a husband and a female spouse is a wife. Although a spouse is a form of significant other, the latter term also includes non-marital partners who play a social role similar to that of a spouse, but do not have rights and duties reserved by law to a spouse.\n\nThe legal status of a spouse, and the specific rights and obligations associated with that status, vary significantly among the jurisdictions of the world. These regulations are usually described in family law statutes. However, in many parts of the world, where civil marriage is not that prevalent, there is instead customary marriage, which is usually regulated informally by the community. In many parts of the world, spousal rights and obligations are related to the payment of bride price, dowry or dower. Historically, many societies have given sets of rights and obligations to male marital partners that have been very different from the sets of rights and obligations given to female marital partners. In particular, the control of marital property, inheritance rights, and the right to dictate the activities of children of the marriage, have typically been given to male marital partners. However, this practice was curtailed to a great deal in many countries in the twentieth century, and more modern statutes tend to define the rights and duties of a spouse without reference to gender. Among the last European countries to establish full gender equality in marriage were Switzerland, Greece, Spain, and France in the 1980s. In various marriage laws around the world, however, the husband continues to have authority; for instance the Civil Code of Iran states at Article 1105: \"In relations between husband and wife; the position of the head of the family is the exclusive right of the husband\".\n\nDepending on jurisdiction, the refusal or inability of a spouse to perform the marital obligations may constitute a ground for divorce, legal separation or annulment. The latter two options are more prevalent in countries where the dominant religion is Roman Catholicism, some of which introduced divorce only recently (i.e. Italy in 1970, Portugal in 1975, Brazil in 1977, Spain in 1981, Argentina in 1987, Paraguay in 1991, Colombia in 1991, Ireland in 1996, Chile in 2004 and Malta in 2011). In recent years, many Western countries have adopted no fault divorce. In some parts of the world, the formal dissolution of a marriage is complicated by the payments and goods which have been exchanged between families (this is common where marriages are arranged). This often makes it difficult to leave a marriage, especially for the woman: in some parts of Africa, once the bride price has been paid, the wife is seen as belonging to the husband and his family; and if she wants to leave, the husband may demand back the bride price that he had paid to the girl's family. The girl's family often cannot or does not want to pay it back.\n\nRegardless of legislation, personal relations between spouses may also be influenced by local culture and religion, which may promote male authority over the wife: for instance the word (ba`al), Hebrew for \"husband\", used throughout the Bible, is synonymous with \"owner\" and \"master\".\n\nThere is often a minimum legal marriageable age. The United Nations Population Fund stated the following:\n\nAlthough in Western countries spouses sometimes choose not to have children, such a choice is not accepted in some parts of the world. In some cultures and religions, the quality of a spouse imposes an obligation to have children. In northern Ghana, for example, the payment of bride price signifies a woman's requirement to bear children, and women using birth control are at risks of threats and coercion.\n\nThere are many ways in which a spouse is chosen, which vary across the world, and include love marriage, arranged marriage, and forced marriage. The latter is in some jurisdictions a void marriage or a voidable marriage. Forcing someone to marry is also a criminal offense in some countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "31597516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31597516", "title": "St. Germain (Theosophy)", "text": "St. Germain (Theosophy)\n\nSt. Germain (also sometimes referred to as Master Rakoczi or Master R) is a legendary spiritual master of the ancient wisdom in various Theosophical and post-Theosophical teachings, responsible for the New Age culture of the Age of Aquarius and identified with the Count of St. Germain (\"fl.\" 1710–1784), who has been variously described as a courtier, adventurer, charlatan, inventor, alchemist, pianist, violinist and amateur composer.\n\nSome write that his name St. Germain was invented by him as a French version of the Latin \"Sanctus Germanus\", meaning \"Holy Brother\". In the Ascended Master Teachings (but not in traditional Theosophy), the \"Master R\", or the \"Master Rakóczi\", is a separate and distinct being from St. Germain.\n\nThere are several \"authoritative\" biographers who usually do not agree with one another. Probably the two best-known biographies are Isabel Cooper-Oakley's \"The Count of St. Germain\" (1912) and Jean Overton-Fuller's \"The Comte de Saint-Germain: Last Scion of the House of Rakoczy\" (1988). The former is a compilation of letters, diaries and private records written about the Count by members of the French aristocracy who knew him in the 18th century. Dr. Raymond Bernard's book \"The Great Secret – St. Germain\" is biographical and covers many aspects of the Count's life including his conflation with Sir Francis Bacon and the author of the Shakespearean opus. Manly Palmer Hall in his \"The Secret Teachings of All Ages\", describes some of the same attributes as Dr. Bernard, including the attribution of the writings of Shakespeare to a great adept like Francis Bacon, who could be amalgamated with the Count of St. Germain.\n\nThere have also been numerous French and German biographies, among them \"Der Wiedergänger: Das zeitlose Leben des Grafen von Saint-Germain\" by Peter Krassa, \"Le Comte de Saint-Germain\" by Marie-Raymonde Delorme and \"L'énigmatique Comte De Saint-Germain\" by Pierre Ceria and François Ethuin.\n\nA book titled \"The Great Secret, Count St. Germain\", by Dr. Raymond Bernard purports that St. Germain was actually Francis Bacon by birth, and later authored the complete Plays attributed to Shakespeare. He also contends, as does the Saint Germain Foundation in Schaumburg, Illinois, that Francis Bacon was the child of Queen Elizabeth and Lord Dudley but that it was kept quiet. According to the theory, Francis was raised by the Bacon family. Yet, throughout the Shakespearean canon, there are numerous hints that the author knows of his true birth, as revealed in the explicit clues in the text of the plays themselves, in pictures, as well as the cipher code that he employed.\n\nSaint Germain is the central figure in the Saint Germain Series of Books published by the Saint Germain Press (the publishing arm of the Saint Germain Foundation). The first two volumes, \"Unveiled Mysteries\" and \"The Magic Presence\", written by Guy Ballard as \"Godfré Ray King\" describe Saint Germain as an Ascended Master, like Jesus, who is assisting humanity. In these first two books, he discusses his personal experiences with Saint Germain and reveals many teachings that are in harmony with Theosophy and some other works referenced above. The third volume, \"The 'I AM' Discourses\", contains material that is foundational to the sacred scriptures of the \"I AM\" Religious Activity, founded in 1930, the first of the Ascended Master Teachings religions.\n\nThere are 20 Volumes in the Saint Germain Series of Books, which are also referred to as the \"Green Books.\" Another work of great importance, the \"Comte de Gabalis\", is said to be from the hand of Sir Francis Bacon before he Ascended and returned as Sanctus Germanus or Saint Germain. First printed in 1670, the book includes a picture of the Polish Rider, Rembrandt's famous painting at the Frick Collection in New York City, which is said to be of Sir Francis Bacon, \"a.k.a.\" the Comte de Gabalis, or the Count of the Cabala. Lotus Ray King (Edna Ballard's pen name), wife of Guy Ballard, talked about this book having been authored by the Ascended Master Saint Germain in the Round Table Talks of the \"I AM\" Religious Activity.\n\nSeveral Theosophists and practitioners of alternate esoteric traditions have claimed to have met Saint Germain in the late 19th or early 20th centuries: \n\nMany groups honor Saint Germain as a supernatural being called a Master of the Ancient Wisdom or an Ascended master. In the Ascended Master Teachings he is referred to simply as Saint Germain, or as the Ascended Master Saint Germain. As an Ascended Master, Saint Germain is believed to have many magical powers such as the ability to teleport, levitate, walk through walls, and to inspire people by telepathy, among others.\n\nThe Theosophical Society after Blavatsky's death considered him to be a Mahatma, Masters of the Ancient Wisdom or Adept. Helena Blavatsky said that he was one of her Masters of Wisdom and hinted that he had given her secret documents. Some esoteric groups credit him with inspiring the Founding Fathers to draft the United States Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, as well as providing the design of the Great Seal of the United States. (See Manly Palmer Hall's \"Secret Teachings of All Ages.\") In New Age beliefs, Saint Germain is always associated with the color violet, the jewel amethyst, and the \"Maltese cross\" rendered in violet (usually the \"iron cross style cross patee\" version). He is also regarded as the \"Chohan of the Seventh Ray\" According to The Theosophical Society, the Seven Rays are seven metaphysical principles that govern both individual souls and the unfolding of each 2,158-year-long Astrological Age. Since according to Theosophy the next Astrological Age, the Age of Aquarius, will be governed by the Seventh (Violet) Ray (the Ray of Ceremonial Order), Saint Germain is sometimes called \"The Hierarch of the Age of Aquarius\". According to the Ascended Master Teachings, Saint Germain is \"The God of Freedom for this system of worlds.\" According to the Ascended Master Teachings, the preliminary lead-up to the beginning of the Age of Aquarius began on 1 July 1956, when Ascended Master Saint Germain became the Hierarch of the Age of Aquarius, replacing the former Astrological Age Hierarch, the Ascended Master Jesus, who had been for almost 2,000 years the \"Hierarch of the Age of Pisces\".\n\nIn the works authored by Alice A. Bailey, Saint Germain is called \"Master Rakóczi\" or the \"Master R.\" (In the Ascended Master Teachings, the Master Rakoczi [ otherwise known as the Great Divine Director ] is regarded as Saint Germain's teacher in the Great White Brotherhood of Ascended Masters.) Alice A. Bailey's book \"The Externalisation of the Hierarchy\" (a compilation of earlier revelations published posthumously in 1957) gives the most information about his reputed role as a Spiritual Master. Saint Germain's spiritual title is said to be \"Lord of Civilization,\" and his task is the establishment of the new civilization of the Age of Aquarius. He is said to telepathically influence people who are seen by him as being instrumental in bringing about the new civilization of the Age of Aquarius. Alice A. Bailey stated that \"sometime after AD 2025,\" the Jesus, the Master Rakóczi (Saint Germain), Kuthumi, and others in the Spiritual Hierarchy would \"externalise\", i.e., descend from the spiritual worlds, and interact in visible tangible bodies on the Earth in ashrams, surrounded by their disciples. Alice A. Bailey said that St. Germain is the \"manager of the executive council of the Christ\"(Theosophists regard \"the Master Jesus\" and \"Christ\" as two separate and distinct beings. They believe in the Gnostic Christology espoused by Cerinthus (\"fl.\" c. 100 AD), according to which \"Christ\" is a being who was incarnated in Jesus only during the three years of the ministry of Jesus). According to certain Theosophists, \"Christ\" is identified as being a highly developed spiritual entity whose actual name is Maitreya. This Maitreya is the same being known in Buddhism as the Bodhisattva Maitreya, who is in training to become the next Buddha on Earth. According to Alice A. Bailey, the \"executive council of the Christ\" is a specific subgroup of the Masters of the Ancient Wisdom, charged with preparing the way for the Second Coming of Christ and the consequent inauguration of the Age of Aquarius.\n\nAccording to The Theosophical Society (not to be confused with the United Lodge of Theosophists) and the Ascended Master Teachings, Saint Germain was incarnated as: (see notes 1, 2, and 3 for sources): (Note: Not all Theosophical and Ascended Master Teaching groups accept all of these incarnations as valid. St. Germain's incarnations as St. Alban, Proclus, Roger Bacon and Sir Francis Bacon are universally accepted.)\n\n\nAccording to the Ascended Master Teachings, Francis Bacon made it appear that he died on Easter Sunday, 9 April 1626, and he even attended his own \"funeral\" in disguise. It is believed by the adherents of the Ascended Master Teachings that he then traveled secretly to Transylvania (then part of Hungary, now part of Romania) to the Rakoczy Mansion of the royal family of Hungary. Finally on 1 May 1684 he is believed to have attained (by his knowledge of alchemy) his physical Ascension (attaining immortality and eternal youth [ the sixth level of Initiation]) at which time Francis Bacon adopted the name \"Saint Germain.\"\n\nThe scholar K. Paul Johnson maintains that the \"Masters\" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors.\n\nAlso see the article \"Talking to the Dead and Other Amusements\" by Paul Zweig \"New York Times\" 5 October 1980, which maintains that Madame Blavatsky's revelations were fraudulent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75849", "title": "The Five (composers)", "text": "The Five (composers)\n\nThe Five, also known as the Mighty Handful and the New Russian School, were five prominent 19th-century Russian composers who worked together to create distinct Russian classical music. Mily Balakirev (the leader), César Cui, Modest Mussorgsky, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov and Alexander Borodin all lived in Saint Petersburg, and collaborated from 1856 to 1870.\n\nIn May 1867 the critic Vladimir Stasov wrote an article, titled \"Mr. Balakirev's Slavic Concert\", covering a concert that had been performed for visiting Slav delegations at the \"All-Russian Ethnographical Exhibition\" in Moscow. The four Russian composers whose works were played at the concert were Mikhail Glinka, Alexander Dargomyzhsky, Mily Balakirev, and Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov. The article ended with the following statement:\n\nThe expression \"mighty handful\" (, \"Moguchaya kuchka\", \"Mighty Bunch\") was mocked by enemies of Balakirev and Stasov: Aleksandr Serov, academic circles of the conservatory, the Russian Musical Society, and their press supporters. The group ignored critics and continued operating under the moniker. This loose collection of composers gathered around Balakirev now included Cui, Mussorgsky, Rimsky-Korsakov, and Borodin — the five who have come to be associated with the name \"Mighty Handful\", or sometimes \"The Five\". Gerald Abraham stated flatly in the \"Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians\" that \"they never called themselves, nor were they ever called in Russia, 'The Five'\" (although today the Russian equivalent \"Пятёрка\" (\"Pyatyorka\") is occasionally used to refer to this group). In his memoirs, Rimsky-Korsakov routinely refers to the group as \"Balakirev's circle\", and occasionally uses \"The Mighty Handful\", usually with an ironic tone. He also makes the following reference to \"The Five\":\n\nThe Russian word \"kuchka\" also spawned the terms \"kuchkism\" and \"kuchkist\", which may be applied to artistic aims or works in tune with the sensibilities of the Mighty Handful.\n\nThe name of Les Six, an even looser collection of French-speaking composers, emulates that of \"The Five\".\n\nThe formation of the group began in 1856, with the first meeting of Balakirev and César Cui. Modest Mussorgsky joined them in 1857, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov in 1861, and Alexander Borodin in 1862. All the composers in The Five were young men in 1862. Balakirev was 25, Cui 27, Mussorgsky 23, Borodin the eldest at 28, and Rimsky-Korsakov just 18. They were all self-trained amateurs. Borodin combined composing with a career in chemistry. Rimsky-Korsakov was a naval officer (he wrote his First Symphony on a three-year naval voyage circumnavigating the globe). Mussorgsky had been in the prestigious Preobrazhensky Regiment of the Imperial Guard, and then in the civil service before taking up music; even at the height of his career in the 1870s he was forced by the expense of his drinking habit to hold down a full-time job in the State Forestry Department.\n\nIn contrast to the élite status and court connections of Conservatory composers such as Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, The Five were mainly from the minor gentry of the provinces. To some degree their \"esprit de corps\" depended on the myth, which they themselves created, of a movement that was more \"authentically Russian,\" in the sense that it was closer to the native soil, than the classic academy.\n\nBefore them, Mikhail Glinka and Alexander Dargomyzhsky had gone some way towards producing a distinctly Russian kind of music, writing operas on Russian subjects, but the Mighty Handful represented the first concentrated attempt to develop such a music, with Stasov as their artistic adviser and Dargomyzhsky as an elder statesman to the group, so to speak. The circle began to fall apart during the 1870s, no doubt partially due to the fact that Balakirev withdrew from musical life early in the decade for a period of time. All of \"The Five\" are buried in Tikhvin Cemetery in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe musical language The Five developed set them far apart from the Conservatoire. This self-conscious Russian styling was based on two elements:\n\n\nOne hallmark of \"The Five\" was its reliance on orientalism. Many quintessentially \"Russian\" works were composed in orientalist style, such as Balakirev's \"Islamey\", Borodin's \"Prince Igor\" and Rimsky-Korsakov's \"Scheherazade\". Orientalism, in fact, became widely considered in the West both one of the best-known aspects of Russian music and a trait of Russian national character. As leader of \"The Five,\" Balakirev encouraged the use of eastern themes and harmonies to set their \"Russian\" music apart from the German symphonism of Anton Rubinstein and other Western-oriented composers. Because Rimsky-Korsakov used Russian folk and oriental melodies in his First Symphony, Stasov and the other nationalists dubbed it the \"First Russian Symphony,\" even though Rubinstein had written his \"Ocean\" Symphony a dozen years before it. These were themes Balakirev had transcribed in the Caucasus. \"The symphony is good,\" Cui wrote to Rimsky-Korsakov in 1863, while the latter was out on naval deployment. \"We played it a few days ago at Balakirev's—to the great pleasure of Stassov. It is really Russian. Only a Russian could have composed it, because it lacks the slightest trace of any stagnant Germanness.\"\n\nOrientalism was not confined to using authentic Eastern melodies. What became more important than the melodies themselves were the musical conventions added to them. These conventions allowed orientalism to become an avenue for writing music on subjects considered unmentionable otherwise, such as political themes and erotic fantasies. It also became a means of expressing Russian supremacy as the empire expanded under Alexander II. This was often reinforced through misogynist symbolism—the rational, active and moral Western man versus the irrational, passive and immoral Eastern woman.\n\nTwo major works entirely dominated by orientalism are Rimsky-Korsakov's symphonic suite \"Antar\" and Balakirev's symphonic poem \"Tamara\". \"Antar\", set in Arabia, uses two different styles of music, Western (Russian) and Eastern (Arabian). The first theme, Antar's, is masculine and Russian in character. The second theme, feminine and oriental in melodic contour, belongs to the queen, Gul Nazar. Rimsky-Korsakov was able to soften the implicit misogyny to some extent. However, female sensuality does exert a paralyzing, ultimately destructive influence. With Gul Nazar extinguishing Antar's life in a final embrace, the woman overcomes the man.\n\nBalakirev gives a more overtly misogynistic view of oriental women in \"Tamara\". He had originally planned to write a Caucasan dance called a \"lezginka\", modeled on Glinka, for this work. However, he discovered a poem by Mikhail Lermontov about the beautiful Tamara, who lived in a tower alongside the gorge of Daryal. She lured travelers and allowed them to enjoy a night of sensual delights, only to kill them and throw their bodies into the River Terek. Balakirev uses two specific codes endemic to orientalism in writing \"Tamara\". The first code, based on obsessive rhythms, note repetitions, climactic effects and accelerated tempi, represents Dionysian intoxication. The second code, consisting of unpredictable rhythms, irregular phrasing and based on long passages with many repeat notes, augmented and diminished intervals and extended melismas, depict sensual longing. Not only did Balakirev use these codes extensively, but he also attempted to supercharge them further when he revised the orchestration of \"Tamara\" in 1898.\n\nA direct result of such orientalism was the big influence that this circle left on the formation of classical traditions in other nations of the east and south of Russia. For instance, one of Rimsky-Korsakov's famous students, Alexander Spendiaryan went on to become the founder of Armenian classical music, carrying on the traditions and aesthetics of the Mighty Handful to the Caucasus.\n\nRimsky-Korsakov provides the following picture of \"The Mighty Handful\" in his memoirs, \"Chronicle of My Musical Life\" (translated by J. A. Joffe):\n\nExcept perhaps for Cui, the members of this group influenced or taught many of the great Russian composers who were to follow, including Alexander Glazunov, Mikhail Ippolitov-Ivanov, Sergei Prokofiev, Igor Stravinsky, and Dmitri Shostakovich. They also influenced the two French symbolist composers Maurice Ravel and Claude Debussy through their radical tonal language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21928489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21928489", "title": "Theophanes Continuatus", "text": "Theophanes Continuatus\n\nTheophanes Continuatus () or Scriptores post Theophanem (, \"those after Theophanes\") is the Latin name commonly applied to a collection of historical writings preserved in the 11th-century Vat. gr. 167 manuscript. Its name derives from its role as the continuation, covering the years 813–961, of the chronicle of Theophanes the Confessor, which reaches from 285 to 813. The manuscript consists of four distinct works, in style and form very unlike the annalistic approach of Theophanes.\n\nThe first work, of four books consists of a series of biographies of the emperors reigning from 813 to 867 (from Leo the Armenian to Michael III). As they were commissioned by Emperor Constantine VII (r. 913–959), they reflect the point of view of the reigning Macedonian dynasty. The unknown author probably used the same sources as Genesios. The second work is known as the \"Vita Basilii\" (Latin for \"Life of Basil\"), a biography of Basil I the Macedonian (r. 867–886) written by his grandson Constantine VII probably around 950. The work is essentially a panegyric, praising Basil and his reign while vilifying his predecessor, Michael III. The third work is a history of the years 886–948, in form and content very close to the history of Symeon Logothetes, and the final section continues it until 961. It was probably written by Theodore Daphnopates, shortly before 963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5610368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5610368", "title": "Thirteen Martyrs of Cavite", "text": "Thirteen Martyrs of Cavite\n\nThe Thirteen Martyrs of Cavite () and () were Filipino patriots in Cavite, Philippines who were executed by musketry on September 12, 1896, for cooperating with the Katipunan during the Philippine Revolution against Spain. The \"de facto\" capital city of Trece Martires in Cavite is named after them.\n\nShortly before the Katipunan was uncovered, Emilio Aguinaldo was planning to attack the Spanish arsenal at Fort San Felipe and he enlisted other Katipuneros to recruit enough men so they could overrun the Spanish garrison. Their meetings were held at the house of Cabuco.\n\nAguinaldo and the other Katipuneros agreed that they would arm the inmates of the provincial jail who were made to work at the garrison. The task of recruiting the inmates was given to Lapidario, who was also the warden of the provincial jail. Aguado was to supply Lapidario with money to buy arms.\n\nAccording to their plan, the uprising would be signalled by fireworks from the warehouse of Inocencio. Other leaders of the uprising were Luciano, Conchu, Pérez, Pablo José, Marcos José, and Juan Castañeda. The revolt was to start on September 1.\n\nOn August 26, Aguinaldo received a letter from Andrés Bonifacio who reported that a Katipunan assembly in Balintawak on August 24 decided to start the revolution on August 30, to be signalled by a blackout at the Luneta, then known as Bagumbayan. On the appointed day, Bonifacio and his men attacked the Spanish powder magazine in San Juan. Later that same day, the Spanish authorities declared martial law in Manila and the provinces of Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Bulacan, Pampanga, Tarlac and Nueva Ecija.\n\nAguinaldo learned of the declaration of martial law in a meeting with Spanish Governor Fernando Pargas on the morning of August 31, 1896. He then went to Cabezas' haberdashery and ask him to inform to Lapidario that they had alternative but to rise in arms. Cabezas was the one who enlisted Lapidario for the planned uprising.\n\nBut Cabezas was not in favor of starting the revolt on August 31, 1896 so they discussed the uprising further. They decided to postpone the attack to September 3. However, the Spanish learned of the plan from a dressmaker named Victoriana Sayat and they immediately arrested Lapidario, de Ocampo and Aguado. The three were held incommunicado in the boat \"Ulloa\" and interrogated. They are presumed to have been tortured.\nDe Ocampo revealed the names of his companions and the thirteen suspects were rounded up on September 3 along with dozens of other Cavite leaders, including the musician Julián Felipe, who would compose the Philippine national anthem the following year. Felipe was incarcerated for nine months at Fort San Felipe. Also subsequently released were Pablo and Marcos José, and Juan Castañeda of Imus, who are also believed to have been involved in the uprising.\n\nWhile awaiting trial, guilt-stricken de Ocampo tried to commit suicide by slashing his stomach with a piece of broken glass. However, he was included in the indictment for treason before a military court which found them guilty on September 11 after a four-hour trial.\n\nAt 12:45 p.m. the following day, the thirteen patriots were brought out of their cells and taken to the Plaza de Armas, outside Fort San Felipe, and executed by musketry. Their bodies were later buried in a common grave at the Catholic cemetery at the village of Caridad.\n\nLater, the bodies of seven of the martyrs—Máximo Inocencio, Victorino Luciano, Francisco Osorio, Luis Aguado, Hugo Pérez, José Lallana, and Antonio San Agustín—were exhumed and reburied elsewhere. But the rest—Agapito Conchu, Máximo Gregorio, Alfonso de Ocampo, Eugenio Cabezas, Feliciano Cabuco, and Severino Lapidario remained unclaimed in their common grave.\n\nIn 1906, a monument to the Thirteen Martyrs was erected at the San Roque district of Cavite City, at the head of then San Roque causeway. Their families reinterred the remains of their loved ones at the foot of the monument. The monument is located at the intersection of M. Valentin St., Lopez Jaena Rd, Zulueta Rd and the P. Burgos Ave.\n\nIn 1954, the capital of Cavite was transferred to a newly created city situated near the center of the province, and it was named \"Trece Mártires\" in their honor. Each of its 13 barangays were named for each of the martyrs. On May 24, 2004, a new monument of the thirteen patriots were inaugurated in Trece Martires near the City Hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1768194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1768194", "title": "Trauco", "text": "Trauco\n\nIn the traditional Chilota mythology of Chiloé, the Trauco is a humanoid creature of small stature - similar to a dwarf or goblin - who lives in the deep forests. It has an ugly face, and legs without feet.\n\nThe Trauco is a mythical entity who inhabits the woods of Chiloé, an island in the south of Chile. It has a powerful magnetism that attracts young and middle-aged women. According to myth, the Trauco's wife is the wicked and ugly Fiura. The trauco carries a small stone-headed hatchet that he uses to strike trees in the forest to symbolize his sexual potency.\n\nWhomever the Trauco chooses will go to him, even if she is sleeping, and fall enraptured at his feet. No woman can resist his magical attraction; all have sexual intercourse with him. Some men of Chiloé fear the Trauco, as his gaze can be deadly.\n\nWhen a single woman is pregnant and no one steps forward as the father, people assume that the Trauco is the father. Because the Trauco is irresistible, the woman is considered blameless. The Trauco is sometimes invoked to explain sudden or unwanted pregnancies, especially in unmarried women.\n\nThe Trauco appears in The Luke Coles Book Series by Josh Walker where he functions as an antagonist in some of the subplots.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6609618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6609618", "title": "Winamac", "text": "Winamac\n\nWinamac was the name of a number of Potawatomi leaders and warriors beginning in the late 17th century. The name derives from a man named Wilamet, a Native American from an eastern tribe who in 1681 was appointed to serve as a liaison between New France and the natives of the Lake Michigan region. Wilamet was adopted by the Potawatomis, and his name, which meant \"Catfish\" in his native Eastern Algonquian language, was soon transformed into \"Winamac\", which means the same thing in the Potawatomi language. The Potawatomi version of the name has been spelled in a variety of ways, including Winnemac, Winamek, and Winnemeg.\n\nThe Winamac name became associated with prominent members of the Fish clan of the Potawatomi tribe. In 1701, Winamac or Wilamet was a chief of the Potawatomi villages along the St. Joseph River in what is now the U.S. state of Michigan. This man or another of the same name was an ally of New France who helped negotiate an end to the Fox Wars in the 1730s. Two other Winamacs were prominent during the War of 1812. One was active opponent of the United States, while the other was a U.S. ally. These two Winamacs have often been confused with each other.\n\nIn 1681, a group of Native Americans from several Algonquian tribes of New England accompanied French explorer René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle on an expedition to the west. One of these Natives, Wilamet (or Ouilamette or Wilamek), was appointed by La Salle to serve as a laison between New France and the natives of the Lake Michigan region. Wilamet was adopted by the Potawatomis, and his name, which meant \"Catfish\" in his native Eastern Algonquian language, was eventually transformed into \"Winamac\", which means the same thing in the Potawatomi language. Before long, he was recognized by the French as the \"chief\" of the Potawatomi villages along the St. Joseph River in what is now the U.S. state of Michigan.\n\nWilamet was therefore not a traditional Potawatomi leader (or \"okama\"), but was instead a \"chief\" appointed by the French. French-appointed chiefs were a common feature of the Franco-Indian alliance. According to historian Richard White, \"as the French singled out certain leaders to be the channels by which French power entered the villages, they created a new kind of chief which can best be distinguished as an alliance chief\".\n\nWilamet helped La Salle promote French policies while countering Iroquois influence in the Lake Michigan region. In 1694, a man named Ouilamek, probably the same Wilamet, led 30 Potawatomis in an expedition under Cadillac against the Iroquois. In 1701, Wilamet and Onanghisse (or Onangizes), another prominent Potawatomi alliance chief, represented the Potawatomis at the great Treaty of Montreal, which ended the war with the Iroquois.\n\nDuring the Fox Wars (1712–1733), a Wilamek was a leader of the Fish clan of the St. Joseph Potawatomis. Historian David Edmunds portrays this man as the same one who had attended the 1701 treaty, although Richard White writes that a Wilamek of this era was of a man of Sauk and Meskwaki (Fox) parentage who had married into the Potawatomi tribe. In 1719, Wilamek traveled to Montreal with a group of Meskwaki leaders in an effort to make peace. The following year, his son was captured by the Meskwakis, but he was later released.\n\nDuring the War of 1812 era, the Potawatomis, like other tribes, were divided over whether to oppose the expansion of the United States or to seek peaceful accommodation. Two men named Winamac were prominent in this era. One was an active opponent of the United States, while the other became a U.S. ally. These two men have often been confused with each other. American historians have often distinguished them by referring to the \"anti-American\" or \"hostile\" Winamek and the \"pro-American\" or \"friendly\" Winamek.\n\nThe \"anti-American\" Winamac was a Potawatomi leader who first appears in the historical record in 1810. That year, while returning from an unsuccessful raid against the Osages, Winamac's party stole horses from some white Illinois settlers. The settlers pursued the raiders, and the Potawatomis attacked, killing four men. Governor Ninian Edwards demanded that the Potawatomis surrender the raiders, but chief Gomo informed U.S. officials that the raiders had gone to Prophetstown in Indiana, headquarters of the anti-American resistance movement led by the Shawnee Prophet and his brother Tecumseh. Along with chiefs Shabbona and Waubonsie, Winamac led the Potawatomi contingent against the Americans at the Battle of Tippecanoe at Prophetstown in 1811.\n\nWinamac began the organization for the 1812 siege of Fort Wayne. Late in August, Winamac called together a war party from northern Indiana and Michigan. First attempting to convince Captain Rhea of their friendly intent, they sought entry to the post. Rebuffed, on August 28, 1812 the warriors killed a clerk who left the post for the Ohio. What followed were occasional firing of outbuildings and shots aimed at any and all movement seen from the outside. On September 4, Winamac approached under a flag of truce. Making no offer, Winamac found the fort susceptible to attack. The next day, two soldiers were killed outside the fort. Late in the afternoon, Winamac approached the fort with a small delegation and sought admittance to see the commander. Inside, they were heavily guarded, ending their ploy to kill the commander and attack from inside. The following day, September 6, saw the greatest action in the siege, but without help, the fort could not be taken. On September 11, a relief column under Governor Harrison arrived from Piqua and the siege ended.\n\nAfter the siege of Fort Wayne, Winamac served as a scout under British Indian agent Matthew Elliott. On November 22, 1812, Winamac was with a scouting party that captured several Indians, including Shawnee chief Logan (Spemica Lawba), a U.S. ally. Winamac was killed in an exchange of gunfire when Logan and his companions escaped; Logan died later from his wounds.\n\nThe \"pro-American\" Winamek was a chief from the Tippecanoe Potawatomi on the Wabash. Beginning in 1807 he and Five Medals and Topinabee continued to ask the American government for agricultural help. The equipment that was sent was never used, as only these chiefs were interested in agriculture, not their people. In 1807, President Monroe wanted to acquire more Indian land. A council was called at Fort Wayne in September. Winamac led the Potawatomi delegation. When the other chiefs and the Miami refused to negotiate land cessions, it was Winamac who persuaded first the Miami and then the Potawatomi to agree to the cession. When were agreed to, none were lands of the Potawatomi. Winamac and the Potawatomi received a generous share of the payment for these lands. The months following the treaty found Winamac at Detroit settling disputes for the lands in northwest Ohio. Because of the Fort Wayne Treaty, discontent was growing and the number of warriors at Prophetstown was increasing. Winamac provide information to Governor Harrison on the plans and activities at Prophetstown. Harrison invited the Prophet to Washington and in June, Tecumseh led a delegation to Vincennes to meet with Harrison. Here, Tecumseh denounced Winamac as a 'black dog' for supporting the American interests.\n\nThrough the winter of 1811-1812, Potawatomi raids were launched against settlements in southern Indiana and Illinois. To end the destruction, councils where held at Cahokia and Vincennes. Winamac and Five Medals assured the agents that the few anti-American warriors were not representative of the Potawatomi. Because of the influence of the pro-British chiefs, Winamac and Five Medals refused a trip to Washington. Tecumseh the Shawnee spoke at the council blaming Winamac and Five Medals for not controlling their warriors. When Gov. Harrison marched north to Prophetstown on the Tippecanoe in November 1811, Winamac marched with him. When they were a short march from Prophetstown, Winamac went ahead to talk with the Prophet. Winamac returned south to meet Harrison, but was on the far side of the Wabash and passed him by. On the night of November 6, Gov. Harrison encamped for the night, planning on entering Prophetstown the next day. When the sun rose, the confederacy had surrounded the troops. The Potawatomi were led by Shabbona with Waubansee and Winamac (2nd another chief among the Potawatomi). The defeat of the Indian confederacy scattered the tribes to their home villages. The dispersal of the Indian confederacy did not end the raids among the settlements. Tension was so bad, even Winamac was warned to stay out of the settlements. His unfailing support of the Americans would not protect him from harm.\n\nWhen the war between the United States and England was known, Winamac continued to support the Americans and led a delegation to the Lake Peoria villages seeking the warriors accused of raiding the settlements. He was ridiculed by the Potawatomi warriors and left unsuccessful. It was Winamac who carried William Hulls orders from Detroit to Fort Dearborn (Chicago) to evacuate, an attack was eminent. Winamac told Commander Heald that they must leave that day to save themselves, this was on August 9. On August 13, an escort of 13 Miami Indians arrived. On August 15, Mad Sturgeon and Blackbird led the Potawatomi ambush of 500+ warriors against the 62 soldiers and 27 civilians in the dunes of Lake Michigan. Fifty-three of the Americans died that day. Fifteen of the Indians died. Fort Dearborn fell on August 15, 1812 to an ambush, then Mackinac. These were followed by the siege of Detroit, which surrendered to the British on August 16.\n\nIn September 1817, Winamac and Metea represented the eastern Potawatomis at the treaty of Fort Meigs, in which they sold lands in Ohio and south central Michigan to the United States. Winamac died in 1821.\n\n\n"}
