{"id": "319138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319138", "title": "French paradox", "text": "French paradox\n\nThe French paradox is a catchphrase, first used in the late 1980s, that summarizes the apparently paradoxical epidemiological observation that French people have a relatively low incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD), while having a diet relatively rich in saturated fats, in apparent contradiction to the widely held belief that the high consumption of such fats is a risk factor for CHD. The paradox is that if the thesis linking saturated fats to CHD is valid, the French ought to have a higher rate of CHD than comparable countries where the per capita consumption of such fats is lower.\n\nThe French paradox implies two important possibilities. The first is that the hypothesis linking saturated fats to CHD is not completely valid (or, at the extreme, is entirely invalid). The second possibility is that the link between saturated fats and CHD is valid, but that some additional factor in the French diet or lifestyle mitigates this risk—presumably with the implication that if this factor can be identified, it can be incorporated into the diet and lifestyle of other countries, with the same lifesaving implications observed in France. Both possibilities have generated considerable media interest, as well as some scientific research.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the French paradox is an illusion, created in part by differences in the way that French authorities collect health statistics, as compared to other countries, and in part by the long-term effects, in the coronary health of French citizens, of changes in dietary patterns which were adopted years earlier.\n\nThe term \"French Paradox\" was first used in \"The Letter\", the newsletter of the International Organisation of Vine and Wine, in 1986. In 1989, theatre Professor George Riley Kernodle of the University of Arkansas used the term in a chapter in his book \"Theatre In History\", later republished as a separate academic paper.\n\nIn 1991, Serge Renaud, a scientist from Bordeaux University, France—considered today the father of the phrase—presented the results of his scientific study into the term and actual scientific data behind the perception of the phrase. This was followed by a public documentary broadcast on the American CBS News television channel, \"60 Minutes\".\n\nRenaud's observations regarding the apparent disconnect between French patterns of high saturated fat consumption and their low rates of cardiovascular disease can be quantified using data from the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. In 2002, the average French person consumed 108 grams per day of fat from animal sources, while the average American consumed only 72 grams. The French eat four times as much butter, 60 percent more cheese and nearly three times as much pork. Although the French consume only slightly more total fat (171 g/d vs 157 g/d), they consume much more saturated fat because Americans consume a much larger proportion of fat in the form of vegetable oil, with most of that being soybean oil. However, according to data from the British Heart Foundation, in 1999, rates of death from coronary heart disease among males aged 35–74 years were 115 per 100,000 people in the U.S. but only 83 per 100,000 in France.\n\nIn 1991, Renaud extended his studies in partnership with then junior researchers, cardiologist Michel de Lorgeril and dietician Patricia Salen. The three enhanced Renaud's study, with their paper concluding that: a diet based on southwestern Mediterranean cuisine; which is high in omega-3 oils, antioxidants and includes \"moderate consumption\" of red wine; created lower cases of cancer, myocardial infarction and cardiovascular disease; partly through increasing HDL cholesterol whilst reducing LDL cholesterol.\n\nIn 1999, Malcolm Law and Nicholas Wald published a study in the \"British Medical Journal\", using data from a 1994 study of alcohol and diet to explain how the French paradox might actually be an illusion, caused by two statistical distortions.\n\nFirst, Law and Wald attributed about 20% of the difference in the observed rates of CHD between France and the United Kingdom to the under-certification of CHD in France, relative to the UK.\n\nSecond, Law and Wald presented a time-lag hypothesis: if there were a delay in serum cholesterol concentrations increasing and a subsequent increase in ischaemic heart disease mortality, then the current rate of mortality from CHD is more likely to be linked to past levels of serum cholesterol and fat consumption than to current serum cholesterol levels and patterns of fat consumption. They wrote,\n\nWe propose that the difference is due to the time lag between increases in consumption of animal fat and serum cholesterol concentrations and the resulting increase in mortality from heart disease—similar to the recognised time lag between smoking and lung cancer. Consumption of animal fat and serum cholesterol concentrations increased only recently in France but did so decades ago in Britain.\n\nEvidence supports this explanation: mortality from heart disease across countries, including France, correlates strongly with levels of animal fat consumption and serum cholesterol in the past (30 years ago)...\n\nIn addition, the French population has become increasingly overweight. A study published by the French Institute of Health and Medical Research (INSERM) revealed an increase in obesity from 8.5% in 1997 to 14.5% in 2009, with women showing a greater tendency toward obesity than men.\n\nMuch commentary has been based on the assumption that the French paradox is real and is not the statistical distortion posited by Law and Wald. If the French paradox is regarded as real, the most obvious implication is that under certain circumstances, it is possible for individuals to consume a diet rich in saturated fats, and nonetheless avoid cardiovascular disease. Therefore, proposed explanations for the paradox have attracted considerable interest in other countries, including the creation of considerable demand for foods or supplements said to explain the paradox. The search for an explanation for the paradox has also led to some additional research.\n\nThe overall impact of the popular perception, in the English-speaking world, that the French paradox is a real phenomenon, has been to give added credibility to health claims associated with specific French dietary practices.\n\nThis was seen most dramatically when, in 1991, an early account of the then-novel concept of the French paradox was aired in the United States on \"60 Minutes.\" The broadcast left the impression that France's high levels of red wine consumption accounted for much of the country's lower incidence of cardiac disease. Within a year, the consumption of red wine in the United States had increased by 40% and some wine sellers began promoting their products as \"health food.\"\n\nThe cultural impact of the French paradox can be seen in the large number of book titles in the diet-and-health field which purport to give the reader access to the secrets behind the paradox: \n\nOther books sought to boost their credibility by reference to the French paradox. The American edition of \"The Dukan Diet\", written by Pierre Dukan, a Paris-based doctor, is marketed with the subtitle, “The real reason the French stay thin.”\n\nThe existence of the French paradox has caused some researchers to speculate that the link between dietary consumption of saturated fats and coronary heart disease might not be as strong as had previously been imagined. This has resulted in a review of the earlier studies which had suggested this link.\n\nSome researchers have thrown into question the entire claimed connection between natural saturated fat consumption and cardiovascular disease. In 2006 this view received some indirect support from the results of the Nurses' Health Study run by the Women's Health Initiative. After accumulating approximately 8 years of data on the diet and health of 49,000 post-menopausal American women, the researchers found that the balance of saturated versus unsaturated fats did not appear to affect heart disease risk, whereas the consumption of trans fat was associated with significantly increased risk of cardiovascular disease.\n\nSimilarly, the authors of a 2009 review of dietary studies concluded that there was insufficient evidence to establish a causal link between consumption of saturated fats and coronary heart disease risk.\n\nIt has been suggested that France's high red wine consumption is a primary factor in the trend. This hypothesis was expounded in a \"60 Minutes\" broadcast in 1991. The program catalysed a large increase in North American demand for red wines from around the world. It is believed that one of the components of red wine potentially related to this effect is resveratrol; however, the authors of a 2003 study concluded that the amount of resveratrol absorbed by drinkers of red wine is small enough that it is unlikely to explain the paradox.\nResearch suggests that moderate drinkers are less likely to suffer heart attacks than are abstainers or heavy drinkers (see alcohol and cardiovascular disease for details). Therefore, the alcohol in wine might be a factor in the French paradox.\n\nHowever, the difference between U.S. annual \"per capita\" alcohol consumption (9.2 litres per year) and French consumption (12.2 litres per year) is only 3 litres per year more.\n\nThere is a lack of medical consensus about whether moderate consumption of beer, wine, or distilled spirits has a stronger association with longevity. Of ten major studies, three found stronger evidence for wine, three for beer, three for liquor, and one study found no difference between alcoholic beverages.\n\nWines, particularly red wines, are a source of low levels of resveratrol. High doses of resveratrol have been linked to longevity and cancer prevention in other species.\nAlthough research continues on resveratrol, the concentration in wine seems too low to account for the French paradox.\n\nOligomeric procyanidins have been proposed to offer protection to human vascular cells, with other research indicating that red wine polyphenols reduce absorption of malondialdehyde which is implicated in elevating levels of low-density lipoprotein in the onset of arteriosclerosis.\n\nHowever, once digested and metabolized, the role of polyphenols to assert possible health effects in humans cannot be determined. Although polyphenols are speculated to be part of the health-promoting effects of wine consumption, no evidence exists to date that ingesting polyphenols from red wine or food sources actually provides health benefits.\n\nIn his 2009 book \"Cholesterol and The French Paradox\", Frank Cooper argues that the French paradox is due to the lack of hydrogenated and trans fats in the French diet. The French diet is based on natural saturated fats such as butter, cheese and cream that the human body finds easy to metabolize, because they are rich in shorter saturated fatty acids ranging from the 4-carbon butyric acid to the 16-carbon palmitic acid. But the American diet includes greater amounts of saturated fats made via hydrogenating vegetable oils which include longer 18- and 20-carbon fatty acids. In addition, these hydrogenated fats include small quantities of trans fats which may have associated health risks.\n\nIn his 2003 book, \"The Fat Fallacy: The French Diet Secrets to Permanent Weight Loss\", Will Clower suggests the French paradox may be narrowed down to a few key factors, namely:\n\nClower tends to downplay the common beliefs that wine consumption and smoking are greatly responsible for the French paradox. While a higher percentage of French people smoke, this is not greatly higher than the U.S. (35% in France vs. 25% in U.S.) and is unlikely to account for the weight difference between countries.\n\nMireille Guiliano, author of the 2006 bestseller \"French Women Don't Get Fat\", agrees that the weight differences are not due to French smoking habits. She points out that the smoking rates for women in France and the U.S. are virtually identical. Guiliano explains the key factors to the French woman's ability to stay slim as:\n\nIn his 2008 book \"In Defense of Food\", Michael Pollan suggests the explanation is not any single nutrient, but the combination of nutrients found in unprocessed food; not any one nutrient, nor the amount of carbohydrates or fats or proteins, but the whole length and breadth of nutrients found in \"natural\" foods as opposed to \"processed\" foods.\n\nIt has been suggested that a higher intake of fruit and vegetables in the diet may lower the risk of cardiovascular diseases.\n\nOne proposed explanation of the French paradox regards possible effects (epigenetic or otherwise) of dietary improvements in the first months and years of life, exerted across multiple generations. Following defeat in the Franco-Prussian War in 1871, the French government introduced an aggressive nutritional program providing high quality foods to pregnant women and young children with the aim of fortifying future generations of soldiers (the program was implemented about three decades prior to an analogous initiative in England in response to the Boer War). It has been suggested that the particular timing of this historical intervention might help explain the relatively low rates of obesity and heart disease found in France.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23174612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23174612", "title": "Institute for Healthcare Advancement", "text": "Institute for Healthcare Advancement\n\nThe Institute for Healthcare Advancement (IHA) is a not-for-profit, private operating foundation providing health care and improving health literacy at the national level. It is located in La Habra, California.\n\nIt provides children's medical and dental healthcare services at the Friends of Children Health Center.\n\nThe La Habra Family Resource Center is located on the Las Lomas Elementary School grounds. It is a complete, family-centered support system, working with community resources that can address the health, emotional, social, and academic needs of children and their families.\n\nIt published easy-to-read 'What to Do For Health' books, used by the states of California and South Dakota, health plans, Head Starts, health departments, and more; these books help reduce emergency room visits and costs. \n\nHealth Education Literacy Program (H.E.L.P.) Curriculum is an ESL (English as a Second Language) curriculum. As learners begin to master reading, writing, and speaking in English, they are also learning healthcare skills to become effective child caregivers. This project was funded through an English literacy and civics education grant from the Louisiana State Department of Education.\n\nIt has developed easy to use bilingual versions of advance health care directives in English, Spanish, Chinese, and Vietnamese; a Khmer version is being developed. It has been approved for use in California and may be downloaded for free.\n\nIt sponsors an annual national Health Literacy Conference for healthcare professionals and educators to teach them about health literacy, the latest research, and how to improve their patient education. It presents three awards for outstanding achievements in health literacy in the categories of Research, Innovative Programs, and Published Materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4931001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4931001", "title": "National Day of Mourning (Canadian observance)", "text": "National Day of Mourning (Canadian observance)\n\nThe National Day of Mourning, or Workers’ Mourning Day is observed in Canada on 28 April. It commemorates workers who have been killed, injured or suffered illness due to workplace related hazards and occupational exposures.\n\nWorkers' Memorial Day was started when two labour activists, Colin Lambert and Dr. Ray Sentes, were driving in early April 1983 to a union meeting, and were stopped by a funeral procession for a firefighter that had been killed in the line of duty. They worried that other workers who died because of work did not receive similar honours, and recalled how members of the United Steelworkers in Elliott Lake held each year a \"Workers' Remembrance Day\" for uranium miners who had succumbed to exposures. Lambert and Sentes sought endorsements from union officials for the idea to hold a national day of mourning, and the Canadian Union of Public Employees (CUPE) passed a resolution to that effect at its annual convention in 1983, and the Canadian Labour Congress followed suit at its annual convention the following year. The AFL-CIO declared a day of mourning in 1989 and a \"workers' Memorial Day\" is observed in over 100 countries.\n\nIn December 1990, this day became a national observance in Canada with the passing of the Workers Mourning Day Act, so that on April 28, 1991, it was officially the National Day of Mourning for persons killed or injured in the workplace; making April 28, an official Workers’ Mourning Day.\n\nInjuries and deaths in the workplace continue to be a matter of important concern across Canada. Many Canadians members work hard each day in an effort to minimize accidents and incidents. Risk is an inherent element of many jobs, and this is why safety should be one of the core values in any workplace. Since its inception, the observance has spread to over 80 countries around the world, but is known is most other countries as the Workers' Memorial Day. The date 28 April was picked because on that day in 1914, the Workers Compensation Act received its third reading. In 2001 the International Labour Organization first observed World Day for Safety and Health at Work on this day. Commemorating those who have been hurt or killed in the workplace shows respect for the fallen, while serving as a reminder of the importance of occupational health and safety.\n\nThe Canadian flag is flown at half-mast from sunrise to sunset on all federal government buildings, including on Parliament Hill. Workers and employees observe this day in various ways including lighting candles, donning ribbons and black armbands, and observing a moment of silence at 1100 hrs. The purpose of Day of Mourning is twofold- to remember and honour those lives lost or injured and to renew the commitment to improving health and safety in the workplace - to prevent further deaths, injuries and diseases from work.\n\nYoung workers aged from 15-24 are more likely than any other group to be injured on the job, in fact 1/3 of all injuries occur in this age group, and males are twice as likely to be injured as female workers. The highest rate of injury happens in construction and hospitality industries. These rates have led to specific laws in many provinces that provide for additional and special training for young and new workers. Due to these statistics, there has been renewed push to use this holiday to educate young workers of their rights in schools.\n\nMajor monuments in Canada have been erected and dedicated to workers whose lives have been who have been killed and injured on the job.\n\n\nThe BC Labour Heritage Centre maintains an interactive map recording all monuments and plaques dedicated to working class people in British Columbia, over fifty sites of which are Day of Mourning specific.\n\nMonuments around the world have been erected and dedicated to workers whose lives have been who have been killed and injured on the job.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25627242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627242", "title": "Online patient education", "text": "Online patient education\n\nOnline patient education, also known as online patient engagement, is a method of providing medical information and education to patients using learning management systems delivered through the Internet. It is a type of computer-based instruction and includes web seminars, downloadable materials, interactive learning courses, and audio/visual presentations. Generally, online patient education is supplemented with in-person consultations tailored to each individual.\n\nHealth professionals use online patient education to prepare patients for medical procedures, administer intake and informed consent paperwork, educate patients about health conditions, provide information about preventive care, encourage healthy behavior and lifestyle changes, etc. Health insurance companies use online patient education to inform patients about coverage policies. \n\nOnline patient education is gaining popularity as home Internet access becomes more common and medical practices increasingly utilize digital technologies. Patients either view online patient education programs and materials in a medical office or from their homes or other remote locations with Internet access. Content may include interactive features such as quizzes, live question and answer sessions (in moderated web seminars), and the ability to complete and submit forms.\n\nAny education delivered verbally by a healthcare provider to a single patient or group of patients can be considered as On Location patient education. Although this is still the most commonly used patient education method it is time consuming, can have consistency problems, and relies heavily on the individual patient ability to absorb, understand, and retain the verbal information.\n\nThe second most common method. Any information brochure at a healthcare provider office falls under this category. The benefits of printed materials is that patients can refer back to the information\n\nPatient education that is made available by a healthcare provider via his/her website, specific portal, or EHR. Web based education can be provided in an Asynchronous and Synchronous styles.\n\nEducating patients with online technology can be advantageous for both medical practices and patients because it gives health care providers the opportunity to create comprehensive educational materials that are consistently presented, rather than relying on face-to-face meetings in which information is presented by a staff member. Patients need not possess advanced computer/web skills to use this method of learning. A survey of 3200 patients revealed that even patients who are not computer literate are satisfied with online patient education as means of learning about medical care.\n\n"}
{"id": "6989424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6989424", "title": "Pharmacoeconomics", "text": "Pharmacoeconomics\n\nPharmacoeconomics refers to the scientific discipline that compares the value of one pharmaceutical drug or drug therapy to another. It is a sub-discipline of health economics. A pharmacoeconomic study evaluates the cost (expressed in monetary terms) and effects (expressed in terms of monetary value, efficacy or enhanced quality of life) of a pharmaceutical product. Pharmacoeconomic studies serve to guide optimal healthcare resource allocation, in a standardized and scientifically grounded manner.\n\nPharmacoeconomics centers on the economic evaluation of pharmaceuticals, and can use cost-minimization analysis, cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis or cost-utility analysis. Quality-adjusted life years have become the dominant outcome of interest in pharmacoeconomic evaluations, and many studies employ a cost-per-QALY analysis. Economic evaluations are carried out alongside randomized controlled trials and using methods of decision-analytic modeling. Pharmacoeconomics is a useful method of economic evaluation of various treatment options. As more expensive drugs are being developed and licensed it has become imperative especially in context of developing countries where resources are scarce to apply the principles of pharmacoeconomics for various drugs and treatment options so that maximum improvement in quality of life can be achieved in minimum cost.\n\nIn 1993, Australia became the first nation to use pharmacoeconomic analysis as part of the process for deciding whether new drugs should be subsidized by the Federal Government. The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) advises Federal Government ministers on whether new drugs should be placed on a list for of drugs that consumers can then purchase from pharmacies at a subsidized price. Since 1993, this approach to evaluating costs and benefits is used in Canada, Finland, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, and the UK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41700249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41700249", "title": "Shenkui", "text": "Shenkui\n\nShenkui is a culture bound syndrome native to China in which the individual suffers somatic symptoms with anxiety, believed to be caused by a loss of semen. And in Traditional Chinese Medicine, shen (kidney) is the reservoir of vital essence in semen (ching) and k’uei signifies deficiency. In simplified Chinese it is called 肾亏, Traditional Chinese 腎虧, and in pinyin Shènkuī.\n\nShenkui or shen-k'uei is one of several Chinese culture-bound syndromes locally ascribed to loss (or fear of loss) of Yang (Chinese: 陽). In Traditional Chinese Medicine, Shenkui is believed to result from a deficiency in yang, obtained through the loss of semen. Semen is believed to be \"lost\" through excessive sexual activity or masturbation, nocturnal emissions, \"white urine\" which is believed to contain semen, or other mechanisms. Symptoms within the Chinese diagnostic system include dizziness, backache, tiredness, weakness, insomnia, frequent dreams, and complaints of sexual dysfunction (such as premature ejaculation or impotence). From an ethnopsychiatric perspective, additional symptoms are preoccupation with sexual performance, potential semen loss, and bodily complaints which may be taken as symptoms of lost yang.\n\nLosing semen reduces Yang, causing an unbalance in the body. Nocturnal emissions, too much intercourse, and masturbation resulting in ejaculation lower the levels of semen, causing loss of Yang. Somatic symptoms may include body soreness, aches, lack of energy, fatigue, and possibly problems in sexual performance.\n\nA person suffering form Shenkui may endure body aches, dizziness, tiredness, inability to sleep, and sexual dysfunction, all for which no physical cause can explain.\n\nThe passing of semen too often is avoided because it is believed to be crucial to a person’s health and safety. It is believed to be life-threatening if too much semen is lost.\n\n\"Chinese martial artists that remained celibate through years and years of extensive training were believed to be most powerful, therefore maintaining the power of one’s vital essence.\"\n\nSymptoms include:\n\nChinese folk beliefs hold that the Yin (Chinese: 陰) represents femininity, slow, cold, wet, passive, water, the moon, and nighttime. And that Yang represents masculinity, fast, dry, hot, aggressive, fire, the sun, and daytime.\n\nLoss of yang would result in an abundance of Yin. It is also believed that if a case of Shenkui is severe enough, it could result in death. \nInformal or incomplete education about sexual health in China leaves a lot of room for folk beliefs to thrive. Often, advertisements support such beliefs to encourage use of traditional medicines. In Chinese folk beliefs, the loss of semen can cause imbalance in the body, leaving you with aches and pains and trouble performing.\n\nSpecific treatments are not mentioned. The affected person may go to a medical clinic that specializes in sexual health. If no medical problems are found, therapy may be used to help deal with stress, or anxiety medicines may be used.\n\nDisorders, who they affect, and how they affect are different within each culture. In order to diagnose someone, it is necessary to make the effort to understand their home culture. Whether it is a culture bound syndrome or not, a person’s background determines how they see and interpret their own symptoms and how it must be treated.\n\n"}
{"id": "25627238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25627238", "title": "Short-arm inspection", "text": "Short-arm inspection\n\nThe term \"short-arm inspection\" is a military euphemism referring to the routine medical inspection of male soldiers' penises (\"short arms\") for signs of sexually-transmitted diseases and other medical problems.\n\nThe precise origin of the term is uncertain; however, American and Australian troops are known to have used the term during the First World War.\n\nThe practice within the Imperial Japanese Army during World War 2 was described by an anonymous American soldier, who had been forced to work as a truck driver while held as a prisoner of war, and who came into daily close contact with Japanese soldiers.\n"}
{"id": "315212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315212", "title": "Therac-25", "text": "Therac-25\n\nThe Therac-25 was a computer-controlled radiation therapy machine produced by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited (AECL) in 1982 after the Therac-6 and Therac-20 units (the earlier units had been produced in partnership with CGR of France).\n\nIt was involved in at least six accidents between 1985 and 1987, in which patients were given massive overdoses of radiation. Because of concurrent programming errors, it sometimes gave its patients radiation doses that were hundreds of times greater than normal, resulting in death or serious injury. These accidents highlighted the dangers of software control of safety-critical systems, and they have become a standard case study in health informatics and software engineering. Additionally the overconfidence of the engineers and lack of proper due diligence to resolve reported software bugs, is highlighted as an extreme case where the engineers' overconfidence in their initial work and failure to believe the end users' claims caused drastic repercussions.\n\nThe Machine offered two modes of radiation therapy:\n\nIt also included a \"Field light\" mode, which allowed the patient to be correctly positioned by illuminating the treatment area with visible light.\n\nThe six documented accidents occurred when the high-current electron beam generated in X-ray mode was delivered directly to patients. Two software faults were to blame: One, when the operator incorrectly selected X-ray mode before quickly changing to electron mode, allowed the electron beam to be set for X-ray mode without the X-ray target being in place. A second fault allowed the electron beam to activate during field-light mode, during which no beam scanner was active or target was in place.\n\nPrevious models had hardware interlocks to prevent such faults, but the Therac-25 had removed them, depending instead on software checks for safety.\n\nThe high-current electron beam struck the patients with approximately 100 times the intended dose of radiation, and over a narrower area, delivering a potentially lethal dose of beta radiation. The feeling was described by patient Ray Cox as \"an intense electric shock\", causing him to scream and run out of the treatment room. Several days later, radiation burns appeared, and the patients showed the symptoms of radiation poisoning; in three cases, the injured patients later died as a result of the overdose.\n\nA commission concluded that the primary reason should be attributed to the bad software design and development practices, and not explicitly to several coding errors that were found. In particular, the software was designed so that it was realistically impossible to test it in a clean automated way.\n\nResearchers who investigated the accidents found several contributing causes. These included the following institutional causes:\n\n\nThe researchers also found several engineering issues:\n\n\nThe software was written in assembly language that might require more attention for testing and good design. However the choice of language by itself is not listed as a primary cause in the report. The machine also used its own operating system.\n\nLeveson notes that a lesson to be drawn from the incident is to not assume that reused software is safe: \n\"A naive assumption is often made that reusing software or using commercial off-the-shelf software will increase safety because the software will have been exercised extensively. Reusing software modules does not guarantee safety in the new system to which they are transferred...\" This blind faith in poorly understood software coded paradigms is known as cargo cult programming. In response to incidents like those associated with Therac-25, the IEC 62304 standard was created, which introduces development life cycle standards for medical device software and specific guidance on using software of unknown pedigree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2605490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2605490", "title": "Wireless electronic devices and health", "text": "Wireless electronic devices and health\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) has researched electromagnetic fields (EMFs) and their alleged effects on public health, concluding that such exposures within recommended limits do not produce any known adverse health effect.\n\nIn response to public concern, the WHO established the \"International EMF Project\" in 1996 to assess the scientific evidence of possible health effects of EMF in the frequency range from 0 to 300 GHz. They have stated that although extensive research has been conducted into possible health effects of exposure to many parts of the frequency spectrum, all reviews conducted so far have indicated that, as long as exposures are below the limits recommended in the ICNIRP (1998) EMF guidelines, which cover the full frequency range from 0–300 GHz, such exposures do not produce any known adverse health effect. Stronger or more frequent exposures to EMF can be unhealthy, and in fact serve as the basis for electromagnetic weaponry.\n\nInternational guidelines on exposure levels to microwave frequency EMFs such as ICNIRP limit the power levels of wireless devices and it is uncommon for wireless devices to exceed the guidelines. These guidelines only take into account thermal effects, as nonthermal effects have not been conclusively demonstrated. The official stance of the British Health Protection Agency is that “[T]here is no consistent evidence to date that WiFi and WLANs adversely affect the health of the general population”, but also that “...it is a sensible precautionary approach...to keep the situation under ongoing review...”.\n\nIn 2011, International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), an agency of the World Health Organization, classified wireless radiation as Group 2B – possibly carcinogenic. That means that there \"could be some risk\" of carcinogenicity, so additional research into the long-term, heavy use of wireless devices needs to be conducted.\n\nUsers of wireless devices are typically exposed for much longer periods than for mobile phones and the strength of wireless devices is not significantly less. Whereas a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS) mobile phone can range from 21 dBm (125 mW) for Power Class 4 to 33 dBm (2W) for Power class 1, a wireless router can range from a typical 15 dBm (30 mW) strength to 27 dBm (500 mW) on the high end.\n\nHowever, wireless routers are typically located significantly farther away from users' heads than a mobile phone the user is handling, resulting in far less exposure overall. The Health Protection Agency (HPA) says that if a person spends one year in a location with a Wi-Fi hotspot, they will receive the same dose of radio waves as if they had made a 20-minute call on a mobile phone.\n\nThe HPA also says that due to the mobile phone's adaptive power ability, a DECT cordless phone's radiation could actually exceed the radiation of a mobile phone. The HPA explains that while the DECT cordless phone's radiation has an average output power of 10 mW, it is actually in the form of 100 bursts per second of 250 mW, a strength comparable to some mobile phones.\n\nMost wireless LAN equipment is designed to work within predefined standards. Wireless access points are also often close to humans, but the drop off in power over distance is fast, following the inverse-square law. However, wireless laptops are typically used close to humans. WiFi had been anecdotally linked to electromagnetic hypersensitivity but research into electromagnetic hypersensitivity has found no systematic evidence supporting claims made by sufferers.\n\nThe HPA's position is that “...radio frequency (RF) exposures from WiFi are likely to be lower than those from mobile phones.” It also saw “...no reason why schools and others should not use WiFi equipment.” In October 2007, the HPA launched a new “systematic” study into the effects of WiFi networks on behalf of the UK government, in order to calm fears that had appeared in the media in a recent period up to that time\". Dr Michael Clark, of the HPA, says published research on mobile phones and masts does not add up to an indictment of WiFi.\n\nRadio frequency in the microwave and radio spectrum is used in a number of practical devices for professional and home use, such as:\n\nIn addition, electrical and electronic devices of all kinds emit EM fields around their working circuits, generated by oscillating currents. Humans are in daily contact with computers, video display monitors, television screens, microwave ovens, fluorescent lamps, electric motors of several kinds (such as washing machines, kitchen appliances [like electric can openers, blenders, and mixers], water pumps, etc.) and many others. A study of bedroom exposure in 2009 showed the highest ELF-EF from bedside lights and the highest ELF-MF from transformer devices, while the highest RF-ELF came from DECT cordless phones and outside cellphone base stations; all exposures were well below International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) guideline levels.\n\nThe highest typical daily exposure, according to a study of 2009, came from cellphone base stations, cellphones and DECT cordless phones, with the highest exposure locations in trains, airports and buses. The typical background power of electromagnetic fields in the home can vary from zero to 5 milliwatts per meter squared. Long-term effects of these electromagnetic fields on human and animal health are still unknown.\n\nSome implanted medical devices use radio frequency communication - both to report status, and to allow changing device behavior. Emissions from wireless electronic devices can interfere with the functioning of these devices, thereby adversely affecting the health of the user. Users of such implanted devices are usually cautioned to avoid close exposure to other wireless devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17792367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17792367", "title": "Women &amp; Health", "text": "Women &amp; Health\n\nWomen & Health is a peer-reviewed healthcare journal established in 1976. It covers research in the field of women's health. The editor-in-chief is Ellen B. Gold (University of California, Davis).\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.377, ranking it 9th out of 40 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\" and 86th in the category \"Public, Environmental & Occupational Health\".\n\n\n"}
