{"id": "563697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563697", "title": "\"Master Harold\"...and the Boys", "text": "\"Master Harold\"...and the Boys\n\n\"Master Harold\"...and the boys is a play by Athol Fugard. Set in 1950, it was first produced at the Yale Repertory Theatre in March 1982 and made its premiere on Broadway on 4 May at the Lyceum Theatre, where it ran for 344 performances. The play takes place in South Africa during apartheid era, and depicts how institutionalized racism, bigotry or hatred can become absorbed by those who live under it. It is said to be a semi-autobiographical play, as Athol Fugard's birth name was Harold and his boyhood was very similar to Hally's, including his father being disabled, and his mother running a tea shop to support the family. His relationship with his family's servants was also similar to Hally's, as he sometimes considered them his friends, but other times treated them like subservient help, insisting that he be called \"Master Harold\", and once spitting in the face of one he had been close to.\n\nThe play was initially banned from production in South Africa. It was the first of Fugard's plays to premiere outside of South Africa.\n\nThe play recounts the long, rainy afternoon that Hally (\"Master Harold\") spends with Sam and Willie, two middle-aged African servants of his parent's household, in a tea shop owned by Hally's mother. Sam and Willie have cared for seventeen year old Hally his whole life.\n\nAt the start of the play Sam and Willie are practicing ballroom steps in preparation for a major competition, while maintaining the tea shop. Business is slow due to the rain. Sam is quickly revealed as being the more worldly of the two. When Willie, in broken English, describes his ballroom partner and girlfriend as lacking enthusiasm, Sam correctly diagnoses the problem: Willie beats her if she doesn't know the steps.\n\nHally then arrives home from school, and cheerfully asks if the two are ready for the competition. Sam is the unacknowledged yet de facto mentor to the boy since childhood, and has always treated Hally as his nephew/ward. Sam hopes to skillfully guide Hally through the difficult passage from childhood into manhood. And hopefully thereby, takes up those values and viewpoints of an adult; and a man, that Sam, has over the years lain down; and, that all men try to leave as their legacy of shepherding an adolescent boy into manhood. Willie, for his part, has always played the \"loyal black\"; who has always called the white Afrikaner boy (now young man) \"Master Harold\"; As if, as a man of forty-five, he was addressing a superior; even when Hally was six.\n\nThe conversation between the three moves from Hally's school-work, to an intellectual discussion on \"A Man of Magnitude\", where they mention various historical figures of the time and their contribution to society, to flashbacks of Hally, Sam and Willie when they lived in a Boarding House. Hally warmly remembers the simple act of flying a kite Sam had made for him out of junk; we later learn that Sam made it to cheer Hally up after he was embarrassed greatly by his father's public and continuing drunkenness. Conversation then turns to Hally's 500-word English composition. The play reaches an emotional apex as the beauty of the ballroom dancing floor (\"a world without collisions\") is used as a transcendent metaphor for life.\n\nAlmost immediately despair returns: Sam had early on mentioned why Hally's mother is not present; the hospital had called about his father, who has been there receiving treatment for complications from a leg he lost in World War II, to discharge him, and she had left to bring him home. However, Hally, indicating that his father had been in considerable pain the previous day, insisted that his father wasn't well enough to be discharged, and that the call must've been about a bad turn, rather than a discharge notice. A call from Hally's mother at the hospital confirms that Hally's father, is manipulating the hospital into discharging him, although he is indeed, not feeling any better than before, so it's still unofficial, and Hally remains hopeful that the discharge won't happen. A second call from Hally's mother later reveals that the discharge is official, and Hally's father is now home.\n\nHally is distraught about this news, since his father, who in addition to being crippled, is revealed to be a tyrannical alcoholic, and his being home will make home life unbearable with his drinking, fighting, and need for constant treatment, which includes demeaning tasks of having to massage his stump, and empty chamber pots of urine. Hally vents to his two black friends years of anger, and pain, viciously mocking his father and his condition. But when Sam chastises him for doing so, Hally, although ashamed of himself, turns on him, unleashing vicarious racism, that he learned from his father, creating possibly permanent rifts in his relationship with both Sam and Willie. For the first time, apart from hints throughout the play, Hally begins explicitly to treat Sam and Willie as subservient help rather than as friends or playmates, insisting that Sam call him \"Master Harold\" and spitting on him, among other things. Sam is hurt and angry and both he and Willie are just short of attacking Hally, but they both understand that Hally is really causing himself the most pain.\n\nThere is a glimmer of hope for reconciliation at the end, when Sam addresses Hally by his nickname again and asks to start over the next day, harkening back to the simple days of the kite. Hally, horrified about what he's done, is barely able to face Sam, responding without looking up \"It's still raining, Sam. You can't fly kites on rainy days, remember,\" then asks Willie to lock up the tea shop, and walks out into the rain, as Sam mentions that the bench Hally sat on as he flew the kite said \"Whites Only\" but Hally was too excited to notice it, and that he can (figuratively) leave it at any time. The play ends while Sam and Willie console each other by ballroom dancing together.\n\nJohn Simon, writing for New York Magazine, was measured in his review:\n\nFrank Rich of \"The New York Times\" praised the performance at the original Broadway premiere: \n\nThe principal casts of notable productions of \"Master Harold... and the Boys\"\n\nIvanek left to make the film \"The Sender\" in 1982, which is why he was replaced by Price.\n\nThe Afrikaans version was translated by Idil Sheard as \"Master Harold en die Boys\".\n\nFugard adapted the play for a television movie produced in 1985, directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg with stars, Matthew Broderick, Zakes Mokae, and John Kani.\n\nA filmed version of the play was produced in South Africa in 2009 starring Freddie Highmore (\"Charlie and the Chocolate Factory\", \"Finding Neverland\") as Hally and Ving Rhames (\"Pulp Fiction\", \"Mission Impossible 1–3\") as Sam. The film was directed by Lonny Price (who played Hally in the original Broadway cast) and produced by Zaheer Goodman-Bhyat, Mike Auret, Nelle Nugent and David Pupkewitz.\n\nSource: Playbill (vault)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39134375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39134375", "title": "AIDS photo diary, 1986–1990", "text": "AIDS photo diary, 1986–1990\n\nAIDS photo diary, 1986–1990 is an art work that comprises a photo diary that records the decline in health and eventual death of David Tosh, from AIDS from 1986 to 1990 in Sydney, Australia. The diary – with accompanying photographs taken by John Jenner – was created by Jenner to remember his friend and honour the lives of people living with HIV/AIDS. Some of the images were featured in an article in \"Sydney Morning Herald\"s \"Good Weekend\" magazine, 13 October 1990, pp. 20–29.\n\nThe work includes photographs by John Jenner from 1986 to 1990, together with a biography in the form of a play written by Jenner. The diary also includes poems by Willy Barber.\n\nThis diary was one of a number of artistic responses to HIV/AIDS in Australia at a time when medications that could prolong and enhance the quality of life of those living with HIV had not been developed. David Tosh died on 3 May 1990. In 1990 Australia experienced 2381 cases of AIDS as reported by the National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research. 97% of these cases were male and the survival rate was only 40%.\n\nThe diary was exhibited in the \"100 Objects Exhibition\" at the State Library of New South Wales in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2925613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925613", "title": "Art fabrication", "text": "Art fabrication\n\nArt fabrication is a process or service relating to the production of large or technically difficult artworks.\n\nWhen a lone artist or designer is incapable or chooses not to realize the creation of his or her own design or conception, he or she may enlist the assistance of an art fabrication studio. Typically, an art fabrication studio has access to the resources, specialized machinery, and labor necessary to execute particularly complex projects.\n\nLippincott, Inc., founded in 1966 by Donald Lippincott and Roxanne Everett, was the first company to devote itself exclusively to art fabrication using industrial techniques. The company encouraged a collaborative relationship between artists and the fabrication crew, allowing the creation of work using media that artists had not previously used. Lippincott, Inc. fabricated work for almost 100 artists, including Barnett Newman, Louise Nevelson, Donald Judd, Claes Oldenburg, Robert Indiana, and Ellsworth Kelly.\n\nOther notable fabricators include:\n"}
{"id": "644894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644894", "title": "Artist collective", "text": "Artist collective\n\nAn artist collective is an initiative that is the result of a group of artists working together, usually under their own management, towards shared aims. The aims of an artist collective can include almost anything that is relevant to the needs of the artist, this can range from purchasing bulk materials, sharing equipment, space or materials, through to following shared ideologies, aesthetic and political views or even living and working together as an extended family. Sharing of ownership, risk, benefits, and status is implied, as opposed to other, more common business structures with an explicit hierarchy of ownership such as an association or a company.\n\nArtist collectives have occurred throughout history, often gathered around central resources, for instance the ancient sculpture workshops at the marble quarries on Milos in Greece and Carrara in Italy. Collectives featured during both the Russian revolution when they were set up by the state in all major communities, and the French Revolution when the Louvre in Paris was occupied as an artist collective.\n\nMore traditional artist collectives tend to be smallish groups of two to eight artists who produce work, either collaboratively or as individuals toward exhibiting together in gallery shows or public spaces. Often an artists collective will maintain a collective space, for exhibiting or as workshop or studio facilities. Some newer, more experimental kinds of groups include intentional networks, anonymous, connector, hidden or nested groups, and groups with unconventional time-scales. Artist collectives may be formed: For economic reasons, to give members volume purchasing power and allow costs of publicity and shows to be shared. For political reasons, to increase local lobbying power for arts infrastructure, to gather behind a cause or belief. For professional reasons, to develop a higher group profile that benefits the individuals by association, to create a hub for curators and commissioners to more easily locate potential talent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13601902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13601902", "title": "Arts and letters", "text": "Arts and letters\n\nArts and letters is a traditional term for the fine arts and literature considered together. The category defined as \"arts and letters\" may also include the performing arts, visual arts, or liberal arts.\n\nBy the late 19th century the term was used to name a few arts-related institutions in the United States. A subscription-based Theatre of Arts and Letters opened in New York in 1892, but closed within a year. The American Academy of Arts and Letters was founded in 1904.\n\nThe term has also figured in higher education. For example, by 1889 students at Swarthmore College were sorted into two categories of study: \"Arts and Letters\" or \"Science and Engineering.\" Since 2010, course requirements at the University of Pennsylvania College of Arts and Sciences have included a \"sector\" (category) called \"Arts and Letters.\" The college defines the sector as including \"visual arts, literature and music, together with the criticism surrounding them.\"\n"}
{"id": "6169101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6169101", "title": "Arundel Society", "text": "Arundel Society\n\nThe Arundel Society was founded at London in 1849 and named after the Earl of Arundel, the famous collector of the Arundel Marbles and one of the first great English patrons and lovers of the arts. The society was originally the idea of the lawyer Bellenden Ker and was founded at a meeting in the house of the famous painter Charles Eastlake, attended by Eastlake, Ker, Giovanni Aubrey Bezzi, and Edmund Oldfield. The society's purpose was to promote knowledge of the art works of the old Italian, Flemish, and other European masters. Much of the work of the society consisted of publishing chromolithographs of Italian art works, especially fresco paintings, of earlier centuries and raising public awareness for the preservation of these works. One of the people most responsible for furthering the goals of the society was Henry Layard, who joined in 1852. Some of the other important early members were John Ruskin, Charles Thomas Newton, and Henry Liddell. Members of the Society's Council in 1877 included Frederick William Burton, Lord Elcho (Francis Charteris), Edward Poynter, George Edmund Street, Philip Charles Hardwick, George Richmond, and the architect John Norton. The society was discontinued in 1897.\n\nThe Arundel Club was a society founded in London in 1904 for the purpose of continuing more effectively the work of the Arundel Society, which had encouraged the study of art by reproducing the best works of the old masters. The Arundel Club went further by copying and publishing important works in private collections previously inaccessible.\n\n"}
{"id": "55806219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55806219", "title": "Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención", "text": "Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención\n\nThe Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención (AACI) is an Argentinian art movement that focuses on Concrete Art. Following WWII, numerous pieces Latin American art as well as several Latin American artists used themes regarding Socialism and Reconstruction. Artists from the AACI proposed, for the first time in the history of Argentina, the necessity for an art that was different from symbolic, representational, and expressionistic art. They believed that their artwork, or \"inventions\" could harbor social change in their current Argentinian political climate. The founders of the AACI showed similar themes throughout their artworks, such as a desire to appear with universality, objectivity, and lack any sort of representativeness.\n\nThe formation of the Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención officially happened in 1945. The creators of this organization were primarily Tómas Maldonado, Lidy Prati, Alfredo Hlito, Raúl Lozza, Enio Lommi, Manuel Espinoza, and Juan Melé. The creation of the AACI happened because of a difference in artistic beliefs. Maldonado and Prati were married during this time period, despite being in the same artistic group and movement. In 1944, Maldonado, Rhod Rothfuss, Gyula Kosice, Lidy Prati, and Carmelo Arden Quin produced the first and only issue of the illustrated magazine \"Arturo\". The appearance of \"Arturo\" was the beginning of a distinct revolutionary period in Argentinian art. The magazine expressed the founders' shared opposition of representational and symbolic art. However, from the magazine, two artistic groups emerged. Grupo Madi, led by Arden Quin, Kosice, and Rothfuss. And Asociación Arte Concreto-Invención led by Maldonado and Prati.\n\nThe first influence that happened upon the world of Latin American art regarding Concrete Art came from the works of Joaquín Torres-Garcia. In 1936, Torres-Garcia had already referred to invention, speaking about those movements that put new art styles to use, such as Impressionism or Cubism. From Torres-Garcia, came the entirety of the Concrete art movement. Maldonado had a noticeable impact on the AACI because of his restraints he put on the artists and artworks. His political views seemed to influence his views on artwork. Maldonado was a Marxist who had certain utopian ambitions for the art created by the AACI in a new revolutionary societal movement in Latin America. The political views demonstrated by AACI members were often communistic and somewhat socialistic as well. While simultaneously following the purist aesthetics of artists such as Piet Mondrian and Theo van Doesburg. The art group rapidly began making waves among the art world and by 1946, Prati and Maldonado had attracted the interest of one of the original practicing concrete artists in Switzerland, Max Bill.\n\nThe aforementioned magazine was the first work by the members of the AACI before they were officially together as a group. The concepts “invention” and “trimmed frame” are used to portray the movement of Concrete Art. These terms originated with the issuing of the Arturo magazine, and are perhaps the most original contributions to the Concrete Art movement. Arden Quin discussed about invention in \"Arturo’s\" first article. He rose against Expressionism, Surrealism, and any form of Realism in his works. This is a common theme among the group and among concrete artists as a whole. Regarding the appearance of Arturo, Ana J. Pozzi-Harris writes, \"In the Argentina of the early 1940s, no artist or movement held truly comparable ideas to those exposed in Arturo or in the early exhibitions of the Concrete and Madí artists. Exhibition reviews show that the most successful Argentine artists from this period worked in styles which may be categorized as classical and academic; picturesque and romantic; and expressionist.\" For a description of the magazine, the cover was an engraving by Tomás Maldonado and in the inner pages were seen several pieces by this artist and by Lidy Prati as well. There also were essays and poems by Edgard Bailey, Gyula Kosice, Torres-García, Vicente Huidobro and Murilo Mendes, and projects reproduced by Vieira Da Silva, Torres-García, Augusto Torres, Kandinsky, Mondrian and Rothfuss. An important influence that can be seen in the magazine is from the Dutch artist Theo Van Doesburg. He formulated in “\"Basis of the Concrete painting\"”, in Paris, April 1930. Van Doesburg described concrete art by stating,\"1) Art is universal.2) The work of art must be conceived and entirely shaped by the spirit before its execution. It must not receive anything from the given shapes of nature, neither from sensuality, nor from sentimentality. We want to exclude lyricism, drama, symbolism, etc.3) The picture must be entirely built with purely plastic elements, that is to say, planes and colors. A pictorial element has no other significance but that of “itself”.4) The construction of the picture, as well as that of its elements, must be simple and visually controllable.5) The technique must be mechanical, that is to say, exact, anti-impressionist.6) Endeavor for absolute clearness.”These guidelines for Concrete Art truly united all of the contributor's when creating their artworks for Arturo. Their similar beliefs led to a criticism of all art that could be interpreted, the AACI wanted to have their works be viewed with simplicity and with no forms of interpretation.\n\nFrom the publication of \"Arturo\", two similar Argentinian artistic groups emerged. These aforementioned groups both believed in the artistic style of Concrete art, however, their perspectives of this type of artwork differed. The Madí’s members worked in various ways; they often distributed small posters and pamphlets in the streets of Buenos Aires. They also published the magazine \"Arte Madí Universal\" from 1947 to 1954 and organized art showings that mixed types visual art, poetry, music, and performance to create an encapsulating Concrete Art experience. Their art emphasized materials and the reality of these materials, often changing the conventional frame for strangely shaped canvases and frames to encapsulate their works. In 1946, both groups publicly announced their separations and different agendas through their manifestos. For the AACI, Maldonado read the \"Manifiesto Invencionista\" (Inventionist Manifesto) in March 1946 at their first exhibition in the Salón Peuser. The Madí read their Manifiesto Madí (Madí Manifesto) altogether at the Instituto Francés de Estudios Superiores in August 1946. Most of the art created by both groups was during the rule of the infamous Argentinian president Juan Domingo Perón. Perón was a former Colonel in the Argentine army whom assumed the power of President of Argentina in February 1946. Perón's extremely authoritarian rule many called \"Fascist\" used means of mass propaganda, mass appeal, and outright oppressive measures to remain in control of Argentina until 1955. Scholars suggest the political climate of the Peronian era had a direct influence on both the AACI and the Madí. Both parties attempted to use their Communist influence to combat the Perón agenda.\n\n\"Serial Composition\": A piece made by Lidy Prati, done in 1948, and held in the Latin American Art Museum of Buenos Aires. The Dutch artist Piet Mondrian is historically found to be a crucial influence on the art of Prati and connections are often made about this piece and his works. This artwork shows a theme of systematic geometric abstraction which can be interpreted through the various red, white, and black rectangles or squares spaced equally far apart from one another in a grid format. This style of equidistant geometric shapes was often seen from various artists in the AACI.\n\n\"Coplanar Nº13\": An artwork made by Juan Melé in 1946 that consists of three different shapes made of wood, colored with oil paint and connected by a metal rod behind each of the shapes. The style used makes an appearance to the viewer that the geometric objects float in front of the wall behind them. Melé often experimented with various frames, backgrounds, and colors. His distinct artistic format is easily recognizable in this piece. \"Coplanar Nº13\" simultaneously shows the core values of the AACI in its universality and lacking of any symbolism or representational effect.\n\n\"Composition\": This oil on canvas painting by Tómas Maldonado depicts multiple colored and black lines of different width meeting near the center of the piece to form a rectangular shape. This piece was created in 1950 and is currently being held in the National Museum of Fine Arts in Argentina. Regarding the painting, author María Amalia Garcia describes, \"\"Composición\" is based on neo-plastic postulates that seek to exalt the white surface by way of tension generated between different elements inscribed on that support.\"\n\n\"Development of a Triangle\": Another oil on canvas painting by Maldonado that exhibits different sized triangles along with several intersecting black lines coming down the canvas. It is currently being held at the Museum of Modern Art in New York. The piece demonstrates geometric abstraction and follows the strict regiments of any artwork that is considered to be related to the AACI.\n"}
{"id": "2880009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880009", "title": "Bedtime story", "text": "Bedtime story\n\nA bedtime story is a traditional form of storytelling, where a story is told to a child at bedtime to prepare the child for sleep. The bedtime story has long been considered \"a definite institution in many families\".\n\nReading bedtime stories yields multiple benefits for parents and children alike. The fixed routine of a bedtime story before sleeping can improve the child's brain development, language mastery, and logical thinking skills. The storyteller-listener relationship creates an emotional bond between the parent and the child. Due to \"the strength of the imitative instinct\" of a child, the parent and the stories that they tell act as a model for the child to follow.\n\nBedtime stories are also useful for teaching the child abstract virtues such as sympathy, unselfishness, and self-control, as most children are said to be \"naturally sympathetic when they have experienced or can imagine the feelings of others\". Thus, bedtime stories can be used to discuss darker subjects such as death and racism. As the bedtime stories broaden in theme, the child \"will broaden in their conception of the lives and feelings of others\".\n"}
{"id": "3360218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3360218", "title": "Bishop Arts District, Dallas", "text": "Bishop Arts District, Dallas\n\nThe Bishop Arts District is a small shopping and entertainment district in north Oak Cliff, Dallas, Texas (USA), near the intersection of Bishop Street and Davis Street. Bishop Arts is immediately southwest of Downtown Dallas.\n\nThe area was originally developed as warehouses and shops in the 1920s. In the 1930s, a trolley stop along Davis became Dallas' busiest trolley stop. The district began a decline in the mid-60's through the beginning of the 80's. The reasons for the decline included the rise of the shopping mall, the loss of sizable tenants such as Astor theater and Goodier Cosmetics, neighborhood demographic changes and finally the fact that buses began to replace streetcars making trolley stops like Bishop and Seventh useless.\n\nIn the fall of 1984, Jim Lake saw a bargain in the now run down storefronts and began buying up property. He said, \"Hopefully we'll make money on this in the future, but in the first three to five years I'm gonna feed it.\" Lake said of his decision to buy the property, \"I just thought it needed saving.\" As a sign of his commitment, Lake provided, rent-free for a year, space for a police storefront. This was an important element in the area's security and sense of community. Continuing through the 1990s and 2000s, renovations have taken place to transform the two city blocks into a walkable, urban environment, although the surrounding area has yet to undergo revitalization. Murals, brick pavers, and other street elements have polished the rough look of the warehouses and have made the area a popular leisure and dining destination.\n\nThe area culture has continued to mature with the expanding Oak Cliff Film Festival, which has garnered media attention from Texas Monthly and New York Times.\n\nA portion of the district is listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the North Bishop Avenue Commercial Historic District.\n\nThe district can be reached via several Dallas Area Rapid Transit bus routes and from downtown on the Dallas Streetcar.\n\nThe Bishop Arts District is served by the Dallas Independent School District.\n\nResidents of the Bishop Arts District are zoned to John H. Reagan Elementary School, W.E. Greiner Middle School, and W.H. Adamson High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "23107267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23107267", "title": "Botsina", "text": "Botsina\n\nBotsina (also, buzina, botzina, and botsitsa) means lantern, lamp, torch, or spark in Aramaic. Many times the reference, in Jewish sources, is to that which enlightens spiritually.\n\nIt has also been described as an \"orgasm in the process of the divine\".\n\nPinchas Giller, in \"Reading the Zohar: the sacred text of the Kabbalah\" (Oxford University Press, 2001), devotes a section to the phrase, calling it \"the boldest image of the \"Hormanuta\" literature\". John Tindall Harris and William Robert Brown wrote in \"The writings of the Apostle John: with notes, critical and expository\" (1889) that \"our lord used words that could not fail to be understood by the people, for among the Jews any one distinguished for light and erudition was termed in Aramaic ... \"bostina, a lamp or torch\" (Ber. Rab. 95.4). Chrystosom observes, He called John a torch or lamp, signifying that he had not light of himself but by the grace of the Spirit.\" Yehuda Liebes, in \"Studies in Jewish myth and Jewish messianism\" (SUNY Press, 1993), wrote that \"ambiguities of meaning are typical in the Zohar, and the word \"bostina\" (spark) illustrates this well\".\n\nMany people have been referred to as Botsina Kadisha (\"[The] Holy Lantern\") but foremost Rabbi Shimon Bar Yochai, the author of the Zohar (the prime of Jewish esoteric works) is referred to as Botsina Kadisha.\n\nThe Arizal, Rabbi Itzhak Luria, the most famous Kabbalist of modern times is referred to as Botsina Kadisha in the books of his disciple Rabbi Chaim Vital. He lived about 500 years ago in Tzfat, Israel.\n\nThe alter Rebbe of the Chabad movement is referred to as Botsina Kadisha as is seen in the opening of his book Likutei Torah. He lived a few hundred years ago and he is the author of the famous Chabad book called The Tanya or Sefer Beinonim.\n\n"}
{"id": "2817560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2817560", "title": "Champlevé", "text": "Champlevé\n\nChamplevé is an enamelling technique in the decorative arts, or an object made by that process, in which troughs or cells are carved, etched, die struck, or cast into the surface of a metal object, and filled with vitreous enamel. The piece is then fired until the enamel fuses, and when cooled the surface of the object is polished. The uncarved portions of the original surface remain visible as a frame for the enamel designs; typically they are gilded in medieval work. The name comes from the French for \"raised field\", \"field\" meaning background, though the technique in practice lowers the area to be enamelled rather than raising the rest of the surface. \n\nThe technique has been used since ancient times, though it is no longer among the most commonly used enamelling techniques. Champlevé is suited to the covering of relatively large areas, and to figurative images, although it was first prominently used in Celtic art for geometric designs. In Romanesque art its potential was fully used, decorating caskets, plaques and vessels, in Limoges enamel and that from other centres. \nChamplevé is distinguished from the technique of cloisonné enamel in which the troughs are created by soldering flat metal strips to the surface of the object. The difference between the techniques is analogous to the woodworking techniques of intarsia and marquetry. It differs from the \"basse-taille\" technique, which succeeded it in the highest quality Gothic work, in that the bottoms of the recesses for the enamel are rough, and so only opaque enamel colours are used. In \"basse-taille\" the recesses are modelled, and translucent enamels are used, for more subtle effects, as in the 14th century Parisian Royal Gold Cup.\n\n \nEnamel was first used on small pieces of jewellery, and has often disintegrated in ancient pieces that have been buried. Consistent and frequent use of champlevé technique is first seen in the La Tène style of early Celtic art in Europe, from the 3rd or 2nd century BC, where the predominant colour was a red, possibly intended as an imitation of red coral (as used on the Witham Shield), and the base was usually bronze. The \"Insular Celts\" of the British Isles made especially common use of the technique, seen as highlights on the relief decoration of the Battersea Shield and other pieces. However this was technically not true enamel in the usual sense of the word, as the glass was only heated until it became a soft paste before being pushed into place. This is sometimes informally known as \"sealing-wax\" enamelling, and may be described as \"glass inlay\" or similar terms. True enamelling technique, where glass paste is put into place and fired until it liquifies, was learnt from the Romans. The earliest literary description of enamel is from the Greek sophist Philostratus III, who wrote in his \"Icones\" (Bk I, 28), describing polychrome horse-harness: \"It is said that the barbarians in the Ocean pour these colours on heated bronze and that they adhere, become as hard as stone and preserve the designs that are made on them\". \nCeltic curvilinear styles were highly effective in enamel, and were used throughout the Roman period when they largely disappear in other media. The Staffordshire Moorlands Pan is a 2nd-century \"trulla\" with large enamel roundels in four colours of enamel, commissioned by or for Draco, a soldier, possibly a Greek, as a souvenir of his service on Hadrian's Wall. It is one of a group of similar enamelled vessels found in Britain and northern Gaul. Smaller items from similar contexts include brooches and other jewellery, and mounts for horse harness as described by Philostratus. Around the end of the Roman Empire new forms arose: the terminals of the increasingly fancy penannular brooches of the British Isles become decorated with champlevé, as do other fasteners and fittings, and the mounts of hanging bowls. These last have long puzzled art historians, as not only is their purpose unclear, but they are mostly found in Anglo-Saxon and Viking contexts, including three at Sutton Hoo, but their decoration uses predominantly Celtic motifs. One of the Sutton Hoo bowls had been repaired, but in a different, Germanic, style. Altogether, production of the different types of hanging bowls covers the period 400–1100. While the leading expert, Rupert Bruce-Mitford, sees the bowls as the products of \"Celtic\" workshops, perhaps often in Ireland, in the same period the use of large areas of champlevé in the most ornate Celtic brooches reduces, though gem-like enamel highlights, some in \"millefiori\", are still found. In Anglo-Saxon art, as in that of most of Europe and the Byzantine world, this was the period when cloisonné technique dominated enamelling.\n\nChamplevé is especially associated with Romanesque art, and many of the finest survivals of the style feature the technique. There was a great increase in use of the technique in several areas in the late 11th century, just as the Romanesque style matured. The immediate source of the style remains obscure; various exotic origins have been suggested, but the great expansion in the use of stained glass at the same period is probably connected. Copper or bronze bases were normally used, which were soft and easy to work, as well as relatively cheap, but as they discoloured in heat opaque enamels needed to be used. Blue was now the dominant colour, as in stained glass; the best blues in painting (whether on wall, panel or manuscript) were very expensive whereas in glass rich blues are easily obtainable. \n\nMosan and Limoges enamels are the most famous, and the figures carved in the copper plate display a superb sense of line. The Stavelot Triptych in New York is an example of the finest Mosan work, and the Becket Casket in London a fine early piece from Limoges. The names of several Mosan goldsmith-enamellers are known. Relief and fully modelled figures were also enamelled, and some metal bases formed by hammering into moulds. The Limoges production increased steadily in quantity, and by the Gothic period had declined in quality, but provided a fairly cheap product, especially of chasse caskets, produced on a semi-industrial scale and exported all over Europe. Spanish enamels, not easily distinguished from Limoges work, were also produced on a large scale. Mosan work was sometimes on gold or silver-gilt, but in Limoges and Spain gilt-copper is usual, and much Mosan work uses this too, as in the example illustrated. This example also shows the mixing of different colours and shades within the same cell, here used throughout the design in a complex manner, whereas in the Limoges examples below much less, and much simpler, use is made of this difficult technique. \nA similar technique was known as \"shippou-zogan\" in Japan, where it was considered a form of damascening.\n\n"}
{"id": "18938195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18938195", "title": "Collage", "text": "Collage\n\nCollage (from the , \"to glue\"; ) is a technique of an art production, primarily used in the visual arts, where the artwork is made from an assemblage of different forms, thus creating a new whole.\n\nA collage may sometimes include magazine and newspaper clippings, ribbons, paint, bits of colored or handmade papers, portions of other artwork or texts, photographs and other found objects, glued to a piece of paper or canvas. The origins of collage can be traced back hundreds of years, but this technique made a dramatic reappearance in the early 20th century as an art form of novelty.\n\nThe term \"collage\" was coined by both Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso in the beginning of the 20th century when collage became a distinctive part of modern art.\n\nTechniques of collage were first used at the time of the invention of paper in China, around 200 BC. The use of collage, however, wasn't used by many people until the 10th century in Japan, when calligraphers began to apply glued paper, using texts on surfaces, when writing their poems. The technique of collage appeared in medieval Europe during the 13th century. Gold leaf panels started to be applied in Gothic cathedrals around the 15th and 16th centuries. Gemstones and other precious metals were applied to religious images, icons, and also, to coats of arms. An 18th-century example of collage art can be found in the work of Mary Delany. In the 19th century, collage methods also were used among hobbyists for memorabilia (e.g. applied to photo albums) and books (e.g. Hans Christian Andersen, Carl Spitzweg).\nMany institutions have attributed the beginnings of the practice of collage to Picasso and Braque in 1912, however, early Victorian photocollage suggest collage techniques were practiced in the early 1860s. Many institutions recognize these works as memorabilia for hobbyists, though they functioned as a facilitator of Victorian aristocratic collective portraiture, proof of female erudition, and presented a new mode of artistic representation that questioned the way in which photography is truthful. In 2009, curator Elizabeth Siegel organized the exhibition: \"Playing with Pictures\" at the Art Institute Chicago to acknowledge collage works by Alexandra of Denmark and Mary Georgina Filmer among others. The exhibition later traveled to The Metropolitan Museum of Art and The Art Gallery of Ontario.\n\nDespite the pre-twentieth-century use of collage-like application techniques, some art authorities argue that collage, properly speaking, did not emerge until after 1900, in conjunction with the early stages of modernism.\n\nFor example, the Tate Gallery's online art glossary states that collage \"was first used as an artists' technique in the twentieth century.\". According to the Guggenheim Museum's online art glossary, collage is an artistic concept associated with the beginnings of modernism, and entails much more than the idea of gluing something onto something else. The glued-on patches which Braque and Picasso added to their canvases offered a new perspective on painting when the patches \"collided with the surface plane of the painting.\" In this perspective, collage was part of a methodical reexamination of the relation between painting and sculpture, and these new works \"gave each medium some of the characteristics of the other,\" according to the Guggenheim essay. Furthermore, these chopped-up bits of newspaper introduced fragments of externally referenced meaning into the collision: \"References to current events, such as the war in the Balkans, and to popular culture enriched the content of their art.\" This juxtaposition of signifiers, \"at once serious and tongue-in-cheek,\" was fundamental to the inspiration behind collage: \"Emphasizing concept and process over end product, collage has brought the incongruous into meaningful congress with the ordinary.\"\n\nCollage in the modernist sense began with Cubist painters Georges Braque and Pablo Picasso. According to some sources, Picasso was the first to use the collage technique in oil paintings. According to the Guggenheim Museum's online article about collage, Braque took up the concept of collage itself before Picasso, applying it to charcoal drawings. Picasso adopted collage immediately after (and could be the first to use collage in paintings, as opposed to drawings):\n\n\"It was Braque who purchased a roll of simulated oak-grain wallpaper and began cutting out pieces of the paper and attaching them to his charcoal drawings. Picasso immediately began to make his own experiments in the new medium.\"\n\nIn 1912 for his \"Still Life with Chair Caning (Nature-morte à la chaise cannée)\", Picasso pasted a patch of oilcloth with a chair-cane design onto the canvas of the piece.\n\nSurrealist artists have made extensive use of collage. Cubomania is a collage made by cutting an image into squares which are then reassembled automatically or at random. Collages produced using a similar, or perhaps identical, method are called \"etrécissements\" by Marcel Mariën from a method first explored by Mariën. Surrealist games such as \"parallel collage\" use collective techniques of collage making.\n\nThe Sidney Janis Gallery held an early Pop Art exhibit called the \"New Realist Exhibition\" in November 1962, which included works by the American artists Tom Wesselmann, Jim Dine, Robert Indiana, Roy Lichtenstein, Claes Oldenburg, James Rosenquist, George Segal, and Andy Warhol; and Europeans such as Arman, Baj, Christo, Yves Klein, Festa, Rotella, Jean Tinguely, and Schifano. It followed the Nouveau Réalisme exhibition at the Galerie Rive Droite in Paris, and marked the international debut of the artists who soon gave rise to what came to be called Pop Art in Britain and The United States and Nouveau Réalisme on the European continent. Many of these artists used collage techniques in their work.\nWesselmann took part in the \"New Realist\" show with some reservations, exhibiting two 1962 works: \"Still life #17\" and \"Still life #22\".\n\nAnother technique is that of \"canvas collage,\" which is the application, typically with glue, of separately painted canvas patches to the surface of a painting's main canvas. Well known for use of this technique is British artist John Walker in his paintings of the late 1970s, but canvas collage was already an integral part of the mixed media works of such American artists as Conrad Marca-Relli and Jane Frank by the early 1960s. The intensely self-critical Lee Krasner also frequently destroyed her own paintings by cutting them into pieces, only to create new works of art by reassembling the pieces into collages.\n\n The wood collage is a type that emerged somewhat later than paper collage. Kurt Schwitters began experimenting with wood collages in the 1920s after already having given up painting for paper collages. The principle of wood collage is clearly established at least as early as his 'Merz Picture with Candle', dating from the mid to late 1920s.\n\nIn a sense, wood collage made its debut indirectly at the same time as paper collage, since according to the Guggenheim online, Georges Braque initiated use of paper collage by cutting out pieces of simulated oak-grain wallpaper and attaching them to his own charcoal drawings. Thus, the idea of gluing wood to a picture was implicit from the start, since the paper used was a commercial product manufactured to look like wood.\n\nIt was during a fifteen-year period of intense experimentation beginning in the mid-1940s that Louise Nevelson evolved her sculptural wood collages, assembled from found scraps, including parts of furniture, pieces of wooden crates or barrels, and architectural remnants like stair railings or moldings. Generally rectangular, very large, and painted black, they resemble gigantic paintings. Concerning Nevelson's \"Sky Cathedral\" (1958), the Museum of Modern Art catalogue states, \"As a rectangular plane to be viewed from the front, \"Sky Cathedral\" has the pictorial quality of a painting...\" Yet such pieces also present themselves as massive walls or monoliths, which can sometimes be viewed from either side, or even looked \"through\".\n\nMuch wood collage art is considerably smaller in scale, framed and hung as a painting would be. It usually features pieces of wood, wood shavings, or scraps, assembled on a canvas (if there is painting involved), or on a wooden board. Such framed, picture-like, wood-relief collages offer the artist an opportunity to explore the qualities of depth, natural color, and textural variety inherent in the material, while drawing on and taking advantage of the language, conventions, and historical resonances that arise from the tradition of creating pictures to hang on walls. The technique of wood collage is also sometimes combined with painting and other media in a single work of art.\n\nFrequently, what is called \"wood collage art\" uses only natural wood - such as driftwood, or parts of found and unaltered logs, branches, sticks, or bark. This raises the question of whether such artwork is collage (in the original sense) at all (see Collage and modernism). This is because the early, paper collages were generally made from bits of text or pictures - things originally made by people, and functioning or signifying in some cultural context. The collage brings these still-recognizable \"signifiers\" (or fragments of signifiers) together, in a kind of semiotic collision. A truncated wooden chair or staircase newel used in a Nevelson work can also be considered a potential element of collage in the same sense: it had some original, culturally determined context. Unaltered, natural wood, such as one might find on a forest floor, arguably has no such context; therefore, the characteristic contextual disruptions associated with the collage idea, as it originated with Braque and Picasso, cannot really take place. (Driftwood is of course sometimes ambiguous: while a piece of driftwood may once have been a piece of worked wood - for example, part of a ship - it may be so weathered by salt and sea that its past functional identity is nearly or completely obscured.)\n\nDecoupage is a type of collage usually defined as a craft. It is the process of placing a picture into an object for decoration. Decoupage can involve adding multiple copies of the same image, cut and layered to add apparent depth. The picture is often coated with varnish or some other sealant for protection.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, decoupage, like many other art methods, began experimenting with a less realistic and more abstract style. 20th-century artists who produced decoupage works include Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse. The most famous decoupage work is Matisse's Blue Nude II.\n\nThere are many varieties on the traditional technique involving purpose made 'glue' requiring fewer layers (often 5 or 20, depending on the amount of paper involved). Cutouts are also applied under glass or raised to give a three-dimensional appearance according to the desire of the decouper. Currently decoupage is a popular handicraft.\n\nThe craft became known as découpage in France (from the verb \"découper\", 'to cut out') as it attained great popularity during the 17th and 18th centuries. Many advanced techniques were developed during this time, and items could take up to a year to complete due to the many coats and sandings applied. Some famous or aristocratic practitioners included Marie Antoinette, Madame de Pompadour, and Beau Brummell. In fact the majority of decoupage enthusiasts attribute the beginning of decoupage to 17th century Venice. However it was known before this time in Asia.\n\nThe most likely origin of decoupage is thought to be East Siberian funerary art. Nomadic tribes would use cut out felts to decorate the tombs of their deceased. From Siberia, the practice came to China, and by the 12th century, cut out paper was being used to decorate lanterns, windows, boxes and other objects. In the 17th century, Italy, especially in Venice, was at the forefront of trade with the Far East and it is generally thought that it is through these trade links that the cut out paper decorations made their way into Europe.\n\nCollage made from photographs, or parts of photographs, is called photomontage. Photomontage is the process (and result) of making a composite photograph by cutting and joining a number of other photographs. The composite picture was sometimes photographed so that the final image is converted back into a seamless photographic print. The same method is accomplished today using image-editing software. The technique is referred to by professionals as \"compositing\".\n\"Just what is it that makes today's homes so different, so appealing?\" was created in 1956 for the catalogue of the \"This Is Tomorrow\" exhibition in London, England in which it was reproduced in black and white. In addition, the piece was used in posters for the exhibit. Richard Hamilton has subsequently created several works in which he reworked the subject and composition of the pop art collage, including a 1992 version featuring a female bodybuilder. Many artists have created derivative works of Hamilton's collage. P. C. Helm made a year 2000 interpretation.\n\nOther methods for combining pictures are also called photomontage, such as Victorian \"combination printing\", the printing from more than one negative on a single piece of printing paper (e.g. O. G. Rejlander, 1857), front-projection and computer montage techniques. Much as a collage is composed of multiple facets, artists also combine montage techniques. Romare Bearden’s (1912–1988) series of black and white \"photomontage projections\" is an example. His method began with compositions of paper, paint, and photographs put on boards 8½ × 11 inches. Bearden fixed the imagery with an emulsion that he then applied with handroller. Subsequently, he enlarged the collages photographically.\n\nThe 19th century tradition of physically joining multiple images into a composite and photographing the results prevailed in press photography and offset lithography until the widespread use of digital image editing. Contemporary photo editors in magazines now create \"paste-ups\" digitally.\n\nCreating a photomontage has, for the most part, become easier with the advent of computer software such as Adobe Photoshop, Pixel image editor, and GIMP. These programs make the changes digitally, allowing for faster workflow and more precise results. They also mitigate mistakes by allowing the artist to \"undo\" errors. Yet some artists are pushing the boundaries of digital image editing to create extremely time-intensive compositions that rival the demands of the traditional arts. The current trend is to create pictures that combine painting, theatre, illustration and graphics in a seamless photographic whole.\n\nDigital collage is the technique of using computer tools in collage creation to encourage chance associations of disparate visual elements and the subsequent transformation of the visual results through the use of electronic media. It is commonly used in the creation of digital art.\n\nA 3D collage is the art of putting altogether three-dimensional objects such as rocks, beads, buttons, coins, or even soil to form a new whole or a new object. Examples can include houses, bead circles, etc.\n\nIt is the art of putting together or assembling of small pieces of paper, tiles, marble, stones, etc. They are often found in cathedrals, churches, temples as a spiritual significance of interior design.Small pieces, normally roughly quadratic, of stone or glass of different colors, known as tesserae, (diminutive tessellae), are used to create a pattern or picture.\n\nThe term \"eCollage\" (electronic Collage) can be used for a collage created by using computer tools.\n\nThough Le Corbusier and other architects used techniques that are akin to collage, collage as a theoretical concept only became widely discussed after the publication of \"Collage City\" (1978) by Colin Rowe and Fred Koetter.\n\nRowe and Koetter were not, however, championing collage in the pictorial sense, much less seeking the types of disruptions of meaning that occur with collage. Instead, they were looking to challenge the uniformity of Modernism and saw collage with its non-linear notion of history as a means to reinvigorate design practice. Not only does historical urban fabric have its place, but in studying it, designers were, so it was hoped, able to get a sense of how better to operate. Rowe was a member of the so-called Texas Rangers, a group of architects who taught at the University of Texas for a while. Another member of that group was Bernhard Hoesli, a Swiss architect who went on to become an important educator at the ETH-Zurirch. Whereas for Rowe, collage was more a metaphor than an actual practice, Hoesli actively made collages as part of his design process. He was close to Robert Slutzky, a New York-based artist, and frequently introduced the question of collage and disruption in his studio work.\n\nThe concept of collage has crossed the boundaries of visual arts. In music, with the advances on recording technology, avant-garde artists started experimenting with cutting and pasting since the middle of the twentieth century.\n\nIn the 1960s, George Martin created collages of recordings while producing the records of The Beatles. In 1967 pop artist Peter Blake made the collage for the cover of the Beatles seminal album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". In the 1970s and 1980s, the likes of Christian Marclay and the group Negativland reappropriated old audio in new ways. By the 1990s and 2000s, with the popularity of the sampler, it became apparent that \"musical collages\" had become the norm for popular music, especially in rap, hip-hop and electronic music. In 1996, DJ Shadow released the groundbreaking album, \"Endtroducing...\", made entirely of preexisting recorded material mixed together in audible collage. In the same year, New York City based artist, writer, and musician, Paul D. Miller aka DJ Spooky's work pushed the work of sampling into a museum and gallery context as an art practice that combined DJ culture's obsession with archival materials as sound sources on his album \"Songs of a Dead Dreamer\" and in his books \"Rhythm Science\" (2004) and \"Sound Unbound\" (2008) (MIT Press). In his books, \"mash-up\" and collage based mixes of authors, artists, and musicians such as Antonin Artaud, James Joyce, William S. Burroughs, and Raymond Scott were featured as part of a what he called \"literature of sound.\" In 2000, The Avalanches released \"Since I Left You\", a musical collage consisting of approximately 3,500 musical sources (i.e., samples).\n\nCollage is commonly used as a technique in Children's picture book illustration. Eric Carle is a prominent example, using vividly colored hand-textured papers cut to shape and layered together, sometimes embellished with crayon or other marks. See image at The Very Hungry Caterpillar.\n\nCollage is sometimes used alone or in combination with other techniques in artists' books, especially in one-off unique books rather than as reproduced images in published books.\n\nCollage novels are books with images selected from other publications and collaged together following a theme or narrative.\n\nThe bible of discordianism, the \"Principia Discordia\", is described by its author as a literary collage. A collage in literary terms may also refer to a layering of ideas or images.\n\nCollage is utilized in fashion design in the sketching process, as part of mixed media illustrations, where drawings together with diverse materials such as paper, photographs, yarns or fabric bring ideas into designs.\n\nCollage film is traditionally defined as, “A film that juxtaposes fictional scenes with footage taken from disparate sources, such as newsreels.” Combining different types of footage can have various implications depending on the director’s approach. Collage film can also refer to the physical collaging of materials onto filmstrips. Canadian Film maker, Arthur Lipsett, was especially renown for his collage films, many of which were made from the cutting room floors of the National Film Board studios.\n\nThe use of CGI, or \"computer-generated imagery\", can be considered a form of collage, especially when animated graphics are layered over traditional film footage. At certain moments during \"Amélie\" (Jean-Pierre Juenet, 2001), the mise en scène takes on a highly fantasized style, including fictitious elements like swirling tunnels of color and light. David O. Russel’s \"I Heart Huckabees\" (2004) incorporates CGI effects to visually demonstrate philosophical theories explained by the existential detectives (played by Lily Tomlin and Dustin Hoffman). In this case, the effects serve to enhance clarity, while adding a surreal aspect to an otherwise realistic film.\n\nWhen collage uses existing works, the result is what some copyright scholars call a \"derivative work\". The collage thus has a copyright separate from any copyrights pertaining to the original incorporated works.\n\nDue to redefined and reinterpreted copyright laws, and increased financial interests, some forms of collage art are significantly restricted. For example, in the area of sound collage (such as hip hop music), some court rulings effectively have eliminated the de minimis doctrine as a defense to copyright infringement, thus shifting collage practice away from non-permissive uses relying on fair use or de minimis protections, and toward licensing. Examples of musical collage art that have run afoul of modern copyright are \"The Grey Album\" and Negativland's \"U2\".\n\nThe copyright status of visual works is less troubled, although still ambiguous. For instance, some visual collage artists have argued that the first-sale doctrine protects their work. The first-sale doctrine prevents copyright holders from controlling consumptive uses after the \"first sale\" of their work, although the Ninth Circuit has held that the first-sale doctrine does not apply to derivative works. The de minimis doctrine and the fair use exception also provide important defenses against claimed copyright infringement. The Second Circuit in October, 2006, held that artist Jeff Koons was not liable for copyright infringement because his incorporation of a photograph into a collage painting was fair use.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48462950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48462950", "title": "Color-blocking", "text": "Color-blocking\n\nColor-blocking is thought of as the exploration of taking colors that are opposites on the color wheel and pairing them together to make interesting and complementary color combinations. It is commonly associated in fashion as a trend that originated from the artwork of Dutch painter, Piet Mondrian. However, other experts argue whether his artwork is the true origin of color-blocking.\n\nIt’s widely believed by most historians that Piet Mondrian, a turn of the century artist, whose paintings were a collection of stark lines and flat squares, inspired this current color-blocking trend. Mondrian valued simplicity and therefore experimented with how far he could simplify his work, maximizing simplicity while still maintaining recognizable, although abstract, geometric shapes. Mondrian later named this style of painting Neo-Plasticism. In Piet Mondrian's Neoplasticism movement, his art directly inspired the fashion world, as well as home décor and baked goods. Although Mondrian is said to be the key figure of the modern art movement, there are others that believe the credit for this trend lies with Georges Seurat and Claude Monet. However sources report that it is Piet Mondrian who inspired other designers such as Yves Saint Laurent to create the famous Mondrian Dresses. Before Mondrian's aesthetic overtook the fashion world, pop art's materialization in the 50s opened America's eyes to a more vibrant but structured world. Pop Art incorporated the same clean lines and solid colors that Piet Mondrian's work encompassed. Proponents of the Georges Seurat and Monet origin theory claim that this novel acceptance lead to the color-blocking revolution. Mondrian's Neo-Plasticism aesthetic evolved through the decades, coming to include aspects such as synthetic color and a strong imposed structure in the 1960s. The color-blocking trend took off in the 60s as fashion designers like Yves Saint Laurent adopted this revolutionary aesthetic. It wasn't long before this new trend was reaching as far as London; the youth of London began wearing ensembles that would come to be known as mod fashion. Mod fashion much resembled the artistic style of Piet Mondrian; mismatched, solid color separates that were composed of blocks in different hues.\n\nAs for today color-blocking is more frequently seen in the home as a latest thing in interior design. Although some argue that color-blocking is a thing in the past, high fashion figures and enthusiasts believe that this retro trend continues to thrive as a result of the hipster generation, whom revive the trend and turn it into something seen as fashion-forward.\n\nIn the fashion world, the process of color-blocking refers to wearing blocks of colors. Color-blocking is different than how people usually dress because the colors in the outfit are considered louder, or colors that clash. Fashion figures explain color-blocking as wearing multiple articles of solid-colored clothing in a single outfit. Traditional color-blocking consists of putting together two or three different, but complementary colors together in one outfit. It is also considered color-blocking even if the colors are not direct opposites on the color wheel. For example, yellow and orange are right next to each other, but adding purple (a color on the opposite of the wheel) creates a color-blocked outfit.\n\nFashion icons, designers, and figures have developed rules that go along with the art of color-blocking. Basic rules for color-blocking are centered on the colour theory. The colour theory states that there are unwritten rules in color-blocking such as not wearing too many colors together at once, and balancing an outfit with a neutral such as grey.\n\nSince color-blocking is an abstract form of art, it is easy to create illusions for accentuating body shapes, making people look taller and thinner. Color-blocking provides versatility to clothing that other trends and styles don't provide.\n\nColor-blocking has recently spilled over into home décor and interior design. This trend takes the same idea in home design that is does in fashion: the colors are paired with no concern of matching. In the home color-blocking is used mainly in room décor and walls. Décor clashing with each other, or in more mild cases the opposite colors complement each other to provide an interesting and refreshing atmosphere in a room.\n\n"}
{"id": "9962115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9962115", "title": "Conservation science (cultural heritage)", "text": "Conservation science (cultural heritage)\n\nWith respect to cultural heritage, conservation science is the interdisciplinary study of conservation of art, architecture, technical art history and other cultural works through the use of scientific inquiry. General areas of research include the technology and structure of artistic and historic works; the materials and techniques from which cultural, artist and historic objects are made.\n\nConservation scientists use scientific methods and principles to support work in the fields of art conservation and architectural conservation, and care of cultural objects in museums and other collections. Cultural conservation science work includes identifying the materials that make up a structure or piece of art including their chemical makeup, identifying and cataloging changes that cause deterioration and developing methods to mitigate deterioration of cultural heritage.\n\nIn many countries, including the United Kingdom and Italy, conservation science is considered part of the broader field called 'Heritage Science' which also encompasses scientific aspects less directly related to cultural heritage conservation, as well its management and interpretation. \nThere are four broad categories of conservation science with respect to cultural heritage: 1) understanding the materials and techniques used by artists, 2) thorough examination and analysis, 3) study of the causes of deterioration, and 4) improving materials and techniques. Conservation science includes aspects of chemistry, physics and biology as well as engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "36365518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36365518", "title": "Debtera", "text": "Debtera\n\nA debtera (or dabtara; Ge'ez\\Tigrinya\\Amharic: ደብተራ (\"Däbtära)\"; plural, Ge'ez\\Tigrinya: \"debterat\", Amharic: \"debtrawoch\" ) is an itinerant religious figure among the Beta Israel and in the Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Churches, who sings hymns and dances for churchgoers, and who performs exorcisms and white magic to aid the congregation. A debtera will claim an ecclesiastical identity and behave as in minor orders. They may in fact be officially ordained as deacons, or may act outside the Church hierarchy. They are usually feared by the local population.\n\nDebteras are usually chosen from families of other debteras, and are trained from childhood as scribes (learning Ge'ez) and as cantors. They are often taught traditional medicine and lay rites as well. While studying, they often live by begging, retailing, or practicing traditional medicine. The main purpose for their studies, however, is written and oral lore pertaining to religious functions, and the test for graduation is memorizing the psalter. Before services, they bathe and don white clothing, turbans, and a loose striped over-garment called a \"shamma\". Debteras carry prayer sticks to the service, where they sing, dance, and play drums and sistra outside the church or the synagogue during religious services.\n\nAmong the Beta Israel, the status of debtera is a milestone in the study to become a kahen. Unlike fully-fledged Kahens (who perform none of the functions of \"debtra\"), debteras are closer to the laypeople, often serving as intermediaries between them and the clergy. A Kahen who gives up his position or is deposed may serve as a \"debtera\".\n\n\"Kahens\" and \"debteras\" are two separate professions, though it is possible to pursue both roles. Orthodox Tewahedo churches see the division as following the model used by the ancient Israelites.\n\nDuring Lenten services, \"debteras\" tap prayer sticks to keep the rhythm. The Ethiopian Church condones the performances of \"debteras\", citing the story in 2 Kings of David dancing at the temple and (\"O clap your hands\") for Biblical examples. These performances also feature symbols connected to the Passion of Jesus: the sistrum's swaying and the beating of the drums represent Christ's swaying while enduring beatings, and the tapping of the prayer sticks represent the flagellation of Christ.\n\nDebteras participate in liturgy as singers and musicians and, outside the Church religio-magical healers by performing as herbalists, astrologers, fortune-tellers etc. Some Ethiopian authors consider these healers as ‘spiritual healers’ whereas, they are purely religio-magical healers. Not all duties taken on by Debteras are condoned by the Ethiopian Church. Many distribute contraceptive herbs to women and perform magic meant to perform contraceptive functions, in contradiction to the Ethiopian Church's teachings. Some are also reputed to study black magic invoking demons alongside their more benevolent official learning.\n\nSome Debteras manufacture apotropaic amulets meant to protect the wearer from evil spirits. These amulets are often made of silver and are noted for their use against the legendary budas, zār spirits, and the evil eye. They may also study a variety of anti-magic invocations, prayers, and exorcisms. These exorcisms may include prayers, blessing of holy water (which the possessed person drinks), burning of roots, and incantations from a \"Magic Star Book\". Some amulets may take the form of small scrolls kept in pouches or similar containers, made from the skin of a sacrificed goat or lamb whose blood is used to ritually purify the intended owner. Some practice (or rather circumvent) astrology, by giving unlucky people new stars by changing their names. This may be considered \"cheating\" by the locals, however. Some Debteras have also been noted to use Datura stramonium to cause hallucinations.\n\nA debtera may charge a fee for his charms, exorcisms, and astrological practices, but not liturgical activities.\n\nNot all of the Debteras duties and cures are supernatural. Debteras place scarecrows in farm fields to protect them and shave heads to prevent lice outbreaks. Before the 1974 revolution, nobles would often hire Debteras to educate their children.\n\nA major theological difference in the healing practices of Priests and Debteras is that for the priests, sin Vs virtue or evil-spirit Vs God is the basis for any sickness and healings. Therefore, they prescribe prayer (degmit) and holy water (tsebel), baptism (washing of sins), fasting, penance together with holy water as a remedy. For the debteras it is evil spirit Vs human beings; almost all the sickness are possession of evil spirits or caused by evil spirits, therefore, prayer (degmit) and holy water (tsebel) become the integral part of any ritualistic religious healing ceremony. Besides these, kitab or amulets are also prepared and give by them to be worn to wade away the evil spirits and evil eye (buda). On the other hand, the priests use the practice of confession, fasting, penance and Church attendance as a means of healing together with some sort of advice and guidance. The soul-father, called yenafs abbat is a kind of family spiritual-doctor, common in many places makes frequent visits to the home and performs services as required.\n\n"}
{"id": "337178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337178", "title": "Directoire style", "text": "Directoire style\n\nDirectoire style, , describes a period in the decorative arts, fashion, and especially furniture design, concurrent with the post-Revolution French Directory (November 2, 1795 through November 10, 1799). The style uses Neoclassical architectural forms, minimal carving, planar expanses of highly grained veneers, and applied decorative painting. It is a style transitional between Louis XVI and Empire.\n\nThe Directoire style was primarily established by the architects and designers Charles Percier (1764–1838) and Pier François Léonard Fontaine (1762–1853). In its use of Neoclassical architectural form and decorative motifs the style anticipates the slightly later and more elaborate Empire style, which was introduced after Napoleon established the First French Empire.\n\nThe Directoire style reflected the Revolutionary belief in the values of republican Rome: \"The stoic virtues of Republican Rome were upheld as standards not merely for the arts but also for political behaviour and private morality. \"Conventionels\" saw themselves as antique heroes. Children were named after Brutus, Solon and Lycurgus. The festivals of the Revolution were staged by Jacques-Louis David as antique rituals. Even the chairs in which the committee of \"Salut Publique\" sat were made on antique models devised by David... In fact Neo-classicism became fashionable\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35563221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35563221", "title": "Electronic Art Cafè", "text": "Electronic Art Cafè\n\nThe Electronic Art Café (EAC) is a touring art project, which consists of events and exhibitions by artists of international avant-garde. The seat was in the Exhibition Palace in Rome.\n\nLocated in New York City in 1994 from an idea of Umberto Scrocca, was hosted in the Great Hall of The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art at the symposium \"New York City - Sarajevo\", was attended by Vanessa Redgrave, Susan Sontag and Lisa Gaye.\nCurrently the seat is in Rome in Piazza Farnese at the Wine Bar Camponeschi and is curated by Achille Bonito Oliva, which invites artists on stage to perform with their work, a performance or a video, thus creating the brand of artist EAC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38558185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38558185", "title": "Everyday Aesthetics", "text": "Everyday Aesthetics\n\nEveryday Aesthetics is a recent subfield of philosophical aesthetics focusing on everyday events, settings and activities in which the faculty of sensibility is saliently at stake. Alexander Baumgarten established Aesthetics as a discipline and defined it as \"scientia cognitionis sensitivae\", the science of sensory knowledge, in his foundational work \"Aesthetica\" (1750). This field has been dedicated since then to the clarification of fine arts, beauty and taste only marginally referring to the aesthetics in design, crafts, urban environments and social practice until the emergence of everyday aesthetics during the ‘90s. As other subfields like environmental aesthetics or the aesthetics of nature, everyday aesthetics also attempts to countervail aesthetics' almost exclusive focus on the philosophy of art.\n\nAesthetic inquiry on everyday life owes much of its approach to John Dewey’s (1934) pragmatist aesthetics, even if he was interested in grounding mainly artistic experience. Dewey pointed at a variety of circumstances in which sensibility is present emphasizing the importance of feeling, energy, and rhythm in every creature’s intercourse with its environment. He thus stressed not only the artistic but the everyday doings and undergoings that involve alertness and intensity of experience. Dewey explored aesthetics from the subjects' experience rather than from objects' status as artworks and museum collections. This turn would allow overcoming object-centric approaches to aesthetics that hindered any consideration of the aesthetic beyond artistic and beautiful things justifiable by intrinsic qualities categorized as aesthetic.\n\nThe neglect of aesthetic theory to consider the role of sensibility in everyday life was first pointed out by Katya Mandoki who in 1994 coined the word Prosaics (drawing a distinction from Aristotle’s Poetics focused on art) to denote a sub-discipline that would specifically inquire the aesthetics involved in daily activities emphasizing the styles and forms of expression in face-to-face and context determined interactions. Prosaics or the theory of everyday aesthetics analyzes in this and subsequent texts the social conventions on what is considered acceptable or not by implicit standards of taste in each institutional setting (school, family, religion, politics, artworld, medical practice, sports). Six books and several articles i.e. \"Everyday Aesthetics; Prosaics, social identities and the play of culture\" (2007) consistently analyze the wide spectrum of the non-artistic within personal and collective experience. The role of the aesthetic is examined through symbolic interaction, identity negotiation and dramaturgical performance to produce specific sensitive effects and impact upon sensibility. As a multi-sensorial phenomenon, prosaics pays attention to the whole range of sensorial display for affecting participants' sensibility (body language, the visual, setting and props, intonation and styles of language) and not only sight and hearing as has been customary in aesthetics.\n\nAn approach to everyday aesthetics involves both the positive and negative, the enriching and the toxic effects operating on sensibility. Joseph H. Kupfer brought to the attention of aesthetic inquiry the importance of focusing on the effects of violence and ultraviolence in modern society. Kupfer makes explicit the aesthetic ground of violence in society and emphasizes destruction as an aesthetic process producing vivid sensations. He highlighted also the need of incorporating aesthetics to education not only by means of teaching art but aesthetically, i.e. in the manner itself of educating through the rhythm, organization of subject matter, and method of presentation to engage students with the content of study. Mandoki points at the negative use of aesthetics for manipulating emotions in the political sphere and refers to Nazi propaganda as a case in point that exemplifies the deliberate use of aesthetics for exerting violence. The utilization of aesthetics for political agendas, specifically in the legitimation of the nation-state is dealt by this author. Arnold Berleant has stressed the negative aspect of everyday aesthetics pointing at the importance of the aesthetic impact of terrorism as well as the use of aesthetics in the political sphere. Berleant brings up other extreme situations that provoke perceptual injury or damage as contemporary urban overcrowding and visual over stimulation, space pollution, claustrophobic and oppressive conditions. For Berleant, aesthetics implies active, intense aesthetic engagement and is thus involved in both positive and negative effects of everyday contemporary urban settings. For Berleant aesthetics of the environment has been a sustained object of research for more than two decades. Since 1970, he has insisted on the importance of aesthetics as a field of experience and active engagement in which our quality of life depends.\n\nYi-Fu Tuan proposed that we should apply the traditional aesthetic categories of beauty, contemplation, disinterestedness, and distancing in valuing daily life through different non artistic objects and locations. Already in 1974 he insisted on the need of paying due attention to the environment as object of aesthetic appreciation. Along this line Crispin Sartwell also proposed in 1995 applying aesthetics to life itself. Yuriko Saito, an environmentalist aesthetician specializing in Japanese aesthetics, argues for paying attention to weather as worthy of aesthetic appreciation and for making moral and aesthetic judgments on everyday artifacts, landscapes, lawns, and neighborhood eyesores that are conflicting with the harmony of the environment. Saito advocates a self-critical artification of everyday life and warns about the risks of artificating business. Paulina Rautio has performed qualitative analysis by interviews and epistolary exchange with women in regards to their experience of beauty through non artistic items and their contexts such as hanging laundry in Lapland where the opportunity of drying clothes under the sun is rare. There is a common interest in this approach for understanding aesthetics as a theory of art and beauty following traditional categories and at the same time attempting to go beyond conventional borders of art by artificating the non art and extending its scope to everyday objects, environments and to living itself. That is the case of Horacio Pérez-Henao who tries to interpret literature under the scope of everyday aesthetics by pointing out how fictional characters experience aesthetics into their daily lives .\n\nEvery work of art has, since the Renaissance, tried to expand themes worthy of artistic expression and concepts of artistic value to include new subject matters, techniques and styles in painting and sculpture, new harmonies, consonances or dissonances in music, new attitudes, gestures, and different genres and requirements of quality. However the initiative of applying the concept of art literally to non artistic activities within a theoretical framework related to everyday aesthetics came from philosophers like David Best, Wolfgang Welsch and Lev Kreft proposing to consider sports as an art form. Feminist aestheticians are also advocating for the inclusion of other senses beyond the two traditional sight and hearing, as in taste (Carolyn Korsmeyer) and smell (Emily Brady), that can render aesthetic experiences in daily life.\nCarolyn Korsmeyer, M. Quinet and Glenn Kuehn argue for including food among aesthetically relevant objects and experiences.\n\nAnother line emerging from analytic aesthetics and the American Society of Aesthetics has been lately discussing the expansion of aesthetics’ category repertoire to include other qualities (cuteness, prettiness, messiness, neatness, cuddleness loveliness, organized, disorganized) as well as other types of ordinary experiences (i.e. scratching an itch, playing with a pencil).\n\nBourdieu, Pierre \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgment of Taste\" (London: Routledge Kegan Paul 1984).\n\nDe Certeau, Michel \"The Practice of Everyday Life\" (Berkeley: University of California 1998).\n\nDickie, George \"The Myth of the Aesthetic Attitude” Philip Alperson (ed). \"The Philosophy of the Visual Arts\" (New York/Oxford: Oxford University Press 1992).\n\nDufrenne, Mikel \"In the Presence of the Sensuous\" Roberts, Mark.S. Gallagher, Dennis. (eds). (New Jersey: Humanities Press International 1987).\n\nGoffman, Erving \"Interaction Rituals\" (New York: Doubleday 1967).\nKolnai, Aurel \"On Disgust\" Korsmeyer, Carolyn and Barry Smith ( eds). (Open Court Press, 2004).\n\nNaukkarinen, Ossi \"Aesthetics of the Unavoidable; Aesthetic Variations in Human Appearance\". (Lahti: International Institute of Applied Aesthetics 1998).\n\nParret, Herman \"Le sublime du quotidien\" (Paris : Hadès 1988).\n\nVercelloni, Luca \"The Invention of Taste. A Cultural Account of Desire, Delight and Disgust in Fashion, Food and Art\" (London: Bloomsbury, 2016) \n"}
{"id": "251794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251794", "title": "Evil eye", "text": "Evil eye\n\nThe evil eye is a curse or legend believed to be cast by a malevolent glare, usually given to a person when they are unaware. Many cultures believe that receiving the evil eye will cause misfortune or injury. Talismans created to protect against the evil eye are also frequently called \"evil eyes\".\n\nThe idea expressed by the term causes many different cultures to pursue protective measures against it. The concept and its significance vary widely among different cultures, primarily in West Asia. The idea appears multiple times in Jewish rabbinic literature. It was a widely extended belief among many Mediterranean and Asian tribes and cultures. Charms and decorations with eye-like symbols known as nazars, which are used to repel the evil eye, are a common sight across Armenia, Azerbaijan, Albania, Algeria, Tunisia, Lebanon, Turkey, Greece, Israel, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, parts of North India, Palestine, Morocco, southern Spain, Italy, Malta, Romania, the Balkans, the Levant, Afghanistan, Syria, and Mexico, and have become a popular choice of souvenir with tourists.\n\nBelief in the evil eye dates back to Classical antiquity. It is referenced by Hesiod, Callimachus, Plato, Diodorus Siculus, Theocritus, Plutarch, Heliodorus, Pliny the Elder, and Aulus Gellius. Peter Walcot's \"Envy and the Greeks\" (1978) listed more than one hundred works by these and other authors mentioning the evil eye.\n\nClassical authors attempted both to describe and to explain the function of the evil eye. Plutarch's scientific explanation stated that the eyes were the chief, if not sole, source of the deadly rays that were supposed to spring up like poisoned darts from the inner recesses of a person possessing the evil eye. Plutarch treated the phenomenon of the evil eye as something seemingly inexplicable that is a source of wonder and cause of incredulity. Pliny the Elder described the ability of certain African enchanters to have the \"power of fascination with the eyes and can even kill those on whom they fix their gaze\".\n\nThe idea of the evil eye appears in the poetry of Virgil in a conversation between the shepherds Menalcas and Damoetas. In the passage, Menalcas is lamenting the poor health of his stock: \"What eye is it that has fascinated my tender lambs?\".\n\nThe belief in the evil eye during antiquity varied across different regions and periods. The evil eye was not feared with equal intensity in every corner of the Roman Empire. There were places in which people felt more conscious of the danger of the evil eye. In Roman times, not only were individuals considered to possess the power of the evil eye but whole tribes, especially those of Pontus and Scythia, were believed to be transmitters of the evil eye.\n\nThe phallic charm called \"fascinum\" in Latin, from the verb \"fascinare\", \"to cast a spell\" (the origin of the English word \"fascinate\") is one example of an apotropaic object used against the evil eye. They have been found throughout Europe and into the Middle East from contexts dating from the first century BC to the fourth century AD. The phallic charms were often objects of personal adornment (such as pendants and finger rings), but also appeared as stone carvings on buildings, mosaics, and wind-chimes (\"tintinnabula\"). Examples of stone phallic carvings, such as from Leptis Magna, depict a disembodied phallus attacking an evil eye by ejaculating towards it.\n\nIn describing their ability to deflect the Evil Eye, Ralph Merrifield described the Roman phallic charm as a \"kind of lightning conductor for bad luck\".\n\nBelief in the evil eye is strongest in West Asia, Latin America, East and West Africa, Central America, Central Asia, and Europe, especially the Mediterranean region; it has also spread to areas, including northern Europe, particularly in the Celtic regions, and the Americas, where it was brought by European colonists and West Asian immigrants.\n\nBelief in the evil eye is found in the Islamic doctrine, based upon the statement of Prophet Muhammad, \"The influence of an evil eye is a fact...\" [Sahih Muslim, Book 26, Number 5427]. Authentic practices of warding off the evil eye are also commonly practiced by Muslims: rather than directly expressing appreciation of, for example, a child's beauty, it is customary to say \"Masha'Allah\", that is, \"God has willed it\", or invoking God's blessings upon the object or person that is being admired. A number of beliefs about the evil eye are also found in folk religion, typically revolving around the use of amulets or talismans as a means of protection.\n\nIn the Aegean Region and other areas where light-colored eyes are relatively rare, people with green eyes, and especially blue eyes, are thought to bestow the curse, intentionally or unintentionally. Thus, in Greece and Turkey amulets against the evil eye take the form of blue eyes, and in the painting by John Phillip, below, we witness the culture-clash experienced by a woman who suspects that the artist's gaze implies that he is looking at her with the evil eye.\n\nAmong those who do not take the evil eye literally, either by reason of the culture in which they were raised or because they simply do not believe it, the phrase, \"to give someone the evil eye\" usually means simply to glare at the person in anger or disgust. The term has entered into common usage within the English language. Within the broadcasting industry it refers to when a presenter signals to the interviewee or co-presenter to stop talking due to a shortage of time.\n\nAttempts to ward off the curse of the evil eye have resulted in a number of talismans in many cultures. As a class, they are called \"apotropaic\" (Greek for \"prophylactic\" / προφυλακτικός or \"protective\", literally: \"turns away\") talismans, meaning that they turn away or turn back harm.\n\nDisks or balls, consisting of concentric blue and white circles (usually, from inside to outside, dark blue, light blue, white, and dark blue) representing an evil eye are common apotropaic talismans in West Asia, found on the prows of Mediterranean boats and elsewhere; in some forms of the folklore, the staring eyes are supposed to bend the malicious gaze back to the sorcerer.\n\nKnown as \"nazar\" ( or ), this talisman is most frequently seen in Turkey, found in or on houses and vehicles or worn as beads.\nA blue or green eye can also be found on some forms of the hamsa hand, an apotropaic hand-shaped talisman against the evil eye found in West Asia. The word hamsa, also spelled khamsa and hamesh, means \"five\" referring to the fingers of the hand. In Jewish culture, the hamsa is called the Hand of Miriam; in some Muslim cultures, the Hand of Fatima. Though condemned as superstition by doctrinaire Muslims, it is almost exclusively among Muslims in the Near East and Mediterranean that the belief in envious looks containing destructive power or the talismanic power of a nazar to defend against them. To adherents of other faiths in the region, the nazar is an attractive decoration.\n\nA variety of motifs to ward off the evil eye are commonly woven into tribal kilim rugs. Such motifs include a cross (Turkish: Haç) to divide the evil eye into four, a hook (Turkish: Çengel) to destroy the evil eye, or a human eye (Turkish: Göz) to avert the evil gaze. The shape of a lucky amulet (Turkish: Muska; often, a triangular package containing a sacred verse) is often woven into kilims for the same reason.\n\nThe evil eye, or \"al-’ayn\" , is a common belief that individuals have the power to look at people, animals or objects to cause them harm. It is tradition among many Muslims that if a compliment is to be made one should say \"TabarakAllah\" () (\"Blessings of God\") or \"Masha'Allah\" () (\"God has willed it\") to ward off the evil eye. Reciting Sura Ikhlas, Sura Al-Falaq and Sura Al-Nas from the Qur'an, three times after Fajr and after Maghrib is also used as a means of personal protection against the evil eye.\n\nAssyrians are also strong believers in the evil eye. They will usually wear a blue/turquoise bead around a necklace to be protected from the evil eye. Also, they might pinch the buttocks, comparable to Armenians. It is said that people with green or blue eyes are more prone to the evil eye effect. A simple and instant way of protection in European Christian countries is to make the sign of the cross with your hand and point two fingers, the index finger and the middle finger, towards the supposed source of influence or supposed victim as described in the first chapter of Bram Stoker's novel \"Dracula\" published in 1897:\nWhen we started, the crowd round the inn door, which had by this time swelled to a considerable size, all made the sign of the cross and pointed two fingers towards me. With some difficulty, I got a fellow passenger to tell me what they meant. He would not answer at first, but on learning that I was English, he explained that it was a charm or guard against the evil eye.\n\nThe evil eye is mentioned several times in the classic \"Pirkei Avot (Ethics of Our Fathers)\". In Chapter II, five disciples of Rabbi Yochanan ben Zakai give advice on how to follow the good path in life and avoid the bad. Rabbi Eliezer says an evil eye is worse than a bad friend, a bad neighbor, or an evil heart.\n\nJudaism believes that a \"good eye\" designates an attitude of good will and kindness towards others. Someone who has this attitude in life will rejoice when his fellow man prospers; he will wish everyone well. An \"evil eye\" denotes the opposite attitude. A man with \"an evil eye\" will not only feel no joy but experience actual distress when others prosper, and will rejoice when others suffer. A person of this character represents a great danger to our moral purity.\n\nRabbi Abraham Isaac Kook explained that the evil eye is \"an example of how one soul may affect another through unseen connections between them. We are all influenced by our environment... The evil eye is the venomous impact from malignant feelings of jealousy and envy of those around us.\"\n\nMany Observant Jews avoid talking about valuable items they own, good luck that has come to them and, in particular, their children. If any of these are mentioned, the speaker and/or listener will say \"b'li ayin hara\" (Hebrew), meaning \"without an evil eye\", or \"kein eina hara\" (Yiddish; often shortened to \"kennahara\"), \"no evil eye\". Another way to ward off the evil eye is to spit three times (or pretend to). Romans call this custom \"despuere malum,\" to spit at evil. It has also been suggested the 10th commandment: \"do not covet anything that belongs to your neighbor\" is a law against bestowing the evil eye on another person.\n\nA typical nazar is made of handmade glass featuring concentric circles or teardrop shapes in dark blue, white, light blue and black, occasionally with a yellow/gold edge.\n\nAs a legacy of the Turkish Ottoman Empire, it is a common sight in Turkey, Romania, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Greece, Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Egypt, Armenia, Iran, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Azerbaijan, where the nazar is often hung in homes, offices, cars, children's clothing, or incorporated in jewellery and ornaments. They are a popular choice of souvenir with tourists.\n\nBelief in the evil eye, or \"buda\" (var. \"bouda\"), is widespread in Ethiopia. Buda is generally believed to be a power held and wielded by those in a different social group, for example among the metalworkers. Some Ethiopian Christians carry an amulet or talisman, known as a \"kitab\", or will invoke God's name, to ward off the ill effects of buda. A debtera, who is either an unordained priest or educated layperson, will create these protective amulets or talismans.\n\nIn Pakistan, the evil eye is called \"Nazar\" (نظر). People usually may resort to reading the last three chapters of the Quran, namely Sura Ikhlas, Sura Al-Falaq and Sura Al-Nas. \"Masha'Allah\" () (\"God has willed it\") is commonly said to ward off the evil eye. Understanding of the evil eye varies by the level of education. Some perceive the use of black color to be useful in protecting from the evil eye. Others use \"taawiz\" to ward off the evil eye. Truck owners and other public transport vehicles may commonly be seen using a small black cloth on the bumpers to prevent the evil eye.\n\nThe evil eye, known as (\"mati\"), \"eye\", as an apotropaic visual device, is known to have been a fixture in Greece dating back to at least the 6th century BC, when it commonly appeared on drinking vessels. In Greece, the evil eye is cast away through the process of \"xematiasma\" (), whereby the \"healer\" silently recites a secret prayer passed over from an older relative of the opposite sex, usually a grandparent. Such prayers are revealed only under specific circumstances, as according to their customs those who reveal them indiscriminately lose their ability to cast off the evil eye. There are several regional versions of the prayer in question, a common one being: \"Holy Virgin, Our Lady, if [insert name of the victim] is suffering of the evil eye, release him/her of it.\" Evil repeated three times. According to custom, if one is indeed afflicted with the evil eye, both victim and \"healer\" then start yawning profusely. The \"healer\" then performs the sign of the cross three times, and emits spitting-like sounds in the air three times. A very similar ritual can be found in neighboring Macedonia and Bulgaria, as well as in Corsica.\n\nAnother \"test\" used to check if the evil eye was cast is that of the oil: under normal conditions, olive oil floats in water, as it is less dense than water. The test of the oil is performed by placing one drop of olive oil in a glass of water, typically holy water. If the drop floats, the test concludes there is no evil eye involved. If the drop sinks, then it is asserted that the evil eye is cast indeed. Another form of the test is to place two drops of olive oil into a glass of water. If the drops remain separated, the test concludes there is no evil eye, but if they merge, there is. There is also a third form where in a plate full of water the \"healer\" places three or nine drops of oil. If the oil drops become larger and eventually dissolve in the water there is evil eye. If the drops remain separated from water in a form of a small circle there isn't. The first drops are the most important and the number of drops that dissolve in water indicate the strength of the evil eye.\n\nThere is another form of the \"test\" where the \"healer\" prepares a few cloves by piercing each one with a pin. Then she lights a candle and grabs a pinned clove with a pair of scissors. She then uses it to do the sign of the cross over the afflicted whilst the afflicted is asked to think of a person who may have given him the evil eye. Then the healer holds the clove over the flame. If the clove burns silently, there is no evil eye present; however, if the clove explodes or burns noisily, that means the person in the thoughts of the afflicted is the one who has cast the evil eye. As the clove explodes, the evil eye is released from the afflicted. Cloves that burn with some noise are considered to be λόγια - words - someone foul-mouthing you that you ought to be wary of. The burned cloves are extinguished into a glass of water and are later buried in the garden along with the pins as they are considered to be contaminated. Greek people will also ward off the evil eye by saying φτου να μη σε ματιάξω! which translates to \"I spit so that I won't give you the evil eye.\" Contrary to popular belief, the evil eye is not necessarily given by someone wishing you ill, but it stems from admiration. Since it is technically possible to give yourself the evil eye, it is advised to be humble.\n\nThe Greek Fathers accepted the traditional belief in the evil eye, but attributed it to the Devil and envy. In Greek theology, the evil eye or \"vaskania\" () is considered harmful for the one whose envy inflicts it on others as well as for the sufferer. The Greek Church has an ancient prayer against vaskania from the \"Megan Hieron Synekdemon\" () book of prayers.\n\nThe cornicello, \"little horn\", also called the \"cornetto\" (\"little horn\", plural \"cornetti\"), is a long, gently twisted horn-shaped amulet. Cornicelli are usually carved out of red coral or made from gold or silver. The type of horn they are intended to copy is not a curled-over sheep horn or goat horn but rather like the twisted horn of an African eland or a chili pepper.\n\nOne idea that the ribald suggestions made by sexual symbols distract the witch from the mental effort needed to successfully bestow the curse. Another is that since the effect of the eye was to dry up liquids, the drying of the phallus (resulting in male impotence) would be averted by seeking refuge in the moist female genitals. Among the ancient Romans and their cultural descendants in the Mediterranean nations, those who were not fortified with phallic charms had to make use of sexual gestures to avoid the eye. Such gestures include scratching one's testicles (for men), as well as the \"mano cornuta\" gesture and the fig sign; a fist with the thumb pressed between the index and middle fingers, representing the phallus within the vagina. In addition to the phallic talismans, statues of hands in these gestures, or covered with magical symbols, were carried by the Romans as talismans. In Latin America, carvings of the fist with the thumb pressed between the index and middle fingers continue to be carried as good luck charms.\n\nThe wielder of the evil eye, the \"jettatore\", is described as having a striking facial appearance, high arching brows with a stark stare that leaps from his black eyes. He often has a reputation for clandestine involvement with dark powers and is the object of gossip about dealings in magic and other forbidden practices. Successful men having tremendous personal magnetism quickly gain notoriety as jettatori. Pope Pius IX was dreaded for his evil eye, and a whole cycle of stories about the disasters that happened in his wake were current in Rome during the latter decades of the 19th century. Public figures of every type, from poets to gangsters, have had their specialized abilities attributed to the power of their eyes.\n\nThe symbol of the eye, known as \"l-għajn\", is common on traditional fishing boats which are known as luzzu. They are said to protect fishermen from storms and malicious intentions. \n\nThe evil eye or 'Mal de Ojo' has been deeply embedded in Spanish popular culture throughout its history and Spain is the origin of this superstition in Latin America.\n\nIn Mexico and Central America, infants are considered at special risk for the evil eye (see \"mal de ojo\", above) and are often given an amulet bracelet as protection, typically with an eye-like spot painted on the amulet. Another preventive measure is allowing admirers to touch the infant or child; in a similar manner, a person wearing an item of clothing that might induce envy may suggest to others that they touch it or some other way dispel envy.\n\nOne traditional cure in rural Mexico involves a \"curandero\" (folk healer) sweeping a raw chicken egg over the body of a victim to absorb the power of the person with the evil eye. The egg is later broken into a glass with water and placed under the bed of the patient near the head. Sometimes it is checked immediately because the egg appears as if it has been cooked. When this happens it means that the patient did have Mal De Ojo. Somehow the Mal De Ojo has transferred to the egg and the patient immediately gets well. (Fever, pain and diarrhea, nausea/vomiting goes away instantly) In the traditional Hispanic culture of the Southwestern United States and some parts of Mexico, the egg may be passed over the patient in a cross-shaped pattern all over the body, while reciting \"The Lord's Prayer\". The egg is also placed in a glass with water, under the bed and near the head, sometimes it is examined right away or in the morning and if the egg looks like it has been cooked then it means that they did have Mal de Ojo and the patient will start feeling better. Sometimes if the patient starts getting ill and someone knows that they had stared at patient, usually a child, if the person who stared goes to the child and touches them, the child's illness goes away immediately so the Mal De Ojo energy is released.\n\nIn some parts of South America the act of \"ojear\", which could be translated as \"to give someone the evil eye\", is an involuntary act. Someone may \"ojear\" babies, animals and inanimate objects just by staring and admiring them. This may produce illness, discomfort or possibly death on babies or animals and failures on inanimate objects like cars or houses. It's a common belief that since this is an involuntary act made by people with the \"heavy look\", the proper way of protection is by attaching a red ribbon to the animal, baby or object, in order to attract the gaze to the ribbon rather than to the object intended to be protected.\n\nBrazilians generally will associate \"mal-olhado\", \"mau-olhado\" (\"act of giving a bad look\") or \"olho gordo\" (\"fat eye\" i.e. \"gluttonous eye\") with envy or jealousy on domestic and garden plants (that, after months or years of health and beauty, will suddenly weaken, wither and die, with no apparent signs of pest, after the visitation of a certain friend or relative), attractive hair and less often economic or romantic success and family harmony.\n\nUnlike in most cultures \"mal-olhado\" is not seen to be something that risks young babies. \"Pagans\" or non-baptized children are instead assumed to be at risk from \"bruxas\" (witches), that have malignant intention themselves rather than just \"mal-olhado\". It probably reflects the Galician folktales about the \"meigas\" or Portuguese magas, (witches), as Colonial Brazil was primarily settled by Portuguese people, in numbers greater than all Europeans to settle pre-independence United States. Those \"bruxas\" are interpreted to have taken the form of moths, often very dark, that disturb children at night and take away their energy. For that reason, Christian Brazilians often have amulets in the form of crucifixes around, beside or inside beds where children sleep.\n\nNevertheless, older children, especially boys, that fulfill the cultural ideals of behaving extremely well (for example, having no problems whatsoever in eating well a great variety of foods, being obedient and respectful toward adults, kind, polite, studious, and demonstrating no bad blood with other children or their siblings) who unexpectedly turn into problematic adolescents or adults (for example lacking good health habits, extreme laziness or lacking motivation towards their life goals, having eating disorders, or being prone to delinquency), are said to have been victims of \"mal-olhado\" coming from parents of children whose behavior was not as admirable.\n\nAmulets that protect against \"mal-olhado\" tend to be generally resistant, mildly to strongly toxic and dark plants in specific and strategic places of a garden or the entry to a house. Those include \"comigo-ninguém-pode\" (\"against-me-nobody-cans\"), \"Dieffenbachia\" (the dumbcane), \"espada-de-são-jorge\" (\"St. George's sword\"), \"Sansevieria trifasciata\" (the snake plant or mother-in-law's tongue) and \"guiné\" (\"Guinea\"), among , \"Petiveria alliacea\" (the guinea henweed). For those lacking in space or wanting to \"sanitize\" specific places, they may all be planted together in a single \"sete ervas\" (\"seven [lucky] herbs\") pot, that will also include \"arruda\" (common rue), \"pimenteira\" (Capsicum annuum), \"manjericão\" (basil) and \"alecrim\" (rosemary). (Though the last four ones should not be used for their common culinary purposes by humans.)\nOther popular amulets against evil eye include: the use of mirrors, on the outside of your home's front door, or also inside your home facing your front door; an elephant figurine with its back to the front door; and coarse salt, placed in specific places at home.\n\nMal ojo often occurs without the dimension of envy, but insofar as envy is a part of ojo, it is a variant of this underlying sense of insecurity and relative vulnerability to powerful, hostile forces in the environment. In her study of medical attitudes in the Santa Clara Valley of California, Margaret Clark arrives at essentially the same conclusion: \"Among the Spanish-speaking folk of Sal si Puedes, the patient is regarded as a passive and innocent victim of malevolent forces in his environment. These forces may be witches, evil spirits, the consequences of poverty, or virulent bacteria that invade his body. The scapegoat may be a visiting social worker who unwittingly 'cast the evil eye' ... Mexican folk concepts of disease are based in part on the notion that people can be victimized by the careless or malicious behavior of others\".\n\nAnother aspect of the mal ojo syndrome in Ixtepeji is a disturbance of the hot-cold equilibrium in the victim. According to folk belief, the bad effects of an attack result from the \"hot\" force of the aggressor entering the child's body and throwing it out of balance. Currier has shown how the Mexican hot-cold system is an unconscious folk model of social relations upon which social anxieties are projected. According to Currier, \"the nature of Mexican peasant society is such that each individual must continuously attempt to achieve a balance between two opposing social forces: the tendency toward intimacy and that toward withdrawal. [It is therefore proposed] that the individual's continuous preoccupation with achieving a balance between 'heat' and 'cold' is a way of reenacting, in symbolic terms, a fundamental activity in social relations.\"\n\nIn the northern states of India, like Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, the evil eye is called \"Drishti\" (meaning gaze or vision) or more commonly as \"Buri Nazar\". A charm bracelet, tattoo or other object (Nazar battu), or a slogan (Chashme Baddoor (slogan)), may be used to ward-off the evil eye. Some truck owners write the slogan to ward off the evil eye: \"buri nazar wale tera muh kala\" (\"O evil-eyed one, may your face turn black\").\n\nIn general in India, if gone through time up to historical myths, babies and newborn infants will have their eye adorned with kajal, or eyeliner. This would be black, as it is believed in India that black wards off the evil eye or any evil auras.\nIn Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, people call it as 'Disti' or 'Drusti'. To remove Disti people follow several methods based on their culture/area. Items used to remove Disti either Rock salt or Red chilies or Oiled cloth. Taking one of this item, people remove Disti by rotating their hand with one of the item above around the person who affected by Disti and they will burn the item.\n\nIn 1946, the American magician Henri Gamache published a text called \"Terrors of the Evil Eye Exposed!\" (later reprinted as \"Protection against Evil\"), which offers directions to defend oneself against the evil eye.\n\nIn some cultures over-complimenting is said to cast a curse. So does envy. Since ancient times such maledictions have been collectively called the evil eye. According to the book \"The Evil Eye\" by folklorist Alan Dundes, the belief's premise is that an individual can cause harm simply by looking at another's person or property. However, protection is easy to come by with talismans that can be worn, carried, or hung in homes, most often incorporating the contours of a human eye. In Aegean countries, people with light-colored eyes are thought to be particularly powerful, and amulets in Greece and Turkey are usually blue orbs. Indians and Jews use charms with palm-forward hands with an eye in the center; Italians employ horns, phallic shapes meant to distract spell casters.\n\nIn most languages, the name translates literally into English as \"bad eye\", \"evil eye\", \"evil look\", or just \"the Eye\". Some variants on this general pattern from around the world are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12537650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12537650", "title": "Faux painting", "text": "Faux painting\n\nFaux painting or faux finishing are terms used to describe decorative paint finishes that replicate the appearance of materials such as marble, wood or stone. The term comes from the French word faux, meaning false, as these techniques started as a form of replicating materials such as marble and wood with paint, but has subsequently come to encompass many other decorative finishes for walls and furniture including simulating recognisable textures and surfaces.\n\nFaux finishing has been used for millennia, from cave painting to the tombs of ancient Egypt, but what we generally think of as faux finishing in the decorative arts began with plaster and stucco finishes in Mesopotamia over 5,000 years ago.\n\nFaux painting became popular in classical times in the forms of faux marble, faux wood, and trompe l'oeil murals. Artists would apprentice for 10 years or more with a master faux painter before working on their own. Great recognition was awarded to artists who could actually trick viewers into believing their work was the real thing. Faux painting has continued to be popular throughout the ages, but experienced major resurgences in the neoclassical revival of the nineteenth century and the Art Deco styles of the 1920s. During the recent history of decorative painting, faux finishing has been mainly used in commercial and public spaces.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, faux finishing saw another major revival, as wallpaper began to fall out of fashion. At this point, faux painting became extremely popular in home environments, with high-end homes leading the trend. While it can be quite expensive to hire a professional faux finisher($80.00/hr.), many faux painting methods are thought to be simple enough for a beginning home owner to create with a little instruction. Some, however, fail to take important details like corners into consideration and end up with a do-it-yourself looking job. Some professionally applied finishes in the high-end, Bay-Area homes of northern California, for example, were as simple as oil glaze/oil-based paint/penetrol or as complicated as applications with peacock feathers and 4 different colors applied using 4 different techniques. People are attracted to the simplicity of changing a faux finish, because it can be easily painted over compared with the trouble of removing wallpaper. Trouble with removing wallpaper comes when people who have no formal training don't follow proper procedures during preparation such as priming with an oil-based primer, then following that with another product which makes the paper come off relatively easy.\n\nIn modern-day faux finishing, there are two major materials/processes used. Glaze work involves using a translucent mixture of paint and glaze applied with a brush, roller, rag, or sponge, and often mimics textures, but it is always smooth to the touch. Plaster work can be done with tinted plasters, or washed over with earth pigments, and is generally applied with a trowel or spatula. The finished result can be either flat to the touch or textured.\n\n"}
{"id": "90317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90317", "title": "Fine art", "text": "Fine art\n\nIn European academic traditions, fine art is art developed primarily for aesthetics or beauty, distinguishing it from applied art, which also has to serve some practical function, such as pottery or most metalwork.\n\nHistorically, the five main fine arts were painting, sculpture, architecture, music, and poetry, with performing arts including theatre and dance. Today, the fine arts commonly include additional forms, such as film, photography, video production/editing, design, sequential art, conceptual art, and printmaking.\n\nOne definition of \"fine art\" is \"a visual art considered to have been created primarily for aesthetic and intellectual purposes and judged for its beauty and meaningfulness, specifically, painting, sculpture, drawing, watercolor, graphics, and architecture.\" In that sense, there are conceptual differences between the \"fine arts\" and the \"applied arts\". As originally conceived, and as understood for much of the modern era, the perception of aesthetic qualities required a refined judgment usually referred to as having good taste, which differentiated fine art from popular art and entertainment.\n\nThe word \"fine\" does not so much denote the quality of the artwork in question, but the purity of the discipline according to traditional Western European canons. This definition originally excluded the applied or decorative arts, and the products of what were regarded as crafts. In contemporary practice these distinctions and restrictions have become essentially meaningless, as the concept or intention of the artist is given primacy, regardless of the means through which this is expressed.\n\nAccording to some writers the concept of a distinct category of fine art is an invention of the early modern period in the West. Larry Shiner in his \"\" (2003) locates the invention in the 18th century:\n\"There was a traditional “system of the arts” in the West before the eighteenth century. (Other traditional cultures still have a similar system.) In that system, an artist or artisan was a skilled maker or practitioner, a work of art was the useful product of skilled work, and the appreciation of the arts was integrally connected with their role in the rest of life. “Art”, in other words, meant approximately the same thing as the Greek word techne, or in English “skill”, a sense that has survived in phrases like “the art of war”, “the art of love”, and “the art of medicine.”\nSimilar ideas have been expressed by Paul Oskar Kristeller, Pierre Bourdieu, and Terry Eagleton (e.g. The Ideology of the Aesthetic), though the point of invention is often placed earlier, in the Italian Renaissance.\n\nThe separation of arts and crafts that often exists in Europe and the US is not shared by all other cultures. In Japanese aesthetics, the activities of everyday life are depicted by integrating not only art with craft but man-made with nature. Traditional Chinese art distinguished within Chinese painting between the mostly landscape literati painting of scholar gentlemen and the artisans of the schools of court painting and sculpture. A high status was also given to many things that would be seen as craft objects in the West, in particular ceramics, jade carving, weaving, and embroidery. Latin American art was dominated by European colonialism until the 20th-century, when indigenous art began to reassert itself inspired by the Constructivist Movement, which reunited arts with crafts based upon socialist principles. In Africa, Yoruba art often has a political and spiritual function. As with the art of the Chinese, the art of the Yoruba is also often composed of what would ordinarily be considered in the West to be craft production. Some of its most admired manifestations, such as sculpture and textiles, fall in this category.\n\nDrawing is a form of visual expression and is one of the major forms of the visual arts. Common instruments include: graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, chalk, pastels, markers, stylus, or various metals like silverpoint. There are a number of subcategories of drawing, including cartooning and creating comics. There remains debate whether the following is considered a part of “drawing” as “fine art”: \"doodling\", drawing in the fog a shower and leaving an imprint on the bathroom mirror, or the surrealist method of \"entopic graphomania\", in which dots are made at the sites of impurities in a blank sheet of paper, and the lines are then made between the dots.\n\nMosaics are images formed with small pieces of stone or glass, called \"tesserae\". They can be decorative or functional. An artist who designs and makes mosaics is called a mosaic artist or a mosaicist.\n\nPrintmaking is the process of making artworks by printing, normally on paper. Except in the case of monotyping, the process is capable of producing multiples of the same piece, which is called a print. Each print is considered an original, as opposed to a copy. The reasoning behind this is that the print is not a reproduction of another work of art in a different medium — for instance, a painting — but rather an image designed from inception as a print. An individual print is also referred to as an impression. Prints are created from a single original surface, known technically as a matrix. Common types of matrices include: plates of metal, usually copper or zinc for engraving or etching; stone, used for lithography; blocks of wood for woodcuts, linoleum for linocuts and fabric in the case of screen-printing. But there are many other kinds, discussed below. Multiple nearly identical prints can be called an edition. In modern times each print is often signed and numbered forming a \"limited edition.\" Prints may also be published in book form, as artist's books. A single print could be the product of one or multiple techniques.\n\nCalligraphy is a type of visual art. A contemporary definition of calligraphic practice is \"the art of giving form to signs in an expressive, harmonious and skillful manner\". Modern calligraphy ranges from functional hand-lettered inscriptions and designs to fine-art pieces where the abstract expression of the handwritten mark may or may not compromise the legibility of the letters. Classical calligraphy differs from typography and non-classical hand-lettering, though a calligrapher may create all of these; characters are historically disciplined yet fluid and spontaneous, improvised at the moment of writing.\n\n\"Fine art photography\" refers to photographs that are created to fulfill the creative vision of the artist. Fine art photography stands in contrast to photojournalism and commercial photography. Photojournalism visually communicates stories and ideas, mainly in print and digital media. Fine art photography is created primarily as an expression of the artist’s vision, but has also been important in advancing certain causes.\n\nArchitecture is frequently considered a fine art, especially if its aesthetic components are spotlighted — in contrast to structural-engineering or construction-management components. Architectural works are perceived as cultural and political symbols and works of art. Historical civilizations often are known primarily through their architectural achievements. Such buildings as the pyramids of Egypt and the Roman Colosseum are cultural symbols, and are important links in public consciousness, even when scholars have discovered much about past civilizations through other means. Cities, regions and cultures continue to identify themselves with, and are known by, their architectural monuments.\n\nOne field where \"fine\" remains a valid technical term is pottery, especially in archaeology. \"Fine wares\" are high-quality pottery, often painted, moulded or otherwise decorated, and in many periods distinguished from \"coarse\" wares, which are basic utilitarian pots used by the mass of the population, or in the kitchen rather than for more formal purposes.\n\nSculpture is three-dimensional artwork created by shaping hard or plastic material, commonly stone (either rock or marble), metal, or wood. Some sculptures are created directly by ; others are assembled, built up and fired, welded, molded, or cast. Because sculpture involves the use of materials that can be moulded or modulated, it is considered one of the plastic arts. The majority of public art is sculpture. Many sculptures together in a garden setting may be referred to as a sculpture garden.\n\nConceptual art is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work take precedence over traditional aesthetic and material concerns.\nThe inception of the term in the 1960s referred to a strict and focused practice of \"idea-based art\" that often defied traditional visual criteria associated with the visual arts in its presentation as text. However, through its association with the Young British Artists and the Turner Prize during the 1990s, its popular usage, particularly in the UK, developed as a synonym for all contemporary art that does not practice the traditional skills of painting and sculpture.\n\nPoetry (the term derives from a variant of the Greek term, poiesis, \"making\") is a form of literature that uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language—such as sound symbolism, phonaesthetics and metre—to evoke meanings in addition to, or in place of, the prosaic ostensible meaning.\n\nMusic is an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time. The common elements of music are pitch (which governs melody and harmony), rhythm (and its associated concepts tempo, meter, and articulation), dynamics (loudness and softness), and the sonic qualities of timbre and texture (which are sometimes termed the \"color\" of a musical sound). Different styles or types of music may emphasize, de-emphasize or omit some of these elements. Music is performed with a vast range of instruments and vocal techniques ranging from singing to rapping; there are solely instrumental pieces, solely vocal pieces (such as songs without instrumental accompaniment) and pieces that combine singing and instruments. The word derives from Greek μουσική (mousike; \"art of the Muses\").\n\n\"Dance\" is an art form that generally refers to movement of the body, usually rhythmic, and to music, used as a form of expression, social interaction or presented in a spiritual or performance setting.\nDance is also used to describe methods of nonverbal communication (see body language) between humans or animals (bee dance, patterns of behaviour such as a mating dance), motion in inanimate objects \"(the leaves danced in the wind)\", and certain musical genres. In sports, gymnastics, figure skating and synchronized swimming are \"dance disciplines\" while the \"Katas\" of the martial arts are often compared to dances.\n\nModern Western theatre is dominated by realism, including drama and comedy. Another popular Western form is musical theatre. Classical forms of theatre, including Greek and Roman drama, classic English drama (Shakespeare and Marlowe included), and French theater (Molière included), are still performed today. In addition, performances of classic Eastern forms such as Noh and Kabuki can be found in the West, although with less frequency.\n\n\"Fine arts film\" is a term that encompasses motion pictures and the field of film as a fine art form. A \"fine arts movie theater\" is a venue, usually a building, for viewing such movies. Films are produced by recording images from the world with cameras, or by creating images using animation techniques or special effects. Films are cultural artifacts created by specific cultures, which reflect those cultures, and, in turn, affect them. Film is considered to be an important art form, a source of popular entertainment and a powerful method for educating — or indoctrinating — citizens. The visual elements of cinema give motion pictures a universal power of communication. Some films have become popular worldwide attractions by using dubbing or subtitles that translate the dialogue.\n\nCinematography is the discipline of making lighting and camera choices when recording photographic images for the cinema. It is closely related to the art of still photography, though many additional issues arise when both the camera and elements of the scene may be in motion.\n\nIndependent filmmaking often takes place outside of Hollywood, or other major studio systems. An independent film (or \"indie film)\" is a film initially produced without financing or distribution from a major movie studio. Creative, business, and technological reasons have all contributed to the growth of the indie film scene in the late 20th and early 21st century.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United States an academic course of study in fine art may include the Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art, or a Bachelor of Fine Arts, and/or a Master of Fine Arts degree — traditionally the terminal degree in the field. Doctor of Fine Arts degrees —earned, as opposed to honorary degrees— have begun to emerge at some US academic institutions, however.\nMajor schools of art in the US:\n\n"}
{"id": "9980550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9980550", "title": "Grotesque body", "text": "Grotesque body\n\nThe grotesque body is a concept, or literary trope, put forward by Russian literary critic Mikhail Bakhtin in his study of François Rabelais' work. The essential principle of grotesque realism is degradation, the lowering of all that is abstract, spiritual, noble, and ideal to the material level. Through the use of the grotesque body in his novels, Rabelais related political conflicts to human anatomy. In this way, Rabelais used the concept as \"a figure of unruly biological and social exchange\".\n\nIt is by means of this information that Bakhtin pinpoints two important subtexts: the first is \"carnival\" (carnivalesque), and the second is \"grotesque realism\" (grotesque body). Thus, in \"Rabelais and His World\" Bakhtin studies the interaction between the social and the literary, as well as the meaning of the body.\n\nThe Carnival is known as the feast of fools. In today's world, this is better known as Mardi Gras. Mardi Gras is a religious celebration where people consume copious amounts of food and wine and have a large party to celebrate. The grotesqueness in the carnival is seen as the abundance and large amount of food consumed by the body. There is much emphasis put on the mouth (where the body can be entered). Eating, drinking, burping from excess, etc. is all done through the mouth. Rabelais uses the Carnival to refer to politics and critique the world based on human anatomy.\n\nIn the Italian celebration of Carnival, masks play a major role as many people wear them during the celebration. Many of these masks can be seen as an exaggeration of the grotesque as they feature enlarged facial elements such as an enlarged nose (which is a part of the grotesque body). The Italian celebration of carnival is similar to that of Mardi Gras where food and alcohol are consumed in excess.\n\nBoth renditions of Carnival are celebrated immediately before the Christian season of Lent which is about a 40-day season for people of Christian (primarily Catholic) faith to cleanse themselves and become pure before Easter Sunday.\n\nExaggeration, hyperbole, and expressiveness are all key elements of the grotesque style. Certain aspects of the body are referenced when talking about the grotesque. These things include elements of the body that either protrude from the body or a part of the body that can be entered. This is because the body in many cases is seen as pure where as the outside world is not. Therefore, parts of the body that allow the outside world in or allow elements inside the body out, are seen and used as an exaggeration of the grotesque. In the article, \"Absurdity and Hidden Truth: Cunning Intelligence and Grotesque Body Images as Manifestations of the Trickster\", Koepping refers back to Bakhtin's statement, \"The themes of cursing and of laughter are almost exclusively a subject of the grotesqueness of the body.\"\n\nItalian satirist Daniele Luttazzi explained: \"satire exhibits the grotesque body, which is dominated by the primary needs (eating, drinking, defecating, urinating, sex) to celebrate the victory of life: the social and the corporeal are joyfully joint in something indivisible, universal and beneficial\".\n\nBakhtin explained how the grotesque body is a celebration of the cycle of life: the grotesque body is a comic figure of profound ambivalence: its positive meaning is linked to birth and renewal and its negative meaning is linked to death and decay. In Rabelais' epoch (1500–1800) \"it was appropriate to ridicule the king and clergy, to use dung and urine to degrade; this was not to just mock, it was to unleash what Bakhtin saw as the people’s power, to renew and regenerate the entire social system. It was the power of the people’s festive-carnival, a way to turn the official spectacle inside-out and upside down, just for a while; long enough to make an impression on the participating official stratum. With the advent of modernity (science, technology, industrial revolution), the mechanistic overtook the organic, and the officialdom no longer came to join in festive-carnival. The bodily lower stratum of humor dualized from the upper stratum.\"\n\nBefore people began to develop literature or art, leaders would sit in their halls surrounded by their warriors amusing themselves by mocking their opponents and enemies. The warriors would laugh at any weakness or defect, either physical or mental, giving nicknames which exaggerated these traits.\n\nSoon warriors sought to give a more permanent form to their ridicule, which led to rude depictions on bare rocks, or any other surface that was convenient.\n\nIn the Medieval Grotesque Carnival, emphasis is put on the nether regions of the body as the center and creation of meaning. The spirit rather than coming from above comes from the belly, buttocks, and genitals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54057718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54057718", "title": "Hohenzollernstraße", "text": "Hohenzollernstraße\n\nHohenzollernstraße is a two kilometer long street in Munich's Schwabing district.\n\nIt starts at Leopoldstraße, then crosses the Kurfürstenplatz and Hohenzollernplatz and changes after the Winzererstraße in the west to the Schwerere-Reiter-Straße as its extension. Between Kurfürstenplatz and Leopoldstraße are smaller shops. Together with Leopoldstraße the shopping street forms the so-called \"Schwabinger T\".\n\nAccording to a study by the traffic data and SaaS provider INRIX of 2016, Hohenzollernstraße is the most heavily occupied road in Germany.\n\nUntil the incorporation of Schwabing to Munich in 1890, the Burgfrieden around Munich ran at the height of Hohenzollernstraße. In 1892 the street was renamed \"Hörmannstraße\" after the Hohenzollern nobility. In 1901, Wassily Kandinsky founded his art school \"Phalanx\" on Hohenzollernstraße 6a, where Gabriele Münter became a pupil. In the house number 104, Willibald Besta had his studio there until 1929. Hohenzollernstraße 21 was the location of the 1902 founded \"Lehr- und Versuchsatelier für angewandte und freikunst\", of Wilhelm von Debschitz and Hermann Obrist, which developed into Germany's largest private educational institution. Paul Klee taught there in 1908. In 1910 Emil Preetorius was the director of the school. In house number 1 lived the writer and painter Fanny zu Reventlow, who was known as \"Schwabinger Skandalgräfin\". Joachim Ringelnatz lived in the Gartenhaus of Hohenzollernstraße 31a /I from 1920 to 1930. In Hohenzollernstraße 110, Werner Heisenberg spent some fourteen years of his youth.\n\nIn 1910, Georg Kerschensteiner founded an experimental school in Hohenzollernstraße 14 which was built in 1905/1906. In 1938, the building was transformed into a hospital, which from 1945 to 1960 served as the \"Chirurgisches Krankenhaus München-Nord\". In 1961, a high school took its place, where for example, Michael Lerchenberg went to school. Since 1941, between Zentnerstraße and Schleissheimer Straße, on Hohenzollernstraße is the neo-classical styled Nordbad, which includes a grandstand for 1,400 spectators. From 1959 to 2009, Theater44 was located at Hohenzollernstraße 44.\n\nFrom the Kurfürstenplatz to the west, the tram lines 12 and 27 run over Hohenzollernstraße. Until August 1900, a horse-drawn carriage had already been running along the line from Promenadeplatz to Hohenzollernstraße. Later, tram lines ran from Nikolaiplatz along the entire length of Hohenzollernstraße to Barerstraße, Schwerere-Reiter-Straße and Schleissheimer Straße. In the 1970s, the section between Nikolaiplatz and Kurfürstenplatz was no longer used.\n\n33 historic architectural monuments lie with Hohenzollernstraße.\n\n"}
{"id": "1371359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371359", "title": "Insufflation", "text": "Insufflation\n\nIn religious and magical practice, insufflation and exsufflation are ritual acts of blowing, breathing, hissing, or puffing that signify variously expulsion or renunciation of evil or of the devil (the Evil One), or infilling or blessing with good (especially, in religious use, with the Spirit or grace of God).\n\nIn historical Christian practice, such blowing appears most prominently in the liturgy, and is connected almost exclusively with baptism and other ceremonies of Christian initiation, achieving its greatest popularity during periods in which such ceremonies were given a prophylactic or exorcistic significance, and were viewed as essential to the defeat of the devil or to the removal of the taint of original sin.\n\nRitual blowing occurs in the liturgies of catechumenate and baptism from a very early period and survives into the modern Roman Catholic, Greek Orthodox, Maronite, and Coptic rites. Catholic liturgy post-Vatican II (the so-called \"novus ordo\" 1969) has largely done away with insufflation, except in a special rite for the consecration of chrism on Maundy Thursday. Protestant liturgies typically abandoned it very early on. The Tridentine Catholic liturgy retained both an insufflation of the baptismal water and (like the present-day Orthodox and Maronite rites) an exsufflation of the candidate for baptism, right up to the 1960s:\n\nFrom an early period, the act had two distinct but not always distinguishable meanings: it signified on the one hand the derisive repudiation or exorcism of the devil; and, on the other, purification and consecration by and inspiration with the Holy Spirit. The former is technically \"exsufflation\" (\"blowing out\") and the latter \"insufflation\" (\"blowing in\"), but ancient and medieval texts (followed by modern scholarship) make no consistent distinction in usage. For example, the texts use not only Latin \"insufflare\" ('blow in') and \"exsufflare\" ('blow out'), or their Greek or vernacular equivalents, but also the simplex \"sufflare\" ('blow'), \"halare\" ('breathe'), \"inspirare\", \"exspirare\", etc.\n\nTypical is the 8th-century \"Libellus de mysterio baptismatis\" of Magnus of Sens, one of a number of responses to a questionnaire about baptism circulated by Charlemagne. In discussing insufflation as a means of exorcising catechumens, Magnus combines a variety of mostly exsufflation-like functions≈\n\n\"Those who are to be baptised are insufflated by the priest of God, so that the Prince of Sinners [i.e. the devil] may be put to flight from out of them, and that entry for the Lord Christ might be prepared, and that by his insufflation they might be made worthy to receive the Holy Spirit.\"\n\nThis double role appears as early as Cyril of Jerusalem's 4th-century \"Mystagogic Catacheses\"; as Edward Yarnold notes, \"Cyril attributes both negative and positive effects [to insufflation]. … The rite of breathing on the [baptismal] candidate has the negative effect of blowing away the devil (exsufflation) and the positive effect of breathing in grace (insufflation).\"\n\nWhat might neutrally be called \"sufflation\" is found in some of the earliest liturgies dealing with the protracted process of initiation known as the \"catechumenate,\" which saw its heyday in the 4th and 5th centuries. The earliest extant liturgical use is possibly that of the \"Apostolic Tradition\" attributed to Hippolytus of Rome, from the 3rd or 4th century, and therefore contemporary with Cyril in the east:\n\nThose who are to be baptized should … be gathered in one place. … And [the bishop] should lay his hands on them and exorcize all alien spirits, that they may flee out of them and ever return into them. And when he has finished exorcizing them, he shall breathe on their faces; and when he has signed their foreheads, ears, and noses, he shall raise them up.\n\nThe practice entered the baptismal liturgy proper only as the catechumenate, rendered vestigial by the growth of routine infant baptism, was absorbed into the rite of baptism. Both exsufflation and insufflation are well established by the time of Augustine and in later centuries are found widely. By the Western high Middle Ages of the 12th century, sufflation was geographically widespread, and had been applied not only to sufflating catechumens and baptizands, but also to exorcism of readmitted heretics; to admission of adult converts to the catechumenate; to renunciation of the devil on the part of catechumens; to consecration and/or exorcism of the baptismal font and water; to consecration or exorcism of ashes; and to the consecration of the chrism or holy oil.\n\nMost of these variations persist in one branch or another of the hybrid Romano-Germanic rite that can be traced from 5th-century Rome through the western Middle Ages to the Council of Trent, and beyond that into modern (Tridentine) Roman Catholicism. As the 'national' rites such as the Ambrosian tradition in northern Italy and the Spanish Mozarabic rite faded away or were absorbed into international practice, it was this hybrid Roman-Gallican standard that came to dominate western Christendom, including Anglo-Saxon and medieval England, from the time of Charlemagne, and partly through his doing, through the high and late Middle Ages and into the modern period. Roman practice around the year 500 is reflected in a letter by a somewhat mysterious John the Deacon to a correspondent named Senarius. The letter discusses the exsufflation of catechumens at length. The Stowe Missal, Irish in origin but largely Gallican in form, contains a prebaptismal sufflation of unclear significance. The other Gallican rites are largely devoid of sufflation, though the so-called Missale Gothicum contains a triple exsufflation of baptismal water, and a prebaptismal insufflation of catechumens is found in the hybrid Bobbio Missal and the 10th-century Fulda sacramentary, alongside the more common baptismal exsufflation. The 11th-century North-Italian baptismal ritual in the Ambrosian Library MS. T.27.Sup. makes heavy use of the practice, requiring both insufflation and triple exsufflation of the baptismal candidates \"in modum crucis\", and insufflation of the font as well. The \"Hadrianum\" version of the Gregorian Sacramentary, sent to Charlemagne from Rome and augmented probably by Benedict of Aniane, contains an insufflation of the baptismal font, as does the mid-10th-century \"Ordo Romanus L\", the basis of the later Roman pontifical. \"Ordo Romanus L\" also contains a triple exsufflation of the candidates for baptism, immediately preceding the baptism itself.\n\nMost of the numerous Carolingian expositions of baptism treat sufflation to some extent. One anonymous 9th-century catechism is unusual in distinguishing explicitly between the exsufflation of catechumens and the insufflation of baptismal water, but most of the tracts and florilegia, when they treat both, do so without referring one to the other; most confine themselves to exsufflation and are usually content to quote extracts from authorities, especially Isidore and Alcuin. Particularly popular was Isidore's lapidary remark in the Etymologies to the effect that it is not the human being (\"God's creature\") that is exsufflated, but the Prince of Sinners to whom that person is subjected by being born in sin, a remark that echoed Augustine's arguments against the Pelagians to the effect that it was not the human infant (God's image) that was attacked in sufflation, but the infant's possessor, the devil. Particularly influential was Alcuin's brief treatment of the subject, the so-called \"Primo paganus\", which in turn depended heavily on John the Deacon. The \"Primo paganus\" formed the basis of Charlemagne's famous circular questionnaire on baptism, part of his effort to harmonize liturgical practice across his empire; and many of the seventeen extant direct or indirect responses to the questionnaire echo Alcuin, making the process a little circular and the texts a little repetitious. The burden of Alcuin's remarks, in fact, appears above in the quotation from the \"Libellus\" of Magnus of Sens, one of the respondents. The questionnaire assumed that exsufflation of or on the part of the candidate for baptism was generally practiced — it merely asks what meaning is attached to the practice:\n\n\"Concerning the renunciation of Satan and all his works and pomps, what is the renunciation? and what are the works of the devil and his pomps? why is he breathed upon? (\"cur exsufflatur?\") why is he exorcised?\"\n\nMost of the respondents answered that it was so that, with the devil sent fleeing, the entry of the Holy Spirit might be prepared for.\n\nOn the other side of the Channel, in Anglo-Saxon England, sufflation is mentioned in Bishop Wulfstan's collection of Carolingian baptismal expositions, the \"Incipit de baptisma\", and in the two vernacular (Old English) homilies based on it, the \"Quando volueris\" and the \"Sermo de baptismate\". The \"Incipit de baptisma\" reads: \"On his face let the sign of the cross be made by exsufflation, so that, the devil having been put to flight, entry for our Lord Christ might be prepared.\" Among English liturgical texts proper, the 10th-century Leofric Pontifical (and Sacramentary) dictates an insufflation of baptizands, a triple insufflation of the baptismal water, and an 'exhalation' of holy oil. In the 11th century, the \"Salisbury Pontifical\" (BL Cotton MS Tiberius C.1) and the \"Pontifical\" of Thomas of Canterbury require insufflation of the font; the \"Missal\" of Robert of Jumièges (Canterbury) has an erased rubric where it may have done likewise, as well as having an illegible rubric where it probably directed the exsufflation of catechumens, and retaining the old \"ordo ad caticuminum ex pagano faciendum,\" complete with its sufflation ceremony; and an English \"Ordo Romanus\" (BL Cotton MS Vitellius E.12) contains a triple exsufflation of baptizands. Various 12th-century texts include signing and triple exsufflation of the holy oil (Sarum), triple exsufflation of baptizands (the Ely, Magdalene, and Winton Pontificals), and insufflation of the font \"in modum crucis\" (Ely and Magdalene, followed by most later texts). Such are the origins of the late medieval sufflation rites, which were in turn retained in regularized form in post-Tridentine Catholicism.\n\nSufflation did not last long in any of the churches arising from the magisterial or radical reformations. Martin Luther's first attempt at a baptismal liturgy, the Tauffbuchlin (Taufbüchlein) of 1523 (reprinted 1524 and 1525) did retain many ceremonies from the late Medieval ritual as it was known in Germany, including a triple exsufflation of baptizands. But in an epilogue, Luther listed this ceremony among the adiaphora — i.e., the inessential features that added nothing to the meaning of the sacrament:\n\n\"The least importance attaches to these external things, namely breathing under the eyes, signing with the cross, placing salt in the mouth, putting spittle and clay on the ears and nose, anointing with oil the breast and shoulders, and signing the top of the head with chrism, vesting in the christening robe, and giving a burning candle into the hand, and whatever else … men have added to embellish baptism. For … they are not the kind of devices that the devil shuns.\"\n\nThe Lutheran Strasbourg \"Taufbüchlein\" of June 1524, composed by Diobald Schwartz, assistant to Cathedral preacher Martin Zell, on the basis of the medieval rite used in Strasbourg combined with elements of Luther's 1523 rite, also retains baptismal exsufflation; so does Andreas Osiander in Nuremberg, in the same year.\n\nBut thereafter the practice vanished from Lutheranism, and indeed from Protestantism generally. Luther's revised edition of 1526 and its successors omit exsufflation altogether, as do the Luther-influenced early reformed rites of England (Thomas Cranmer's Prayer Book of 1549) and Sweden (the Manual of Olavus Petri), despite the former's conservative basis in the medieval Sarum ritual and the latter's strong interest in exorcism as an essential part of the baptismal ritual.\n\nSimilarly in the Swiss Reformation (the Zwinglian/Reformed tradition), only the very earliest rites retain sufflation, namely the ceremony published by Leo Jud, pastor of St. Peter's in Zurich, in the same year (1523) as Luther's first baptismal manual.\n\nThough sufflation does not appear in Protestant practice, it definitely appears in Protestant polemic, where it is usually treated as an un-Scriptural and superstitious (i.e., in the Protestant view, a typically Roman Catholic) practice, and even one reeking of enchantment or witchcraft. It appears as such, for example in the work of Henry More (the 'Cambridge Platonist') on evil. His argument essentially reverses that of Augustine. Augustine had said to the Pelagians (to paraphrase): \"you see that we exorcize and exsufflate infants before baptising them; therefore they must be tainted with sin and possessed by the devil since birth.\" More replies, in effect, \"Infants cannot be devil-possessed sinners; therefore, ceremonial exorcism and exsufflation is presumptuous, frightening, and ridiculous,\" in a word \"the most gross and fundamental Superstitions, that look like Magick or Sorcery\":\n\"The conjuring the Devil also out of the Infant that is to be baptized would seem a frightful thing to the Infant himself, if he understood in what an ill plight the Priest supposes him, while he makes three Exsufflations upon his face, and uses an Exorcistical form for the ejecting of the foul Fiend. … And it is much if something might not appear affrightful to the Women in this approaching darkness. For though it be a gay thing for the Priest to be thought to have so much power over the Stygian Fiend, as to Exorcize him out of the Infant; yet it may be a sad consideration with some melancholick women laden with Superstition, to think they are never brought to bed, but they are delivered of a Devil and Child at once.\"\n\nSufflation appears in Roman Catholic anti-Protestant polemic, as well. The relative antiquity of the practice, and its strong endorsement by the Protestants' favorite Father, Augustine, made it a natural element in Catholic arguments that contrasted the Protestant with the ancient and Apostolic church. A true church, according to Roman Catholic apologists, would be:\n\n\"A Church that held the exorcismes exsufflations and renunciations, which are made in baptisme, for sacred Ceremonies, and of Apostolicall tradition... A Church which in the Ceremonies of baptisme, vsed oyle, salte, waxe, lights, exorcismes, the signe of the Cross, the word Epheta and other thinges that accompanie it; to testifie ... by exorcismes, that baptisme puts vs out of the Diuells possession.\n\nThis was argued on the grounds that some of these ceremonies were demonstrably ancient, and all of them might be.\n\n\"Sundry Ceremonies vsed in baptisme, and other Sacraments, as Exorcismes, Exsufflations, Christening, and the like mentioned by S. Augustine and by diuers other ancient Fathers ..., these being practised by the Primitiue Church (which is graunted to be the true Church) and compared to the customes of Protestants, and vs, in our Churches, will easily disclose, which of the two, they or we, do more imitate, or impugne the true Church of antiquity.\"\n\nTo which a Protestant reply was that sufflation was not ancient \"enough\", and could not be proved to be apostolic:\n\n\"It was plain then there was no clear Tradition in the Question, possibly there might be a custome in some Churches postnate to the times of the Apostles, but nothing that was obligatory, no Tradition Apostolicall. But this was a suppletory device ready at hand when ever they needed it; and S. Austin confuted the Pelagians, in the Question of Original sinne, by the custome of exorcisme and insufflation, which S. Austin said came from the Apostles by Tradition, which yet was then, and is now so impossible to be prov'd, that he that shall affirm it, shall gaine only the reputation of a bold man and a confident.\"\n\nSufflation was judged by Protestant critics to be irrational, mysterious, and obscure, an increasingly important factor by the close of the 17th century and the dawn of the Enlightenment:\n\n\"Mystery prevail'd very little in the first Hundred or Century of Years after Christ; but in the second and third, it began to establish it self by Ceremonies. To Baptism were then added the tasting of Milk and Honey, Anointing, the Sign of the Cross, a white Garment, &c. ... But in later times there was no end of Lights, Exorcisms, Exsufflations, and many other Extravagancies of Jewish, or Heathen Original ... for there is nothing like these in the Writings of the Apostles, but they are all plainly contain'd in the Books of the Gentiles, and was the Substance of their Worship.\"\n\nIt was said to be a human invention, imposed by the arbitrary whim of a tyrannical prelate against the primitive Gospel freedom of the church:\n\n\"[Some bishop] ... taking it into his head that there ought to be a trine-immersion in baptism; another the signation of the cross; another an unction with oil; another milk and honey, and imposition of hands immediately after it; another insufflation or breathing upon the person's face to exorcise the Devil... Thus, I say, that inundation of abominable corruptions, which at present overwhelms both the Greek and Romish Churches, gradually came in at this very breech which you are now zealously maintaining, namely, the Bishop's Power to decree rites and ceremonies in the Church.\"\nTo all of which, Roman Catholic apologists replied that insufflation was not only ancient and Apostolic, but had been practiced by Christ himself:\n\n\"When he [Christ] had said this he breathed upon them, and said to them, Receive the Holy Ghost...\" When the Pastors of our Church use the Insufflation or Breathing upon any, for the like mystical Signification, you cry aloud, Superstition, Superstition, an apish mimical action, &c.\"\n\nThough liturgical sufflation is almost gone, at least from the Western churches, its revival is not inconceivable. Liturgical renewal movements always seem to look to the 'classic' catechumenate of the 4th and 5th centuries for inspiration. Insufflation has indeed been re-introduced into the Catholic \"new catechumenate.\" But many ceremonies dating from that or the medieval period have been re-imported even into Protestant rites during the last couple of decades. Perhaps even more likely is a revival in the context of the growth of the Roman Catholic Church in Africa and in Asia, where locally and culturally meaningful ceremonies have often revolutionized practice, and where the exorcistic function of baptism has taken on a new vitality. For example, a pure insufflation is apparently practiced in the Philippine Independent Church, and Spinks mentions a pre-baptismal ceremony used by the Christian Workers' Fellowship of Sri Lanka, in which the candidates are struck with a cane and their faces are breathed upon. It is not clear whether the latter represents a revival of historical sufflation, or a wholly new ceremony derived from local custom.\n\nThere were at least three kinds of association that particularly influenced how liturgical sufflation came to be understood: Biblical antecedents; liturgical setting; and extra-liturgical (cultural) analogs.\n\nThree Biblical passages recur repeatedly with reference to insufflation narrowly defined, all of them referring to some kind of life-giving divine breath. The first and most commonly cited is (echoed by and ), in which God first creates man and then breathes into him the breath of life, in order to give him (as the passage was later interpreted) a human soul. The second passage, , reinterprets the Genesis passage prophetically, in foreseeing God resurrecting the dead bones of exiled Israel by means of his life-giving breath. And finally, in , Christ is represented as conveying the Paraclete to his disciples, and so initiating the commissioned church, by breathing on them, here too, very possibly, with implicit reference to the original creation. The two passages were connected explicitly in later Christian exegesis: the same breath that created man re-created him.\n\n\"[Insufflation] signifies, To blow into, Gen. 2. 7. This sheweth mans soul not to be of the earth, as his body was, but of nothing, by the insufflation of God, and so differing from the spirit of beasts, Eccl. 3. 21. This word is used also, when Christ to make men new creatures, inspired his Apostles with the holy Ghost, Joh. 20. 21.\"\n\n\"The Lord God, saith the Text, formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his Nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living Soul. His Body made of Earth, but his Soul the Breath of God. … We must not understand it grosly; for so Breath is not attributable unto God, who is a simple and perfect Spirit; but … as a figurative expression of God's communicating unto Man that inward Principle, whereby he lives and acts, not only in common with, but in a degree above other Animals. … The Learned P. Fagius takes notice of three things in the Text of Moses, which do conclude the Immortality of the Soul of Man. I. \"Insufflatio illa Dei:\" This Inspiration from God spoken of: For he that breaths into another, contributes unto him \"aliquid de suo\" somewhat of his own: And therefore, saith he, when our B. Saviour would communicate his Spirit to his Disciples, he did it with Insufflation, breathing on them, thereby to signifie, \"se Divinum & de suo quiddam illis contribuere\" [i.e., that he was himself divine and was infusing something of his own into them].\"\n\nThe associations with creation, rebirth, initiation, and revivification created by these passages of Scripture suited insufflation for a role in baptism as it has been most commonly regarded: as figuring the waters of creation (over which the Spirit brooded); as figuring the womb of rebirth; and as figuring (in Saint Paul's metaphor) the tomb, into which the Christian joins Christ in descending, and from which the Christian likewise joins Christ in ascending, dead to the old life but made alive again in Christ.\n\nThere are also Biblical antecedents for exsufflation, properly speaking, that is, exorcistic blowing, especially the numerous Old Testament passages in which \"the breath of God\" is the vehicle or symbol not of life but of death and destruction — an expression of the wrath of God: \"by the breath of God they perish / and by the blast of his anger they are consumed\" (Job 4:9, RSV). The same power is attributed metaphorically to Christ: \"The lawless one will be revealed, and the Lord Jesus will slay him with the breath of his mouth\" (2 Thessalonians 2:8, RSV). Even less obvious passages could be associated with liturgical exsufflation. Jesse of Amiens, for example, interprets Psalm 34 (Vulg. 35):5 as descriptive of the fate of exsufflated devils: \"\"Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the Lord driving them on!\" And the apocryphal Acts of Thomas describes a baptismal ceremony which, though it does not explicitly contain a breathing ceremony, may imply one, \"Let the gift come by which, breathing upon thine enemies, thou didst make them draw back and fall headlong, and let it dwell in this oil, over which we name thy holy name.\"\n\nGod's breath can be fiery, consuming all it touches: \"I will blow upon you with the fire of my wrath\" (Ezekiel 21:31, RSV). Some of the interpretations of exsufflation may reflect this. Cyril of Jerusalem, for example, when he discusses exsufflation in his catechetical sermons, interprets the liturgical practice in terms of fire:\n\n\"The breathing of the saints and the invocation of the name of God, like fiercest flame, scorch and drive out evil spirits.\"\n\nFire remains a theme in later liturgical exorcisms, for devils, as Nicetas is reported to have said, \"are purged by exorcisms as by fire\": \"we come against you, devil, with spiritual words and fiery speech; we ignite the hiding places in which you are concealed.\"\n\nMore importantly, perhaps, fire is physically and symbolically associated with sufflation because of the traditional placement of baptism within the Paschal vigil — a setting heavy with symbolism of light and fire: the blessing of the Paschal candle, the lighting of the \"new fire,\" and the singing of the \"Exultet\" and the \"Lumen Christi.\" The intimate connection between divine breath and divine fire appears in its most visually arresting form during the benediction of the font, in which, according to most orders, the candle is dipped in the font while the priest declares the power of the Holy Spirit to have descended into the water: the sufflation of the font in most cases directly precedes or accompanies the immersion of the candle. Their close association can again be illustrated from Wulfstan's baptismal homilies:\n\n\"By the breath that the priest breathes into the font when he blesses it, the devil is straightway driven out from it. And when the priest dips the consecrated candle in the water, then that water forthwith becomes imbued with the Holy Ghost.\"\n\nSimilar considerations bind sufflation closely to imagery of light and darkness, specifically of the movement of the baptizand from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light (a very common theme), and to the sign of the cross (a very common action), among others that could be mentioned. John the Deacon uses light-dark imagery to explain exsufflation in exorcism as a transition:\n\nSo also Augustine (\"The church exsufflates and exorcises [infants] that the power of darkness might be cast out from them\"), and Isidore (\"The power of the devil is ... exsufflated in them, so that ... being delivered from the power of darkness, [they] might be translated unto the kingdom of their Lord\").\n\nAnd as regards signation (the sign of the cross), in Western texts from as early as the Gelasian Sacramentary, the one gesture almost always precedes (or precedes and follows) the other, and their significance is often complementary if not identical. In Raban Maur's discussion of the baptismal liturgy, for example, the exsufflation is said to expel the devil, the signing to keep him from coming back. The two signs are frequently combined, the blowing done in the form of a cross, e.g. in the Syriac Rite described by James of Edessa, in the modern Coptic rite, in the late 9th-century \"Ordo Romanus XXXI\", in Wulfstan's Anglo-Saxon homilies and their Continental sources, in the 10th-century Ambrosian rites for catechumen and font, in the 11th-century North Italian catechumenal rites, in the 12th- through 15th-century English pontificals, in the Sarum Missal, and in the 13th-century Roman pontifical.\n\nThere are hints in some of the Church Fathers that Christians had a habit of breathing (or hissing) at evil spirits as a recognized act of revulsion or repulsion, even apart from the ceremonies of the church. Tertullian is perhaps the best witness. He seems to be talking about an extra-liturgical casting out of demons by means of exsufflation and signing when he declares that gods rejected by Christians are driven from the bodies of men \"by our touch and by our breath,\" and are thus \"carried away by the thought and vision of the fire [of judgment].\" He is talking about an ordinary gesture of aversion when he asks a Christian incense-dealer (regarded as hypocritical because he sells incense for polytheistic altars), \"with what mouth, I ask, will he spit and blow before the fuming altars for which he himself provided? with what constancy will he [thus] exorcise his foster children?\" And his remarks to his wife about the dangers of mixed marriage suggest that exsufflation was a distinctively Christian practice: \"[If you marry again, to a non-Christian,] shall you escape notice when you sign your bed or your body? when you blow away some impurity? When even by night you rise to pray?\"\n\nIf such a custom did exist, it would clarify certain remarks by other Fathers, which might otherwise seem merely metaphorical. Eusebius, for example, says of the saints that they were men \"who though they only breathed and spoke, were able to scatter the counsels of evil demons.\" Irenaeus describes the right response to Gnostic doctrine as \"reviling\" (καταφυσησαντας; literally \"exsufflantes\"). Cyril of Jerusalem, speaking of resisting temptation, not of baptism, says that \"the mere breathing of the exorcist becomes as a fire to that unseen foe.\" And Augustine's remarks about blowing on images of the emperor suggest that the significance of the gesture was well enough established to be actionable: \"Of the great crime of lese majesty ... is he held guilty, according to the laws of this world, who blows upon an image ... of the emperor.\" Even as late as Bede, we may suspect that \"exsufflate\" in the sense of \"revile\" or \"cast off\" may be a living metaphor.\n\nThe extremely influential \"Life of Saint Martin\" by Sulpicius Severus seems to have set in motion a hagiographic tradition in which saints cast out demons or repel tempting devils by blowing at them. Of Saint Pachomius, for example, it is said that \"defending his brow with the sign of the cross, he blew upon [the demon] and immediately he fled … ; blowing upon him, he said, 'depart from me, devil.'\" And of Saint Goswin that \"a demon stood before Saint Goswin saying 'surely you see that I am Christ …' and … therefore Saint Goswin exsufflated vigorously, saying 'depart foe …,' and immediately … the devil vanished.\" Saint Justina is reported to have similarly unmasked a series of increasingly subtle and powerful demons, finally melting the prince of demons himself: \"blowing upon the devil, she immediately melted him like wax and … felt herself freed from all temptation.\" And Saint Felix is said to have destroyed idols and uprooted sacred trees by like means.\n\nThe breath of the saints was credited with healing, as well as exorcistic, powers from an early period. Gregory of Nyssa says of Gregory Thaumaturgus ('Gregory the magician') that he needed to resort to \"no finicking and laborious\" magic, but \"there sufficed, for both the casting out of demons and the healing of bodily ailments, the breath of his mouth.\" Similar powers are attributed to the Irish saints: kindling lamps, curing dumbness. This theme, too, persists in later hagiographic and quasi-hagiographic texts, appearing, for example in the \"Estoire del saint graal\" as the agency by which a madman is miraculously restored. Among English texts, Felix's \"Life of Saint Guthlac\" relates that in order to give relief to a boy afflicted by madness, he \"washed him in the water of the sacred font and, breathing into his face the breath of healing [or 'spirit of salvation'], drove away from him all the power of the evil spirit,\" illustrating the difficulty of distinguishing healing from exorcism in an era in which madness was attributed to demonic possession. The miracle that Bishop John performed, according to Bede, on behalf of Herebald, is another example, since it involved a sufflation that was seemingly exorcistic, catechetical, and curative simultaneously.\n\nTertullian remarked to his wife about Christian practices: \"will you not seem to be doing magic?\" in the eyes of a non-believer.\n\nCelsus (according to Origen) reports the use of exsufflation by Egyptian magicians. Plotinus seems to attack its use by Roman ones. One of Lucian's tall tales mentions a Chaldean pest-control sorcerer who causes toads and snakes to vanish by blowing on them.\nIt is possible to see Jesus himself as a supernatural healer (Christ Jesus the son of God), in many popular events of the holy Bible, in which he is constantly healing many blind, lame, crippled, lepers, maimed, and even causing his own resurrection, just to name a few. In one instance Jesus used his spit to heal the eyes of a blind man who was born blind, caused by his parents sins;\n. However, regarding magic, in Syria, where ceremonial breathing became formalized as part of the rite of visitation of the sick. Ephraem Syrus advises that \"if medicine fails you when you are sick, the 'visitors' will help, will pray for health, and one of them will breathe in your mouth, the other will sign you [with the sign of the cross].\"\n\nIf it was either originally Christian (citation needed), Catholic or from the pagan practices, almost similar methods of healing have been reported, continuing until modern times: in Westphalia, the healing of a wound by triple signing and triple cruciform sufflation, or by exsufflation accompanied by a rhyming charm; and in Holland the alleviation of toothache by similar means. According to Drechsler, \"Illnesses were blown away by the breath. If a child had bumped himself, one would blow three times on the place and it would 'fly away.'\" Burns, and conditions that in some fashion resemble burns, such as fevers, boils, sore throats and rashes, are naturally the most common objects of blowing among modern folk-remedies, for example the Shetland cure that requires blowing on a burn three times while reciting the charm \"Here come I to cure a burnt sore. / If the dead knew what the living endure, / The burnt sore would burn no more.\" But everything from jaundice, convulsions, and colic to bad luck and evil spells can apparently be alleviated by a bit of blowing. Wolters points out that exorcistic blowing was still (in 1935) found in the custom of blowing over bread that is about to be eaten. Moreover,\n\nA Syrian blows over his child to avert the evil eye. Some stillblow three times over a strange spoon before using it, and in Alaska the medicineman blows into the nose and mouth of a patient to drive out the daemon of disease.\nFinally, in one American example of superstition clearly derived from liturgical use, it is said that if at the baptism of a baby one turns at the door and blows three times, one can successfully prevent the devil from ever coming between the baby and the altar.\n"}
{"id": "6233953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6233953", "title": "Jealousy in art", "text": "Jealousy in art\n\nJealousy in art deals with the way writers and graphic artists have approached the topic of jealousy in their works.\n\nJealousy is the powerful complex of emotions experienced at the loss, real or imagined, of something or someone you believe is yours, whereas envy concerns what you don’t have and would like to possess. Othello is filled with jealousy at the thought of losing Desdemona: Iago is consumed with envy of Othello’s prestige. Because jealous lovers tell multiple stories about those who arouse their jealousy, and because the emotion is so corrosive, jealousy is a common theme in literature and art, not to mention opera and cinema.\n\nLiterary works use a variety of devices to explore its possibilities and reveal its wider implications. Most famously, perhaps, Schahriar's destructive jealousy in \"One Thousand and One Nights\" is what precipitates Scheherazade’s creative outpouring of stories. In Ariosto’s \"Orlando furioso\" (1516) jealousy leads to such a distortion of the world that the sufferer is driven to madness. Shakespeare's later play, \"the Winters tale\" (1613) is predominately about the jealousy felt by Leontes' and his supposed adulterous wife. E. T. A. Hoffmann’s Princess Brambilla (1821) is more concerned with the interplay between jealousy and the theater, between reality and masks. In Charlotte Brontë’s \"Villette\" (1853) jealousy becomes a game of reflections and speculations, a potent denial of sexual stereotypes, and, like many novels written by women, an angry rejection of the violation of the individual caused by the gaze of the jealous lover. Anthony Trollope uses both \"He Knew He Was Right\" (1869) and \"Kept in the Dark\" (1882) to analyze not only double standards used to judge how men and women behave but also the relationship between mind and body. Tolstoy’s \"The Kreutzer Sonata\" (1889) offers a compelling exploration of jealousy acting as a front for repressed homosexuality. Proust’s \"In Search of Lost Time\" (1913–1927), especially the section concerning Albertine, represents the claustrophobic nature of the passion of jealousy through the tropes of imprisonment, illness and death, while Michal Choromanski’s \"Jealousy and Medicine\" (1932) creates a landscape and a climate that recreate to the full the physical experience of jealousy. Freud’s reading of jealousy and his emphasis on repetitive structures inspires Iris Murdoch’s \"A Word Child\" (1975) in which the London subway symbolizes endless repetition of the same.\n\nOther novelists have used jealousy to explore the relationship between writer and reader, as well as that between fiction and reality. Alain Robbe-Grillet’s \"Jealousy\" (1965) develops the image of the window blind (in French “la jalousie” means both the emotion and the window blind) to lock the reader into the jealous person’s mind, while in Julian Barnes’s \"Talking it Over\" (1991), the writer’s jealousy of the reader’s attention is as much a part of the story as the sexual jealousy it also examines. A. S. Byatt’s \"Possession\" (1990) is in part an analysis of the ways in which writing and reading operate to silence other voices.\n\nIn art, depicting a face reflecting the ravages of jealousy was a frequent studio exercise: see for instance drawings by Charles Le Brun (1619–1690) or Sébastien Leclerc (the Younger) (1676–1763), or in a fuller treatment, the howling figure on the left in Bronzino’s \"An Allegory with Venus and Cupid\" (probably 1540-50). Albrecht Dürer’s 1498 drawing, \"Hercules’s Jealousy\" depicts jealousy as a powerfully built woman armed with a sword. The theme of jealousy is frequently conveyed through images of the gaze as in Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres’s \"Paolo and Francesca\" (1819) which reveals the jealous husband’s gaze catching the young lovers’ first kiss. Edvard Munch’s many depictions of jealousy, however, tend to place the husband at the front of the painting with a couple behind him as if to suggest that jealousy is created more by the mind than by the gaze. This suggestion is intensified by his cunning use of symbolic colors. There are, nevertheless, lighter moments, as when Gaston de La Touche (1854–1913), in \"Jealousy or the Monkey\" shows a love scene interrupted by a monkey tugging on the woman’s dress. While popular images of jealousy tend to the lurid, it remains a source, both in literature and in painting, of highly creative artistic strategies that have little to do with the negative and destructive sides of the emotion itself.\n"}
{"id": "948208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948208", "title": "Ludlow Street (Manhattan)", "text": "Ludlow Street (Manhattan)\n\nLudlow Street runs between Houston and Division Streets on the Lower East Side of the New York City borough of Manhattan. Vehicular traffic runs south on this one-way street.\n\nLudlow Street was named after Lieutenant Augustus Ludlow, the naval officer who was second-in-command to Captain James Lawrence on the USS \"Chesapeake\" during the ship’s engagement with HMS \"Shannon\" on June 1, 1813. It was to Ludlow that Lawrence said \"Don't give up the ship.\"\n\nThe land that is now Ludlow Street was once part of the huge De Lancey Estate, which had been confiscated from James De Lancey after the Revolutionary War, due to his status as a Loyalist, and auctioned off. By the early 19th century, speculative builders had constructed decent housing for workers on Ludlow Street, as well as other streets nearby, such as Eldridge, Forsyth and Chrystie Streets. At mid-century, Ludlow was in the middle of \"Kleindeutschland\", where large numbers of German-speaking immigrants had settled, and was one of the informal boundaries of the Jewish section of the neighborhood, along with Grand, Stanton, and Pitt Streets.\n\nAs far back as 1962 \"Theatre of Eternal Music\" members Tony Conrad and Angus MacLise lived and worked at 56 Ludlow and in 1965 Lou Reed, John Cale and Sterling Morrison of The Velvet Underground lived and recorded there. The earliest known recorded version of \"All Tomorrow's Parties\" was recorded there. Other filmmakers, performers, poets, artists and musicians that lived in the building at the time included Warhol superstars Mario Montez and Jack Smith. Tony Conrad has produced two CDs from the Jack Smith tape archives subtitled \"56 Ludlow Street\" that were recorded at 56 Ludlow Street between 1962 and 1964. In the mid-1970s Gary Weis made some short films of Taylor Mead talking to his cat in the kitchen of his Ludlow Street apartment called \"Taylor Mead's Cat\". From 1980 to the mid-80s actor/videomaker Craig Calman lived in the building adjoining Taylor Mead's. An excerpt from Tyler Hubby's film \"Tony Conrad: Completely in the Present\" documents Tony Conrad making a field recording on Ludlow Street.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Ludlow Street was well known as a street where no wave Colab artists connected with ABC No Rio lived; such as Kiki Smith, Fab Five Freddy, Coleen Fitzgibbon, Tom Otterness, Beatrice (Bebe) Smith, Izhar Patkin, Tron Von Hollywood, Wolfgang Staehle, Raina Jane Sherry, Christof Kohlhofer, Carlo McCormick, Cara Perlman, Steven Parrino, Edwige Belmore, Joseph Nechvatal, Uli Rimkus, Peter Fend, Walter Robinson, Aline Mare, Emily XYZ, and George Condo. In 1980, Coleen Fitzgibbon made a video called \"Ludlow\" about Ludlow Street. From 1983 to 1989, the bimonthly cassette publication Tellus Audio Cassette Magazine was based out of 143 Ludlow Street. Leonard Abrams started the East Village Eye cultural magazine at 167 Ludlow Street. In 1989 the Beastie Boys used a photo of the southwest corner of Ludlow and Rivington Street as the cover for their album \"Paul's Boutique\". In the 1980s, the two level loft at 58 Ludlow was the home to artists such as Alex Hahn, Douglas Eisenstark, David Blair and Leslie Mentel, among others. Wolfgang Staehle presented an extended digital photographic record of Ludlow Street in his exhibition at Postmasters Gallery in 2016/2017.\n\nIn the mid- to late 1990s, the increasing popularity of the area among hipsters, driven out of the East Village by an invasion of yuppies, led to an upturn in activity along Ludlow Street, with several old establishments, such as corner delis (a.k.a. bodegas) closing shop to make way for bars, music venues such as the Ludlow Street Bar & Grill (a basement restaurant and music venue), and alternative theatres such as (before it became an empty lot), Piano's Theater (before it became a music venue and bar), and Todo Con Nada (before it became The Dark Room).\n\nIn the 2000s, Ludlow Street was a destination street for musicians and music-lovers, and was heavily populated with fashion shops, art galleries, bars, restaurants, and performance venues such as Cake Shop, The Living Room, and Piano's making Ludlow into a small nightlife strip with a distinct subcultural flavor. Local institutions included the bistro/cafe Pink Pony, the adjacent artist bar Max Fish, Katz's Deli (one of the city's most famous delicatessens) Motor City bar, Ludlow Street Guitars, Earthmatters Cafe (hangout of musicians/actors/writers/techies), Ludlow Studio (which was home to some of the top recording artists in the mid-1990s) and the Sombrero Mexican restaurant, better known to a generation of musicians as \"The Hat.\" The art and cultural gallery Ludlow 38 is the downtown satellite for contemporary art of the Goethe-Institut New York. The space was designed by artists Ethan Breckenridge and Liam Gillick. In 2005 artist Wolfgang Staehle created \"One day of life on Ludlow Street (New York)\". The work consists of 6716 images displayed in approximately 8 second intervals over 24 hours.\n\nIn 2013, Ludlow Street between Delancey and Houston Streets lost to rising rent many small interesting shops, bars and cafes that once gave the street its distinctive flavor. Closed were: Pink Pony Cafe Littéraire & Ciné Club, the print shop at 139 Ludlow, Press Tea, Earth Matters natural food store and Motor City bar. However, Banksy installed a major street art installation on Ludlow Street in the fall of 2013 as part of his \"Better Out Than In\" residency: a strange vision of horses with camera-lens googles rearing up by a car covered with cowering humans. The work is Banksy’s largest New York work to date.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "23708609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23708609", "title": "Maternal mortality in fiction", "text": "Maternal mortality in fiction\n\nMaternal death in fiction is a common theme encountered in literature, movies, and other media.\n\nThe death of a mother during pregnancy, childbirth or puerperium is a tragic event. The chances of a child surviving such an extreme birth are compromised. In fictional literature the death of a pregnant or delivering mother is a powerful device: it removes one character and places the surviving child into an often hostile environment which has to be overcome. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15482915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15482915", "title": "Mirth &amp; Girth", "text": "Mirth &amp; Girth\n\nMirth & Girth is a portrait painting by School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC) student David K. Nelson, Jr., depicting the recently deceased, popular African-American mayor of Chicago, Harold Washington wearing only a bra, G-string, garter belt and stockings. After a brief showing at a May 11, 1988 private student exhibition in the Art Institute, angry African-American aldermen, including Ald. Allan Streeter, Ald. Bobby Rush and Ald. Dorothy Tillman, arrived with Chicago Police Department officers and confiscated the painting, triggering a First Amendment and race relations crisis and a civil lawsuit.\n\nFree-speech advocates condemned the seizure of the painting, while the aldermen maintained that the painting was an insult to Washington and should have been taken down. Some students at the SAIC showed their support for free speech by holding rallies in front of the school and at the Richard J. Daley Plaza, while other students criticized Nelson for poor timing in showing a racially insensitive image.\n\nAt some point between when the painting was confiscated and when it was returned, a gash was made on the canvas. Nelson filed a federal lawsuit against the city, claiming that the painting's confiscation and subsequent damaging violated his First Amendment rights. He and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) settled with the city for $95,000 (1994; ) in compensation for the damaged painting after the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit upheld the lower court's decision.\n\nHarold Washington, the subject of the portrait, was elected in 1965 to the Illinois House of Representatives. After the death of Richard J. Daley in late 1976, Washington won Chicago's 1983 Democratic mayoral primary election. He was elected mayor, prevailing over Bernard Epton in a racially polarizing general election. His first four-year term was characterized by the Council Wars, a period of political conflict with the mostly white aldermanic majority in City Council. Seven Washington-backed aldermanic challengers prevailed in the April, 1986 special municipal election, facilitating progress with Washington's agenda. Washington died suddenly of a heart attack in his office. His death was followed by a period of mourning by Chicagoans, particularly in the African-American community.\n\nShortly after Washington's death, Nelson (who is white) painted \"Mirth & Girth\", a \"full-length frontal portrait of a portly grim-faced Harold Washington clad in a white bra and G-string, garter belt, and stockings\". The painting was approximately tall by wide. In the portrait, Washington is holding a pencil in his right hand. His aide, Alton Miller, initially mistook Washington's slumping over his desk as an attempt to pick up a pencil that had fallen onto the floor. The title of the piece is presumably derived from Girth & Mirth, an organization for overweight gay men.\n\nIn an interview with the \"Chicago Sun-Times\", Nelson stated that he had painted \"Mirth & Girth\" over the course of one night, standing in his underwear. He said that he had painted it in response to how the city populace revered Washington shortly after his death. Nelson stated, \"(i)n Chicago, at this time, Harold Washington is like an icon. He's like a deity.\" In particular, Nelson painted the portrait after seeing prints of \"Worry Ye Not\", another poster that depicted a smiling Washington with a blue-robe adorned Jesus Christ, looking down on the Chicago skyline. Nelson later testified that he had based the iconoclastic elements of the painting on a rumor that doctors at Northwestern Memorial Hospital had discovered female underwear beneath the suit Washington was wearing at the time of his death. Three weeks after the controversy erupted, in an interview with the \"New Art Examiner\", Nelson explained that the portrait referenced an existing photograph of Washington holding a cigarette prop at an American Cancer Society event.\n\nThe caricature was not Nelson's first. He had drawn a portrait of his mother as \"Whistler's Mother\" for Mother's Day. Nelson had also drawn a caricature of his father as the model depicted on boxes of Cream of Wheat. Nelson explained, \"(t)his kind of irreverence and iconoclasm runs through all my artwork\". In an April Fools' Day edition of a \"Weekly World News\" parody produced by Nelson, he illustrated SAIC president Edward Jones as an infant in the arms of a bare-breasted Madonna.\n\nOn May 11, 1988, \"Mirth & Girth\" was displayed at a private exhibition in one of the school's main interior hallways. The painting was part of a set of six that Nelson was displaying in a judged three-day student fellowship exhibition held to showcase upcoming graduates. Another of his works was a self-portrait titled \"I'm Sensitive, and I Love All Humanity\", depicting Nelson holding little people of multiple nationalities. As soon as the exhibit opened, between 7:30 and 8:30 am, the painting drew enough negative attention for the Art Institute to post a security guard in front of the painting. Shortly thereafter, the school began to receive angry phone calls about the painting.\n\nSoon after the exhibit opened, word of the controversy reached the Chicago City Council, which was in session. Alderman Bobby Rush (then of the 2nd ward) immediately put together a resolution that would cut off the city's contribution to the Art Institute unless it apologized for displaying the painting. In part, the resolution read \"Whereas, the artist David Nelson obviously exhibits some type of demented and pathological mental capacities ...\". Another resolution was written that asked the Art Institute to remove the painting immediately. After passing both items, a group of aldermen left to deliver the resolutions to the Art Institute.\n\nNelson returned to the painting about an hour after it was first displayed. He had forgotten a hammer and nails to hang the painting, and had left it leaning against the wall for an hour. Shortly after he returned, city aldermen, police officers and local reporters arrived at the scene, leading to a dramatic confrontation between aldermen and other students, while Nelson remained incognito nearby.\n\nAldermen Edward Jones (20th) and William C. Henry (24th) were the first aldermen to arrive from the City Council session. According to the federal lawsuit, Henry showed he had a gun, and then with Jones removed the now-hung painting from the wall and placed it on the floor, facing the wall. After they left, another student rehung the painting. Three other aldermen, Allan Streeter (17th), Dorothy Tillman (3rd) and Rush, arrived later. They took down the painting and attempted to remove it from the school, but were stopped by a school official. The aldermen then took the painting to the office of the school president Anthony Jones (no relation to Edward Jones). The painting had a gash, and it had been wrapped in brown paper.\n\nAlderman Tillman threatened to burn the painting in President Jones' office, but a Chicago Police Department (CPD) lieutenant present with the aldermen, Lt. Raymond Patterson, advised against this. Instead, another unnamed alderman called CPD superintendent Leroy Martin. Martin telephoned Patterson in Jones' office and ordered Patterson to take the painting into police custody, telling Jones that the painting amounted to \"incitement to riot\". Patterson overrode this direct order, citing his own powers as the lieutenant on the scene and hung up on Martin. A CPD sergeant accompanied Rush, Streeter and Tillman to a waiting police car with the wrapped painting in hand. Parts of the incident were later broadcast on television.\n\nThe incident was marked by a volatile shouting match between the aldermen and students, and met with condemnation from free-speech advocates. As the aldermen escorted the painting to the police vehicle, a mass of students outside of the Art Institute jeered them, naming the aldermen \"commies\", \"fascists\", \"brownshirts\" and \"philistines\". Seventeen bomb threats were recorded at the school after the controversy erupted.\n\nShortly after the incident, a black alderman told reporters that he believed the painting was the work of a Jewish artist. Nelson replied through a \"Chicago Tribune\" story that he \"is not Jewish\". The remark was made in part because racial tensions had already been elevated a week earlier after the firing of Steve Cokely, a mayoral aide, by African-American mayor and Harold Washington's successor Eugene Sawyer. Cokely had accused Jews of \"engaging in an international conspiracy for world control\". His firing caused a rift in segments of the black community, leading some to believe that Sawyer was also involved in the same conspiracy.\n\nIn a \"New York Times\" article published on May 13, 1988, Alderman Streeter reiterated his stance regarding the removal of the painting, saying that he would have \"gone to jail to get that painting down\", calling it \"an insult to a great man and an affront to blacks\". On May 16, 1988, Streeter appeared on the local public television station news program \"Chicago Tonight\". He reinforced that Nelson had abdicated his \"responsibility to his constituency\" to \"do what is right\". In the segment, he reaffirmed that he believed the aldermen had \"a law, the law of common sense, the law of morality, the law of decency [that] transcends the First Amendment\".\nOperation PUSH, an organization that pursues social justice and civil rights, threatened to impose \"sanctions\" on the Art Institute unless the Art Institute acted to prevent offensive portraits from being shown by students or contributing artists in the future. Separately, the Illinois Alliance of Black Student Organizations called for racial parity with regards to faculty and student enrollment within the school. One recent African-American students alleged that there was an underlying attitude of racism at the school, while other black students distributed a flyer listing incidences of theft and advice given to foreign students about socializing with blacks. By contrast, another white graduate noted that school officials looked at students' slides and paintings without knowing the race of the student. The school noted that 236 of its 1,312 undergraduate students were minorities, a higher percentage than comparable private professional art schools.\n\nOn February 12, 1994, during a rally to raise money for the defendants' mounting legal bills, Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan supported the three aldermen's right to seize the painting, calling it \"an act of righteous indignation\". Farrakhan referred to Washington as \"a father figure for black people\", and described the painting and subsequent lawsuit \"a total disrespect for our feelings and our community\".\n\nOn May 12, 1988, representatives from the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) picked up the painting and returned it to Nelson. Jay Miller, another representative for the ACLU, described the incident as \"vigilante stuff\", noting that the action \"was done in the name of one of the great civil libertarians of our time. Harold Washington had a 100 percent voting record in Congress and in the state Legislature on issues of civil liberties and civil rights.\" In 1984 Washington had supported the civil rights of sculptor John Sefick after Sefick had created a satirical statue of Washington. By comparison, former mayor Michael Bilandic had ordered a Sefick statue satirizing his handling of Chicago's crippling Blizzard of 1979 covered by a blanket, a decision that was later overturned in federal court.\n\nStudents from the SAIC protested on Columbus Drive the next day, holding signs that asked drivers to \"honk for free speech\". Student leaders began to consult attorneys to file a lawsuit against the Chicago Police Department and the aldermen. Other groups of students planned a \"be-in\" at the Richard J. Daley Plaza, but it was canceled after the students learned other groups might cause a confrontation. Some students felt that the school had been a victim of racial politics, and that the incident would be used to censor the Art Institute.\n\nOn \"Chicago Tonight\", Daniel Polsby, a law professor at Northwestern University, cited federal statutes violated during the confiscation of the portrait. He then faulted Marshall Field's reluctance to defend the First Amendment, further comparing the seizure of \"Mirth & Girth\" to then-Arkansas governor Orval Faubus' refusal to abide by the First Amendment and allow minorities to enroll in Little Rock Central High School. According to Polsby, Faubus' rationale at the time was to preserve a delicate civil rights situation. Polsby called the aldermen's action \"crushingly ironic and terribly sad\".\n\nAt the SAIC, students' characterizations of the painting ranged from political caricature, to \"whimsy\", to a commercial success. One student noted that Nelson was \"known nationally now, which is every artist's dream\". Another student noted that \"(a)rtists have to be responsible for what they make, and this guy is not being responsible\". In a meeting with 100 students after the incident, Anthony Jones, then-president of the SAIC, assured the students that he stood behind their First Amendment rights. Regarding the painting, Jones said that the painting was in poor taste and should not have been displayed.\n\nMembers of the Art Institute Board met the day after the incident and agreed not to display \"Mirth & Girth\" any further. Chairman Marshall Field also issued a formal apology for displaying the painting and agreed to consider demands that the school both hire more black administrators and accept more black students. Field also published the apology in each of the city's daily metropolitan newspapers. After the apology was issued, Polsby strongly criticized Field's refusal to more aggressively stand up for the students' First Amendment rights.\n\nMembers of the Council of Religious Leaders of Metropolitan Chicago, which included leaders from mainline Protestant, Roman Catholic and Jewish organizations from the city, issued a statement that expressed \"moral dismay\" over the painting. They further added that the display of the painting showed \"a lack of sensitivity which we could have expected from those who were responsible for its showing\".\n\nAs for the painting's critical reception, one local art reviewer mentioned that \"the only thing [the SAIC] might have felt sheepish about was not having a staff that in four years could instill in Nelson a better grasp of figure painting\". In a newspaper interview, Nelson responded that the criticism was \"the one thing that did make me kind of angry. I don't think the painting was poorly executed, though it wasn't my favorite painting.\" In his book \"Arresting Images — Impolitic Art and Uncivil Actions\", Stephen C. Dubin suggested that the painting represented a symbolic castration of Washington, reflecting more \"traditional\" reactions to African-Americans in positions of power.\n\nNelson gave only a few interviews before leaving Chicago for the suburbs, and then Graceland to avoid the press. On the advice of his friends, Nelson stayed away from his graduation ceremony on May 14, 1988. He turned down a $15,000 (1988, $22,000 in 2008) offer for the painting, calling it a \"grossly inflated\" price. He also turned down a separate opportunity to appear on Phil Donahue's syndicated talk show, saying that he never watched the show and was genuinely uninterested in the offer. Other than the interview with WLUP, Nelson's views were expressed by Harvey Grossman, the legal director for the ACLU. Through Grossman, Nelson said he would not press for the returning of the painting, as it had fulfilled its purpose of \"drawing attention to his 'iconoclastic' work\".\n\nOn June 23, 1988, the ACLU filed a federal lawsuit on behalf of Nelson against the three aldermen who were seen on television handling the painting. It claimed the removal of the painting violated Nelson's First Amendment right to freedom of expression, Fourth Amendment right to protection from unreasonable seizures, and Fourteenth amendment right against being deprived of property without a hearing. The ACLU sought $100,000 (1988, ) to compensate Nelson for damage to the painting, and to \"punish\" the aldermen and police for their actions.\n\nAld. Robert Shaw (9th) called the suit \"a slap in the face to the black community\". Rush questioned the motive of the suit, as himself, Tillman and Streeter all were supporters of Alderman Timothy C. Evans (17th), a political rival of mayor Eugene Sawyer. Rush specifically called the suit \"frivolous\" and \"impetuous\", openly questioning whether the ACLU had filed the suit to enhance fundraising activities or for other political reasons.\n\nThe City of Chicago refused in February 1990 to pay mounting legal costs for the aldermen. The aldermen argued that they were performing their official duties \"in protecting the security of the city during the turmoil created by the exhibit\" when they removed the painting. The city contended that the aldermen had taken the action as individuals. Nelson refused a $10,000 (1990, ) settlement at the time.\n\nOn August 11, 1992, U.S. District Judge George Lindberg dismissed the City of Chicago from the lawsuit, but ruled that Superintendent Martin must go to trial and that the three aldermen violated Nelson's civil rights. Lindberg supported the recommendations regarding that issue Magistrate Judge Elaine Bucklo's had made in March 1992. Tillman's lawyer, James Chapman, recommended to Tillman that an immediate appeal be filed in federal court.\n\nIn the appeal, decided February 1, 1994, judges Richard Posner, Frank H. Easterbrook, and Michael Stephen Kanne affirmed Lindberg's earlier decision. Writing for the court, Posner rejected claims of official immunity and said city officials had no right to enter private property and take \"offensive\" paintings off its walls. He also rejected the argument that removing paintings from walls was an official duty.\n\nPosner also rejected the argument that the defendants were removing the painting to save Chicago from racial riots that the continued showing of the painting might have started, and in which it might have been destroyed. He found that Tillman herself threatened to burn the painting on the spot, and that there was no mob. In addition, the court found that because Nelson had not intended to provoke a riot, the First Amendment could still be used to protect his speech.\n\nThe appellate court also faulted the district judge for allowing \"more than a year and a half elapsed before the filing and disposition of the motions for summary judgment\". Posner noted in his opinion that \"the governing principles are clear, the facts have been explored exhaustively, and the defendants should be aware that efforts to mount a last-ditch, no-holds-barred defense may simply increase their liability for the plaintiff's attorney's fees under 42 U.S.C. § 1988.\" He then affirmed the district court's decision.\n\nOn September 20, 1994, the city and the ACLU reached a settlement. The ACLU agreed to drop claims against the city and Superintendent LeRoy Martin. In return, the city of Chicago agreed to pay Nelson and the ACLU $95,000 (1994, ) for damage to the painting and to issue police procedures about what materials protected by the First Amendment may be seized. The elected officials also agreed not to appeal the district court's ruling. Left unresolved were the hundreds of thousands of dollars of legal fees owed to lawyers defending Tillman, Rush and Streeter; by September 1994, $200,000 (1994, ) in fees were owed by Tillman alone. Earlier in the year, the City Council's Finance Committee voted against paying for the aldermen's legal fees. The vote split along racial lines, 12 to 8.\n\nGrossman stated that the relatively small settlement showed that Nelson had proceeded with the lawsuit \"on a matter of principle\". Tillman, however, called the settlement a \"great victory\", saying, \"we didn't admit to anything, all the charges were dropped, we're not paying anything (in damages), and we preserve our rights to pursue efforts to have our legal fees paid\". At the time the lawsuit was settled, Nelson did not issue any statements. The \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that he was employed as an advertising artist at an undisclosed firm; he continued to paint in his free time. As of 1994, the painting had not been sold, exhibited, or repaired after the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "34636886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34636886", "title": "Museum (journal)", "text": "Museum (journal)\n\n"}
{"id": "44360719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44360719", "title": "Neo-Concrete Movement", "text": "Neo-Concrete Movement\n\nThe Neo-Concrete Movement (1959–61) was a Brazilian art movement, which developed from Rio de Janeiro’s Grupo Frente, a coalition of artists working in Concrete Art. Neoconcrete artists rejected the pure rationalist approach of concrete art and embraced a more phenomenological and less scientific art. Ferreira Gullar inspired Neo-Concrete philosophy through his essay “Theory of the Non-Object” (1959) and wrote the “Neo-Concrete Manifesto” (1959) which outlines what Neo-Concrete art should be. Lygia Clark, Hélio Oiticica, and Lygia Pape were among the primary leaders of this movement.\n\nAfter World War One, Europe witnessed a boom of art movements based upon rationalism such as De Stijl and Bauhaus. Artists believed humanity would be able to achieve progress through its ability to reason. In Latin America, ideas of rationalist and non-objective art took root in the early 1950s in reaction to the muralism controversy. Governments such as the Mexican government utilized muralists to create propaganda. Under repressive Latin American governments, artists rebelled against the idea of aiding the political regime through figurative art; therefore geometric abstraction and concretism ushered in an art that did not connote anything political or have really any meaning at all.\n\nConcrete Art was able to flourish beneath these repressive regimes because it held no political messages or incendiary material. In Brazil, ideas of rationalist art and geometric abstraction arose in the early 1950s following the establishment of a democratic republic in 1946. The period from 1946 to 1964 is known as the Second Brazilian Republic. Groups such as Grupo Ruptura in Sao Paulo and Grupo Frente in Rio de Janeiro rose. Specifically Ruptura followed the ideal of pure mathematical art which does not connote meaning outside of what it is.\n\nThe Neo-Concrete art movement arose when Grupo Frente realized that Concretism was “naïve and somewhat colonialist” and an “overly rational conception of abstract structure.”\n\nIn 1961 as the political tides began to turn, the Neo-Concrete artists disbanded no longer content to limit themselves to this one philosophy. Lygia Clark and Hélio Oiticica, leaders of the Neo-Concrete movement, put their energy into Conceptual Art. Art historians often refer to Neo-Concretism as the precursor to Conceptual Art because of the foundation of “abstruse metaphysics.” On April 1, 1964, a military coup removed Joao Goulart and established a military government in Brazil until 1985. The increase of violence called for a new kind of art that had the potential to carry meaning and deconstruct traditional thought even further. This came in the form of Conceptual Art.\n\nBrazilian poet and writer Ferreira Gullar wrote the Neo-Concrete Manifesto in 1959 and described a work of art as “something which amounts to more than the sum of its constituent elements; something which analysis may break down into various elements but which can only be understood phenomenologically.” In contrast to the Concrete Art movement, Gullar was calling for an art that was not based upon rationalism or in pursuit of pure form. He sought works of art that became active once the viewer was involved. Neo-concrete art must disassemble the limitations of the object and “express complex human realities.”\n\nWhile Concretism built its art upon the basis of logic and objective knowledge with color, space, and form conveying universalism and objectivity, the Neo-Concrete artists saw colors, space, and form as “not [belonging] to this or that artistic language, but to the living and indeterminate experience of man.” Though Neo-Concrete Art still maintained Concretism as the foundation for their ideas, Neo-Concretists believed objectivity and mathematical principles alone could not accomplish the Concretist goal of creating a transcendental visual language.\n\nNeo-Concretists believed that artworks were not simply static representations or forms; rather “art should be like living organisms” In Lygia Clark’s theoretical statement written to address the intentions of the Neo-Concrete artists, she explains that as artists they wish to “found a new, expressive ‘space’.” This movement believed that through a direct relationship between the artwork and the viewer this “new, expressive ‘space’” could be constructed. Neo-Concrete artists sought to create a multi-sensorial space which caused the spectator to feel more acutely their own body and existence.\n\nClark also wrote of how Neo-Concretism sought to decipher the nature of humanity by creating a “medium of expression” which allowed people to “become aware of unity as an organic, living whole.” It was not just restoring an awareness of the spectator’s body but also of humanity’s communal existence.\n\nThe first Neo-Concrete Exhibition was held in Rio de Janeiro in March 1959, and the exhibiting artists were Amilcar de Castro, Ferreira Gullar, Franz Weissmann, Lygia Clark, Lygia Pape, Reynaldo_Jardim, and Theon Spanudis.\n\nThis manifesto was written by Ferreira Gullar, and was signed by Amilcar de Castro, Ferreira Gullar, Franz Weissmann, Lygia Clark, Lygia Pape, Reynaldo Jardim and Theon Spanudis. It was published on 22 of March 1959 in \"Journal do Brazil.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23129465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23129465", "title": "Nuagisme", "text": "Nuagisme\n\nNuagisme (literally \"cloudism\") is a French art-critical term that was advanced in the 1950s by art critic Julien Alvard (1916-1974). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42371917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371917", "title": "Nut art", "text": "Nut art\n\nNut art was an artistic consciousness movement centered in northern California that flourished primarily in the late 60s and early 70s.\n\nThe term \"Nut art\" was coined by artist Roy De Forest (in conversation with writer David Zack) to describe an approach to art making which embraced humor along with the phantasmagorical. According to De Forest, Nut artists sought to create fantasy worlds reflective of their own quirks and eccentricities. As such, Nut art placed a high degree of emphasis on evolving visions, of which specific artworks were produced as part of the ongoing process of self-definition, or in service to creating new personas and personal mythologies.(Among these personas was that of Ralph \"Doggy\" Dinsmore, which was used by De Forest.)\n\nAs with Conceptual art, the idea or underlying concept with Nut art was paramount. As a result, the creation of the Nut artist was not restricted by style or medium, allowing the movement to embrace emerging formats such as performance, text pieces, and appropriation, in addition to more traditional two and three dimensional mediums such as drawing, photography, and sculpture. Because of the emphasis on concept and satire, Nut art welcomed contributions from participants without formal artistic backgrounds as well as those with advanced technical skill and training. Nut art also reflected the importance of process over product, which had been a central tenet of the Action painters a generation previous.\n\nBesides De Forest, other key practitioners of Nut art included Robert Arneson, Clayton Bailey (as well as Bailey's alter-ego Dr. Gladstone), Victor Cicansky (alter-ego Victor Ceramski), Robert Cumming, Lowell Darling, Jack Ford, David Gilhooly, Jerry Gooch, Linda Renner, Peter Saul, Harold Schlotzhauer, Richard Shaw, Irv Tepper, Chris Unterseher, Peter VandenBerge, Franklin Williams, Maija Zack (alter-ego Maija Woof), and David Zack.\n\nDavid Zack, who was also a poet and art critic, reviewed many of the group's exhibitions. Zack also participated in the movement as an exhibiting artist.\n\nThe first major exhibition of Nut art took place in 1972 at the University Art Gallery of California State University, Hayward. The show was co-curated by Clayton Bailey (then art faculty) and Gallery Director Irene Keil. The show produced a catalog which included a preface written by De Forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "13794465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794465", "title": "October (journal)", "text": "October (journal)\n\nOctober is a peer-reviewed academic journal specializing in contemporary art, criticism, and theory, published by MIT Press.\n\n\"October\" was established in 1976 in New York by Rosalind E. Krauss and Annette Michelson, who left \"Artforum\" to do so. The founders of the journal were originally known as \"Octoberists\". Its name is a reference to the that set the tone of intellectual, politically engaged writing that has been the hallmark of the journal. The journal was a participant in introducing French post-structural theory on the English-speaking academic scene. According to \"The Art Story\", Krauss used the journal \"as a way to publish essays on her emergent ideas on post-structuralist art theory, Deconstructionist theory, psychoanalysis, postmodernism and feminism\". Jeremy Gilbert-Rolfe, one of the co-founders of the journal, withdrew after only a few issues, and by the spring of 1977, Douglas Crimp joined the editorial team. In 1990, after Crimp left the journal, Krauss and Michelson were joined by Yve-Alain Bois, Hal Foster, Benjamin H. D. Buchloh, Denis Hollier, and John Rajchman.\n\nAs well as in-depth articles and reviews of 20th century and contemporary art, the journal features critical interpretations of cinema and popular culture from a progressive viewpoint.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the journal was an \"influential vehicle for the debate surrounding the emergence of postmodernism and New Historicism in 20th-century art-historical studies\", and the journal \"contributed greatly to Anglo-American academics’ adoption of French theoretical innovations, especially those pertaining to the analysis of cinema\". \"The Art Story\" describes the journal as \"significant for revisiting and stressing the historical importance of early modes of 20th-century avant-garde art, such as Cubism, Surrealism and Expressionism\".\n\nMIT Press has released two anthologies of articles and a book series.\n"}
{"id": "466798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466798", "title": "Photorealism", "text": "Photorealism\n\nPhotorealism is a genre of art that encompasses painting, drawing and other graphic media, in which an artist studies a photograph and then attempts to reproduce the image as realistically as possible in another medium. Although the term can be used broadly to describe artworks in many different media, it is also used to refer specifically to a group of paintings and painters of the American art movement that began in the late 1960s and early 1970s.\n\nAs a full-fledged art movement, Photorealism evolved from Pop Art and as a counter to Abstract Expressionism as well as Minimalist art movements in the late 1960s and early 1970s in the United States. Photorealists use a photograph or several photographs to gather the information to create their paintings and it can be argued that the use of a camera and photographs is an acceptance of Modernism. However, the admittance to the use of photographs in Photorealism was met with intense criticism when the movement began to gain momentum in the late 1960s, despite the fact that visual devices had been used since the fifteenth century to aid artists with their work.\n\nThe invention of photography in the nineteenth century had three effects on art: portrait and scenic artists were deemed inferior to the photograph and many turned to photography as careers; within nineteenth- and twentieth-century art movements it is well documented that artists used the photograph as source material and as an aid—however, they went to great lengths to deny the fact fearing that their work would be misunderstood as imitations; and through the photograph's invention artists were open to a great deal of new experimentation. Thus, the culmination of the invention of the photograph was a break in art's history towards the challenge facing the artist—since the earliest known cave drawings—trying to replicate the scenes they viewed.\n\nBy the time the Photorealists began producing their bodies of work the photograph had become the leading means of reproducing reality and abstraction was the focus of the art world. Realism continued as an ongoing art movement, even experiencing a reemergence in the 1930s, but by the 1950s modernist critics and Abstract Expressionism had minimalized realism as a serious art undertaking. Though Photorealists share some aspects of American realists, such as Edward Hopper, they tried to set themselves as much apart from traditional realists as they did Abstract Expressionists. Photorealists were much more influenced by the work of Pop artists and were reacting against Abstract Expressionism.\n\nPop Art and Photorealism were both reactionary movements stemming from the ever-increasing and overwhelming abundance of photographic media, which by the mid 20th century had grown into such a massive phenomenon that it was threatening to lessen the value of imagery in art. However, whereas the Pop artists were primarily pointing out the absurdity of much of the imagery (especially in commercial usage), the Photorealists were trying to reclaim and exalt the value of an image.\n\nThe association of Photorealism to \"Trompe L'oeil\" is a wrongly attributed comparison, an error in observation or interpretation made by many critics of the 1970s and 1980s. Trompe L'oeil paintings attempt to \"fool the eye\" and make the viewer think he is seeing an actual object, not a painted one. When observing a Photorealist painting, the viewer is always aware that they are looking at a painting.\n\nThe word \"Photorealism\" was coined by Louis K. Meisel in 1969 and appeared in print for the first time in 1970 in a Whitney Museum catalogue for the show \"Twenty-two Realists.\" It is also sometimes labeled as Super-Realism, New Realism, Sharp Focus Realism, or Hyper-Realism.\n\nLouis K. Meisel, two years later, developed a five-point definition at the request of Stuart M. Speiser, who had commissioned a large collection of works by the Photorealists, which later developed into a traveling show known as 'Photo-Realism 1973: The Stuart M. Speiser Collection', which was donated to the Smithsonian in 1978 and is shown in several of its museums as well as traveling under the auspices of 'site'. The definition for the 'originators' was as follows:\n\nPhotorealist painting cannot exist without the photograph. In Photorealism, change and movement must be frozen in time which must then be accurately represented by the artist. Photorealists gather their imagery and information with the camera and photograph. Once the photograph is developed (usually onto a photographic slide) the artist will systematically transfer the image from the photographic slide onto canvases. Usually this is done either by projecting the slide onto the canvas or by using traditional grid techniques. The resulting images are often direct copies of the original photograph but are usually larger than the original photograph or slide. This results in the photorealist style being tight and precise, often with an emphasis on imagery that requires a high level of technical prowess and virtuosity to simulate, such as reflections in specular surfaces and the geometric rigor of man-made environs.\n\nThe first generation of American photorealists includes such painters as John Baeder, Richard Estes, Ralph Goings, Chuck Close, Charles Bell, Audrey Flack, Don Eddy, Robert Bechtle, and Tom Blackwell. Often working independently of each other and with widely different starting points, these original photorealists routinely tackled mundane or familiar subjects in traditional art genres--landscapes (mostly urban rather than naturalistic), portraits, and still lifes. In the UK, photorealist approaches were favoured by many artists including Mike Gorman and Eric Scott. The introduction of these European painters to a wider US audience was brought about through the 1982 'Superhumanism' exhibition at the Arnold Katzen Gallery, New York.\n\nThough the movement is primarily associated with painting, Duane Hanson and John DeAndrea are sculptors associated with photorealism for their painted, lifelike sculptures of average people that were complete with simulated hair and real clothes. They are called \"Verists.\"\n\nThough the height of Photorealism was in the 1970s the movement continues and includes several of the original photorealists as well as many of their contemporaries. According to Meisel and Chase's \"Photorealism at the Millennium\", only eight of the original photorealists were still creating photorealist work in 2002; ten including John Baeder and Howard Kanovitz.\n\nArtists Charles Bell, John Kacere, and Howard Kanovitz have died; Audrey Flack, Chuck Close, and Don Eddy have moved away from photorealism; and Robert Cottingham no longer considers himself a photorealist.\n\nNewer Photorealists are building upon the foundations set by the original photorealists. Examples would be the influence of Richard Estes in works by Anthony Brunelli or the influence of Ralph Goings and Charles Bell in works by Glennray Tutor. However, this has led many to move on from the strict definition of photorealism as the emulation of the photograph. Photorealism is also no longer simply an American art movement. Starting with Franz Gertsch in the 1980s Clive Head, Raphaella Spence, Bertrand Meniel, and Roberto Bernardi are several European artists associated with photorealism that have emerged since the mid-1990s. This internationalization of photorealism is also seen in photorealist events, such as The Prague Project, in which American and non-American photorealist painters have traveled together to locations including Prague, Zurich, Monaco and New York, to work alongside each other in producing work.\n\nThe evolution of technology has brought forth photorealistic paintings that exceed what was thought possible with paintings; these newer paintings by the photorealists are sometimes referred to as \"Hyperrealism.\" With new technology in cameras and digital equipment, artists are able to be far more precision-oriented and can produce imagery using a wider range of media. The artist Bill Fink has developed his own technique for creating photorealistic images using soil, pollen, human hair, and cremated human remains.\n\nPhotorealism's influence and popularity continues to grow, with new books such as Juxtapoz's 2014 book entitled \"Hyperreal\" detailing current trends within the artistic genre.\n\n\nSignificant artists whose work helped define Photorealism:\n\nSignificant artists whose work meets the criteria of Photorealism:\n"}
{"id": "171435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171435", "title": "Plot device", "text": "Plot device\n\nA plot device, or plot mechanism, is any technique in a narrative used to move the plot forward. A contrived or arbitrary plot device may annoy or confuse the reader, causing a loss of the suspension of disbelief. However a well-crafted plot device, or one that emerges naturally from the setting or characters of the story, may be entirely accepted, or may even be unnoticed by the audience.\n\nMany stories, especially in the fantasy genre, feature an object or objects with some great power. Often what drives the plot is the hero's need to find the object and use it for good, before the villain can use it for evil, or if the object has been broken by the villains, to retrieve each piece that must be gathered from each antagonist to restore it, or, if the object itself is evil, to destroy it. In some cases destroying the object will lead to the destruction of the villain. In the Indiana Jones film series, Jones is always on the hunt for some mystical artifact. In \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", he is trying to retrieve the Ark of the Covenant; in \"Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade\", Jones is on a search for the Holy Grail. This plot device is also used in the \"Arabian Nights\" tale of \"The City of Brass,\" in which a group of travelers on an archaeological expedition journeys across the Sahara to find a brass vessel that Solomon once used to trap a jinn.\n\nSeveral books in the Harry Potter series orient around a certain object. In \"Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone\", Harry believes there is a magical stone in Hogwarts with special powers. Lord Voldemort needs this stone to bring back his body, and Harry looks for the stone first to prevent Voldemort's return.\n\nThe One Ring from J. R. R. Tolkien's novel, \"The Lord of the Rings\" has been labeled a plot device, since the quest to destroy it drives the entire plot of the novel. However, as Nick Lowe puts it: \"Tolkien, on the whole, gets away with the trick by minimizing the arbitrariness of the ring's plot-power and putting more stress than his imitators on the way the ring's power moulds the character of its wielder and vice-versa.\"\n\nA MacGuffin is a term, popularized by film director Alfred Hitchcock, referring to a plot device wherein a character pursues an object, though the object's actual nature is not important to the story. Another object would work just as well if the characters treated it with the same importance. Regarding the MacGuffin, Alfred Hitchcock stated, \"In crook stories it is almost always the necklace and in spy stories it is most always the papers.\" This contrasts with, for example, the One Ring (from The Lord of the Rings), whose very nature is essential to the entire story.\n\nMacGuffins are sometimes referred to as \"plot coupons\" (especially if multiple ones are required) as the protagonist only needs to \"collect enough plot coupons and trade them in for a dénouement\". The term was coined by Nick Lowe.\n\nThe term \"deus ex machina\" is used to refer to a narrative ending in which an improbable event is used to resolve all problematic situations and bring the story to a (generally happy) conclusion.\n\nThe Latin phrase \"deus ex machina\" has its origins in the conventions of Greek tragedy, and refers to situations in which a mechane (crane) was used to lower actors playing a god or gods onto the stage at the end of a play.\n\nThe Greek tragedian Euripides is notorious for using this plot device as a means to resolve a hopeless situation. For example, in Euripides' play \"Alcestis\", the eponymous heroine agrees to give up her own life to Death in exchange for sparing the life of her husband, Admetus. In doing so, however, she imposes upon him a series of extreme promises. Admetus is torn between choosing death or choosing to obey these unreasonable restrictions. In the end, though, Heracles shows up and seizes Alcestis from Death, restoring her to life and freeing Admetus from the promises. Another example of a \"deus ex machina\" is Gandalf in \"The Hobbit\". With the help of seemingly limitless magical capabilities, he rescues the other main characters from all sorts of troubles. The first person known to have criticized the device was Aristotle in his \"Poetics\", where he argued that the resolution of a plot must arise internally, following from previous action of the play.\n\nA shoulder angel is a plot device used for either dramatic or humorous effect in animation and comic strips (and occasionally in live-action television). The angel represents conscience and is often accompanied by a shoulder devil representing temptation. They are handy for easily showing inner conflict of a character. Usually, the angel is depicted on (or hovering near) the right shoulder and the devil or demon on the left, as the left side traditionally represents dishonesty or impurity (see Negative associations of left-handedness in language). The Shoulder Angel and Shoulder Devil are both derived from the concept of the id, ego and super-ego in Psychoanalysis, with the person in the center of the dispute being the ego between the super-ego Angel and the id Devil.\n\nThe function of a red herring is to divert the audience's attention away from something significant. Red herrings are very common plot devices in mystery, horror, and crime stories. The typical example is in whodunits, in which facts are presented so that the audience is tricked into thinking that a given character is the murderer, when it is actually another character.\n\nA \"plot voucher\", as defined by Nick Lowe, is an object given to a character (especially to the protagonist) before they encounter an obstacle that requires the use of the object. An example of a plot voucher is a gift received by a character, which later impedes a deadly bullet.\n\n"}
{"id": "2169442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169442", "title": "Primitivism", "text": "Primitivism\n\nPrimitivism is a mode of aesthetic idealization that either emulates or aspires to recreate \"primitive\" experience. In Western art, primitivism typically has borrowed from non-Western or prehistoric people perceived to be \"primitive\", such as Paul Gauguin's inclusion of Tahitian motifs in paintings and ceramics. Borrowings from primitive art has been important to the development of modern art. Primitivism has often been critiqued for reproducing the racist stereotypes about non-European peoples used by Europeans to justify colonial conquest.\n\nThe term \"primitivism\" is often applied to other professional painters working in the style of naïve or folk art like Henri Rousseau, Mikhail Larionov, Paul Klee and others.\n\nPrimitivism is a utopian idea that is distinctive for its reverse teleology. The utopian end toward which primitivists aspire usually lies in a notional \"state of nature\" in which their ancestors existed (chronological primitivism), or in the supposed natural condition of the peoples that live beyond \"civilization\" (cultural primitivism).\n\nThe desire of the \"civilized\" to be restored to a \"state of nature\" is as longstanding as civilization itself. In antiquity the superiority of \"primitive\" life principally found expression in the so-called Myth of the Golden Age, depicted in the genre of European poetry and visual art known as the Pastoral. Primitivist idealism between gained new impetus with the onset of industrialization and the European encounter with hitherto unknown peoples after the colonization of the Americas, the Pacific and other parts of what would become the modern imperial system.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment, the idealization of indigenous peoples were chiefly used as a rhetorical device to criticize aspects of European society. In the realm of aesthetics, however, the eccentric Italian philosopher, historian and jurist Giambattista Vico (1688–1744) was the first to argue that primitive peoples were closer to the sources of poetry and artistic inspiration than \"civilized\" or modern man. Vico was writing in the context of the celebrated contemporary debate, known as the great Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns. This included debates over the merits of the poetry of Homer and the Bible as against modern vernacular literature.\n\nIn the 18th century, the German scholar Friedrich August Wolf identified the distinctive character of oral literature and located Homer and the Bible as examples of folk or oral tradition (\"Prolegomena to Homer\", 1795). Vico and Wolf's ideas were developed further in the beginning of the 19th century by Herder. Nevertheless, although influential in literature, such arguments were known to a relatively small number of educated people and their impact was limited or non-existent in the sphere of visual arts.\n\nThe 19th century saw for the first time the emergence of historicism, or the ability to judge different eras by their own context and criteria. A result of this, new schools of visual art arose that aspired to hitherto unprecedented levels of historical fidelity in setting and costumes. Neoclassicism in visual art and architecture was one result. Another such \"historicist\" movement in art was the Nazarene movement in Germany, which took inspiration from the so-called Italian \"primitive\" school of devotional paintings (i.e., before the age of Raphael and the discovery of oil painting).\n\nWhere conventional academic painting (after Raphael) used dark glazes, highly selective, idealized forms, and rigorous suppression of details, the Nazarenes used clear outlines, bright colors, and paid meticulous attention to detail. This German school had its English counterpart in the Pre-Raphaelites, who were primarily inspired by the critical writings of John Ruskin, who admired the painters before Raphael (such as Botticelli) and who also recommended painting outdoors, hitherto unheard of.\n\nTwo developments shook the world of visual art in the mid-19th century. The first was the invention of the photographic camera, which arguably spurred the development of Realism in art. The second was a discovery in the world of mathematics of non-Euclidean geometry, which overthrew the 2000-year-old seeming absolutes of Euclidean geometry and threw into question conventional Renaissance perspective by suggesting the possible existence of multiple dimensional worlds and perspectives in which things might look very different.\n\nThe discovery of possible new dimensions had the opposite effect of photography and worked to counteract realism. Artists, mathematicians, and intellectuals now realized that there were other ways of seeing things beyond what they had been taught in Beaux Arts Schools of Academic painting, which prescribed a rigid curriculum based on the copying of idealized classical forms and held up Renaissance perspective painting as the culmination of civilization and knowledge. Beaux Arts academies held than non-Western peoples had had no art or only inferior art.\n\nIn rebellion against this dogmatic approach, Western artists began to try to depict realities that might exist in a world beyond the limitations of the three dimensional world of conventional representation mediated by classical sculpture. They looked to Japanese and Chinese art, which they regarded as learned and sophisticated and did not employ Renaissance one-point perspective. Non-euclidean perspective and tribal art fascinated Western artists who saw in them the still-enchanted portrayal of the spirit world. They also looked to the art of untrained painters and to children's art, which they believed depicted interior emotional realities that had been ignored in conventional, cook-book-style academic painting.\n\nTribal and other non-European art also appealed to those who were unhappy with the repressive aspects of European culture, as pastoral art had done for millennia. Imitations of tribal or archaic art also fall into the category of nineteenth-century \"historicism\", as these imitations strive to reproduce this art in an authentic manner. Actual examples of tribal, archaic, and folk art were prized by both creative artists and collectors.\n\nThe painting of Paul Gauguin and Pablo Picasso and the music of Igor Stravinsky are frequently cited as the most prominent examples of primitivism in art. Stravinsky's \"The Rite of Spring\", is \"primitivist\" in so far as its programmatic subject is a pagan rite: a human sacrifice in pre-Christian Russia. It employs harsh dissonance and loud, repetitive rhythms to depict \"Dionysian\" modernism, i.e., abandonment of inhibition (restraint standing for civilization). Nevertheless, Stravinsky was a master of learned classical tradition and worked within its bounds. In his later work he adopted a more \"Apollonian\" neoclassicism, to use Nietzsche's terminology, although in his use of serialism he still rejects 19th-century convention. In modern visual art, Picasso's work is also understood as rejecting Beaux Arts artistic expectations and expressing primal impulses, whether he worked in a cubist, neo-classical, or tribal-art-influenced vein.\n\nPrimitivism gained a new impetus from anxieties about technological innovation but above all from the \"Age of Discovery\", which introduced the West to previously unknown peoples and opened the doors to colonialism. As the European Enlightenment. With the decline of feudalism, philosophers started questioning many fixed medieval assumptions about human nature, the position of humans in society, and the strictures of Christianity, and especially Catholicism. They began questioning the nature of humanity and its origins through a discussion of the natural man, which had intrigued theologians since the European encounter with the New World.\n\nFrom the 18th century, Western thinkers and artists continued to engage in the retrospective tradition, that is \"the conscious search in history for a more deeply expressive, permanent human nature and cultural structure in contrast to the nascent modern realities\". Their search led them to parts of the world that they believed constituted alternatives to modern civilization.\n\nThe invention of the steamboat and other innovations in global transportation in the 19th century brought the indigenous cultures of the European colonies and their artifacts into metropolitan centres of empire. Many western-trained artists and connoisseurs were fascinated by these objects, attributing their features and styles to \"primitive\" forms of expression; especially the perceived absence of linear perspective, simple outlines, the presence of symbolic signs such as the hieroglyph, emotive distortions of the figure, and the perceived energetic rhythms resulting from the use of repetitive ornamental pattern. According to recent cultural critics, it was primarily the cultures of Africa and the Oceanic islands that provided artists an answer to what these critics call their \"white, Western, and preponderantly male quest\" for the \"elusive ideal\" of the primitive, \"whose very condition of desirability resides in some form of distance and difference.\" These energizing stylistic attributes, present in the visual arts of Africa, Oceania, and the Indians of the Americas, could also be found in the archaic and peasant art of Europe and Asia, as well.\n\nPainter Paul Gauguin sought to escape European civilization and technology, taking up residence in the French colony of Tahiti and adopted a stripped-back lifestyle which he felt to be more natural than was possible in Europe.\n\nGauguin's search for the primitive was manifestly a desire for sexual freedom, and this is reflected in such paintings as \"The Spirit of the Dead Keeps Watch\" (1892), \"Parau na te Varua ino\" (1892), \"Anna the Javanerin\" (1893), \"Te Tamari No Atua\" (1896), and \"Cruel Tales\" (1902), among others. Gauguin's view of Tahiti as an earthly Arcadia of free love, gentle climate, and naked nymphs is quite similar, if not identical, to that of the classical pastoral of academic art, which has shaped Western perceptions of rural life for millennia. One of his Tahitian paintings is called \"Tahitian Pastoral\" and another \"Where Do We Come From\". In this way Gauguin extended the academic pastoral tradition of Beaux Arts schools which had hitherto been based solely on idealized European figures copied from Ancient Greek sculpture to include non-European models.\n\nGauguin also believed he was celebrating Tahitian society and defending the Tahitians against European colonialism. Feminist postcolonial critics, however, decry the fact that Gauguin took adolescent mistresses, one of them as young as thirteen. They remind us that like many European men of his time and later, Gauguin saw freedom, especially sexual freedom, strictly from the male colonizer's point of view. Using Gauguin as an example of what is \"wrong\" with primitivism, these critics conclude that, in their view, elements of primitivism include the \"dense interweave of racial and sexual fantasies and power both colonial and patriarchal\". To these critics, primitivism such as Gauguin's demonstrates fantasies about racial and sexual difference in \"an effort to essentialize notions of primitiveness\" with \"Otherness\". Thus, they contend, primitivism becomes a process analogous to Exoticism and Orientalism, as critqued by Edward Said, in which European imperialism and monolithic and degrading views of the \"East\" by the \"West\" defined colonized peoples and their cultures.\n\nIn 1905-06, a small group of artists began to study art from Sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania, in part because of the compelling works of Paul Gauguin that were gaining visibility in Paris. Gauguin's powerful posthumous retrospective exhibitions at the Salon d'Automne in Paris in 1903 and an even larger one in 1906 exerted a strong influence. Artists including Maurice de Vlaminck, André Derain, Henri Matisse and Pablo Picasso grew increasingly intrigued and inspired by the select objects they encountered. \n\nPablo Picasso, in particular, explored Iberian sculpture, African sculpture, African traditional masks, and other historical works including the Mannerist paintings of El Greco, resulting in his masterpiece \"Les Demoiselles D'Avignon\" and, eventually, the invention of Cubism.\n\nThe generalizing term \"primitivism\" tends to obscure the distinct contributions to modern art from these various visual traditions.\n\nAlthough primitivism in art is usually regarded as a Western phenomenon, the structure of primitivist idealism can be found in the work of non-Western and especially anticolonial artists. The desire to recover a notional and idealized past in which humans had been at one with nature is here connected to a critique of the impact of Western modernity on colonized societies. These artists often critique Western stereotypes about \"primitive\" colonized peoples at the same time as they yearn to recover pre-colonial modes of experience. Anticolonialism fuses with primitivism's reverse teleology to produce art that is distinct from the primitivism of Western artists which usually reinforces rather than critiques colonial stereotypes.\n\nThe work of artists connected with the Négritude movement in particular demonstrates this tendency. \"Négritude\" was a movement of neo-African idealism and political agitation that was begun by francophone intellectuals and artists on both sides of the Atlantic in the 1930s, and which spread across Africa and the African diaspora in subsequent years. They self-consciously idealized pre-colonial Africa, something that took many forms. This typically consisted in rejecting overweening European rationalism and the associated ravages of colonialism while positing pre-colonial African societies as having had a more communal and organic basis. The work of the Cuban artist Wifredo Lam is particularly notable among the visual artists of negritude. Lam met Pablo Picasso and the European surrealists while living in Paris in the 1930s. When he returned to Cuba in 1941, Lam was emboldened to create images in which humans, animals, and nature combined in lush and dynamic tableaux. In his iconic work of 1943, \"The Jungle\", Lam's characteristic polymorphism recreates a fantastical jungle scene with African motifs between stalks of cane. It vividly captures the way in which negritude's neo-African idealism is connected to a history of plantation slavery centred on the production of sugar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43831935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43831935", "title": "Prince (painting)", "text": "Prince (painting)\n\nOrange Prince (1984) is a painting by American artist Andy Warhol, of Prince Rogers Nelson (1958–2016), the American singer, songwriter, record producer, multi-instrumentalist, actor, and director.\n\n\"Orange Prince\" \"(1984)\" is considered an important late work referencing Warhol's portraits from the early 1960s, of movie stars and celebrity icons, such as Marilyn Monroe, Elizabeth Taylor and Jacqueline Kennedy. Art historian and Warhol expert Thomas E. Crow believes that Warhol's portrait of Prince shows much greater freedom of expression, as in the early portraits. This is especially evident when compared to Warhol's more 'factory-line' style of portraits from the 1970s onwards, which were mainly commissions. \n\nPrince did not commission the Warhol portraits, which stayed in Warhol's private collection until he died. Crow believes Warhol was fascinated by Prince, who was not in Warhol's direct circle. He says that Warhol was drawn to Prince's edgy image, which acted as inspiration for the art work:\"(Warhol's) evident fascination with Prince, known for sexual frankness in his music and an androgynous style in his clothes, make-up, and hairstyle, echoed similar traits among those he famously gathered around himself in the Factory entourage of the 1960s.\"\n\n\"Orange Prince\" uses a photograph as its source image, which depicts Prince in the burgeoning stages of his career in 1981, three years before the painting was created. The original color photograph shows Prince in a full length pose, from which Warhol isolated the head only for the portrait.\n\nThe composition of \"Orange Prince\" makes direct reference to the portraits Warhol produced in the 1960s, as Crow points out in his 2018 analysis of the painting, and is similar in composition to Warhol's Marilyn series where the subject's head 'floats' in day-glo color.\n\nAccording to Crow, the composition is distinct from other late portraits, the majority of which were commissions and followed a commercial formula, such as Warhol's portrait of Michael Jackson which was commissioned and created a few months before \"Orange Prince.\" As Crow says: \"Warhol’s 1984 portrait (of Prince)...harked back to the independently conceived celebrity likenesses of his earlier career (from the 1960s). As Prince had not commissioned any of the paintings, Warhol could experiment with far more variations in background patterns and colors.\"The face of the subject is depicted in a neon orange color, the same as the background. The facial outline, features and hair are in black. Highlights of green and blue are woven onto the screen amongst the black line around the subject's facial features, hair and ears. The overall effect is to make the subject luminesce, with a trade-mark Warhol flatness to the image, due partly to the very little graduation of shading.\n\nPrince and Andy Warhol were personally acquainted, as Warhol's diary entries show.\n\nOn a number of occasions in the early 1980s Prince had appeared in \"Andy Warhol's Interview Magazine\". In the April 1980 edition Prince appears in a full-page photograph by Robert Mapplethorpe.\n\nWarhol attended a number of Prince concerts in the 1980s, including one of the very earliest in New York. On December 9, 1980, Prince played The Ritz in New York as part of his \"Dirty Mind Tour\". The club was only half-full, but as music critic Nik Cohn reported, \"Andy Warhol and his claque showed up, and so did a number of music-biz faces. Before the show, they lounged in poses of practised cool. Then Prince appeared, and cool went up in flames\".\n\nIn the December 1981 edition of Warhol's \"Interview\" magazine Prince appears in a controversial image showing him in the shower, and a crucifix on the wall behind.\n\nIn Fall 1984, Warhol created \"Orange Prince\". Prince had released the \"Purple Rain\" album and movie that year and was well known internationally. \n\nOn August 2, 1986, Warhol was in the front row at Prince's concert at Madison Square Garden. In his diary entry of their meeting, Warhol described sitting down at the concert \"...just as Prince jumps out naked, or almost, and it's the greatest concert I've ever seen there, just so much energy and excitement.\"\n\nAfterwards at the New York dance club, The Palladium, Warhol reported that he was very excited to be invited to an after-party hosted by Prince, and fascinated by him. Warhol described arriving at the party and seeing Prince appear in the near-empty club \"...in a white coat and pink bellbottoms, like a Puerto Rican at a prom, all by himself\". He also stated Prince was a gracious host who remembered the names of the many individuals in Warhol's entourage that night, and how Prince made sure he danced with everyone.\n\nThe same party was also attended by Billy Idol; seeing Prince and Idol together, Warhol observed that \"Hollywood glamour girls\" such as Jean Harlow and Marilyn Monroe had been supplanted by \"glamour boys\" such as Prince and Idol—a development that Warhol found completely fascinating and \"...so weird\".\n\nThat night, Prince agreed to appear on the December 1986 cover of Warhol's Interview magazine, which Warhol described in his diary:\"We asked Prince if he would be our December cover and he said we'd have to talk to his manager and we said that we'd asked the manager and the manager said to ask him, and so they said they'd work it out. We were just shaking, it was so exciting.\"Warhol's portrait of Prince was created in 1984, two years before their post-concert meeting in 1986, and remained in Warhol's own collection until he died in 1987. \n\n\"Orange Prince\" was created using a complex tracing and silkscreening process, using layers of colors of silkscreen ink on top of a hand-painted orange ground of acrylic polymer paint, applied to canvas. The technique was popularised by Warhol, and is synonymous with the artist from the 1960s onwards, when he produced his early portraits of Marilyn Monroe, Elvis Presley, Elizabeth Taylor and Marlon Brando, and other Hollywood movie stars and celebrities of the time.\n\nThe 1989 MoMA catalogue of Warhol's work, includes a comprehensive description of Warhol's silkscreening technique, provided by the British curator and author Marco Livingstone under the title, “Do It Yourself: Notes on Warhol’s Technique.”A pencil tracing was taken from the full sized [transparent] acetate prepared for the photographic screen. Either by transferring the penciled line by pressing onto the front of the acetate or sheet of paper, or by placing a sheet of carbon paper beneath the tracing and then drawing the line one section at a time, a rough guide was established for each color area, for example, the lips and the eyelids. The colors were then brushed on by hand, often with the use of masking tape to create a clean junction between them, with the eventual imposition of the black screened image also serving to obscure any unevenness in the line. The acetates were examined by Warhol before they were made into screens, so that he could indicate by means of instructions, written and drawn with china-marking crayon, any changes to be made: for example, to increase the tonal contrast by removing areas of half-tone, thereby flattening the image. The position of the image would be established by taping the four corners of the acetate to the canvas and then tearing off the tape along the corner edges of the acetate; the fragments of tape remaining on the canvas would serve as a guide in locating the screen on top. The position of the screen would be confirmed by eye, and it would then be printed.\nA number of important silkscreen works by Andy Warhol use the color orange. Some of the first silkscreen works from the 1960s use orange as the dominant color, and Warhol continued to use orange in his paintings throughout his lifetime. \"Orange Prince\" shares a compositional style to \"Orange Marilyn\", 1962. A number of orange paintings by Warhol are in museum collections around the world: \n\nThe effect of bright colors in Warhol's work is to draw renewed focus to the subject matter. In the \"Death and Disaster\" series of paintings the graphic images Warhol took from tabloid newspaper stories of the time are a stark counterpoint to the candy-color palette. Another example of this is \"Twelve Electric Chairs\" from 1964, which consists of twelve highly contrasting colored images of the electric chair, including \"Orange Little Electric Chair,\" 1964.\n\nIn late 2017, a leading art industry newsletter, Baer Faxt, reported that Warhol’s Orange Marilyn sold in a private transaction for $250 million\n\nIn 2017 Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, confirmed that Prince's favorite color was \"orange\", and not purple, as assumed. Also that Prince often wore all-orange stage outfits, had orange sets for concerts and his favorite item was his custom-built orange Cloud guitar.\n\nArt historian, Thomas Crow, believes Warhol depicts Prince as a \"modern-day icon\" in his painting, referencing religious iconographic paintings: \"[Warhol's portrait of Prince] returned Warhol to the origins of his art-critical credibility, that is, the flattened, emblematic, minimally descriptive manner that had characterized his first, definitive phase as an artist.\"\"Marilyn Diptych\", 1962, is an early example of iconography in Warhol's work, the image repeated many times to emphasise the ubiquity of celebrity and references a form of religious painting in its title.\n\nThe Marilyn \"Flavors\" portraits – thirteen unique paintings of Marilyn Monroe with different color backgrounds – are also amongst the first examples of Warhol's iconographic style, and graphic use of saturated block color, held by art historians to highlight a manufactured celebrity. Art historian Robert Rosenblum was personally close to Warhol and wrote about Warhol's Catholic religious observance, which informed Rosenblum's observation about the 1962 \"Gold Marilyn\" in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art: \"When Warhol took a photographic silkscreen of Marilyn Monroe’s head, set it on gold paint, and let it float high in a timeless, spaceless heaven..., he was creating, in effect, a secular saint for the 1960s that might well command as much earthly awe and veneration as, say, a Byzantine Madonna hovering for eternity on a gold mosaic ground.\"Geralyn Huxley, curator of film and video at the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, believes Warhol's preoccupation with celebrity portraits and the style in which he depicts them, stems from the artist's religious upbringing. As a child Warhol attended a local Catholic church which featured an iconostasis, a screen situated in front of the altar featuring large-scale depictions of the faces of the Saints.\n\nArt historian Jane Daggett Dillenberger, in her book \"The Religious Art of Andy Warhol\", points out that Warhol's portraits of celebrities have a strong affinity with the sacred icons at the St. John Chrysostom Byzantine Catholic Church in Pittsburgh: \"Andy's earliest experience of art was of religious art...for Andy, art and religion were linked.\"In his New York Times review of the 1989 Warhol retrospective exhibition at MoMA, art critic Michael Brenson says that Warhol's portraits, at their best, bring together diametrically opposite values, such as sensual excess and the purity of an icon, as seen in the portrait of Prince:“[Andy Warhol's] flat images, painted in a flat tone, existing in a non-space from which past and future have been banished ... make the present seem absolute and eternal—in other words, transcendent. Part of Warhol’s achievement was to legitimize his love of secular, profane subjects by attaching to them traditional religious values. ... Warhol argues that self-effacement and sensual excess, purity and trash, the moment and eternity can exist together.”\n\n\"Orange Prince\" painting has been reproduced in books, magazines and other media, most notably as the cover of a commemorative magazine published by Condé Nast just after Prince's death in 2016.\n\nThe portrait was featured in both the November 1984 and the April 2016 editions of \"Vanity Fair\", reproduced in color on a full page to illustrate the article entitled \"Purple Fame\", about Prince's rise to fame in the wake of his celebrated 1984 album and movie \"Purple Rain,\" the inspiration for Warhol's portrait.\n\nThe \"Vanity Fair\" article claims that Warhol's portrait of Prince captures the recording artist \"...at the height of his powers\" and is one of the first global pieces written as a critical appreciation of the musician, coinciding with the start of the recording artist's 98-date Purple Rain Tour. \"Purple Rain\" is frequently regarded as Prince's magnum opus; declaring that Prince had \"...finally arrived\", and Warhol's portrait shows Prince as a confident and celebrated musician, now on a world stage and internationally renowned.\n\n\"Orange Prince (1984)\" was reproduced on the front cover of \"The Genius of Prince\", a commemorative magazine published in the wake of the musician's sudden death just months before. The magazine was published as a US edition by Condé Nast, in June 2016, to wide acclaim and distributed internationally.\n\nThe portrait also features in \"Andy Warhol Treasures\", a book published in 2009 by Geralyn Huxley.\n\n\"Andy Warhol: Portraits\" at The Phoenix Art Museum,Arizona.\n\n\"Warhol Live\". A touring exhibition of the artist's work as seen through the lens of music, taken from the collection of the Andy Warhol Museum. It appeared alongside Warhol's unique portraits of musicians, including Elvis Presley, the Velvet Underground, Mick Jagger and the Rolling Stones, Liza Minnelli, Grace Jones, Deborah Harry of Blondie, and Michael Jackson. The exhibition toured North America and Europe.\n\n\"Andy Warhol's Celebrities\", Coskun Fine Art.\n\n\"Orange Prince (1984)\" is currently in the UK, part of a private British collection. It was previously part of the Andy Warhol collection, then via his estate to the Andy Warhol Foundation.\n"}
{"id": "23922380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23922380", "title": "Prior review", "text": "Prior review\n\nPrior review occurs when executive persons read and review materials before they have been made available to the public. It is not to be confused with prior restraint.\n"}
{"id": "188949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188949", "title": "Quest", "text": "Quest\n\nA quest is a journey toward a specific mission or a goal. The word serves as a plot device in mythology and fiction: a difficult journey towards a goal, often symbolic or allegorical. Tales of quests figure prominently in the folklore of every nation and ethnic culture. In literature, the object of a quest requires great exertion on the part of the hero, who must overcome many obstacles, typically including much travel. The aspect of travel allows the storyteller to showcase exotic locations and cultures (an objective of the narrative, not of the character). The object of a quest may also have supernatural properties, often leading the protagonist into other worlds and dimensions. The moral of a quest tale often centers on the changed character of the hero.\n\nThe hero normally aims to obtain something or someone by the quest, and with this object to return home. The object can be something new, that fulfills a lack in his life, or something that was stolen away from him or someone with authority to dispatch him.\n\nSometimes the hero has no desire to return; Sir Galahad's quest for the Holy Grail is to find it, not return with it. A return may, indeed, be impossible: Aeneas quests for a homeland, having lost Troy at the beginning of Virgil's \"Aeneid,\" and he does not return to Troy to re-found it but settles in Italy (to become an ancestor of the Romans).\n\nIf the hero does return after the culmination of the quest, he may face false heroes who attempt to pass themselves off as him, or his initial response may be a rejection of that return, as Joseph Campbell describes in his critical analysis of quest literature, \"The Hero With a Thousand Faces\".\n\nIf someone dispatches the hero on a quest, the overt reason may be false, with the dispatcher actually sending him on the difficult quest in hopes of his death in the attempt, or in order to remove him from the scene for a time, just as if the claim were sincere, except that the tale usually ends with the dispatcher being unmasked and punished. Stories with such false quest-objects include the legends of Jason and Perseus, the fairy tales \"The Dancing Water, the Singing Apple, and the Speaking Bird\", \"Go I Know Not Whither and Fetch I Know Not What\", and the story of Beren and Lúthien in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"Silmarillion\".\n\nThe quest object may, indeed, function only as a convenient reason for the hero's journey. Such objects are termed MacGuffins. When a hero is on a quest for several objects that are only a convenient reason for his journey, they are termed plot coupons.\n\nThe quest, in the form of the Hero's Journey, plays a central role in the Monomyth described by Joseph Campbell; the hero sets forth from the world of common day into a land of adventures, tests, and magical rewards. Most times in a quest, the knight in shining armor wins the heart of a beautiful maiden/ princess.\n\nAn early quest story tells the tale of Gilgamesh, who seeks a secret to eternal life after the death of Enkidu, including the search for an emerald.\n\nAnother ancient quest tale, Homer's \"Odyssey\", tells of Odysseus, whom the gods have cursed to wander and suffer for many years before Athena persuades the Olympians to allow him to return home. Recovering the Golden Fleece is the object of the travels of Jason and the Argonauts in the \"Argonautica\". Psyche, having lost Cupid, hunted through the world for him, and was set tasks by Venus, including a descent into the underworld.\n\nMany fairy tales depict the hero or heroine setting out on a quest, such as:\n\n\nOther characters may set out with no more definite aim than to \"seek their fortune\", or even be cast out instead of voluntarily leaving, but learn of something that could aid them along the way and so have their journey transformed from aimless wandering into a quest. Other characters can also set forth on quests — the hero's older brothers commonly do — but the hero is distinguished by his success.\n\nMany medieval romances sent knights out on quests. The term \"Knight-errant\" sprang from this, as \"errant\" meant \"roving\" or \"wandering\". Sir Thomas Malory included many in \"Le Morte d'Arthur\". The most famous—perhaps in all of western literature—centers on the Holy Grail in Arthurian legend. This story cycle recounts multiple quests, in multiple variants, telling stories both of the heroes who succeed, like Percival (in Wolfram von Eschenbach's Parzival) or Sir Galahad (in the Queste del Saint Graal), and also the heroes who fail, like Sir Lancelot. This often sent them into a bewildering forest. Despite many references to its pathlessness, the forest repeatedly confronts knights with forks and crossroads, of a labyrinthine complexity. The significance of their encounters is often explained to the knights—particularly those searching for the Holy Grail—by hermits acting as wise old men -- or women. Still, despite their perils and chances of error, such forests, being the location where the knight can obtain the end of his quest, are places where the knights may become worthy; one romance has a maiden urging Sir Lancelot on his quest for the Holy Grail, \"which quickens with life and greenness like the forest.\"\n\nSo consistently did knights quest that Miguel de Cervantes set his Don Quixote on mock quests in a parody of chivalric tales. Nevertheless, while Don Quixote was a fool, he was and remains a hero of chivalry.\n\nQuests continued in modern literature. Analysis can interpret many (perhaps most) stories as a quest in which the main character is seeking something that he desires, but the literal structure of a journey seeking something is, itself, still common. Quests often appear in fantasy literature, as in Rasselas by Samuel Johnson, or \"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\", where Dorothy, the Scarecrow, the Tin Woodman, and the Cowardly Lion go on a quest for the way back to Kansas, brains, a heart, and courage respectively. Quests, also, play a major role in Rick Riordan's fantasy books, among them \"Percy Jackson & the Olympians\", \"The Heroes of Olympus\", and \"The Kane Chronicles\".\n\nA familiar modern literary quest is Frodo Baggins's quest to destroy the One Ring in \"The Lord of the Rings\". The One Ring, its baleful power, the difficult method which is the only way to destroy it, and the spiritual and psychological torture it wreaks on its Bearer; J. R. R. Tolkien uses all these elements to tell a meaningful tale of friendship and the inner struggle with temptation, against a background of epic and supernatural warfare.\n\n\"The Catcher in the Rye\" is often thought of as a quest plot, detailing Holden's search not for a tangible object but for a sense of purpose or reason.\n\nSome writers, however, may devise arbitrary quests for items without any importance beyond being the object of the quest. These items are known as MacGuffins, which is sometimes merely used to compare quests and is not always a derogatory term. Writers may also motivate characters to pursue these objects by meanings of a prophecy that decrees it, rather than have them discover that it could assist them, for reasons that are given.\n\n"}
{"id": "35004358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35004358", "title": "Rasa Renaissance", "text": "Rasa Renaissance\n\nRasa Renaissance is a movement in the art of painting that makes evocation of rasas (emotional moods) the prime aim in the creation and appreciation of a work of art. Rasa is the quality of emotional fulfilment that a work of art produces through the personalities, their expression and the situation presented in a painting. Rasa is a Sanskrit word that denotes the quality of emotional fulfilment that a work of art brings about. Rasa Theory is a theory of aesthetic criticism that has been prevalent in appreciation of literary works in Sanskrit language for millenniums (see: Indian aesthetic).\n\nThe idea of Rasa Renaissance evolved in the last quarter of the twentieth century in the domain of painting, as a countermovement to abstract and conceptual art. Rasa Renaissance is led by artist, philosopher and Sanskrit scholar Dr. Mumbiram of India (Ph.D. Berkeley California). In the twentieth century, the art of painting progressively became dissociated from depiction of personalities in real-world situations. It concerned itself with exploration of forms and colours for their own sake. It became more or less an exercise in clever intellectual sophistication. Art of Rasa Renaissance presupposes personalities in various situations, and in various emotional states, as being central to a work of art.\n\nThe emotions that the creator of a painting has in mind, the emotions that personalities who appear in a painting share with each other, as also the emotions that are aroused in the viewer of a painting, are all of concern in appreciation of a work of rasa art.\nAs emotions are states in the minds of personalities, rasa art presupposes depictions of personalities in various situations and various emotional states to be the subject matter of a rasa painting. Painting that concerns itself with depictions of personalities in various situations and various emotional states is \"personalist art\". The realm of personalist art is personalism.\n\nThroughout the long history of art there has always been personalist as well as impersonal art. Portraits of kings, demigods, gods, mythological figures, saints as also ordinary people are examples of personalist art. Scenes in the lives of important as well as ordinary people are other examples. There were also battle scenes, domestic scenes, mythological and religious events. Impersonal Art existed in the form of landscapes, still-life and decorative designs. Till the late 19th century, art remained more or less representational. The beginning of the 20th century saw art indulging in deliberate distortions in depictions of personalities as well as inanimate objects. Soon afterwards, art saw itself dissociating from representation of real-world objects and personalities. Exploration of colours and forms for their own sake, without reference to any real-world entities became the subject matter of abstract paintings. Art became impersonal.\n\nThe idea of Rasa Renaissance first appeared in the art and writings of artist Mumbiram of India. The idea of personalist art first appears in two articles that Mumbiram wrote in 1985 in his native Marathi language in Pune's \"Ravivar Sakal\". \"In Search of an Art that transcends Culture\" and \"The Practice of Personalist Art\". In these autobiographical articles, Mumbiram describes his affectionate rapport with his artist grandfather, his success as a prodigious child artist, his giving up art to devote himself to mathematics, his years in the graduate school at Berkeley, his \"déjà vu\" with art, his search for art that does not align itself with any culture (\"sanskritinirapeksha\"), his falling in love with Krishna and his arrival back in India as a personalist artist.\n\nHere Mumbiram calls his own art \"Vyaktisaapeksha Kalaa\". \"Saapekshataa\" would translate to relativity. \"Saapeksha\" would translate to 'depending on' or 'in expectation of'. \"Kalaa\" translates to Art, Art in reference to persons - Art in the context of persons. This is where the usage \"Personalist Art\" first appears.\n\nIn an article appearing in the \"Sunday Maharashtra Herald\", \"Waiting in the Wings\" in 1986, journalist Ashok Gopal introduces Mumbiram: \"Mumbiram calls his Art Personalist Art...\" The same article carries an Artist's Manifesto which makes clear reference to Personalism: \"Personalism is a frontal attack on materialism on the aesthetic front\", \"Personalism leaves no room for the existential void\".\n\nThe idea of Rasa Theory as basic to appreciation of art appears in an article about Mumbiram appearing in Mumbai's \"Sunday Observer\" in 1988 written by Sudhir Sonalkar. An interview with Mumbiram for the Mumbai tabloid \"Mid-Day\" has Mumbiram talking about Rasa Theory.\n\nDistant Drummer Publishing has produced \"High Five of Love\", a five-volume ensemble of English translations of Sanskrit Rasa classics wherein Mumbiram's original Rasa art is juxtaposed with Rasa literature. A catalog of exhibition of Mumbiram's \"Book Readers: Love on the Gutenberg Galaxy\" cites Rasa theory of aesthetic appreciation as relevant to appreciation of Mumbiram's art. It also gives an extensive bibliography of classical works on Rasa theory. Another extensive catalog of Mumbiram's work is titled: \"Rasa Renaissance\".\n\nAccording to Vaishnavism theology, Krishna is Rasaraj, the supreme source of all rasas. Depictions of incidents in Krishna's biography are most attractive subjects for Rasa art. In the \"prema vivarta\" mood of attachment to Krishna, everything in the phenomenal world appears to the lover of Krishna as a \"déjà vu\" of something related to Krishna. Many Rasa masterpieces are made in the prema vivarta mood. Ashok Gopal quotes Mumbiram: \"My raven-dark rambunctious, roaming, rag-picking girlfriends remind me of Krishna and his boys in the forests of Vrindavan.\"\n\nPre-Raphaelites were rebelling against the 'stodgy' Royal Academy. Somehow the romance was missing in the artists' lives. This group formed a secret brotherhood. Real life muses inspired their works. The inspiration was reflected in their paintings. The real lives of the artists and their works had a symbiotic relationship between them.\n\nRasa art, or art of Rasa Renaissance, is rebelling against the far more 'stodgy' art establishment of the twentieth century. Art degenerated into creation of 'brand equity' in logos. Depiction of persons was pigeonholed into the category of 'figurative' and 'representational' art for the less intelligent simpletons. Art museums, auction houses, art galleries and art schools all descended into a rut of vested interests. Rasa Renaissance rebels by bringing back into the purview of contemporary art the noble situations of human existence, the innate beauty of personalities and love amongst individuals. By the standards of the Rasa Theory of aesthetics, only Personalist Art can genuinely evoke rasas. So-called 'abstract' art is merely Impersonal Art, severely limited in its ability to invoke any rasa.\n\nThe Pre-Raphaelites used muses as models. They used monochrome, posed photographs of their muses/models to achieve realism. They spent considerable effort in painting carpets and folds in clothing. They strived to make paintings appear 'as good as' colour photographs.\n\nRasa art is inspired by real-life muses. They are not professional models. They are from an entirely different milieu. The artist meets them through personal encounter of the romantic type. Living in an era when color photography and photoshop are commonplace, rasa art is predominantly charcoal renderings. They are effortless quick live renderings. They don't aspire for photorealism. The person is of prime importance. The surroundings are not even depicted. The drama of the meeting and also the rendering is the 'high' the artist and the muses share. The admirers meet the artist in equally surprising ways. They are thrilled to be caught in the real life milieu of a classical painter. They are impulsively inspired to buy the work from the artist himself, from the environment where the work was produced.\n\nAccording to tenets of Personalism, an Impersonal paradigm of divinity gives rise to the existential void and absence of values.\nLove of impersonal objects, in preference to love of individuals, gives rise to materialism. Impersonalism in art is epitomized in abstract art.\n\nProponents of Rasa Renaissance see distortions in painting as sarcastic and cynical expressions. Rasa Art strives for simplicity, innocence, faith and devotion. Rasa Art strives for honesty to an indigenous aesthetic and an awareness of one's own beauty. Personalism sees man made in the image of God. There is no room for 'existential void'. Personalism focuses attention on love and grace amongst individuals, in preference to fascination with matter.\n\n"}
{"id": "6587771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587771", "title": "Scandinavian design", "text": "Scandinavian design\n\nScandinavian design is a design movement characterized by simplicity, minimalism and functionality that emerged in the early 20th century, and which flourished in the 1950s, in the five Nordic countries of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden.\n\nIn 1914, the Danish \"Selskabet for Dekorativ Kunst\" (Company for Decorative Arts) launched its \"\" (literally \"Graceful Work\") magazine. Its title became the name of a new Danish style of arts and crafts, to rival Art Nouveau and Jugendstil.\n\nFrom the 1930s, designers such as Alvar Aalto (furniture, textiles), Arne Jacobsen (chairs), Borge Mogensen (furniture), Hans J. Wegner (chairs), Verner Panton (plastic chairs), Poul Henningsen (lamps), and Maija Isola (printed textiles) helped to create a \"golden age of Scandinavian design\".\n\nThe Lunning Prize, awarded to outstanding Scandinavian designers between 1951 and 1970, was instrumental in making Scandinavian design a recognized commodity, and in defining its profile.\n\nIn 1954, the Brooklyn Museum held its \"Design in Scandinavia\" exhibition, and a fashion for \"Scandinavian Modern\" furniture began in America. Scandinavian design is by no means limited to furniture and household goods. It has been applied to industrial design, such as of consumer electronics, mobile phones, and cars.\n\nThe concept of Scandinavian design has been the subject of scholarly debate, exhibitions and marketing agendas since the 1950s. Many emphasize the democratic design ideals that were a central theme of the movement and are reflected in the rhetoric surrounding contemporary Scandinavian and international design. Others, however, have analyzed the reception of Scandinavian design abroad, seeing in it a form of myth-making and racial politics.\n\nDanish Design is a style of functionalistic design and architecture that was developed in mid-20th century. Influenced by the German Bauhaus school, many Danish designers used the new industrial technologies, combined with ideas of simplicity and functionalism to design buildings, furniture and household objects, many of which have become iconic and are still in use and production, such as Arne Jacobsen's 1958 Egg chair and Poul Henningsen's 1926 PH-lamps. After the Second World War, conditions in Denmark were ideally suited to success in design. The emphasis was on furniture but architecture, silver, ceramics, glass and textiles also benefitted from the trend. Denmark's late industrialisation combined with a tradition of high-quality craftsmanship formed the basis of gradual progress towards industrial production.\nFinnish design spans clothing, engineering design, furniture, glass, lighting, textiles, and household products. The \"Design from Finland\" mark was created in 2011. Finland's Design Museum (formerly called the Museum of Art and Design) has a collection founded in 1873, while Helsinki's University of Art and Design, established in 1871, now forms part of Aalto University.\n\nProminent Finnish designers include Alvar Aalto (vases, furniture), Aino Aalto (glassware), Kaj Frank (glass, tableware), Klaus Haapaniemi (fabric prints), Simo Heikkilä (furniture), Kristina Isola (textiles), Maija Isola (Marimekko prints), Harri Koskinen (glass, homeware), Mika Piirainen (clothing, accessories), Timo Sarpaneva (glass, homeware), Oiva Toikka (glass art), Tapio Wirkkala (glass art, glassware), Eero Aarnio (plastic furniture), Sanna Annukka (screenprints), Anu Penttinen (glass), Aino-Maija Metsola (textiles, homeware), and Maija Louekari (tableware, homeware).\n\nDesign in Iceland is a relatively young tradition, starting in the 1950s but now growing rapidly. The country's limited options for manufacturing and its constrained choice of materials have both forced designers to be innovative, though wool remains a staple material, whether felted or knitted. Iceland's Museum of Design and Applied Art, aiming to record Icelandic design from 1900 onwards, opened in 1998. The Iceland Academy of the Arts was also founded in 1998, soon followed by its Faculty of Architecture and Design, which has promoted a distinctively Icelandic character in the nation's design.\nNorwegian design has a strong minimalist aesthetic. Designed items include lamps and furniture. Qualities emphasised include durability, beauty, functionality, simplicity, and natural forms.\n\nThe Norwegian Centre for Design and Architecture, \"DogA\", is housed in a former transformer station in Oslo. Norway holds an annual design exhibition called \"100% Norway\" at the London Design Fair.\n\nProminent Norwegian designers include Hans Brattrud (\"Scandia Jr.\", \"Grorudstolen\", the table \"Fagott\", and the armchair \"Comet\"), Sven Ivar Dysthe (armchair \"1001\" from 1960, and the chair \"Laminette\" from 1964), Olav Eldøy (chair Peel, the chair Date & the chair Eight), Olav Haug, Fredrik A. Kayser (Chair “711”) and Ingmar Relling (Orbit and Siesta).\n\nSwedish design is considered minimalist, with an emphasis on functionality and simple clean lines. This has applied especially to furniture. Sweden is known for traditional crafts including glass and Sami handicrafts. Swedish design was pioneered by Anders Beckman (graphics), Bruno Mathsson (furniture), Märta Måås-Fjetterström and Astrid Sampe (textile), and Sixten Sason (industrial). Organisations that promote design in Sweden are Svensk Form, the Swedish society of crafts and design, founded in 1845; the Swedish Industrial Design Foundation, known as SVID; the Swedish Arts Council; and the Swedish Centre for Architecture and Design (known as ArkDes) on the island of Skeppsholmen in Stockholm, beside the modern art museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2304685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2304685", "title": "Stage mother", "text": "Stage mother\n\nIn the performing arts, a stage mother is the mother of a child actor. The mother will often drive her child to auditions, make sure he or she is on the set on time, etc. The term \"stage mother\" sometimes has a negative connotation, suggesting that the individual is prone to obnoxiously demanding special treatment for her child, or suggesting that the individual has placed inappropriate pressure on her child to succeed, perhaps for reasons of vicariously living out her own dreams through the child. Entitled and grandiose demands have sometimes led to reportedly veiled threats from a stage parent.\n\nA stage mother may also be the official manager of her child (e.g., Rose Thompson Hovick, Dina Lohan, Ethel Gumm, Teri Shields, Susan Duff, etc.) — representing her child in negotiations for the professional services of her child. Such managers have often been referred to as \"momagers\" in the film industry.\n\nIn certain cases where a mother and child both work in the film industry, an automatic labeling of \"stage mother\" can be affixed to the mother without cause. Kathie Lee Gifford has been against the concept of stage mothers and had explained that when her son Cody co-starred with her in the film \"Model Behavior\", it had been on his own volition to try acting and not at her insistence. Gifford plays a stage mother in that movie.\n\nFathers have also been known to manage their children in this way, such as Joseph Jackson (patriarch of the Jackson family), Murry Wilson (father of three of The Beach Boys), Joe Simpson (father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson), Jeff Archuleta (father of \"American Idol\" runner-up David Archuleta), Mathew Knowles (father of Beyoncé and Solange Knowles) and Kit Culkin (father of Macaulay and Kieran Culkin). A historical example of such a father was Leopold Mozart, who recognized his son's musical ability at an early age and made the most of it.\n\nAbraham Quintanilla, Jr., father of Tejano superstar Selena, is credited with having discovered Selena's gift of singing; he rounded up her and her siblings as a band (Selena y Los Dinos), named for his band in his younger days.\n\nStage fathers share a similar role with parents promoting their children in professional sports. The drive to enhance their child's success, and vicariously the father's own financial furtherance and fame can include implementation of strength and exercise regimens at a young age and backhanded actions such as delaying enrollment in school so their sons will be bigger than their classmates. Lavar Ball, father of Los Angeles Laker Lonzo Ball, achieved notoriety for spurious self aggrandizement and inflation of his son's assets, including questionable claims that his son's basketball skills exceeded those of Stephen Curry, LeBron James and Russell Westbrook.\n\nA variant of the term has been a \"script mother\", or a woman writer who sees her children as a means for writing books or screenplays based on humiliating events in the child's life, to the detriment of the child, or exaggerating a child's personal problems. Script mothers can be writers, comedians or cartoonists.\n\nAn example of a script mother has been Lynn Johnston, who has been criticized for exploiting her children (and husband) in her comic strip \"For Better or for Worse\", as opposed to many cartoonists such as Charles Schultz and Berke Breathed who make up fictional characters. Johnston's children eventually had to be pulled out of school due to the constant bullying and embarrassment they received in being compared to their comic strip counterparts, and placed into a private school with tougher regulations on student conduct.\n\n\nReal-life stage mothers and their children have been a popular subject for reality television shows, including the shows \"I Know My Kid's a Star\" (2008), \"Dance Moms\" (2011-present), \"Toddlers & Tiaras\" (2008-2013) and its highly successful spinoff \"Here Comes Honey Boo Boo\" (2012-2014).\n\n"}
{"id": "21342679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21342679", "title": "The arts and politics", "text": "The arts and politics\n\nA strong relationship between the arts and politics, particularly between various kinds of art and power, occurs across historical epochs and cultures. As they respond to contemporaneous events and politics, the arts take on political as well as social dimensions, becoming themselves a focus of controversy and even a force of political as well as social change.\n\nA widespread observation is that a great talent has a free spirit. For instance Pushkin, who some scholars regard as Russia's first great writer, attracted the mad irritation of the Russian officialdom and particularly of the Tsar, since he \"instead of being a good servant of the state in the rank and file of the administration and extolling conventional virtues in his vocational writings (if write he must), composed extremely arrogant and extremely independent and extremely wicked verse in which a dangerous freedom of thought was evident in the novelty of his versification, in the audacity of his sensual fancy, and in his propensity for making fun of major and minor tyrants.\"\n\nAccording to Groys, \"Art has its own power in the world, and is as much a force in the power play of global politics today as it once was in the arena of cold war politics.\"\n\nPertaining to such politically-intractable phenomena as the Modern conflicts in the Middle East, however, some artists and social critics believe that \"art is useless as a tool for political change.\" There are, nevertheless, examples where artists employ art in the service of political change.\n\nThe Italian poet Ungaretti, when interviewed on transgression by director Pasolini for the 1964 \"Love Meetings\" documentary, said that the foundation of poetry is to transgress all laws: \"I am a poet and as such I begin transgressing all the laws by doing poetry\".\n\nThe Situationist International (SI), a small group of international political and artistic agitators with roots in Marxism, Lettrism and the early 20th-century European artistic and political avant-gardes formed in 1957, aspired to major social and political transformations; before disbanding in 1972 and splitting into a number of different groups, including the Situationist Bauhaus, the Antinational, and the Second Situationist International, the first SI became active in Europe through the 1960s and elsewhere throughout the world and was characterized by an anti-capitalist and surrealist perspective on aesthetics and politics, according to Italian art historian Francesco Poli. In the works of the situationists, Italian scholar Mirella Bandini observes, there is no separation between art and politics; the two confront each other in revolutionary terms .\n\nHistorically, revolutionary ideas have emerged first among artists and intellectuals. That's why a precise mechanism to defuse the role of artists and intellectuals is to relegate them into specialized, compartmentalized disciplines, in order to impose unnatural dichotomies as the \"separation of art from politics\". Once artistic-intellectual works are separated from current events and from a comprehensive critique of society, they are sterilized and can be safely integrated into the official culture and the public discourse, where they can add new flavours to old dominant ideas and play the role of a gear wheel in the mechanism of the society of the spectacle.\n\n\"Not content with claiming leftwing music\", posters for the Conservative Party in the UK recycled iconic art styles of \"socialist revolution\" to communicate its political message in 2008.\n\nCzech sculptor David Černý's \"Entropa\", a sculpture commissioned to mark the Czech presidency of the European Union Council during the first semester of 2009, illustrates how art can come into conflict with politics, creating various kinds of controversy in the process, both intentionally and unintentionally. \"Entropa\" attracted controversy both for its stereotyped depictions of the various EU member states and for having been a creation of Černý and two friends rather than, as Černý purported, a collaboration of 27 artists from each of the member states. Some EU members states reacted negatively to the depiction of their country, with Bulgaria, for instance, deciding to summon the Czech Ambassador to Sofia in order to discuss the illustration of the Balkan country as a collection of squat toilets (ČTK). This \"Europe-wide hoax … reveals deeper truths\" not only about the countries but \"about art itself\" (Gavrilova).\n\nAccording to Esti Sheinberg, a lecturer in music at the University of Edinburgh, in her book \"Irony, Satire, Parody and the Grotesque in the Music of Shostakovich\", in \"the traditional Russian perception of the arts\", an \"interrelationship between artistic technique and ideological content is the main aesthetic criterion\" (ix; cf. Blois).\n\nLudwig van Beethoven did not use the original title \"Ode to Freedom\" of Friedrich Schiller's lyric, known in English as \"Ode to Joy\" (1785), in setting it to music in the final movement of his Ninth Symphony (1824), which \"Napoleonic censors had forced the poet to change to 'Ode to Joy'.\" After the fall of the Berlin Wall, on 9 November 1989, that Christmas Day, when Leonard Bernstein conducted a performance of Beethoven's Ninth at the site of the former East German–West German border in Berlin, a concert telecast nationally in the United States, he substituted \"Freedom\" for \"Joy\" to reflect his own \"personal message\".\n\nIn February 1952, the United States Customs Service seized the passport of Paul Robeson, preventing him from leaving the United States to travel to the Fourth Canadian Convention of the International Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; but, after \"The convention heard Robeson sing over the telephone\", the union organized \"a concert on the US-Canada border\". According to the account of the \"Paul Robeson Centennial Celebration\": \"Robeson sang and spoke for 45 minutes. He introduced his first song stating 'I stand here today under great stress because I dare, as do you—all of you, to fight for peace and for a decent life for all men, women and children' … [and, accompanied by Lawrence Brown on piano,] proceeded to sing spirituals, folk songs, labour songs, and a passionate version of Old Man River, written for him in the [1920s], slowly enunciating 'show a little grit and you land in jail', underlining the fact that his government had turned the entire country into a prison for Robeson and many others.\"\n\nIn the 1960s the songs of Pete Seeger, Joan Baez, Bob Dylan, and others protested further racism, war, and the military-industrial complex, continuing an American artistic tradition of political protest founded during its colonial era.\n\nIn force from July 1985 until May 2002 and considered by its opponents a Draconian \"anti-music law\", the Teen Dance Ordinance (TDO), imposing restrictions on clubs admitting those under the legal drinking age of 21 in Seattle, Washington, was still the subject of protracted political and legal opposition in U.S. Federal Court in early 2002, when a suit filed by the Joint Artists and Music Promotions Action Committee (JAMPAC) in 2000 was still being adjudicated. In May 2002, Judge Lasnik ruled for the City of Seattle on JAMPAC's suit, finding no Constitutional infringement of the First Amendment and deciding that the matter is a political one for the Seattle City Council to decide, not the courts; during the course of the suit, Mayor Schell's successor, Greg Nickels, a proponent of the bill, resubmitted the ordinance to the Seattle City Council, and, on 12 August 2002, the new All-Ages Dance Ordinance (AADO) replaced the TDO, but was not considered much of an improvement by its critics.\n\nIn May 2008 a \"Promoters Ordinance\" proposed by the Chicago City Council aroused opposition in Chicago, Illinois, for being regarded as overly restrictive and stifling free expression.\n\nFollowing the implementation of the Licensing Act 2003, the London Borough of Hillingdon cited \"the interest of public order and the prevention of terrorism\" as reasons for expecting promoters of live music events to complete the Metropolitan Police's Form 696. Though later clarified by a police spokesperson as not \"\", the perceived \"demand\" for the information solicited on such \"risk assessment\" forms motivated Jon McClure, lead singer with Reverend and The Makers, to post an electronic petition in the \"E-Petitions\" section of the official website of Gordon Brown, the UK Prime Minister, at Number10.gov.uk, in order to facilitate protest against what McClure alleges is \"racial discrimination\" occasioned by such bureaucratic constraints, which some have deemed \"police authoritarianism\". It begins: \"We the undersigned petition the Prime Minister to Scrap the unnecessary and draconian usage of the 696 Form from London music events\". By 11 November 2008, according to Orlowski, \"A dozen London boroughs [had] implemented a 'risk assessment' [Form 696] policy for live music that permits the police to ban any live music if they fail to receive personal details from the performers 14 days in advance.\" Orlowski points out: The demand explicitly singles out performances and musical styles favoured by the black community: garage and R&B, and MCs and DJs. ... However all musical performances – from one man playing a guitar on up – are subject to the demands once implemented by the council. And the threat is serious: failure to comply 'may jeopardise future events by the promoter or the venue'. ... UK Music chief Feargal Sharkey ... speaking to the Department of Culture Media and Sport's hearing on venue licensing today [11 Nov. 2008] [concluded that] ... 'Live music is now a threat to the prevention of terrorism'. ... In response, Detective Superintendent Dave Eyles from the Met's clubs and vice office told us that 10,000 such Risk Assessments would be processed this year. He said they weren't : ... 'We can't demand it – we recommend that you provide it as best practice. But you're bloody silly if you don't, because you're putting your venue at risk.' By early March 2009, over 16,000 British citizens or residents had signed McClure's E-Petition, which remained open to potential signatories until 1 December 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "7199355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7199355", "title": "Tone (literature)", "text": "Tone (literature)\n\nIn literature, the tone of a literary work is the effect that the writer creates on the readers through choice of writing style. The overall objective is to express an attitude or certain feelings about the subject matter.\n\nDepending upon the personality of the writer and the effect the writer wants to create, the work can be formal or informal, sober or whimsical, assertive or pleading, straightforward or sly. In determining the attitude, mood, or tone of an author, examine the specific diction used. Is the author using adjectives to describe the subject? If so, are they words like \"fragrant, tranquil, magnanimous\"—words with positive connotations? Or are they words like \"fetid, ruffled, stingy\"—words with negative connotations?\n\nWhen we speak, our tone of voice conveys our mood—frustrated, cheerful, critical, gloomy, or angry. When we write, our images and descriptive phrases get our feelings across—guarded optimism, unqualified enthusiasm, objective indifference, resignation, or dissatisfaction. Other examples of literary tone are: airy, comic, condescending, facetious, funny, heavy, intimate, ironic, light, playful, sad, serious, sinister, solemn, somber, threatening.\n\nTone and mood are not the same, although they are frequently confused. The mood of a piece of literature is the feeling or atmosphere created by the work, or, said slightly differently, how the work makes the reader feel. Mood is produced most effectively through the use of setting, theme, voice and tone, while tone is how the author feels about something.\n\nAll pieces of literature, even official documents and technical documents, have some sort of tone. Authors create tone through the use of various other literary elements, such as \"diction\" or word choice; \"syntax\", the grammatical arrangement of words in a text for effect; \"imagery\", or vivid appeals to the senses; \"details\", facts that are included or omitted; and \"figurative language\", the comparison of seemingly unrelated things for sub-textual purposes.\n\nWhile now used to discuss literature, the term tone was originally applied solely to music. This appropriated word has come to represent attitudes and feelings a speaker (in poetry), a narrator (in fiction), or an author (in non-literary prose) has towards the subject, situation, and/or the intended audience. It is important to recognize that the speaker, or narrator is not to be confused with the author and that attitudes and feelings of the speaker or narrator should not be confused with those of the author. In general, the tone of a piece only refers to attitude of the author if writing is non-literary in nature.\n\nIn many cases, the tone of a work may change and shift as the speaker or narrator’s perspective on a particular subject alters throughout the piece.\n\nOfficial and technical documentation tends to employ a formal tone throughout the piece.\n\nAuthors set a tone in literature by conveying emotions/feelings through words. The way a person feels about an idea/concept, event, or another person can be quickly determined through facial expressions, gestures and in the tone of voice used. In literature an author sets the tone through words. The possible tones are bounded only by the number of possible emotions a human being can have.\n\nDiction and syntax often dictate what the author's (or character's) attitude toward his subject is at the time. An example: \"Charlie surveyed the classroom but it was really his mother congratulating himself for snatching the higher test grade, the smug smirk on his face growing brighter and brighter as he confirmed the inferiority of his peers.\"\n\nThe tone here is one of arrogance; the quip \"inferiority of his peers\" shows Charlie's belief in his own prowess. The words \"surveyed\" and \"congratulating himself\" show Charlie as seeing himself better than the rest of his class. The diction, including the word \"snatching\", gives the reader a mental picture of someone quickly and effortlessly grabbing something, which proves once again Charlie's pride in himself. The \"smug smirk\" provides a facial imagery of Charlie's pride.\n\nIn addition, using imagery in a poem is helpful to develop a poem's tone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13214335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13214335", "title": "Triangle Arts Trust", "text": "Triangle Arts Trust\n\nThe Triangle Network (formally known as the Triangle Arts Trust) is an international arts organization that brings together artists from different countries to explore new ideas and expand the boundaries of their practice. Triangle was initiated through a series of artists' workshops providing an uninterrupted period of two weeks where 20–25 artists from diverse cultural backgrounds engage with each other, to explore new ideas and expand the boundaries of their practice. Now the Triangle Network coalesces grassroots arts organisations around the world (many of which were initiated as workshops while others grew independently), in order that artists' mobility, international cultural exchange and capacity building objectives can be shared.\n\nThe Triangle Network is registered as a charitable organization in the UK.\n\nThe Triangle Network was established in 1982 by Robert Loder and Anthony Caro, and is organised as a network of artists, visual art organisations, and artists-led workshops. It currently is active in over 30 countries. Each centre within the Network is independent and set up to respond to local needs. The object of the workshops is \"to counterbalance the tendency of the Western art world to put the emphasis on the object and its marketing rather than on the creative process itself\".\nDavid Elliott was appointed to Chair the Board, succeeding Robert Loder who retired in 2009. Loder remained a Trustee of the organization until 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51968234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51968234", "title": "Two Headed Alligator", "text": "Two Headed Alligator\n\nThe two headed alligator is a folkloric animal of the American state of Florida. Its history is focused mainly within the neighborhood of Seminole Heights in the city of Tampa, where it appears on the official seal. It is also the subject of art murals, statues, flags, tee-shirts and other ephemera related to the neighborhood.\n\nThe earliest recorded reference to the two headed alligator was in 1911 when real estate developer, T. Roy Young and his Seminole Development Company purchased 40 acres of land and developed Seminole Heights, Tampa's first suburb. In the promotion of the real estate venture, Young adopted an image of a two headed alligator as part of a neighborhood seal.\n\nA folktale entitled, \"Bite or Smite\", was recorded by R. Perez and A.L. Lopez in 1930 during their research on local superstitions for the Federal Writers’ Project of the Work Projects Administration for the State of Florida. Like many folktales from the region, its characters consist of an anthropomorphic rabbit, alligator and turtle. In the story, the rabbit ignores the warning of the turtle and is eaten by the alligator, who had been concealing a second head. Since it is difficult to date the creation of folklore, it is unclear whether Bite or Smite was the inspiration for, or inspired by, the Seminole Heights seal.\nIn 2014, a man claiming to be a \"local naturalist\" sent an image of a two-headed alligator he spotted at a Seminole Heights park to the local newspaper, Tampa Bay Times, who ran the image on the cover of the follow day's publication. As the story became an international headline, scientists started to question the authenticity of the creature. The story was later discovered to be a hoax. A local restaurant, Ella's Folkart Cafe, displays a taxidermied two headed alligator that it claims was caught by local trappers soon after the news story.\n\nIn 2016 a Seminole Heights community art fund, Urban Art Attack, funded the building of a 6-foot two headed alligator statue in front of Southern Brewing and Winemaking at 4500 Nebraska Ave. \n"}
{"id": "413746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413746", "title": "Vernacular", "text": "Vernacular\n\nA vernacular, or vernacular language, is the language or variety of a language used in everyday life by the common people of a specific population. It is distinguished from a standard, national or literary language or a \"lingua franca\", used to facilitate communication across a large area. It is usually native, mostly spoken rather than written and usually seen as of lower status than more standardized forms. It can be a language, dialect or sociolect.\n\nSome linguists use \"vernacular\" and \"nonstandard dialect\" as synonyms.\n\nUsage of the word \"vernacular\" is not recent. In 1688, James Howell wrote:\n\nConcerning Italy, doubtless there were divers before the Latin did spread all over that Country; the Calabrian, and Apulian spoke Greek, whereof some Relicks are to be found to this day; but it was an adventitious, no Mother-Language to them: 'tis confess'd that Latium it self, and all the Territories about Rome, had the Latin for its maternal and common first vernacular Tongue; but Tuscany and Liguria had others quite discrepant, viz. the Hetruscane and Mesapian, whereof though there be some Records yet extant; yet there are none alive that can understand them: The Oscan, the Sabin and Tusculan, are thought to be but Dialects to these.\n\nHere, vernacular, mother language and dialect are already in use in a modern sense. According to Merriam-Webster, \"vernacular\" was brought into the English language as early as 1601 from the Latin \"vernaculus\" (\"native\") which had been in figurative use in Classical Latin as \"national\" and \"domestic\", having originally been derived from \"vernus\" and \"verna\", a male or female slave respectively born in the house rather than abroad. The figurative meaning was broadened from the diminutive extended words \"vernaculus, vernacula\". Varro, the classical Latin grammarian, used the term \"vocabula vernacula\", \"termes de la langue nationale\" or \"vocabulary of the national language\" as opposed to foreign words.\n\nIn general linguistics, a vernacular is contrasted with a \"lingua franca\", a third-party language in which persons speaking different vernaculars not understood by each other may communicate. For instance, in Western Europe until the 17th century, most scholarly works had been written in Latin, which was serving as a lingua franca. Works written in Romance languages are said to be in the vernacular. The \"Divina Commedia\", the \"Cantar de Mio Cid\", and The Song of Roland are examples of early vernacular literature in Italian, Spanish, and French, respectively.\n\nIn Europe, Latin was used widely instead of vernacular languages in varying forms until c. 1701, in its latter stage as New Latin.\n\nIn religion, Protestantism was a driving force in the use of the vernacular in Christian Europe, the Bible being translated from Latin into vernacular languages with such works as the Bible in Dutch: published in 1526 by Jacob van Liesvelt; Bible in French: published in 1528 by Jacques Lefevre d’Étaples (or Faber Stapulensis); German Luther Bible in 1534 (New Testament 1522); Bible in Spanish: published in Basel in 1569 by Casiodoro de Reina (Biblia del Oso); Bible in Czech: Bible of Kralice, printed between 1579 and 1593; Bible in English: King James Bible, published in 1611; Bible in Slovene, published in 1584 by Jurij Dalmatin. In Catholicism, vernacular bibles were later provided, but Latin was used at Tridentine Mass until the Second Vatican Council of 1965. Certain groups, notably Traditionalist Catholics, continue to practice Latin Mass.\n\nIn India, the 12th century Bhakti movement led to the translation of Sanskrit texts to the vernacular.\n\nIn science, an early user of the vernacular was Galileo, writing in Italian c. 1600, though some of his works remained in Latin. A later example is Isaac Newton, whose 1687 \"Principia\" was in Latin, but whose 1704 \"Opticks\" was in English. Latin continues to be used in certain fields of science, notably binomial nomenclature in biology, while other fields such as mathematics use vernacular; see scientific nomenclature for details.\n\nIn diplomacy, French displaced Latin in Europe in the 1710s, due to the military power of Louis XIV of France.\n\nCertain languages have both a classical form and various vernacular forms, with two widely used examples being Arabic and Chinese: see Varieties of Arabic and Chinese language. In the 1920s, due to the May Fourth Movement, Classical Chinese was replaced by written vernacular Chinese.\n\nThe vernacular is also often contrasted with a liturgical language, a specialized use of a former \"lingua franca\". For example, until the 1960s, Roman Rite Catholics held Masses in Latin rather than in vernaculars; to this day the Coptic Church holds liturgies in Coptic, not Arabic; the Ethiopian Orthodox Church holds liturgies in Ge'ez though parts of Mass are read in Amharic.\n\nSimilarly, in Hindu culture, traditionally religious or scholarly works were written in Sanskrit (long after its use as a spoken language) or in Tamil in Tamil country. Sanskrit was a lingua franca among the non-Indo-European languages of the Indian subcontinent and became more of one as the spoken language, or prakrits, began to diverge from it in different regions. With the rise of the bhakti movement from the 12th century onwards, religious works were created in the other languages: Hindi, Kannada, Telugu and many others. For example, the Ramayana, one of Hinduism's sacred epics in Sanskrit, had vernacular versions such as \"Ranganadha Ramayanam\" composed in Telugu by Gona Buddha Reddy in the 15th century; and \"Ramacharitamanasa\", a Hindi version of the Ramayana by the 16th-century poet Tulsidas.\n\nThese circumstances are a contrast between a vernacular and language variant used by the same speakers. According to one school of linguistic thought, all such variants are examples of a linguistic phenomenon termed diglossia (\"split tongue\", on the model of the genetic anomaly). In it, the language is bifurcated, i.e. the speaker learns two forms of the language and ordinarily uses one but under special circumstances the other. The one most frequently used is the low (L) variant, equivalent to the vernacular, while the special variant is the high (H). The concept was introduced to linguistics by Charles A. Ferguson (1959), but Ferguson explicitly excluded variants as divergent as dialects or different languages or as similar as styles or registers. H must not be a conversational form; Ferguson had in mind a literary language. For example, a lecture is delivered in a different variety than ordinary conversation. Ferguson's own example was classical and spoken Arabic, but the analogy between Vulgar Latin and Classical Latin is of the same type. Excluding the upper-class and lower-class register aspects of the two variants, Classical Latin was a literary language; the people spoke Vulgar Latin as a vernacular.\n\nJoshua Fishman redefined the concept in 1964 to include everything Fergusen had excluded. Fishman allowed both different languages and dialects and also different styles and registers as the H variants. The essential contrast between them was that they be \"functionally differentiated\"; that is, H must be used for special purposes, such as a liturgical or sacred language. Fasold expanded the concept still further by proposing that multiple H exist in society from which the users can select for various purposes. The definition of an H is intermediate between Ferguson's and Fishman's. Realizing the inappropriateness of the term diglossia (only two) to his concept, he proposes the term broad diglossia.\n\nWithin sociolinguistics, the term \"vernacular\" has been applied to several concepts. Context, therefore, is crucial to determining its intended sense.\n\nIn variation theory, pioneered by William Labov, language is a large set of styles or registers from which the speaker selects according to the social setting of the moment. The vernacular is \"the least self-conscious style of people in a relaxed conversation\", or \"the most basic style\"; that is, casual varieties used spontaneously rather than self-consciously, informal talk used in intimate situations. In other contexts the speaker does conscious work to select the appropriate variations. The one he can use without this effort is the first form of speech acquired.\n\nIn another theory, the vernacular is opposed to the standard. The non-standard varieties thus defined are dialects, which are to be identified as complexes of factors: \"social class, region, ethnicity, situation, and so forth.\" Both the standard and the non-standard language have dialects, but in contrast to the standard, the non-standard have \"socially disfavored\" structures. The standard are primarily written (in traditional print media) but the non-standard are spoken. An example of a vernacular dialect is African American Vernacular English.\n\nA vernacular is not a real language but is \"an abstract set of norms.\"\n\nVernaculars acquired the status of official languages through metalinguistic publications. Between 1437 and 1586, the first grammar of Italian, Spanish, French, Dutch, German and English were written, though not always immediately published. It is to be understood that the first vestiges of those languages preceded their standardization by up to several hundred years.\n\nIn the 16th century, the \"rederijkerskamers\", learned literary societies founded throughout Flanders and Holland from the 1420s onward, attempted to impose a Latin structure on Dutch, on the presumption that Latin grammar had a \"universal character.\" However, in 1559 John III van de Werve, Lord of Hovorst published his grammar \"Den schat der Duytsscher Talen\" in Dutch and so did Dirck Volckertszoon Coornhert (\"Eenen nieuwen ABC of Materi-boeck\") in 1564. The Latinizing tendency changed course with the joint publication in 1584 by De Eglantier, the rhetoric society of Amsterdam, of the first comprehensive Dutch grammar, \"Twe-spraack vande Nederduitsche letterkunst/ ófte Vant spellen ende eyghenscap des Nederduitschen taals\". Hendrick Laurenszoon Spieghel was a major contributor but others contributed as well.\n\nModern English is considered to have begun at a conventional date of about 1550, most notably at the end of the Great Vowel Shift (for example, \"bot\", the footwear, more as in \"boat\" to \"boot\"). It was created by the infusion of Old French into Old English after the Norman conquest of 1066 AD and of Latin at the instigation of the clerical administration. While present-day English-speaking students may be able to read Middle English authors such as Geoffrey Chaucer with some schooling, Old English is much more difficult.\n\nMiddle English is known for its alternative spellings and pronunciations. The British Isles, although geographically limited, have always supported populations of widely variant dialects (as well as a few different languages). Being the language of a maritime power, English was of necessity formed from elements of many different languages. Standardization has been an ongoing issue. Even in the age of modern communications and mass media, according to one study, \"… although the Received Pronunciation of Standard English has been heard constantly on radio and then television for over 60 years, only 3 to 5% of the population of Britain actually speaks RP … new brands of English have been springing up even in recent times ...\" What the vernacular would be in this case is a moot point: \"… the standardisation of English has been in progress for many centuries.\"\n\nModern English came into being as the standard Middle English, i.e. as the preferred dialect of the monarch, court and administration. That dialect was East Midland, which had spread to London where the king resided and from which he ruled. It contained Danish forms not often used in the north or south, as the Danes had settled heavily in the midlands. Chaucer wrote in an early East Midland style, John Wycliffe translated the New Testament into it, and William Caxton, the first English printer, wrote in it. Caxton is considered the first modern English author. The first printed book in England was Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", published by Caxton in 1476.\n\nThe first English grammars were written in Latin, with some in French. After a general plea for mother-tongue education in England: \"The first part of the elementary\", published in 1582 by Richard Mulcaster, William Bullokar wrote the first English grammar to be written in English: \"Pamphlet for Grammar\", followed by \"Bref Grammar\", both in 1586. Previously he had written \"Booke at Large for the Amendment of Orthography for English Speech\" (1580) but his orthography was not generally accepted and was soon supplanted, and his grammar shared a similar fate. Other grammars in English followed rapidly: Paul Greaves' \"Grammatica Anglicana\", 1594; Alexander Hume's \"Orthographie and Congruitie of the Britain Tongue\", 1617, and many others. Over the succeeding decades many literary figures turned a hand to grammar in English: Alexander Gill, Ben Jonson, Joshua Poole, John Wallis, Jeremiah Wharton, James Howell, Thomas Lye, Christopher Cooper, William Lily, John Colet and so on, all leading to the massive dictionary of Samuel Johnson.\n\nFrench (as Old French) emerged as a Gallo-Romance language from Vulgar Latin during late antiquity. The written language is known from at least as early as the 9th century. That language contained many forms still identifiable as Latin. Interest in standardizing French began in the 16th century. Because of the Norman conquest of England and the Anglo-Norman domains in both northwestern France and Britain, English scholars retained an interest in the fate of French as well as of English. Some of the numerous 16th-century surviving grammars are:\n\n\nThe development of a standard German was impeded by political disunity and strong local traditions until the invention of printing made possible a \"High German-based book language.\" This literary language was not identical to any specific variety of German. The first grammar evolved from pedagogical works that also tried to create a uniform standard from the many regional dialects for various reasons. Religious leaders wished to create a sacred language for Protestantism that would be parallel to the use of Latin for the Roman Catholic Church. Various administrations wished to create a civil service, or chancery, language that would be useful in more than one locality. And finally, nationalists wished to counter the spread of the French national language into German-speaking territories assisted by the efforts of the French Academy.\n\nWith so many linguists moving in the same direction a standard German (\"hochdeutsche Schriftsprache\") did evolve without the assistance of a language academy. Its precise origin, the major constituents of its features, remains uncertainly known and debatable. Latin prevailed as a lingua franca until the 17th century, when grammarians began to debate the creation of an ideal language. Before 1550 as a conventional date \"supraregional compromises\" were used in printed works, such as the one published by Valentin Ickelsamer (\"Ein Teutsche Grammatica\") 1534. Books published in one of these artificial variants began to increase in frequency replacing the Latin then in use. After 1550 the supraregional ideal broadened to a universal intent to create a national language from Early New High German by deliberately ignoring regional forms of speech, which practice was considered to be a form of purification parallel to the ideal of purifying religion in Protestantism.\n\nIn 1617, the Fruitbearing Society, a language club, was formed in Weimar in imitation of the Accademia della Crusca in Italy. It was one of many such clubs; however, none became a national academy. In 1618–1619 Johannes Kromayer wrote the first all-German grammar. In 1641 Justin Georg Schottel in \"teutsche Sprachkunst\" presented the standard language as an artificial one. By the time of his work of 1663, \"ausführliche Arbeit von der teutschen Haubt-Sprache\", the standard language was well established.\n\n\"Auraicept na n-Éces\" is a grammar of the Irish language which is thought to date back as far as the 7th century: the earliest surviving manuscripts are 12th-century.\n\nItalian appears before standardization as the \"lingua Italica\" of Isidore and the \"lingua vulgaris\" of subsequent medieval writers. Documents of mixed Latin and Italian are known from the 12th century, which appears to be the start of writing in Italian.\n\nThe first known grammar of a Romance language was a book written in manuscript form by Leon Battista Alberti between 1437 and 1441 and entitled \"Grammatica della lingua toscana\", \"Grammar of the Tuscan Language.\" In it Alberti sought to demonstrate that the vernacular – here Tuscan, known today as modern Italian – was every bit as structured as Latin. He did so by mapping vernacular structures onto Latin.\n\nThe book was never printed until 1908. It was not generally known, but it was known, as an inventory of the library of Lorenzo de'Medici lists it under the title \"Regule lingue florentine\" (\"Rules of the Florentine language\"). The only known manuscript copy, however, is included in the codex, Reginense Latino 1370, located at Rome in the Vatican library. It is therefore called the \"Grammatichetta vaticana.\"\n\nMore influential perhaps were the 1516 \"Regole grammaticali della volgar lingua\" of Giovanni Francesco Fortunio and the 1525 \"Prose della vulgar lingua\" of Pietro Bembo. In those works the authors strove to establish a dialect that would qualify for becoming the Italian national language.\n\nThe very first grammar in a vernacular language in western Europe was published in Toulouse in 1327. Known as the \"Leys d'amor\" and written by Guilhèm Molinièr, an advocate of Toulouse, it was published in order to codify the use of the Occitan language in poetry competitions organized by the company of the Gai Saber in both grammar and rherotical ways.\n\nSpanish (more accurately, \"la lengua castellana\") has a development chronologically similar to that of Italian: some vocabulary in Isidore of Seville, traces afterward, writing from about the 12th century, standardization beginning in the 15th century, coincident with the rise of Castile as an international power. The first Spanish grammar by Antonio de Nebrija (\"Tratado de gramática sobre la lengua Castellana\", 1492) was divided into parts for native and nonnative speakers, pursuing a different purpose in each: Books 1–4 describe the Spanish language grammatically in order to facilitate the study of Latin for its Spanish speaking readers. Book 5 contains a phonetical and morphological overview of Spanish for nonnative speakers.\n\nThe \"Grammar Books of the Master-poets\" () are considered to have been composed in the early fourteenth century, and are present in manuscripts from soon after. These tractates draw on the traditions of the Latin grammars of Donatus and Priscianus and also on the teaching of the professional Welsh poets. The tradition of grammars of the Welsh Language developed from these through the Middle Ages and to the Renaissance.\n\nA dictionary is to be distinguished from a glossary. Although numerous glossaries publishing vernacular words had long been in existence, such as the Etymologiae of Isidore of Seville, which listed many Spanish words, the first vernacular dictionaries emerged together with vernacular grammars.\n\nGlossaries in Dutch began about 1470 AD leading eventually to two Dutch dictionaries:\n\nShortly after (1579) the Southern Netherlands came under the dominion of Spain, then of Austria (1713) and of France (1794). The Congress of Vienna created the United Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815 from which southern Netherlands (being Catholic) seceded in 1830 to form the Kingdom of Belgium, which was confirmed in 1839 by the Treaty of London. As a result of this political instability no standard Dutch was defined (even though much in demand and recommended as an ideal) until after World War II. Currently the Dutch Language Union, an international treaty organization founded in 1980, supports a standard Dutch in the Netherlands, while Afrikaans is regulated by Die Taalkommissie founded in 1909.\n\nStandard English remains a quasi-fictional ideal, despite the numerous private organizations publishing prescriptive rules for it. No language academy was ever established or espoused by any government past or present in the English-speaking world. In practice the British monarchy and its administrations established an ideal of what good English should be considered to be, and this in turn was based on the teachings of the major universities, such as Cambridge University and Oxford University, which relied on the scholars whom they hired. There is a general but far from uniform consensus among the leading scholars about what should or should not be said in standard English, but for every rule examples from famous English writers can be found that break it. Uniformity of spoken English never existed and does not exist now, but usages do exist, which must be learnt by the speakers, and do not conform to prescriptive rules.\n\nUsages have been documented not by prescriptive grammars, which on the whole are less comprehensible to the general public, but by comprehensive dictionaries, often termed unabridged, which attempt to list all usages of words and the phrases in which they occur as well as the date of first use and the etymology where possible. These typically require many volumes, and yet not more so than the unabridged dictionaries of many languages.\n\nBilingual dictionaries and glossaries precede modern English and were in use in the earliest written English. The first monolingual dictionary was Robert Cawdrey's \"Table Alphabeticall\" (1604) which was followed by Edward Phillips's \"A New World of English Words\" (1658) and Nathaniel Bailey's \"An Universal Etymological English Dictionary\" (1721). These dictionaries whetted the interest of the English-speaking public in greater and more prescriptive dictionaries until Samuel Johnson published \"Plan of a Dictionary of the English Language\" (1747), which would imitate the dictionary being produced by the French Academy. He had no problem acquiring the funding, but not as a prescriptive dictionary. This was to be a grand comprehensive dictionary of all English words at any period, \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" (1755).\n\nBy 1858, the need for an update resulted in the first planning for a new comprehensive dictionary to document standard English, a term coined at that time by the planning committee. The dictionary, known as the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", published its first fascicle in 1884. It attracted significant contributions from some singular minds, such as William Chester Minor, a former army surgeon who had become criminally insane and made most of his contributions while incarcerated. Whether the OED is the long-desired standard English Dictionary is debatable, but its authority is taken seriously by the entire English-speaking world. Its staff is currently working on a third edition.\n\nSurviving dictionaries are a century earlier than their grammars. The Académie française founded in 1635 was given the obligation of producing a standard dictionary. Some early dictionaries are:\n\nHigh German dictionaries began in the 16th century and were at first multi-lingual. They were preceded by glossaries of German words and phrases on various specialized topics. Finally interest in developing a vernacular German grew to the point where Maaler could publish a work called by Jacob Grimm \"the first truly German dictionary\", Joshua Maaler's \"Die Teutsche Spraach: Dictionarium Germanico-latinum novum\" (1561).\n\nIt was followed along similar lines by Georg Heinisch: \"Teütsche Sprache und Weißheit\" (1616). After numerous dictionaries and glossaries of a less-than-comprehensive nature came a thesaurus that attempted to include all German, Kaspar Stieler's \"Der Teutschen Sprache Stammbaum und Fortwachs oder Teutschen Sprachschatz\" (1691), and finally the first codification of written German, Johann Christoph Adelung's \"Versuch eines vollständigen grammatisch-kritischen Wörterbuches Der Hochdeutschen Mundart\" (1774–1786).Schiller called Adelung an \"Orakel\" and Wieland is said to have nailed a copy to his desk.\n\nIn the early 15th century a number of glossaries appeared, such as that of Lucillo Minerbi on Boccaccio in 1535, and those of Fabrizio Luna on Ariosto, Petrarca, Boccaccio and Dante in 1536. In the mid-16th the dictionaries began, as listed below. In 1582 the first language academy was formed, called Accademia della Crusca, \"bran academy\", which sifted language like grain. Once formed, its publications were standard-setting.\n\nMonolingual \n\nItalianFrench\n\nItalianEnglish\n\nItalianSpanish\n\nThe first Spanish dictionaries in the 15th century were Latin-Spanish/Spanish-Latin, followed by monolingual Spanish. In 1713 the Real Academia Española, \"Royal Spanish Academy,\" was founded to set standards. It published an official dictionary, 1726–1739.\n\n\nSlavonic-SerbianGerman\n\n"}
{"id": "3257715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3257715", "title": "Women artists", "text": "Women artists\n\nThough women artists have been involved in the making of art throughout history, their work, when compared to that of their male counterparts, is often both overlooked and undervalued. Prevailing stereotypes about the sexes have caused certain media, such as textile or fiber arts, to be primarily associated with women, despite having once been categories both men and women participated in. Additionally, art forms that have gained this distinction are, as in the case of both textile and fabric arts, demoted to categories like \"arts and crafts\", rather than fine art.\n\nWomen in art have been faced with challenges due to gender biases in the mainstream fine art world. They have often encountered difficulties in training, travelling and trading their work, as well as gaining recognition. Beginning in the late 1960s and 1970s, feminist artists and art historians created a Feminist art movement that overtly addresses the role of women in the art world and explores the role of women in art history and in society.\n\nThere are no records of who the artists of the prehistoric eras were, but studies of many early ethnographers and cultural anthropologists indicate that women often were the principal artisans in Neolithic cultures, in which they created pottery, textiles, baskets, painted surfaces and jewelry. Collaboration on large projects was typical. Extrapolation to the artwork and skills of the Paleolithic era suggests that these cultures followed similar patterns. Cave paintings of this era often have human hand prints, 75% of which are identifiable as women's.\n\n\"For about three thousand years, the women – and only the women – of Mithila have been making devotional paintings of the gods and goddesses of the Hindu pantheon. It is no exaggeration, then, to say that this art is the expression of the most genuine aspect of Indian civilization.\"\n\nThe earliest records of western cultures rarely mention specific individuals, although women are depicted in all of the art and some are shown laboring as artists. Ancient references by Homer, Cicero, and Virgil mention the prominent roles of women in textiles, poetry, music, and other cultural activities, without discussion of individual artists. Among the earliest European historical records concerning individual artists is that of Pliny the Elder, who wrote about a number of Greek women who were painters, including Helena of Egypt, daughter of Timon of Egypt, Some modern critics posit that \"Alexander Mosaic\" might not have been the work of Philoxenus, but of Helena of Egypt. One of the few named women painters who might have worked in Ancient Greece, she was reputed to have produced a painting of the battle of Issus which hung in the Temple of Peace during the time of Vespasian. Other women include Timarete, Eirene, Kalypso, Aristarete, Iaia, and Olympias. While only some of their work survives, in Ancient Greek pottery there is a \"caputi hydria\" in the Torno Collection in Milan. It is attribute to the Leningrad painter from BCE and shows women working alongside men in a workshop where both painted vases.\n\nArtists from the Medieval period include Claricia, Diemudus, Ende, Guda, Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. In the early Medieval period, women often worked alongside men. Manuscript illuminations, embroideries, and carved capitals from the period clearly demonstrate examples of women at work in these arts. Documents show that they also were brewers, butchers, wool merchants, and iron mongers. Artists of the time period, including women, were from a small subset of society whose status allowed them freedom from these more strenuous types of work. Women artists often were of two literate classes, either wealthy aristocratic women or nuns. Women in the former category often created embroideries and textiles; those in the later category often produced illuminations.\n\nThere were a number of embroidery workshops in England at the time, particularly at Canterbury and Winchester; \"Opus Anglicanum\" or English embroidery was already famous across Europe – a 13th-century papal inventory counted over two hundred pieces. It is presumed that women were almost entirely responsible for this production. One of the most famous embroideries of the Medieval period is the Bayeux Tapestry, which was embroidered with wool and is 230 feet long. Its images narrate the Battle of Hastings and the Norman Conquest of England. The Bayeux Tapestry may have been created in either a commercial workshop by a royal or an aristocratic lady and her retinue, or in a workshop in a nunnery. In the 14th century, a royal workshop is documented, based at the Tower of London, and there may have been other earlier arrangements. Manuscript illumination affords us many of the named artists of the Medieval Period including Ende, a 10th-century Spanish nun; Guda, a 12th-century German nun; and Claricia, a 12th-century laywoman in a Bavarian scriptorium. These women, and many more unnamed illuminators, benefited from the nature of convents as the major loci of learning for women in the period and the most tenable option for intellectuals among them.\n\nIn many parts of Europe, with the Gregorian Reforms of the 11th century and the rise in feudalism, women faced many strictures that they did not face in the Early Medieval period. With these societal changes, the status of the convent changed. In the British Isles, the Norman Conquest marked the beginning of the gradual decline of the convent as a seat of learning and a place where women could gain power. Convents were made subsidiary to male abbots, rather than being headed by an abbess, as they had been previously. In Pagan Scandinavia (in Sweden) the only historically confirmed female runemaster, Gunnborga, worked in the 11th century.\n\nIn Germany, however, under the Ottonian Dynasty, convents retained their position as institutions of learning. This might be partially because convents were often headed and populated by unmarried women from royal and aristocratic families. Therefore, the greatest late Medieval period work by women originates in Germany, as exemplified by that of Herrade of Landsberg and Hildegard of Bingen. Hildegard of Bingen (1098–1179) is a particularly fine example of a German Medieval intellectual and artist. She wrote \"The Divine Works of a Simple Man\", \"The Meritorious Life\", sixty-five hymns, a miracle play, and a long treatise of nine books on the different natures of trees, plants, animals, birds, fish, minerals, and metals. From an early age, she claimed to have visions. When the Papacy supported these claims by the headmistress, her position as an important intellectual was galvanized. The visions became part of one of her seminal works in 1142, \"Scivias\" \"(Know the Ways of the Lord)\", which consists of thirty-five visions relating and illustrating the history of salvation. The illustrations in the \"Scivias\", as exemplified in the first illustration, depict Hildegarde experiencing visions while seated in the monastery at Bingen. They differ greatly from others created in Germany during the same period, as they are characterized by bright colors, emphasis on line, and simplified forms. While Hildegard likely did not pen the images, their idiosyncratic nature leads one to believe they were created under her close supervision.\n\nThe 12th century saw the rise of the city in Europe, along with the rise in trade, travel, and universities. These changes in society also engendered changes in the lives of women. Women were allowed to head their husbands' businesses if they were widowed. The Wife of Bath in Chaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" is one such case. During this time, women also were allowed to be part of some artisan guilds. Guild records show that women were particularly active in the textile industries in Flanders and Northern France. Medieval manuscripts have many marginalia depicting women with spindles. In England, women were responsible for creating \"Opus Anglicanum\", or rich embroideries for ecclesiastical or secular use on clothes and various types of hangings. Women also became more active in illumination. A number of women likely worked alongside their husbands or fathers, including the daughter of Maître Honoré and the daughter of Jean le Noir. By the 13th century most illuminated manuscripts were being produced by commercial workshops, and by the end of the Middle Ages, when production of manuscripts had become an important industry in certain centres, women seem to have represented a majority of the artists and scribes employed, especially in Paris. The movement to printing, and of book illustration to the printmaking techniques of woodcut and engraving, where women seem to have been little involved, represented a setback to the progress of women artists.\n\nArtists from the Renaissance era include Sofonisba Anguissola, Lucia Anguissola, Lavinia Fontana, Fede Galizia, Diana Scultori Ghisi, Caterina van Hemessen, Esther Inglis, Barbara Longhi, Maria Ormani, Marietta Robusti (daughter of Tintoretto), Properzia de' Rossi, Plautilla Nelli, Levina Teerlinc, Mayken Verhulst, and St. Catherine of Bologna (Caterina dei Vigri).\n\nThis is the first period in Western history in which a number of secular female artists gained international reputations. The rise in women artists during this period may be attributed to major cultural shifts. One such shift was a move toward humanism, a philosophy affirming the dignity of all people, that became central to Renaissance thinking and helped raise the status of women. In addition, the identity of the individual artist in general was regarded as more important; significant artists from this period whose identities are unknown virtually cease to exist. Two important texts, \"On Famous Women\" and \"The City of Women\", illustrate this cultural change. Boccaccio, a 14th-century humanist, wrote \"De mulieribus claris\" (Latin for \"On Famous Women\") (1335–59), a collection of biographies of women. Among the 104 biographies he included was that of Thamar (or Thmyris), an ancient Greek vase painter. Curiously, among the 15th-century manuscript illuminations of \"On Famous Women\", Thamar was depicted painting a self-portrait or perhaps painting a small image of the Virgin and Child. Christine de Pizan, a remarkable late medieval French writer, rhetorician, and critic, wrote \"Book of the City of Ladies\" in 1405, a text about an allegorical city in which independent women lived free from the slander of men. In her work she included real women artists, such as Anastasia, who was considered one of the best Parisian illuminators, although none of her work has survived. Other humanist texts led to increased education for Italian women.\n\nThe most notable of these was \"Il Cortegiano\" or \"The Courtier\" by 16th-century Italian humanist Baldassare Castiglione. This enormously popular work stated that men and women should be educated in the social arts. His influence made it acceptable for women to engage in the visual, musical, and literary arts. Thanks to Castiglione, this was the first period of renaissance history in which noblewomen were able to study painting. Sofonisba Anguissola was the most successful of these minor aristocrats who first benefited from humanist education and then went on to recognition as painters. Artists who were not noblewomen were affected by the rise in humanism as well. In addition to conventional subject matter, artists such as Lavinia Fontana and Caterina van Hemessen began to depict themselves in self-portraits, not just as painters but also as musicians and scholars, thereby highlighting their well-rounded education. Along with the rise in humanism, there was a shift from craftsmen to artists. Artists, unlike earlier craftsmen, were now expected to have knowledge of perspective, mathematics, ancient art, and study of the human body. In the late Renaissance the training of artists began to move from the master's workshop to the Academy, and women began a long struggle, not resolved until the late 19th century, to gain full access to this training. Study of the human body required working from male nudes and corpses. This was considered essential background for creating realistic group scenes. Women were generally barred from training from male nudes, and therefore they were precluded from creating such scenes. Such depictions of nudes were required for the large-scale religious compositions, which received the most prestigious commissions.\n\nAlthough many aristocratic women had access to some training in art, though without the benefit of figure drawing from nude male models, most of those women chose marriage over a career in art. This was true, for example, of two of Sofonisba Anguissola's sisters. The women recognized as artists in this period were either nuns or children of painters. Of the few who emerged as Italian artists in the 15th century, those known today are associated with convents. These artists who were nuns include Caterina dei Virgi, Antonia Uccello, and Suor Barbara Ragnoni. During the 15th and 16th centuries, the vast majority of women who gained any modicum of success as artists were the children of painters. This is likely because they were able to gain training in their fathers' workshops. Examples of women artists who were trained by their fathers include the painter Lavinia Fontana, the miniature portraitist Levina Teerlinc, and the portrait painter Caterina van Hemessen. Italian women artists during this period, even those trained by their family, seem somewhat unusual. However, in certain parts of Europe, particularly northern France and Flanders, it was more common for children of both genders to enter into their father's profession. In fact, in the Low Countries where women had more freedom, there were a number of artists in the Renaissance who were women. For example, the records of the Guild of Saint Luke in Bruges show not only that they admit women as practicing members, but also that by the 1480s twenty-five percent of its members were women (many probably working as manuscript illuminators).\n\nArtists from the Baroque era include: Mary Beale, Élisabeth Sophie Chéron, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Katharina Pepijn, Catharina Peeters, Johanna Vergouwen, Isabel de Cisneros, Giovanna Garzoni Artemisia Gentileschi, Judith Leyster, Maria Sibylla Merian, Louise Moillon, Josefa de Ayala better known as Josefa de Óbidos, Maria van Oosterwijk, Magdalena de Passe, Clara Peeters, Maria Virginia Borghese (daughter of art collector Olimpia Aldobrandini), Luisa Roldán known as La Roldana, Rachel Ruysch, Maria Theresa van Thielen, Anna Maria van Thielen, Francisca-Catherina van Thielen and Elisabetta Sirani. As in the Renaissance Period, many women among the Baroque artists came from artist families. Artemisia Gentileschi is an excellent example of this. She was trained by her father, Orazio Gentileschi, and she worked alongside him on many of his commissions. Luisa Roldán was trained in her father's (Pedro Roldán) sculpture workshop.\n\nWomen artists in this period began to change the way women were depicted in art. Many of the women working as artists in the Baroque era were not able to train from nude models, who were always male, but they were very familiar with the female body. Women such as Elisabetta Sirani created images of women as conscious beings rather than detached muses. One of the best examples of this novel expression is in Artemesia Gentileschi's \"Judith beheading Holofernes\", in which Judith is depicted as a strong woman determining her own destiny. While other artists, including Botticelli and the more traditional woman, Fede Galizia, depicted the same scene with a passive Judith, in her novel treatment, Gentileschi's Judith appears to be an able actor in the task at hand. Action is the essence of it and another painting by her of Judith leaving the scene. Still life emerged as an important genre around 1600, particularly in the Netherlands. Women were at the forefront of this painting trend. This genre was particularly suited to women, as they could access the materials for still life readily. In the North, these practitioners included Clara Peeters, a painter of \"banketje\" or breakfast pieces, and scenes of arranged luxury goods; Maria van Oosterwijk, the internationally renowned flower painter; and Rachel Ruysch, a painter of visually charged flower arrangements. In other regions, still life was less common, but there were important women artists in the genre including Giovanna Garzoni, who created realistic vegetable arrangements on parchment, and Louise Moillon, whose fruit still life paintings were noted for their brilliant colors.\n\nArtists from this period include, Rosalba Carriera, Maria Cosway, Marguerite Gérard, Angelica Kauffman, Adélaïde Labille-Guiard, Giulia Lama, Mary Moser, Ulrika Pasch, Adèle Romany, Anna Dorothea Therbusch, Anne Vallayer-Coster, and Elisabeth Vigée-Le Brun.\n\nIn many countries of Europe, the Academies were the arbiters of style. The Academies also were responsible for training artists, exhibiting artwork, and, inadvertently or not, promoting the sale of art. Most Academies were not open to women. In France, for example, the powerful Academy in Paris had 450 members between the 17th century and the French Revolution, and only fifteen were women. Of those, most were daughters or wives of members. In the late 18th century, the French Academy resolved not to admit any women at all. The pinnacle of painting during the period was history painting, especially large scale compositions with groups of figures depicting historical or mythical situations. In preparation to create such paintings, artists studied casts of antique sculptures and drew from male nudes. Women had limited, or no access to this Academic learning, and as such there are no extant large-scale history paintings by women from this period. Some women made their name in other genres such as portraiture. Elisabeth Vigee-Lebrun used her experience in portraiture to create an allegorical scene, \"Peace Bringing Back Plenty\", which she classified as a history painting and used as her grounds for admittance into the Academy. After the display of her work, it was demanded that she attend formal classes, or lose her license to paint. She became a court favourite, and a celebrity, who painted over forty self-portraits, which she was able to sell.\n\nIn England, two women, Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser, were founding members of the Royal Academy of Arts in London in 1768. Kauffmann helped Maria Cosway enter the Academy. Although Cosway went on to gain success as a painter of mythological scenes, both women remained in a somewhat ambivalent position at the Royal Academy, as evidenced by the group portrait of \"The Academicians of the Royal Academy\" by Johan Zoffany now in The Royal Collection. In it, only the men of the Academy are assembled in a large artist studio, together with nude male models. For reasons of decorum given the nude models, the two women are not shown as present, but as portraits on the wall instead. The emphasis in Academic art on studies of the nude during training remained a considerable barrier for women studying art until the 20th century, both in terms of actual access to the classes and in terms of family and social attitudes to middle-class women becoming artists. After these three, no woman became a full member of the Academy until Laura Knight in 1936, and women were not admitted to the Academy's schools until 1861. By the late 18th century, there were important steps forward for artists who were women. In Paris, the Salon, the exhibition of work founded by the Academy, became open to non-Academic painters in 1791, allowing women to showcase their work in the prestigious annual exhibition. Additionally, women were more frequently being accepted as students by famous artists such as Jacques-Louis David and Jean-Baptiste Greuze.\n\nWomen artists of the early part of the 19th century include Marie-Denise Villers, who specialized in portraiture; Constance Mayer, who painted portraits and allegories; Marie Ellenrieder, who was noted mainly for her religious paintings in the Nazarene style.\n\nIn the second half of the century, Emma Sandys, Marie Spartali Stillman, Eleanor Fortescue-Brickdale, and Maria Zambaco were women artists of the Pre-Raphaelite movement. Also influenced by the Pre-Raphaelites were Evelyn De Morgan and the activist and painter Barbara Bodichon.\n\nImpressionist painters Berthe Morisot, Marie Bracquemond, and the Americans, Mary Cassatt and Lucy Bacon, became involved in the French Impressionist movement of the 1860s and 1870s. American Impressionist Lilla Cabot Perry was influenced by her studies with Monet and by Japanese art in the late 19th century. Cecilia Beaux was an American portrait painter who also studied in France. Olga Boznańska is considered the best-known of all Polish women artists, and was stylistically associated with Impressionism. \n\nRosa Bonheur was the best-known female artist of her time, internationally renowned for her paintings of animals. Elizabeth Thompson (Lady Butler), perhaps inspired by her life-classes of armoured figures at the Government School, was one of the first women to become famous for large history paintings, specializing in scenes of military action, usually with many horses, most famously \"Scotland Forever!\", showing a cavalry charge at Waterloo.\n\nKitty Lange Kielland was a Norwegian landscape painter.\n\nElizabeth Jane Gardner was an American academic painter who was the first American woman to exhibit at the Paris Salon. In 1872 she became the first woman to ever win a gold medal at the Salon. \n\nIn 1894, Suzanne Valadon was the first woman admitted to the Société Nationale des Beaux-Arts in France. Anna Boch was a post-impressionist painter, as was Laura Muntz Lyall, who exhibited at the 1893 World Columbian Exposition in Chicago, Illinois, and then in 1894 as part of the Société des artistes français in Paris. \n\nJulia Margaret Cameron and Gertrude Kasebier became well known in the new medium of photography, where there were no traditional restrictions, and no established training, to hold them back. \n\nCamille Claudel, Edmonia Lewis and Enid Yandell.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Edmonia Lewis, an African-Ojibwe-Haitian American artist from New York began her art studies at Oberlin College. Her sculpting career began in 1863. She established a studio in Rome, Italy and exhibited her marble sculptures through Europe and the United States.\n\nDuring the century, access to academies and formal art training expanded more for women in Europe and North America. The British Government School of Design, which later became the Royal College of Art, admitted women from its founding in 1837, but only into a \"Female School\" which was treated somewhat differently, with \"life\"- classes consisting for several years of drawing a man wearing a suit of armour. \n\nThe Royal Academy Schools finally admitted women beginning in 1861, but students drew initially only draped models. However, other schools in London, including the Slade School of Art from the 1870s, were more liberal. By the end of the century women were able to study the naked, or very nearly naked, figure in many Western European and North American cities. The Society of Female Artists (now called \"The Society of Women Artists\") was established in 1855 in London and has staged annual exhibitions since 1857, when 358 works were shown by 149 women, some using a pseudonym.\n\nNotable women artists from this period include:\n\nHannelore Baron, Lee Bontecou, Louise Bourgeois, Romaine Brooks, Emily Carr, Leonora Carrington, Mary Cassatt, Elizabeth Catlett, Camille Claudel, Sonia Delaunay, Marthe Donas, Joan Eardley, Marisol Escobar, Dulah Marie Evans, Audrey Flack, Mary Frank, Helen Frankenthaler, Elisabeth Frink, Wilhelmina Weber Furlong, Françoise Gilot, Natalia Goncharova, Nancy Graves, Grace Hartigan, Barbara Hepworth, Eva Hesse, Sigrid Hjertén, Hannah Höch, Frances Hodgkins, Malvina Hoffman, Margaret Ponce Israel, Gwen John, Käthe Kollwitz, Lee Krasner, Frida Kahlo, Hilma af Klint, Laura Knight, Barbara Kruger, Marie Laurencin, Tamara de Lempicka, Séraphine Louis, Dora Maar, Margaret Macdonald Mackintosh, Maruja Mallo, Agnes Martin, Ana Mendieta, Joan Mitchell, Paula Modersohn-Becker, Gabriele Münter, Alice Neel, Louise Nevelson, Georgia O'Keeffe, Orovida Camille Pissarro, Irene Rice Pereira, Bridget Riley, Verónica Ruiz de Velasco, Anne Ryan, Charlotte Salomon, Augusta Savage, Zofia Stryjeńska, Zinaida Serebriakova, Sarai Sherman, Henrietta Shore, Sr. Maria Stanisia, Marjorie Strider, Carrie Sweetser, Suzanne Valadon, Remedios Varo, Maria Helena Vieira da Silva, Nellie Walker, Marianne von Werefkin and Ogura Yuki.\n\nHilma af Klint (1862–1944) was a pioneer abstract painter, working long before her abstract expressionist male counterparts. She was Swedish and regularly exhibited her paintings dealing with realism, but the abstract works were not shown until 20 years after her death, at her request. She considered herself to be a spiritualist and mystic.\n\nMargaret Macdonald Mackintosh (1865–1933) was a Scottish artist whose works helped define the \"Glasgow Style\" of the 1890s and early 20th century. She often collaborated with her husband, the architect and designer Charles Rennie Mackintosh, in works that had influence in Europe. She exhibited with Mackintosh at the 1900 Vienna Secession, where her work is thought to have had an influence on the Secessionists such as Gustav Klimt.\n\nWilhelmina Weber Furlong (1878–1962) was an early American modernist in New York City. She made significant contributions to modern American art through her work at the Art Students League and the Whitney Studio Club. Aleksandra Ekster and Lyubov Popova were Constructivist, Cubo-Futurist, and Suprematist artists well known and respected in Kiev, Moscow and Paris in the early 20th century. Among the other women artists prominent in the Russian avant-garde were Natalia Goncharova, Varvara Stepanova and Nadezhda Udaltsova. Sonia Delaunay and her husband were the founders of Orphism.\n\nIn the Art Deco era, Hildreth Meiere made large-scale mosaics and was the first woman honored with the Fine Arts Medal of the American Institute of Architects. Tamara de Lempicka, also of this era, was an Art Deco painter from Poland. Sr. Maria Stanisia became a notable portraitist, mainly of clergy. Georgia O'Keeffe was born in the late 19th century. She became known for her paintings, featuring flowers, bones, and landscapes of New Mexico. In 1927, Dod Procter's painting \"Morning\" was voted Picture of the Year in the Royal Academy Summer Exhibition, and bought by the \"Daily Mail\" for the Tate gallery. Its popularity resulted in its showing in New York and a two-year tour of Britain. Surrealism, an important artistic style in the 1920s and 1930s, had a number of prominent women artists, including Leonora Carrington, Kay Sage, Dorothea Tanning, and Remedios Varo.\nLee Miller rediscovered solarization and became a high fashion photographer. Dorothea Lange documented the Depression. Margaret Bourke-White created the industrial photographs that were featured on the cover and in the lead article of the first \"Life Magazine\". Diane Arbus based her photography on outsiders to mainstream society. Graciela Iturbide's works dealt with Mexican life and feminism, while Tina Modotti produced \"revolutionary icons\" from Mexico in the 1920s. Annie Leibovitz's photographic work was of rock and roll and other celebrity figures. \n\nMary Carroll Nelson founded the Society of Layerists in Multi-Media (SLMM), whose artist members follow in the tradition of Emil Bisttram and the Transcendental Painting Group, as well as Morris Graves of the Pacific Northwest Visionary Art School. In the 1970s, Judy Chicago created \"The Dinner Party\", a very important work of feminist art. Helen Frankenthaler was an Abstract Expressionist painter and she was influenced by Jackson Pollock. Lee Krasner was also an Abstract Expressionist artist and married to Pollock and a student of Hans Hofmann. Elaine de Kooning was a student and later the wife of Willem de Kooning, she was an abstract figurative painter. Anne Ryan was a collagist. Jane Frank, also a student of Hans Hofmann, worked with mixed media on canvas. In Canada, Marcelle Ferron was an exponent of automatism.\n\nFrom the 1960s on, feminism led to a great increase in interest in women artists and their academic study. Notable contributions have been made by the art historians Germaine Greer, Linda Nochlin, Griselda Pollock and others. Some art historians such as Daphne Haldin have attempted to redress the balance of male-focused histories by compiling lists of women artists, though many of these efforts remain unpublished. Figures like Artemesia Gentileschi and Frida Kahlo emerged from relative obscurity to become feminist icons. The Guerilla Girls, an anonymous group of females formed in 1985, were \"the conscience of the art world.\" They spoke out about indifference and inequalities for gender and race, particularly in the art world. The Guerilla Girls have made many posters as a way of bringing attention, typically in a humorous way, to the community to raise awareness and create change. In 1996, Catherine de Zegher curated an exhibition of 37 great women artists from the twentieth century. The exhibition, \"Inside the Visible\", that travelled from the ICA in Boston to the National Museum for Women in the Arts in Washington, the Whitechapel in London and the Art Gallery of Western Australia in Perth, included artists' works from the 1930s through the 1990s featuring Claude Cahun, Louise Bourgeois, Bracha Ettinger, Agnes Martin, Carrie Mae Weems, Charlotte Salomon, Eva Hesse, Nancy Spero, Francesca Woodman, Lygia Clark and Mona Hatoum among others.\n\nIn 1993, Rachel Whiteread was the first woman to win the Tate Gallery's Turner Prize. Gillian Wearing won the prize in 1997, when there was an all-woman shortlist, the other nominees being Christine Borland, Angela Bulloch and Cornelia Parker. In 1999, Tracey Emin gained considerable media coverage for her entry \"My Bed\", but did not win. In 2006 the prize was awarded to abstract painter, Tomma Abts. In 2001, a conference called \"Women Artists at the Millennium\" was organized at Princeton University. A book by that name was published in 2006, featuring major art historians such as Linda Nochlin analysing prominent women artists such as Louise Bourgeois, Yvonne Rainer, Bracha Ettinger, Sally Mann, Eva Hesse, Rachel Whiteread and Rosemarie Trockel. Internationally prominent contemporary artists who are women also include Magdalena Abakanowicz, Marina Abramović, Jaroslava Brychtova, Lynda Benglis, Lee Bul, Sophie Calle, Janet Cardiff, Li Chevalier, Marlene Dumas, Marisol Escobar, Jenny Holzer, Runa Islam, Chantal Joffe, Yayoi Kusama, Karen Kilimnik, Sarah Lucas, Yoko Ono, Jenny Saville, Carolee Schneeman, Cindy Sherman, Shazia Sikander, Lorna Simpson, Lisa Steele, Stella Vine, Kara Walker, Rebecca Warren, Bettina Werner and Susan Dorothea White. \n\nJapanese artist Yayoi Kusama's paintings, collages, soft sculptures, performance art and environmental installations all share an obsession with repetition, pattern, and accumulation. Her work shows some attributes of feminism, minimalism, surrealism, Art Brut, pop art, and abstract expressionism, and is infused with autobiographical, psychological, and sexual content. She describes herself as an \"obsessive artist\". In November 2008, Christie's auction house New York sold her 1959 painting \"No. 2\" for $5,100,000, the record price in 2008 for a work by a living female artist. During 2010–2011, Pompidou Centre in Paris presented its curators' choice of contemporary women artists in a three-volume's exhibition named \"elles@Centrepompidou\". The museum showed works of major women artists from its own collection. 2010 saw Eileen Cooper elected as the first ever woman 'Keeper of the Royal Academy'. 1995 saw Dame Elizabeth Blackadder in the 300-year history made 'Her Majesty's painter and limber in Scotland, she was awarded the OBE in 1982.\n\nAn interesting genre of women's art is women's environmental art. As of December 2013, the Women Environmental Artists Directory listed 307 women environmental artists, such as Marina DeBris, Vernita Nemec and Betty Beaumont. DeBris uses beach trash to raise awareness of beach and ocean pollution. and to educate children about beach trash. Nemec recently used junk mail to demonstrate the complexity of modern life. Beaumont has been described as a pioneer of environmental art and uses art to challenge our beliefs and actions.\n\nWomen artists have often been mis-characterized in historical accounts, both intentionally and unintentionally; such misrepresentations have often been dictated by the socio-political mores of the given era. There are a number of issues that lie behind this, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24885165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885165", "title": "Women warriors in literature and culture", "text": "Women warriors in literature and culture\n\nThe portrayal of women warriors in literature and popular culture is a subject of study in history, literary studies, film studies, folklore history, and mythology. The archetypal figure of the woman warrior is an example of a normal thing that happens in some cultures, while also being a counter stereotype, opposing the normal construction of war, violence and aggression as masculine. This convention-defying position makes the female warrior a prominent site of investigation for discourses surrounding female power and gender roles in society.\n\nIn Hindu mythology, Chitrāngadā, wife of Arjuna, was the commander of her father's armies.\n\nThe Amazons were an entire tribe of woman warriors in Greek legend. \"Amazon\" has become an eponym for woman warriors and athletes in both modern and ancient society.\n\nIn British mythology, Queen Cordelia fought off several contenders for her throne by personally leading the army in its battles as well as defending her home from her own warring family members, until she eventually commits suicide due to grief. Another example in ancient British history is Queen Boudica, who lead a rebellion against the Roman Empire.\n\nIn his \"On the Bravery of Women\" the Greco-Roman historian Plutarch describes how the women of Argos fought against King Cleomenes and the Spartans under the command of Telesilla in the fifth century BCE.\n\nLiterary women warriors include \"Gordafarid\" (Persian: گردآفريد) in the ancient Persian epic poem The Shāhnāmeh, Delhemma in Arabic epic literature, Mulan, Camilla in the \"Aeneid\", Belphoebe and Britomart in Edmund Spenser's \"The Faerie Queene\", Bradamante and Marfisa in \"Orlando Furioso\", Clorinda and (reluctantly) Erminia in \"La Gerusalemme liberata\", and Grendel's mother.\n\nThe woman warrior is part of a long tradition in many different cultures including Chinese and Japanese martial arts films, but their reach and appeal to Western audiences is possibly much more recent, coinciding with the greatly increased number of female heroes in American media since 1990.\n\nWomen warriors have been taken up as a symbol for feminist empowerment, emphasizing women's agency and capacity for power instead of the common pattern of female victim-hood. Professor Sherrie Inness in \"Tough Girls: Women Warriors and Wonder Women in Popular Culture\" and Frances Early and Kathleen Kennedy in \"Athena's Daughters: Television's New Women Warriors\", for example, focus on figures such as Xena, from the television series \"\" or Buffy Summers from \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". In the introduction to their text, Early and Kennedy discuss what they describe as a link between the image of women warriors and girl power. \n\nAlthough there is a distinction between positive aggression and violence, fictional representations of female violence like \"Kill Bill\" still have the power to function positively, equipping women for real-life situations that require outward aggression. Beyond the individual level, fictional depictions of violence by women can be a political tool to draw attention to real-world issues of violence, such as the ongoing violence against Indigenous women. Others say that a violent heroine undermines the feminist ethics against male violence, even when she is posited as a defender of women, for example in films such as \"Hard Candy\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27596153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27596153", "title": "Yuriko Saito", "text": "Yuriko Saito\n"}
