{"id": "2883760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2883760", "title": "21 grams experiment", "text": "21 grams experiment\n\nThe 21 grams experiment refers to a scientific study published in 1907 by Duncan MacDougall, a physician from Haverhill, Massachusetts. MacDougall hypothesized that souls have physical weight, and attempted to measure the mass lost by a human when the soul departed the body. MacDougall attempted to measure the mass change of six patients at the moment of death. One of the six subjects lost three-fourths of an ounce (21.3 grams).\n\nMacDougall stated his experiment would have to be repeated many times before any conclusion could be obtained. The experiment is widely regarded as flawed and unscientific due to the small sample size, the methods used, as well as the fact only one of the six subjects met the hypothesis. The case has been cited as an example of selective reporting. Despite its rejection within the scientific community, MacDougall's experiment popularized the concept that the soul has weight, and specifically that it weighs 21 grams.\n\nIn 1901, Duncan MacDougall, a physician from Haverhill, Massachusetts, who wished to scientifically determine if a soul had weight, identified six patients in nursing homes whose death was imminent. Four were suffering from tuberculosis, one from diabetes, and one from unspecified causes. MacDougall specifically chose people who were suffering from conditions that caused physical exhaustion, as he needed the patients to remain still when they died to measure them accurately. When the patients looked like they were close to death, their entire bed was placed on an industrial sized scale that was sensitive within two tenths of an ounce (5.6 grams). On the belief that humans have souls and that animals do not, MacDougall later measured the changes in weight from fifteen dogs after death. MacDougall said he wished to use dogs that were sick or dying for his experiment, though was unable to find any. It is therefore presumed he poisoned healthy dogs.\n\nOne of the patients lost weight but then put the weight back on, and two of the other patients registered a loss of weight at death but a few minutes later lost even more weight. One of the patients lost \"three-fourths of an ounce\" (21.3 grams) in weight, coinciding with the time of death. MacDougall disregarded the results of another patient on the grounds the scales were \"not finely adjusted\", and discounted the results of another as the patient died while the equipment was still being calibrated. MacDougall reported that none of the dogs lost any weight after death.\n\nWhile MacDougall believed that the results from his experiment showed the human soul might have weight, his report, which was not published until 1907, stated the experiment would have to be repeated many times before any conclusion could be obtained.\n\nBefore MacDougall was able to publish the results of his experiments, \"The New York Times\" broke the story in an article titled \"Soul has Weight, Physician Thinks\". MacDougall's results were published in April of the same year in the \"Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research\", and the medical journal \"American Medicine\".\n\nFollowing the publication of the experiment in \"American Medicine\", physician Augustus P. Clarke criticized the experiment's validity. Clarke noted that at the time of death there is a sudden rise in body temperature as the lungs are no longer cooling blood, causing a subsequent rise in sweating which could easily account for MacDougall’s missing 21 grams. Clarke also pointed out that, as dogs do not have sweat glands, they would not lose weight in this manner after death. Clarke's criticism was published in the May issue of \"American Medicine\". Arguments between MacDougall and Clarke debating the validity of the experiment continued to be published in the journal until at least December that year.\n\nMacDougall's experiment has been the subject of considerable skepticism, and he has been accused of both flawed methods and outright fraud in obtaining his results. Noting that only one of the six patients measured supported the hypothesis, Karl Kruszelnicki has stated the experiment is a case of selective reporting, as MacDougall ignored the majority of the results. Kruszelnicki also criticized the small sample size, and questioned how MacDougall was able to determine the exact moment when a person had died considering the technology available at the time. Physicist Robert L. Park has written that MacDougall's experiments \"are not regarded today as having any scientific merit\", and psychologist Bruce Hood wrote that \"because the weight loss was not reliable or replicable, his findings were unscientific\". Professor Richard Wiseman said that within the scientific community, the experiment is confined to a \"large pile of scientific curiosities labelled 'almost certainly not true'\".\n\nAn article by Snopes in 2013 said the experiment was flawed because the methods used were suspect, the sample size was much too small, and the capability to measure weight changes too imprecise, concluding: \"credence should not be given to the idea his experiments proved something, let alone that they measured the weight of the soul as 21 grams.\" The fact that MacDougall likely poisoned and killed fifteen healthy dogs in an attempt to support his research has also been a source of criticism.\n\nIn 1911 \"The New York Times\" reported that MacDougall was hoping to run experiments to take photos of souls, but he appears to not have continued any further research into the area and died in 1920. His experiment has not been repeated.\n\nDespite its rejection within the scientific community, MacDougall's experiment popularized the idea that the soul has weight, and specifically that it weighs 21 grams. Most notably, '21 Grams' was taken as the title of a film in 2003, which references the experiment.\n\nThe concept of a soul weighing 21 grams is mentioned in numerous media, including a 2013 issue of the manga \"Gantz\", a 2013 podcast of \"Welcome to Night Vale\" and the 2015 film \"The Empire of Corpses\". The 2015 song \"21 Grams\" by Niykee Heaton features the line \"I just want your soul in my hands, feel your weight of 21 grams\"; a song of the same name was released in 2017 by the Thundamentals, and Travis Scott references the concept in the song \"No Bystanders\", released in 2018. MacDougall and his experiments are explicitly mentioned in the 1978 documentary film \"Beyond and Back\", and episode five of the first season of \"\". A fictional American scientist named \"Mr. MacDougall\" appears in Gail Carriger's 2009 novel \"Soulless\", as an expert in the weight and measurement of souls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46952181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46952181", "title": "African Genesis", "text": "African Genesis\n\nAfrican Genesis: A Personal Investigation into the Animal Origins and Nature of Man, usually referred to as \"African Genesis,\" is a 1961 nonfiction work by Robert Ardrey. It posited the hypothesis that man evolved on the African continent from carnivorous, predatory ancestors who distinguished themselves from apes by the use of weapons. The work bears on questions of human origins, human nature, and human uniqueness. It has been widely read and continues to inspire significant controversy.\n\n\"African Genesis\" is the first in Robert Ardrey's \"Nature of Man Series\". It is followed by \"The Territorial Imperative\" (1966), \"The Social Contract\" (1970), and \"The Hunting Hypothesis\" (1976). It was illustrated by Ardrey's wife, the South African actress and illustrator Berdine Ardrey (née Grunewald).\n\nRobert Ardrey, at the time a working playwright and screenwriter, travelled in 1955 to Africa, partly at the behest of Richard Foster Flint, to investigate claims made by Raymond Dart about a specimen of Australopithecus africanus.\n\nHe met Dart in March 1955. Dart, in his laboratory at Witwatersrand University Medical School, had assembled evidence for a controversial thesis. Among the collection were fossil baboon skulls from the caves of Taung, Terkfontein and Makapan that he believed showed fractures caused by \"Australopithecus\" wielding bone clubs; the jaw of a juvenile ape-man from Makapansgat which had been fractured and lost its incisors; and 7,000 fossil bones from the Makapansgat cave. Among the fossils, skulls and lower leg bones were disproportionately represented, leading Dart to theorize that man's ancestors were hunters who used bones as weapons. His overall thesis was that \"it was the ape-man's instinct for violence, and his successful development of lethal weapons, that gave him his dominance in the animal world from the very beginning. Those instincts are with us today.\" Ardrey was initially much taken by the theory. As a correspondent he wrote an article about it for \"The Reporter\". After receiving significant attention the article was reprinted in \"Science Digest,\" which marked the beginning of the spread of popular notions about \"Australopithecus.\" The article in \"Science Digest\" also led to The Smithsonian Institution contacting Dart and eventually providing him funding to continue his research.\n\nFollowing a visit by Dr. Kenneth P. Oakley Ardrey agreed to write a book on the subject. Oakley secured an office for Ardrey in the National History Museum in London, as well as access to its private libraries. Ardrey spent six years traveling between Northern universities and African archeological sites. During this time he worked with many notable scientists, including Louis Leakey (then affiliated with the Coryndon Museum in Kenya) and Tony Sutcliffe (then affiliated with the Royal Archaeological Institute).\n\nArdrey eventually came to be a vocal proponent of this thesis, introducing it, in modified form, to a broad audience with \"African Genesis\". He added to it his own ideas about the role of territory in human behavior, about hierarchy in social animals, and about the instinctual status of the urge to dominate ones fellows.\n\n\"African Genesis\" met with massive popular success and widespread recognition. It became an international bestseller and was translated into dozens of languages. In 1962 it was a finalist for the National Book Award in nonfiction. In 1969 \"Time\" magazine named \"African Genesis\" the most notable nonfiction book of the '60s. The book has continued to bear on the popular imagination of human nature.\n\nArdrey's theories flew in the face of prevailing theories of human origins. At the time of the publication of \"African Genesis\" it was generally agreed that human beings evolved from Asian ancestors. Furthermore, it was taken for granted that these ancestors were herbivorous. The idea of an African Genesis of humanity was met with fervent resistance in the scientific community.\n\nOn a grander scale, Ardrey challenged the reigning methodological assumption of the social sciences, that human behavior was fundamentally distinct from animal behavior. As he put it in his next book, \"The Territorial Imperative\", \"The dog barking at you from behind his master’s fence acts for a motive indistinguishable from that of his master when the fence was built.\"\n\nFollowing the publication of \"African Genesis\" Ardrey's theories became mired in controversy because of his notions about innate human violence and inherited instinctual aggression. (For more details, see \"The Territorial Imperative\".) Later commentators, however, have come to emphasize the broader implications of Ardrey's theories; it is now commonly accepted that the controversy obscured the core of his thinking. William Wright, for example, writing in 2013, writes \"Not only was Ardrey, with his three-million-year-old unsolved murders, claiming that evolution has saddled us with a battery of behavioral traits, but he was also reckless enough to emphasize the most repugnant, the killer impulse. This inflammatory claim certainly won Ardrey attention, but the angry controversy it provoked almost obscured the main point: that human behavior is as much a product of evolution as the human body.\"\n\nWhile Ardrey's theses on aggression were controversial, he was also challenged on his conviction that the study of animal behavior is necessarily relevant to the study of human behavior. This precept has gained widespread acceptance and, due in large part to Ardrey's work, passed into the scientific commonsense. Following the 1961 publication of \"African Genesis\" the science of ethology, which is based on the methodological assumption of the cross-relevance of anthropology and zoology, underwent a massive flourishing. 1966 saw Lorenz's \"On Aggression\" published, followed by Desmond Morris's \"The Naked Ape\" in 1967, Lionel Tiger's \"Men in Groups\" in 1969, and Tiger and Fox's \"The Imperial Animal\" in 1971. Along with ethology's ascendence came a renaissance of its central premise—then much derided in scientific communities by blank-state theorists—that the study of animal behavior could tell us much about human behavior.\n\n\"African Genesis\" led Ardrey into a long career of work in anthropology and ethology. Regarding his later-in-life return to science, Ardrey wrote \"while peasant and poet may apprehend a truth, it is the obligation of science to define it, to prove it, to assimilate its substance into the body of scientific thought, and to make its conclusions both available and understandable to the society of which science is a part.\"\n\nHis writings on paleoanthropology, ethnology, and anthropology, along with the massive popular success of \"African Genesis,\" are widely credited with initiating public interest in these fields and sparking widespread popular debate about human nature as it is connected to human evolution. C.K. Brain, for example, writes: \n\"African Genesis\" has, in all probability, been read by more people throughout the world than any other book on human evolution and the nature of man. Its influence has been very great indeed as it fermented an intense debate about these topics, and catalysed a new set of concepts in paleoanthropology.\n\nSeveral scientists credit Ardrey's work, and \"African Genesis\" in particular, with launching them into their studies. Famed paleoanthropologist Rick Potts, who has been the director of the Smithsonian Institution Museum of Natural History's Human Origins Program since 1985 points to \"African Genesis\" as one of the two most formative books of his early years. In the 2015 PBS film documentary \"Dawn of Humanity,\" Potts recites the beginning of the book from memory.\n\nIn 1972, defending his film \"A Clockwork Orange\" from Fred M. Hechinger, Stanley Kubrick cited Ardrey. In particular, he quoted \"African Genesis\" (along with \"The Social Contract\"). Kubrick was a notable fan of Ardrey's work, and also cited him as an inspiration for his 1968 film, \"\". Nonetheless, the behavior of the apes in the \"Dawn of Man\" sequence of \"2001\" has since been \"proven false\", since violent apes such as these have now been shown to be \"vegetarians\" instead—according to archeologist K. Kris Hirst in reviewing the 2015 PBS documentary film \"Dawn of Humanity\", which describes, directly in the context of \"2001\", the 2015 studies of fossils of \"Homo naledi\".\n\nA.J. Jacobs, who wrote the 2004 book \"The Know-It-All\", about reading the entire \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", states in an interview that a quote from African Genesis was the most profound thing he read while reading the Encyclopædia.\n\n"}
{"id": "35937620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35937620", "title": "Attunement", "text": "Attunement\n\nAttunement was the early term adopted by practitioners of energy medicine, originally developed by Lloyd Arthur Meeker (1907 – 1954) and his colleagues. Meeker taught and practiced Attunement as a central feature of his spiritual teaching and ministry, Emissaries of Divine Light. Attunement is taught as a personal spiritual practice and as a healing modality offered through the hands. Emissaries of Divine Light believe that Attunement is a pivotal factor in the conscious evolution of humanity.\n\nLike Qigong, Reiki and Therapeutic touch Attunement is a putative practice as defined by the United States National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health (NCCIH), lacking published scientific study of its effectiveness. Attunement practitioners and clients rely on personal and anecdotal experience to promote it.\n\nLloyd Arthur Meeker shared the first Attunement with Rudolph Plagge in Wichita, Kansas, in 1929, and developed the teaching and practice of Attunement with colleagues until his death in 1954. From September 14 to 16, 1932, Meeker had a spiritual awakening experience that he described as a “heavenly ordination.” He marked that experience as the initiation of Emissaries of Divine Light. That same year he instituted a series of energy medicine experiments. Meeker reported that he could stand across the room from the client and the client could feel the intensification of life force. He also reported excellent results when his hands were one to six inches from the client.\n\nLloyd Arthur Meeker wrote and lectured using the name Uranda, which was how he was known to his followers. From 1935 to 1945, Meeker traveled across the United States and Canada, establishing centers for healing and spiritual teaching for varying periods of time in Atascadero, Oakland, Burbank and Long Beach, California; Buffalo, New York; Grand Forks, Iowa; and Loveland, Colorado. In December 1945 Meeker established his headquarters at Sunrise Ranch in Loveland, where Attunement continues to be taught and practiced.\n\nThe G-P-C movement played a significant role in the development of Attunement. G-P-C stood for God – Patient – Chiropractor. It was a no-fee system of service that George Shears created in the late 1930s after he, himself, had a severely debilitating ruptured disk, and vowed to offer his services on a donation basis. Shears had been a Major League Baseball pitcher in 1912, and then a graduate of the Palmer School of Chiropractic in 1917. He experimented with \"no-force\" chiropractic adjustments in which he believed it was the healing energy through his hands that brought positive results, shown through x-rays. The G-P-C movement saw the relationship between the chiropractor and the patient as the base of a triangle with God at the apex. Meeker eventually embraced this model for the healing relationship.\n\nIn 1949, Albert Ackerley, a G-P-C chiropractor in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, was introduced to Lloyd Arthur Meeker’s writings. In June 1949, when Ackerley was preparing to offer an adjustment to his patient, he saw that the patient’s spine had aligned before he had given the adjustment. He believed that this result was a consequence of the flow of subtle energy between himself and the patient, rather than any physical intervention. Ackerley met Meeker in July 1949 and began to practice Attunement under his tutelage. Up to this point, Meeker had referred to Attunements as “treatments.” It was Albert Ackerley who named those treatments “Attunements.” With Lloyd Meeker’s urging, Ackerley began to experiment with long-distance Attunements in which the person receiving the Attunement was not in the physical presence of the practitioner. Albert Ackerley and G.P.C. President, Virgil Givens, were both prosecuted legally due to their practice of energy medicine, but continued to practice nonetheless.\n\nIn May 1950, Lloyd Arthur Meeker met George Shears. Meeker’s meeting with Shears was followed by G-P-C meetings at a Chiropractic Convention in August 1950 in Davenport, Iowa, and then a G-P-C conference in Huntingburg, Indiana, which was attended by Meeker. Following these events, about twenty-five chiropractors attended a G-P-C Convention from September 2 through 8 of that year at Sunrise Ranch.\n\nThe prospect of joining with Meeker and Emissaries of Divine Light raised suspicion and concerns among the G-P-C chiropractors. Nonetheless, at the G-P-C Convention in the home of George Shears in Huntingburg, Indiana, on February 24 and 25, 1951, the G-P-C board of directors voted to cooperate with the Emissaries to establish a G-P-C Servers Training School at Sunrise Ranch. Lloyd Arthur Meeker led three six-month G-P-C Servers Training School sessions at Sunrise Ranch from 1952 to 1954. His classes from the 1952 session were transcribed and published as The Divine Design of Man, # 1 and # 2. The audio recordings and the transcripts of Meeker’s classes from the 1953 and 1954 sessions are still extant. The sessions included Attunement technique, nutrition, psychology and a broad spectrum of spiritual teachings.\n\nIn August 1954, Lloyd Arthur Meeker, his wife, Kathy Meeker, Albert Ackerley and two children died in the crash of Meeker’s small plane in San Francisco Bay. A close associate of Meeker’s, Martin Cecil, assumed the responsibility for the leadership of Emissaries of Divine Light and for carrying forward Meeker’s Attunement work. With assistance from G-P-C chiropractors, James Wellemeyer and Bill Bahan, and from Roger de Winton, Alan Hammond and others, Martin Cecil continued the Servers Training School at Sunrise Ranch and the teaching of Attunement. George Shears eventually moved to Sunrise Ranch in 1968 where he practiced Attunement until he died in 1978.\n\nAs Emissaries of Divine Light grew in the 1960s, '70s and '80s, so did the teaching and practice of Attunement. Martin Cecil emphasized in his teaching of Attunement that the basis of it was a spiritual practice. While many of the early Attunement practitioners were chiropractors, lay people became increasingly active in the practice. Building on the early work of Lloyd Arthur Meeker, Attunement evolved to include groups of people practicing it together. In 1993, a World Blessing time was established for practitioners to share a time of collective Attunement and healing prayer. In the '80s and '90s, the teaching and practice of long-distance Attunement was developed further.\n\nFollowing Martin Cecil's death in 1988, his son, Michael Cecil, become the Spiritual Leader of the Emissaries. In 1996, Emissaries of Divine Light formed an Attunement Guild, which established standards for the teaching and certification of Attunement practitioners. A group of Attunement practitioners, including Chris Jorgensen and Andrew Shier, formed the International Association of Attunement Practitioners (IAAP) in 1999. IAAP developed and taught the practice of Attunement separate from the organization of Emissaries of Divine Light. Roger de Winton continued his Attunement trainings through Attunement Intensives offered at Sunrise Ranch. He also continued his work of long-distance Attunement until his death in 2001.\n\nIn 1996, Michael Cecil left Emissaries of Divine Light to continue his own work, which includes Attunement through The Ashland Institute. A group of trustees assumed the leadership of Emissaries of Divine Light with Michael Cecil's departure. In August 2004, the trustees of Emissaries of Divine Light named David Karchere as the leader of the global network. Since becoming the leader of the Emissaries, Karchere has developed programs, including Life Destiny Immersion and Journey into the Fire, that are designed to assist people to transform the spiritual and emotional factors that block the experience of Attunement. In 2010, with other Attunement practitioners, David Karchere founded the Attunement School at Sunrise Ranch.\n\nAttunement is based on Lloyd Arthur Meeker's vision that the human body is designed to be the temple of God. The foundational principle underlying Attunement is what Meeker named as The One Law, or the Law of Cause and Effect. Emissaries of Divine Light teach that the causative factor in spiritual regeneration is the universal power and intelligence within all people, and that through response and opening to that power and intelligence, people experience healing. Attunement practitioners believe that positive shifts in consciousness release a healing energy through a person’s body, mind and emotions. Traditionally, the Attunement practitioner is referred to as a server and the recipient is referred to as a servee.\n\nAttunement servers believe they transmit universal life energy through their hands to the servee. The primary connecting points on the servee are the endocrine glands. Attunement servers teach that the endocrine glands are portals for universal life energy that operates through the physical body, and through the mental and emotional function of the individual, and that the servee has the opportunity to open more fully to the life energy within them through receiving an Attunement.\n\nEmissaries of Divine Light hold that the origin of universal life energy is divine in nature and that the core reality of all people is divine. The goal of Attunement is to increase the energetic flow while removing blockages to that flow so that a person’s core reality can emerge.\n\nLloyd Meeker taught that the human connection to universal life energy relies on pneumaplasm, which was his name for the aura of subtle energy, or etheric body surrounding the physical body. Attunement practitioners believe that pneumaplasm is generated when the universal life energy flows through a person, and that the clarity of the pneumaplasmic body depends on the clarity of that energy flow. Attunement practitioners focus on clarifying and enriching the pneumaplasm associated with the endocrine glands and the anatomical systems of the body.\n\nPractitioners believe that the endocrine glands translate seven aspects of the universal life energy into the human experience. They name these as the Seven Spirits.\n\nAttunement practitioners relate these Seven Spirits to the Seven Spirits of God referenced in the book of Revelation in the Bible. Some Attunement practitioners correlate the seven endocrine glands with seven chakras.\n\nAt the core of the teaching of the technique is the establishment of an energetic circuit between the practitioner (server) and the client (servee). Practitioners seek to establish that circuit by the radiant extension of life energy through the dominant hand of the practitioner to the gland or organ of the client, and the receiving of life energy through the opposite hand from a corresponding contact point in the body.\n\nMeeker taught that the first step in the Attunement process was the alignment of the cervical vertebrae by the radiation of healing energy through the hands on either side of the neck. Contemporary Attunement practitioners continue to teach attunement technique that begins and ends with an Attunement of the cervical vertebrae. Often, the cervical Attunement is followed by Attunement of the endocrine glands and some of the major organs of the body.\n\nAs a spiritual practice, Attunement is intended to connect a person more closely to their spiritual source and to open the flow of life current. The practice includes conscious attention to the quality of spirit expressing through the practitioner in the daily living of life, and specific periods of meditation in the beginning and ending of each day, taught as Sanctification in the Evening and the Morning.\n\nA central aspect of Attunement as a spiritual practice is referred to by Emissaries of Divine Light as spiritual centering, which they define as a daily practice of opening thoughts and emotions to the spiritual.\n"}
{"id": "21524318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21524318", "title": "Blue skies research", "text": "Blue skies research\n\nBlue skies research (also called blue sky science) is scientific research in domains where \"real-world\" applications are not immediately apparent. It has been defined as \"research without a clear goal\" and \"curiosity-driven science\". It is sometimes used interchangeably with the term \"basic research\". Proponents of this mode of science argue that unanticipated scientific breakthroughs are sometimes more valuable than the outcomes of agenda-driven research, heralding advances in genetics and stem cell biology as examples of unforeseen benefits of research that was originally seen as purely theoretical in scope. Because of the inherently uncertain return on investment, blue-sky projects are politically and commercially unpopular and tend to lose funding to more reliably profitable or practical research.\n\nSupport for blue skies research has varied over time, ultimately becoming subject to the political process, in countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and India. Vannevar Bush's 1945 report, \"Science: The Endless Frontier\", made the argument for the value of basic research in the postwar era, and was the basis for many appeals to the federal funding of basic research. The 1957 launch of Sputnik prompted the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research to sponsor blue skies research into the 1960s. By the 1970s, financial strains brought pressure on public expenditure on the sciences, first in the UK and the Netherlands, and by the 1990s in Germany and the United States.\n\nIn 1980, British Petroleum (known as BP after 2000) established a blue skies research initiative called the Venture Research Unit, headed by particle physicist Donald Braben. Braben controversially challenged peer review as the mechanism for establishing funding, emphasizing the selection of researchers whose proposals \"could radically change the way we think about something important.\"\n\nIn 2005, Mark Walport, director of the Wellcome Trust and former Professor of Medicine at Imperial College, London warned that excessive emphasis on agenda-driven research could jeopardise serendipitous advances in science:\n\nThe Government is right to recognise the importance of science and technology, but I think it is a mistake to try to ring-fence funds. There is a serious danger that we will spend money on projects that are less good. It is absolutely key that funding is used to support the best scientists with the best ideas.\n\nWhen UK research councils introduced a requirement that grant application include a 2-page statement on the economic impact of the proposed work, 20 scientists, including 1996 Nobel laureate Harold Kroto, wrote a public letter to \"Times Higher Education\" condemning the requirement and calling for peer reviewers to ignore the additional documentation.\n\nThe Royal Society grants up to 1 million pounds sterling annually in \"Theo Murphy Blue Skies awards\" to fund \"research which is considered to be original and exciting but lacks a sufficient evidence base in the literature to be supported by traditional grant schemes.\"\n\nThe UK-based Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) operates a program called the IDEAS Factory, intended to promote \"blue sky, curiosity-led research.\"\n\nThe international Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) holds a \"Blue Sky Forum\" every decade.\n\nOwing to its radical nature, blue sky science may challenge accepted scientific paradigms and introduce entirely new fields of study. It has been the inspiration for numerous works of science fiction. It has sometimes been concerned with topics such as unexplained phenomena and the impact of future technologies upon society, asking questions such as \"How would a spacecraft traverse a black hole and where would it arrive upon leaving it?\" and \"Will the universe end, or will it just expand ever outwards for eternity?\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4483284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4483284", "title": "Body memory", "text": "Body memory\n\nBody memory (BM) is a hypothesis that the body itself is capable of storing memories, as opposed to only the brain. While experiments have demonstrated the possibility of cellular memory there are currently no known means by which tissues other than the brain would be capable of storing memories.\n\nModern usage of BM tends to frame it exclusively in the context of traumatic memory and ways in which the body responds to recall of a memory. In this regard, it has become relevant in treatment for PTSD.\n\nPeter Levine calls BM \"implicit memory\" or more specifically procedural memory, things that the body is capable of doing automatically and not in one's consciousness. He clarifies 3 types of BM and frames his work in terms of traumatic memory consequence and resolution:\n\nNicola Diamond elaborates on the opinion of philosopher Merleau-Ponty and asserts that BM is formed by doing. Whether practicing a bodily activity or forming a reaction to a traumatic memory.\n\nEdward Casey speaks of BM as, \"memory intrinsic to the body, how we remember by and through the body\", rather than what is remembered about the body.\n\nThomas Fuchs defines 6 different types of BM: procedural, situational, intercorporeal, incorporative, pain, and traumatic memory. He notes that they are not strictly separable from one another but \"derived from different dimensions of bodily experience. Michelle Summa further refines this definition as an implicit memory. A pre-thematic, operative consciousness of the past expressed through the body.\n\nAntonio Damasio calls these reactions to memories \"somatic markers\" or emotions that are expressed primarily as physical feelings.\n\nThese memories are often associated with phantom pain in a part or parts of the body – the body appearing to remember the past trauma. The idea of body memory is a belief frequently associated with the idea of repressed memories, in which memories of incest or sexual abuse can be retained and recovered through physical sensations. It may also be associated with phantom limb sensation but this is less common.\n\nIn 1993, Susan E. Smith, presented a paper relating the idea of \"Survivor Psychology\" at a false memory syndrome conference, stated about BM that, \"body memories are thought to literally be emotional, kinesthetic, or chemical recordings stored at the cellular level and retrievable by returning to or recreating the chemical, emotional, or kinesthetic conditions under which the memory recordings are filed. She went on in the abstract of the paper, \"one of the most commonly used theories to support the ideology of repressed memories or incest and sexual abuse amnesia is body memories.\" and \"The belief in these pseudoscientific concepts appears to be related to scientific illiteracy, gullibility, and a lack of critical thinking skills and reasoning abilities in both the mental health community and in society at large\"\n\nA 2017 systematic review of cross-disciplinary research in body memory found that the available data neither largely support or refute the claim that memories are stored outside of the brain and more research is needed.\n\nIn the \"Encyclopedia of Phenomenology\" Embree notes that, \"To posit body memory is to open up a Pandora's Box\", and links the idea to physical associations of memory rather than as a memory stored in a bodily manner.\n\nCellular memory (CM) is a parallel hypothesis to BM positing that memories can be stored outside the brain in all cells. The idea that non-brain tissues can have memories is believed by some who have received organ transplants, though this is considered impossible. The author said the stories are intriguing though and may lead to some serious scientific investigation in the future. In his book \"TransplantNation\" Douglas Vincent suggests that atypical newfound memories, thoughts, emotions and preferences after an organ transplant are more suggestive of immunosuppressant drugs and the stress of surgery on perception than of legitimate memory transference. In other words, \"as imaginary as a bad trip on LSD or other psychotropic drug.\"\n\nBiologists at Tufts University have been able to train flatworms despite the loss of the brain and head. This may show memory stored in other parts of the body in some animals. A worm reduced to 1/279th of the original can be regrown within a few weeks and be trained much quicker to head towards light and open space for food, an unnatural behavior for a flatworm. With each head removed training times appear reduced. This may just be a sign of epigenetics showing the appearance of memory.\n\nHowever, in the 1950s and 1960s James McConnell flatworm experiments measured how long it took to learn a maze. McConnell trained some to move around a maze and then chopped them up and fed them to untrained worms. The untrained group learned faster compared to a control that had not been fed trained worms. McConnell believed the experiment indicated cellular memory. The training involved stressing the worms with electric shock. This kind of stress releases persistent hormones and shows no evidence for memory transfer. Similar experiments with mice being trained and being fed to untrained mice showed improved learning. It was not a memory that was transferred but hormone enriched tissue.\n\nIn epigenetics there are various mechanisms for cells to pass on \"memories\" of stressors to their progeny. Strategies include Msn2 nucleo-cytoplasmic shuttling, changes in chromatin, partitioning of anti-stress factors, and damaged macromolecules between mother and daughter cells.\n\nIn adaptive immunity there is a functional CM that enables he immune system to learn to react to pathogens through mechanisms such as, cytoxic memory mediation in bone marrow, innate immune memory in stromal cells, fungal mediation of innate and inherited immunological response, and T and B-cell immune training. In this regard CM is essential for vaccine and immunity research.\n\n"}
{"id": "6738308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6738308", "title": "Borderless selling", "text": "Borderless selling\n\nBorderless selling is the process of selling services to clients outside the country of origin of services through modern methods which eliminate the actions specifically designed to hinder international trade. International trade through \"borderless selling\" is a new phenomenon born in the current \"globalization\" era.\n\nBorderless selling is defined as the process of performing sales transaction between two or more parties from different countries (an exporter and an importer) which is free from actions specifically designed to hinder international trade, such as tariff barriers, currency restrictions, and import quotas.\n\nInternational trade which is the exchange of goods and services across international borders has been present throughout much of history of economics, society and politics. \n\nIt is assumed that offshore outsourcing gave birth to \"borderless selling\". The selling of services by offshore outsourcing service providers to foreign clients is free from actions specifically designed to hinder international trade, such as tariff barriers, currency restrictions, and import quotas. This is largely because most of the services are sold or delivered electronically from the offshore service provider to the foreign client. This phenomenon gave birth to borderless selling.\n\nThere is a high correlation between outsourcing and exporting activity. However, borderless selling is different from free international trade or selling. Under the belief in Mercantilism, most nations had high tariffs and many restrictions on international trade for centuries. In the 19th century, a belief in free trade became paramount in west, especially in Britain and this outlook has since then dominated the thinking of western nations. Traditionally international trade was possible between only those countries which regulated international trade through bilateral treaties. Borderless selling is possible between any two countries of the world because services can be exported using modern telecommunication networks without the need to regulate trade.\n\nThe \"borderless selling\" term was originated as part of the research carried out by team led by Paramjeev Singh Sethi.\n\n\n\nMany services can be sold through borderless selling, popularly including:\n\nDifferent means used for borderless selling:\n\n"}
{"id": "43341147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43341147", "title": "Byerlee's law", "text": "Byerlee's law\n\nIn rheology, Byerlee's law, also known as Byerlee's friction law concerns the shear stress (τ) required to slide one rock over another. The rocks have macroscopically flat surfaces, but the surfaces have small asperities that make them \"rough.\" For a given experiment and at normal stresses (σ) below about 2000 bars (200 MPa) the shear stress increases approximately linearly with the normal stress (τ = 0.85 σ) and is highly dependent on rock type and the character (roughness) of the surfaces, see Mohr-Coulomb friction law. Byerlee's law states that with increased normal stress the required shear stress continues to increase, but the \"rate\" of increase decreases (τ = 0.5 + 0.6σ), and becomes nearly independent of rock type.\n\nThe law describes an important property of crustal rock, and can be used to determine when slip along a geological fault takes place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22786710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22786710", "title": "Carcel", "text": "Carcel\n\nThe Carcel is a former French unit for measuring the intensity of light. The unit was defined in 1860 as the intensity of a Carcel lamp with standard burner and chimney dimensions, which burnt colza oil\n\nIn modern terminology one carcel equals about 9.74 candelas.\n\n"}
{"id": "8793093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8793093", "title": "Challenger Center for Space Science Education", "text": "Challenger Center for Space Science Education\n\nChallenger Center for Space Science Education is a United States 501(c)(3) non-profit organization headquartered in Washington, DC. It was founded in 1986 by the families of the astronauts who died in the Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster on January 28, 1986.\n\nThe organization offers dynamic, hands-on exploration and discovery opportunities to students around the world. These programs equip students with the knowledge, confidence, and skills that will help better our national social and economic well-being.\n\nChallenger Learning Centers give students the chance to become astronauts and engineers and solve real-world problems as they share the thrill of discovery on missions through the Solar System. Using space simulation and role-playing strategies, students bring their classroom studies to life and cultivate the skills needed for future success.\n\nChallenger Learning Center at the Ontario Science Center (Toronto, Canada)\nChallenger Learning Center at SongAm Space Center (Gyeonggi-do, South Korea)\nChallenger Learning Center at the National Space Centre (Leicester, United Kingdom)\nNotable members of the advisor council have included:\n\nNotable members of the Board of Directors include:\n\n"}
{"id": "27754656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27754656", "title": "Clinical and Translational Science Award", "text": "Clinical and Translational Science Award\n\nClinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) is a type of U.S. federal grant administered by the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, part of the National Institutes of Health. The CTSA program began in October 2006 under the auspices of the National Center for Research Resources with a consortium of 12 academic health centers. The program was fully implemented in 2012, comprising 60 grantee institutions and their partners.\n\nThe CTSA program helps institutions create an integrated academic home for clinical and translational science with the resources to support researchers and research teams working to apply new knowledge and techniques to patient care. The program is structured to encourage collaborations among researchers from different scientific fields.\n\nThe CTSA program has raised awareness of clinical and translational science as a discipline among academic and industry researchers, philanthropists, government officials and the broader public.\n\nCTSA consortium leaders have set five broad goals to guide their activities. These include building national clinical and translational research capability, providing training and improving career development of clinical and translational scientists, enhancing consortium-wide collaborations, improving the health of U.S. communities and the nation, and advancing T1 translational research to move basic laboratory discoveries and knowledge into clinical testing.\n\nInstitutions funded by the CTSA program are working with other research facilities to improve drug discovery and development. For example, several consortium institutions are collaborating with the Rat Resource and Research Center at the University of Missouri to increase the speed of drug screening so that drug research is translated into clinical uses more quickly.\nConsortium institutions also are creating new fields of study or new uses for technologies. For example, researchers at the University of Rochester are pioneering the field of lipidomics, exploring how lipids affect human disease. Their work has led to lipid research collaborations among experts in community and preventive medicine, proteomics, nutrition, and pharmaceutical research.\n\nSome CTSA institutions are collaborating with community-based organizations to ensure research is translated successfully into clinical practice. Researchers at Duke University are working to prevent strokes by partnering with a local health care program to build stroke awareness among Latino immigrants.\n\nOthers are pursuing public and private partnerships to speed innovation. For example, the Oregon Health and Science University and Intel are developing new wireless devices with sensors to detect symptoms in patients who have diabetes or those at high risk of stroke so they can be treated earlier.\n\nWith the most recent awards, announced in July 2011, the consortium comprises 60 institutions in 30 states and the District of Columbia. These include:\n\n\nOn the 20 December 2011, the OIG published a report critical of the NIH's administration of the Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) program. The report read in part:\n\n"}
{"id": "14683289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14683289", "title": "Co-production (society)", "text": "Co-production (society)\n\nThere are many definitions of co-production. One technical definition is that Co-production is where technical experts and other groups co-generate new knowledge and technologies. It is the dynamic interaction between technology and society. It has a long history, particularly arising out of radical theories of knowledge in the 1970s.\n\nCo-production forms part of Mode 2, a term used in the sociology of science to describe one of the modes, or ways that knowledge is formed. In Mode 2, science and technology studies the move from extreme technological determinism and social constructivism, to a more systemic understanding of how technology and society ‘co-produce’ each other. Co-production is functionally comparable to the concepts of causality loop, positive feedback, and co-evolution – all of which describe how two or more variables of a system affect and essentially create each other, albeit with respect to different variables operating at different scales. And as with these other concepts, if used too broadly/uncritically, co-production risks noetic flatness – if technology and society co-produce each other equally, the justification for maintaining the boundary between them dissolves (in which case actor-network theory may be invoked). Unless overlapping sets of boundary-work are employed, co-production may also fail to account for power differentials within each variable, (in this case, within technology and society).\n\nFrom a more STS perspective, Sheila Jasanoff, has written that \"Co-production is shorthand for the proposition that the ways in which we know and represent the world (both nature and society) are inseparable from the ways in which we chose to live in.\" Co-production draws on constitutive (such as Actor–network theory) and interactional work (such as the Edinburgh School) in STS. As a sensitizing concept, the idiom of co-production looks at four themes: \"the emergence and stabilization of new techno-scientific objects and framings, the resolution of scientific and technical controversies; the processes by which the products of techno-science are made intelligible and portable across boundaries; and the adjustment of science’s cultural practices in response to the contexts in which science is done.\" Studies employing co-production often follow the following pathways: \"making identities, making institutions, making discourses, and making representations\"\n"}
{"id": "53643626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53643626", "title": "Conservation and restoration of insect specimens", "text": "Conservation and restoration of insect specimens\n\nThe conservation and restoration of insect specimens is the process of caring for and preserving insects as a part of a collection. Conservation concerns begin at collection and continue through preparation, storage, examination, documentation, research and treatment when restoration is needed.\n\nInsect collecting can be done in many different ways depending on the kind of insects being collected and from which habitats. Both hobbyists and professional entomologist have found particular ways to collect with minimal damage to their specimens. Following established techniques helps begin the conservation of insect specimens from the beginning by eliminating as much potential damage as possible. It must be done delicately to ensure that neither the collector nor the live insect itself will cause harm to the distinctive features such as wings, legs and antennae that give purpose to the collection. Special collection nets, traps and techniques must be utilized in consideration of how easily breakage can happen. A kill jar is often used to immediately immobilize the insect before it can damage itself.\n\nThe way an insect specimen is prepared is often the first step in their conservation. They have to be carefully prepared with the appropriate methods depending on their size, anatomy, and potentially delicate features to ensure they will not break before they begin their role as a specimen available for study, research and display. Some specimens must be prepared using a dry method and others with liquid to preserve. The choice made will preserve key features necessary for identification and represent the insect's living form as closely as possible.\n\nThe process of pinning insect specimens is a dry method to preserve and display collections and requires special entomological equipment to accomplish effectively. It is used primarily for hard-bodied, medium to large specimens and is beneficial for easier study and color preservation. Flies and butterflies, though they are partially soft-bodied, are also best preserved through pinning because when preserved in fluid their hairs and/or scales will either clot or fall off. Some smaller specimens may still be pinned use minuten pins, which are much thinner, to avoid breakage. Insects are pinned on foam block or specialized pinning blocks that provide support for the limbs while drying and may be moved to another specialized, protected display case after they have dried completely, at which point they will be more brittle. The pin is most often driven through the thorax of the insect just to the right of the mid-line to preserve the appearance of at least one side should any damage occur from pinning. The exception is butterflies, dragonflies and damselflies, which are pinned through the middle of the thorax. Enough of the pin must be left both above and below the specimen to allow for labeling below and handling.\nCarding is used when pinning would destroy too much of the specimen because its size is quite small. A triangular point is cut from acid free card to ensure best conservation practice because it comes in direct contact with the specimen. A pin is then driven through the broad side of the point for mounting. A soluble glue that can be removed with solvents when necessary is used to adhere the right side of the thorax of the specimen to the point opposite the pinned side. The point is sometimes bent to allow the specimen to present in the same position as normally pinned specimens.\n\nA wet specimen is a specimen preserved in fluid, often 70% alcohol. Specimens that would receive this preservation technique are usually soft-bodied, such as caterpillars, larva, and spiders because of their soft abdomens. This is done to minimize shriveling allowing the identifying characteristics to be preserved as true to life as possible. Hard-bodied insects may also be preserved temporarily in alcohol before pinning.\n\nSlides of very small insects are also kept as part of insect collections.\n\nThe American Institute for Conservation (AIC) describes in their Code of Ethics the aspects of conservation to include: preventive conservation, examination, documentation, treatment, research and education. Each of these areas also apply to the conservation and restoration of insect specimens.\n\nInsect collections may suffer multiple types of degradation including fading colors from light exposure, mold growth from improper humidity and temperature levels, and infestations from pests that feed on dried insect, but much of this is avoidable when proper preventive conservation practices are followed.\n\nIn addition to maintaining a clean storage environment for specimens, it is sometimes necessary to clean the specimens themselves. Cleaning incredibly delicate and brittle dry insect specimens is done carefully and methodically. The conservator chooses the appropriate method based on the kind of insect that needs cleaning and how robust it is. Cleaning tools vary widely, but generally clean watercolor brushes are used to gently dust the specimens, sometimes with a stereo microscope for very small specimens, warm water and/or alcohol baths used with or without an ultrasonic cleaner, and lens blowers to gently blow away dust, or dry the specimen after a cleansing bath.\n\nA common way to prevent damage from pests intent to feed on insect specimens and dust accumulation in a collection is to keep them in sealed boxes or cabinets. When properly sealed, they can also aid in preventing damages cause by relative humidity (RH) and temperature fluctuations. Wet specimens are kept in separate vials or jars and in a secure cabinet, tray or shelf. Fluid levels are regularly monitored to ensure specimens are completely immersed in fluid, though a well-sealed jar or vial will prevent excessive evaporation.\n\nProper handling for insect specimens prevents the excessive breaking of legs, antennae and other body parts that could then easily be lost. Curved forceps may be used to allow more precision and less chance of the brittle specimen coming in contact with the handler. The handler picks up the specimen by the pin, which is placed with enough space below the specimen for the handler to put in the pinning block and enough space above to grip without touching the specimen.\nIntegrated pest management (IPM) is a specialized modern pest control used in museums. All IPM systems begin with regular sanitation and monitoring of collections to detect castings from various pests, and checking insect traps laid out to capture and identify which pests are present. Some pests, such as carpet beetles and flour beetles, feed on dried insects. When an infestation is present, treatment may be necessary. Freezing is commonly used to rid insect collections of pests. Alternatively, inert gases may be used for an anoxic fumigation - depriving the pests of oxygen to exterminate, and in extreme cases chemical fumigation proven to be safe for collections and people may be used.\n\nAssessing the condition of an insect collection is done regularly and the results are recorded accordingly. The conservator observes the specimens in high detail remarking all areas of damage, or altered states of the specimen. Tools used during this process may include a strong light source, magnifying glass and handling tools that allow the conservator to pick up the specimen from the pin without touching it. The observations made during the examination process result in the conclusions drawn for a treatment plan if necessary. The conservator is knowledgeable of the kinds of deterioration to look for specific to insect specimens.\n\n\nThe documentation of insect specimens is carried out in many different aspects of a specimen's existence. Documented information begins with the capture of an insect. The collector records information about capture method, place and date of capture and any relevant habitat information in field notes. This information is then transferred to labels and collection records. The documentation path then continues with every recorded observation or treatment the specimen receives. Killing agents, preservation agents, rehydrating agents, and fumigants are all important to record. This then informs any future decisions for conservation actions.\n\nAs a minimum, labels contain the place and date of collection, and the identification of genus and species. On pinned insects, the labels are likewise pinned with the space left under the specimen on the same pin. There are various ways to write the information on labels, but an ink that will not fade or come off in liquid is generally used. The paper is ideally 100% cotton or linen rag to avoid yellowing or embrittlement of the paper as it ages.\nWith improvements in digital photography and web resources, many natural history museums have begun a new kind of documentation through digitization, bringing high quality images and associated information to anyone with access to the Internet. Large databases can hold vast amounts of information improving research efforts.\n\nScientific illustration of insects is an older technique used to preserve information about collected insects. It visually documents insects, and unlike photography, can add intellectual ideas about anatomy and behavior of the insect through artists' renditions. Scientifically informed observation of specimens combined with technical and aesthetic skill yields the highly detailed illustrations necessary for the documentation of each species that is illustrated.\n\nThis area of insect specimen documentation comes after the close examination of specimens by conservators. The conservator records all of the visual information about the specimen that can be gleaned from detailed inspection. Conclusions are drawn from inspection and potential treatments are also documented to inform researchers and future conservators. \nResearching the collections of insects provides important information that develops knowledge about ecology, human health and crops. Well-kept records aid the researcher in identifying whether there are differences in an observed specimen because of damages, treatments or deterioration. Research of the insect collections in museums can lead to new discoveries of species, and provide an important historical resource.\n\nOnce a close observation reveals what issues are present in insect collections, the conservator makes a decision on actions to be taken. It is highly preferable that any treatment applied be reversible or done with little risk to the specimen. For example, broken limbs may be glued back on, which has traditionally been done with white glue. The advantage to white glue being that it is removable in warm water. Another common problem is pest infestation. When dried insect collections have suffered an infestation, the affected specimens can be frozen or sealed with inert gases to kill the pests without harming the specimens. Other treatments might include simply refilling wet specimens' jars with alcohol to ensure the specimens are completely submerged, cleaning specimens of dust and debris, or repositioning specimens for display or research. In the case that a specimen needs to be repositioned, the conservator will \"relax\" the specimen in a jar with a rehydrating substrate to move the limbs without breaking them. The technique used will vary among conservators. Some use a relaxing jar that the specimen is left in for days with the substrate of choice, others may choose to use a warm water bath with a drop of detergent. Whatever treatments are used are diligently documented.\n\nConservation of insect specimens is done in large part to preserve the information for the public. The display of collections in museums and their interpretation offer one avenue that accomplishes this effort. However, websites offer a unique opportunity to disseminate information to a broad audience with layers of information to give general information or to provide depth where desired. These websites are often also provided by museums and their collections. Below is a list of some major educational endeavors with interests in insect specimens.\n\n"}
{"id": "13466211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466211", "title": "Contexts", "text": "Contexts\n\nContexts: \"Understanding People in their Social Worlds\" is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal and an official publication of the American Sociological Association. It is designed to be a more accessible source of sociological ideas and research and has been inspired by the movement towards public sociology.\n\nThe journal was established in 2002 by Claude Fischer and is published by SAGE Publications; until 2011, it was published by the University of California Press. Fischer was succeeded by Jeff Goodwin and James M. Jasper, who edited the journal from 2005 to 2007, injecting a certain amount of controversial humor such as New Yorker cartoons and a column written by \"Harry Green\" (actually Jasper) called \"The Fool.\" The current editors are Syed Ali and Philip N. Cohen.\n\nThe journal differs from a typical academic journal as it is targeted more toward students and the general public. It is used widely in courses, and a selection of its premier articles is available in book format through \"The Contexts Reader,\" published by W. W. Norton & Company, now in its second edition.\n\nThe new editors have introduced a blog feature on the magazines website, Contexts.org.\n\nNew print issues are published quarterly in February (Winter), May (Spring), August (Summer) and November (Fall).\n\n\"Contexts\" won the Best Journal Award in the Social Sciences (2003) by Professional and Scholarly Publishing Division of the Association of American Publishers.\n\nOne of the most notable articles in \"Contexts\" is Ann Morning's interview with Rachel Doležal. The interview has aired on many TV news networks, such as Fox News, BBC, and USA Today, over the possibility of a trans-racial identity.\n\nThe academic journal ranges in topics from social mobility, immigration, race (particularly its role in Get Out), Donald Trump's potential border wall, and Buffy the Vampire Slayer.\n\nOne of the board members for \"Contexts\", Tressie McMillan Cottom, appeared on The Daily Show with Trevor Noah to discuss the impact of for-profit higher education in the United States on disadvantaged students.\n\"Contexts\" is abstracted and indexed in SocINDEX and Sociological Abstracts.\n"}
{"id": "54286399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54286399", "title": "Curie's Principle", "text": "Curie's Principle\n\nCurie's Principle or Curie's Symmetry Principle, is a maxim about cause and effect formulated by Pierre Curie in 1894: \"the symmetries of the causes are to be found in the\neffects\".\n"}
{"id": "31383175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31383175", "title": "Cyberworthiness", "text": "Cyberworthiness\n\nCyberworthiness is the property, or navigation capability, that has the user interface of an internet site, or the web browser software itself, to facilitate the user to reach his destination as safe and efficiently as possible. This terminology, which arose with the advent of cybernetics and cyberspace navigation, corresponds to the quality of the \"road structure\" and/or the \"vehicle\" that gives access to the information content of the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "7321888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7321888", "title": "Dielectric thermal analysis", "text": "Dielectric thermal analysis\n\nDielectric thermal analysis (DETA), or dielectric analysis (DEA), is a materials science technique similar to dynamic mechanical analysis except that an oscillating electrical field is used instead of a mechanical force. For investigation of the curing behavior of thermosetting resin systems, composite materials, adhesives and paints, Dielectric Analysis (DEA) can be used in accordance with ASTM E 2038 or E 2039. The great advantage of DEA is that it can be employed not only on a laboratory scale, but also in process.\n\nIn a typical test, the sample is placed in contact with two electrodes (the dielectric sensor) and a sinusoidal voltage (the excitation) is applied to one electrode. The resulting sinusoidal current (the response) is measured at the second electrode. The response signal is attenuated in amplitude and shifted in phase in relation to the mobility of the ions and alignment of the dipoles. Dipoles in the material will attempt to align with the electric field and ions (present as impurities) will move toward the electrode of opposite polarity. The dielectric properties of permittivity ε' and loss factor ε\" are then calculated from this measured amplitude and phase change.\n"}
{"id": "31500839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31500839", "title": "Dryad (repository)", "text": "Dryad (repository)\n\nDryad is an international disciplinary repository of data underlying scientific and medical publications. Dryad is a curated general-purpose repository that makes data discoverable, freely reusable, and citable. The scientific, educational, and charitable mission of Dryad is to promote the availability of data underlying findings in the scientific literature for research and educational reuse.\n\nThe vision of Dryad is a scholarly communication system in which learned societies, publishers, institutions of research and education, funding bodies and other stakeholders collaboratively sustain and promote the preservation and reuse of data underlying the scholarly literature.\n\nDryad aims to allow researchers to validate published findings, explore new analysis methodologies, re-purpose data for research questions unanticipated by the original authors, and perform synthetic studies such as formal meta-analyses. For many publications, existing data repositories do not capture the whole data package. As a result, many important datasets are not being preserved and are no longer available, or usable, at the time that they are sought by later investigators.\n\nDryad serves as a repository for tables, spreadsheets, flat files, and all other kinds of published data for which specialized repositories do not already exist. Optimally, authors submit data to Dryad in conjunction with article publication, so that links to the data can be included in the published article. All data files in Dryad are associated with a published article, and are made available for reuse under the terms of a Creative Commons Zero waiver.\n\nDryad is also a non-profit membership organization registered in the US, providing a forum for all stakeholders to set priorities for the repository, participate in planning, and share knowledge and coordinate action around data policies.\n\nDryad is listed in the Registry of Research Data Repositories re3data.org.\n\nDryad enables authors, journals, societies and publishers to facilitate data archiving at the time of publication, when the data are readily available. Data in Dryad receives a permanent, unique Digital object identifier (DOI), which can be included in the published article so that readers are able to access the data. Authors can archive data in Dryad and be assured of its preservation, while satisfying journals' and research funding agencies' mandates to disseminate their research outputs.\n\nAuthors submit data to Dryad either when the associated article is under review or has been accepted for publication. The choice depends on whether the journal includes data within the scope of peer reviewer. Authors may also submit data after an article has been published.\n\nData submission is facilitated by journals sending notices of new manuscripts to Dryad. This saves authors from having to re-enter the bibliographic details when they upload their data files.\n\nDryad curators review submitted data files and perform quality control on metadata descriptions before inclusion of new content in the repository. Dryad’s metadata approach emphasizes simplicity and interoperability, supported by a Dublin Core metadata application profile. The Metadata Research Center now at the College of Computing and Informatics, Drexel University, serves as Dryad’s central curation hub, with curation activity also taking place via the non-profit in North Carolina. \n\nDryad coordinates data submission to specialized repositories where in order to (a) lower user burden by streamlining the submission workflow and (b) allow Dryad and specialized repositories to exchange identifiers and other metadata in order to enable cross-referencing of the different data products associated with a given publication. The first two handshaking partners are TreeBASE and GenBank, which Dryad's partner journals have previously identified as required points of deposition for phylogenetic tree data and DNA sequences, respectively.\n\nDryad is governed by a twelve-member Board of Directors, elected by its Members. Members may be independent journals, societies, publishers, research and educational institutions, libraries, funders, or other organizations that support Dryad's mission. The organization coordinates data sharing policies and promotes the long-term sustainability of the repository.\n\nDryad began charging submission fees in September 2013. Dryad is a nonprofit organization that provides long-term access to its contents at no cost to researchers, educators or students, irrespective of nationality or institutional affiliation. Dryad is able to provide free access to data due to financial support from members and data submitters. Dryad’s submission fees are designed to sustain its core functions by recovering the basic costs of curating and preserving data.\n\nDryad emerged from a National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) workshop entitled \"Digital data preservation, sharing, and discovery: Challenges for Small Science Communities in the Digital Era\" in May 2007. Initial funding for Dryad was provided by the National Science Foundation to the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center and other partners in the US.\n\nDryadUK was a Jisc-funded project run from the British Library and the University of Oxford, in partnership with NESCent, the Digital Curation Centre, and Charles Beagrie Ltd. The project led to a UK mirror of the Dryad repository based at the British Library. The project also improved the tools available for the publication and citation of data, expanded the disciplinary range of participating journals, and further developed the business framework for an international organization dedicated to long-term data preservation.\n\nDryad is a member of the Data Observation Network for Earth (DataONE).\n\nDryad is built upon the open source DSpace repository software, developed by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Hewlett-Packard. Many customizations have been integrated into the main DSpace codebase; customizations specific to Dryad are maintained in the open source Dryad code repository.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "159184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159184", "title": "Edgar Cayce", "text": "Edgar Cayce\n\nEdgar Cayce (; March 18, 1877 – January 3, 1945) was an American clairvoyant who answered questions on subjects as varied as healing, reincarnation, wars, Atlantis, and future events while claiming to be in a trance. A biographer gave him the nickname, The Sleeping Prophet. A nonprofit organization, the Association for Research and Enlightenment,<ref name='ARE About/Mission'></ref> was founded to facilitate the study of Cayce's work.\n\nSome consider him the true founder and a principal source of the most characteristic beliefs of the New Age movement.\n\nCayce is also notable for his contributions to the notions of diet and health, particularly the issues of food combining, acid/alkaline diet, and the therapeutic use of food.\n\nEdgar Cayce was born on March 18, 1877, near Beverly, south of Hopkinsville, Kentucky. He was one of six children of farmers Carrie Elizabeth (née Major) and Leslie Burr Cayce. As a child, he played with the 'little folk' and was alleged to have seen his deceased grandfather. He regarded them all as incorporeal because he could see through them if he looked hard enough. However, he found it very difficult to keep his mind on his lessons at school.\n\nHe was taken to church when he was 10, and from then he read the Bible, becoming engrossed, and completing a dozen readings by the time he was 12. In May 1889, while reading the Bible in his hut in the woods, he 'saw' a woman with wings who told him that his prayers were answered, and asked him what he wanted most of all. He was frightened, but he said that most of all he wanted to help others, especially sick children. He decided he would like to be a missionary.\n\nThe next night, after a complaint from the school teacher, his father ruthlessly tested him for spelling, eventually knocking him out of his chair with exasperation. At that point, Cayce 'heard' the voice of the lady who had appeared the day before. She told him that if he could sleep a little 'they' could help him. He begged for a rest and put his head on the spelling book. When his father came back into the room and woke him up, he knew all the answers. In fact, he could repeat anything in the book. His father thought he had been fooling before and knocked him out of the chair again. Eventually, Cayce used all his school books that way.\n\nBy 1892, the teacher regarded Cayce as his best student. On being questioned, Cayce told the teacher that he saw pictures of the pages in the books. His father became proud of this accomplishment and spread it around, resulting in Cayce becoming \"different\" from his peers.\n\nShortly after this, Cayce exhibited an ability to diagnose in his sleep. He was struck on the base of the spine by a ball in a school game, after which he began to act very strangely, and eventually was put to bed. He went to sleep and diagnosed the cure, which his family prepared and which cured him as he slept. His father boasted that his son was, \"the greatest fellow in the world when he's asleep.\" However, this ability was not demonstrated again for several years.\n\nCayce's uncommon personality is also shown in an unusual incident in which he rode a certain mule back to the farmhouse at the end of a work day. This stunned everyone there, as the mule could not be ridden. The owner, thinking it may be time to break the animal in again, attempted to mount it but was immediately thrown off. Cayce left for his family in the city that evening.\n\nIn December 1893, the Cayce family moved to Hopkinsville, Kentucky, and occupied 705 West Seventh on the southeast corner of Seventh and Young Streets. During this time, Cayce received an eighth-grade education, is said by the Association for Research and Enlightenment to have developed psychic abilities, and left the family farm to pursue various forms of employment.\n\nCayce's education stopped in the ninth grade because his family could not afford the costs involved. A ninth-grade education was often considered more than sufficient for working-class children. Much of the remainder of Cayce's younger years would be characterized by a search for both employment and money. On March 14, 1897, Cayce became engaged to Gertrude Evans.\n\nThroughout his life, Cayce was drawn to church as a member of the Disciples of Christ. He read the Bible once a year every year, taught at Sunday school, and recruited missionaries. He said he could see auras around people, spoke to angels, and heard voices of departed relatives. In his early years, he agonized over whether these psychic abilities were spiritually delivered from the highest source.\n\nIn 1900, Cayce formed a business partnership with his father to sell Woodmen of the World Insurance; however, in March he was struck by severe laryngitis that resulted in a complete loss of speech. Unable to work, he lived at home with his parents for almost a year. He then decided to take up the trade of photography, an occupation that would exert less strain on his voice. He began an apprenticeship at the photography studio of W. R. Bowles in Hopkinsville, and eventually became quite talented in his trade.\n\nIn 1901, a traveling stage hypnotist and entertainer named Hart, who referred to himself as \"The Laugh Man\", was performing at the Hopkinsville Opera House. Hart heard about Cayce's condition and offered to attempt a cure. Cayce accepted his offer, and the experiment was conducted in the office of Manning Brown, the local throat specialist. Cayce's voice allegedly returned while in a hypnotic trance but disappeared on awakening. Hart tried a posthypnotic suggestion that the voice would continue to function after the trance, but this proved unsuccessful.\n\nSince Hart had appointments at other cities, he could not continue his hypnotic treatments of Cayce, but admitted he had failed because Cayce would not go into the third stage of hypnosis to take a suggestion. A New York hypnotist, Dr Quackenboss, found the same impediment but, after returning to New York, suggested that Cayce should be prompted to take over his own case while in the second stage of hypnosis. The only local hypnotist, Al Layne, offered to help Cayce restore his voice. Layne suggested that Cayce describe the nature of his condition and cure while in a hypnotic trance. Cayce described his own ailment from a first-person plural point of view: \"we\" instead of the singular \"I\". In subsequent sessions, when Cayce wanted to indicate that the connection was made to the \"entity\" of the person that was requesting the reading, he would generally start off with, \"We have the body.\" According to the reading for the \"entity\" of Cayce, his voice loss was due to psychological paralysis, and could be corrected by increasing the blood flow to the voice box. Layne suggested that the blood flow be increased and Cayce's face supposedly became flushed with blood, and both his chest and throat turned bright red. After 20 minutes, Cayce, still in a trance, declared the treatment over. On awakening, his voice was alleged to have remained normal. Apparently, relapses occurred, but were said to have been corrected by Layne in the same way, and eventually the cure was said to be permanent.\n\nLayne had read of similar hypnotic cures by the Marquis de Puységur, a follower of Franz Mesmer, and was keen to explore the limits of the healing knowledge involved with the trance voice. He asked Cayce to describe Layne's own ailments and suggest cures, and reportedly found the results both accurate and effective. Layne regarded the ability as clairvoyance. Layne suggested that Cayce offer his trance healing to the public. Cayce was reluctant as he had no idea what he was prescribing while asleep, and whether the remedies were safe. He also told Layne he himself did not want to know anything about the patient as it was not relevant. He finally agreed, on the condition that readings would be free. He began, with Layne's help, to offer free treatments to the townspeople. Layne described Cayce's method as, \"...a self-imposed hypnotic trance which induces clairvoyance.\" Reports of Cayce's work appeared in the newspapers, which inspired many postal inquiries. Cayce stated he could work just as effectively using a letter from the individual as with the person being present in the room. Given only the person's name and location, Cayce said he could diagnose the physical and mental conditions of what he termed \"the entity,\" and then provide a remedy. Cayce was still reticent and worried, as \"one dead patient was all he needed to become a murderer\". His fiancée, Gertrude Evans, agreed with him. Few people knew what he was up to. There was a common belief at the time that subjects of hypnosis eventually went insane, or at least that their health suffered. Cayce soon became famous, and people from around the world sought his advice through correspondence.\n\nIn May 1902 he got a bookshop job in the town of Bowling Green where he boarded with some young professionals, two of whom were doctors. He lost his voice while there and Layne came to help effect the normal cure, finally visiting every week. Cayce, still worried, kept the meetings secret, and continued to refuse money for his readings. He invented a card game called \"Pit\" or \"Board of Trade\", simulating wheat market trading, that became popular, but when he sent the idea to a game company they copyrighted it and he got no returns. He still refused to give readings for money.\n\nCayce and Gertrude Evans married on June 17, 1903, and she moved to Bowling Green with him. They had three children: Hugh Lynn Cayce (March 16, 1907 – July 4, 1982), Milton Porter Cayce (March 28, 1911 – May 17, 1911), and Edgar Evans Cayce (February 9, 1918 – February 15, 2013). She still disapproved of the readings, and Cayce still agonized over the morality of them. A few days later Layne revealed the activity to the professionals at the boarding house, one of whom was a magistrate and journalist, after which state medical authorities forced Layne to close his practice. He left to acquire osteopathic qualifications in Franklin. Cayce and Gertrude accepted the resulting publicity as best they could, greatly aided by the diplomacy of the young doctors.\n\nCayce and a relative opened a photographic studio in Bowling Green, while the doctors formed a committee with some colleagues to investigate the phenomenon, with Cayce’s co-operation. All the experiments confirmed the accuracy of the readings. However, Cayce refused a lucrative offer to go into business. After a violent examination by doctors while in a trance, Cayce refused any more investigations, declaring that he would only do readings for those who needed help and believed in the readings.\n\nIn 1906 and 1907 fires burned down his two photographic studios, leading to bankruptcy. Between the two fires, his first son was born on March 16, 1907. He became debt free by 1909, although completely broke, and ready to start again. In 1907, outstanding diagnostic successes in the family helped his confidence. He again refused an offer to go into business, this time with homeopath Wesley H. Ketchum from Hopkinsville, who was introduced by his father. He found a job at the H. P. Tresslar photography firm.\n\nHowever, Ketchum was persistent, spread information in various medical circles, and in October 1910 got written up in the press. When a reporter contacted Cayce, he explained to the reporter that he somehow had the ability to easily go into the intuitive sleep when he wanted to, and this was different from how he went to sleep normally like everyone else. When asked the mechanism of the readings via the sleep method, they were told that it happened via the capabilities of the subconscious mind.\n\nKetchum again urged Cayce to join a business company. After soul searching the whole night, Cayce finally accepted the offer under certain conditions, including that he did not take money for the readings. Instead the company was to furnish him with a photographic studio for his livelihood, and build a separate office for the readings. The contract was modified to give 50% of the earnings to Cayce and his father. Cayce read the back readings, but they contained so many technical terms that he gained no more understanding of what he was doing. He preferred to put the readings on a more scientific basis, but only the doctors in Hopkinsville would cooperate, whereas most of the patients were not in that locality. Also, doctors from all specialties were needed as the treatments prescribed varied widely.\n\nEdgar Cayce, and especially Gertrude, still did not give therapeutic priority to the readings and supposedly lost their second child due to this reticence. When Gertrude became fatally ill with tuberculosis, they used the readings after the doctor had given up. Miraculously, the treatment cured her. Shortly after this, in 1912, Cayce, whose everyday conscious mind was not aware during the readings, discovered that Ketchum had not been honest about them, and had also used them to gamble for finance. He argued in defense that the medical profession were not backing them. Cayce quit the company immediately and went back to the Tresslar photography firm in Selma, Alabama.\n\nCayce's work grew in volume as his fame grew. He asked for voluntary donations to support himself and his family so that he could practice full-time. To help raise money he invented \"Pit\", a card game based on the commodities trading at the Chicago Board of Trade, and the game is still sold today. He continued to work in an apparent trance state with a hypnotist all his life. His wife and eldest son later replaced Layne in this role. A secretary, Gladys Davis, recorded his readings in shorthand.\n\nThe growing fame of Cayce along with the popularity he received from newspapers attracted several eager commercially minded men who wanted to seek a fortune by using his clairvoyant abilities. Even though Cayce was reluctant to help them, he was persuaded to give his readings, which left him dissatisfied with himself and unsuccessful. A cotton merchant offered him a hundred dollars a day for his readings about the daily outcomes in the cotton market; however, despite his poor finances, Cayce refused the merchant's offer. Some wanted to know where to hunt for treasures while others wanted to know the outcome of horse races. Several times he was persuaded to give such readings as an experiment. However, when he used his ability for such purposes, he did no better than chance alone would dictate. These experiments allegedly left him depleted of energy, distraught, and unsatisfied with himself. Finally, he decided to use his gift only to help the distressed and sick.\n\nIn 1923, Arthur Lammers, a wealthy printer and student of metaphysics, persuaded Cayce to give readings on philosophical subjects. Cayce was told by Lammers that, while in his trance state, he spoke of Lammers' past lives and of reincarnation, something Lammers believed in. Reincarnation was a popular subject of the day but is not an accepted part of Christian doctrine. Because of this, Cayce questioned his stenographer about what he said in his trance state and remained unconvinced. He challenged Lammers' charge that he had validated astrology and reincarnation in the following dialogue:\n\nCayce's stenographer recorded the following:\n\nCayce was quite unconvinced that he had been referring to the doctrine of reincarnation, and the best Lammers could offer was that the reading \"opens up the door\" and to go on to share his beliefs and knowledge with Cayce. Lammers had come to him with quite a bit of information of his own to share with Cayce and seemed intent upon convincing Cayce now that he felt the reading had confirmed his strongly-held beliefs. It should be noted, however, that 12 years earlier Cayce had briefly alluded to reincarnation. In reading 4841-1, given April 22, 1911, Cayce referred to the soul being \"transmigrated.\" Because Cayce's readings were not systematically recorded until 1923, it is possible that he may have mentioned reincarnation in other earlier readings.\n\nLammers asked Cayce to come to Dayton to pursue metaphysical truth via the readings. Cayce eventually agreed and went to Dayton. Gertrude Cayce was dubious but interested. There, Cayce produced much metaphysical information, which Cayce tried to reconcile with Christianity. Lammers declared that the fifth chapter of Matthew was the constitution of Christianity and the Sermon on the Mount was its Declaration of Independence. It appeared that Cayce's subconscious mind was as much at home with the language of metaphysics as it was with the language of anatomy and medicine.\n\nCayce reported that his conscience bothered him severely over this conflict. His readings of reincarnations were going against his biblical teachings and at one point he wanted to cease his channeling sessions. Once again Cayce lost his voice and in a reading for himself he was informed if he was no longer going to be a channel, his mission in this life was complete. Ultimately his trance voice, the \"we\" of the readings, dialogued with Cayce and finally persuaded him to continue with these kinds of readings.\n\nLammers wanted to ask the readings the purpose of Cayce's clairvoyance, and to put up money for an organisation supporting Cayce's healing methods. Cayce decided to accept the work and asked his family to join him in Dayton as soon as they could. But by the time the Cayces had arrived there, near the end of 1923, Lammers found himself in financial difficulties and could be of no use. Cayce used his knowledge of the Bible to convince his family that it agreed with reincarnation and other metaphysical teachings.\n\nIt was at this time Cayce directed his activities to provide readings centred around health. The remedies that were channeled often involved the use of unusual electrotherapy, ultraviolet light, diet, massage, gemstones, less mental work and more relaxation in sand on the beach. His remedies were coming under the scrutiny of the American Medical Association and Cayce felt that it was time to legitimize the operations with the aid of licensed medical practitioners. In 1925 Cayce reported while in a trance, \"the voice\" had instructed him to move to Virginia Beach, Virginia across the street from the beach. He was informed that the sand's crystals would have curative properties to promote rapid healing.\n\nCayce's mature period, in which he created the several institutions that survived him, can be considered to have started in 1925. By this time he was a professional psychic with a small number of employees and volunteers. The readings increasingly came to involve occult or esoteric themes.\n\nMoney was extremely scarce, but help came from interested persons. The idea of an association and a hospital was mooted again, but the readings insisted on Virginia Beach, not suiting most of the people. Gertrude Cayce began to conduct all the readings. Morton Blumenthal, a young man who worked in the stock exchange in New York with his trader brother, became very interested in the readings, shared Cayce's outlook, and offered to finance the vision in the right spirit. He bought them a house at Virginia Beach.\n\nOn May 6, 1927, the Association of National Investigations was incorporated in the state of Virginia. This would manage building the hospital and a scientific study of the readings. Morton was president and his brother and several others were vice presidents. Cayce was secretary and treasurer, and Gladys was assistant secretary. To protect against legal prosecution, the rules required any person requesting a reading to become a member of the Association and agree they were participating in an experiment in psychic research. Early in 1928, Dr Moseley Brown, head of the psychology dept at Washington and Lee University, became convinced of the readings and joined the Association.\n\nOn October 11, 1928, the dedication ceremonies for the hospital complex were held. It contained a lecture hall, library, vault for storage of the readings, and offices for research workers. There was also a large living room, a 12-car garage, servants quarters, and a tennis court. It contained \"the largest lawn, in fact the only lawn, between the Cavalier and Cape Henry.\" The first patient was admitted the next day.\n\nThis facility would enable consistent checking and rechecking of the remedies, which was Cayce's goal. There were consistent remedies for many of the illnesses regardless of the patient, and Cayce hoped to produce a compendium that could be used by the medical profession. A distinguished chemist, Dr Sunker A. Bisley, DPhil (Oxon), who also used psychic knowledge to produce medicines, collaborated with Cayce to produce Atomidine, an absorbable form of iodine, which was perfected and sold.\n\nThe basic raison d'etre for all the cures was the \"assimilation of needed properties through the digestive system, from food taken into the body… [All treatments, including all schools and types of treatment, were given in order to establish] the proper equilibrium of the assimilating system.\" Therapies as divergent as salt packs, poultices, hot compresses, color healing, magnetism, vibrator treatment, massage, osteopathic manipulation, dental therapy, colonics, enemas, antiseptics, inhalants, homeopathics, essential oils, mud baths were prescribed. Substances used included oils, salts, herbs, iodine, witch hazel, magnesia, bismuth, alcohol, castoria, lactated pepsin, turpentine, charcoal, animated ash, soda, cream of tartar, aconite, laudanum, camphor, and gold solution. These were prescribed to overcome conditions that prevented proper digestion and assimilation of needed nutrients from the prescribed diet. The aim of the readings was to produce a healthy body, removing the cause of the specific ailment. Readings would indicate if the patient's recovery was problematic.\n\nThere was a waiting list of months ahead. \nBlumenthal and Brown went ahead with ambitious plans for a university as a supplement to the hospital and a \"parallel service for the mind and spirit\". In fact, it was to dwarf the hospital and rival other universities in respectability before psychic studies would begin. It was to open on September 22, 1930. On September 16 Blumenthal called a meeting of the Association resulting in his ownership of the hospital to curb expenses. After the first semester he ceased his support of the university, and on February 26, 1931, closed down the Association. Cayce removed the files of the readings from the hospital and took them home.\n\nThe Depression years saw Cayce turn his attention to spiritual teachings. In 1931, Edgar Cayce's friends and family asked him how they could become psychic like him. Out of this seemingly simple question came an eleven-year discourse that led to the creation of \"Study Groups\". From his altered state, Cayce relayed to this group that the purpose of life is not to become psychic, but to become a more spiritually aware and loving person. Study Group #1 was told that they could \"bring light to a waiting world\" and that these lessons would still be studied a hundred years into the future. The readings were now about dreams, coincidence (synchronicity), developing intuition, karma, the akashic records, astrology, past-life relationships, soul mates and other esoteric subjects. Hundreds of books have been published about these readings.\n\nJune 6, 1931, 61 people attended a meeting to carry on the work and form a new organization called the Association for Research and Enlightenment. In July the new association was incorporated, and Cayce legally returned the house to Blumenthal and bought another place.\n\nHugh Lynn proposed that they develop a stock in trade rather than something grandiose, and that they build a library of research into the phenomena and hold study groups, and that Cayce would do two readings a day. The association accepted this, and Hugh Lynn also started a monthly bulletin for association members. The bulletin contained readings on general interest subjects, interesting cases, book reviews on psychic subjects, health hints from readings, and news of psychic phenomena in other fields.\n\nHugh Lynn narrowed the mailing list to some 300 members who were genuinely enthusiastic, and as a result the first annual congress of the association was held in June 1932. He procured speakers on various metaphysical and psychic subjects and included public readings by Cayce. Members left the conference eager to start study groups in their own localities. Records were kept of everything that went on in the readings including the attitudes and routines of Cayce. Everything was then checked with the subjects of the readings, most of whom were not present during the reading, and the data was published in a study entitled \"100 cases of clairvoyance.\" However, the response from scientists in general was that none of the experiments were performed under test conditions. Hugh Lynn continued to build files of case histories, parallel studies in psychic phenomena, and research readings for the study groups.\n\nAssociation activities remained simple and un-publicized. Members raised a building fund for an office, library, and vault, which they erected in 1940-1 as a single unit added on to the Cayce residence. No sign guided visitors to the centre. Association membership averaged 500 to 600. The turnover from year to year was approximately half this total. The other half remained a solid basis for the research work, an audience for case studies, pamphlets, bulletins—and the Congress bulletin, which was a yearbook and record of congress events. A mailing list of several thousand served people who remained interested in Cayce's activities.\nMembers were drawn from all of the Protestant churches: from the Roman, Greek, Syrian and Armenian Catholic churches; from Theosophy, Christian Science and Spiritualism; and from many Oriental religions. Cayce's philosophy was, if it makes you a better member of your church then it's good; if it takes you away from your church, it's bad. The philosophy of the readings was that truth is one, each organization is part of this one, therefore the A.R.E. was not to function as a schism or in opposition to any religious organization. The goal of the work was not something new but something ancient and universal.\nBoth sons entered the forces during the war. They both married, Hugh Lynn in 1941 and Edgar Evans in 1942.\nIn March 1943 the first edition of the only biography written during Cayce's lifetime, by Thomas Sugrue, was published. As a consequence, public demand increased. Office staff had to be increased, and the mailman could no longer carry all the mail so Gertrude got it from the post office by car. Hugh Lynn was away in the forces, and Cayce coped with the letters and increased his readings to four to six per day.\n\nCayce gained national prominence in 1943 after the publication of a high-profile article in the magazine \"Coronet\" titled \"Miracle Man of Virginia Beach\". World War II was taking its toll on American soldiers and he felt he could not refuse the families who requested help for their loved ones who were missing in action. He increased the frequency of his readings to eight per day to try to make an impression on the ever-growing pile of requests. He said this took a toll on his health as it was emotionally draining and often fatigued him. The readings themselves scolded him for attempting too much and that he should limit his workload to just two life readings a day or else these good efforts would eventually kill him.\n\nFrom June 1943 to June 1944, 1,385 readings were taken. By August 1944 Cayce collapsed from strain. When he gave a reading on this situation, the instructions were to rest until he was well or dead. He and Gertrude went away to the mountains of Virginia, but in September Edgar Cayce suffered a stroke at the age of 67, in September 1944, and died on January 3, 1945. He is buried in Riverside Cemetery in Hopkinsville, Kentucky. Gertrude died 3 months later.\n\nAfter the death of Cayce the Association continued the work of classifying and cross referring the over 14,000 files of readings that had been taken throughout Cayce's lifetime from March 31, 1901, to September 17, 1944. The results of these have been disseminated through the Associations publications with the members as the recipients of this material.\n\nUntil September 1923, his readings were not systematically recorded or preserved. However, an article published in the \"Birmingham Post-Herald\" on October 10, 1922, quotes Cayce as saying that he had given 8,056 readings as of that date and it is known that he gave approximately 13,000–14,000 readings after that date. A total of 14,306 are available at the A.R.E. Cayce headquarters in Virginia Beach and on an online member-only section along with background information, correspondence, and follow-up documentation.\n\nOther abilities that have been attributed to Cayce include astral projection, prophesying, mediumship, viewing the Akashic records or \"Book of Life\", and seeing auras. Cayce said he became interested in learning more about these subjects after he was informed about the content of his readings, which he reported that he never actually heard himself.\n\nCayce's clients included a number of famous people such as Woodrow Wilson, Thomas Edison, Irving Berlin, and George Gershwin.\n\nGina Cerminara published books such as \"Many Mansions\" and \"The World Within\". Brian Weiss published a bestseller regarding clinical recollection of past lives, \"Many Lives, Many Masters\". These books provide broad support for spiritualism and reincarnation. \"Many Mansions\" elaborates on Cayce's work and supports his stated abilities with real life examples.\n\nIn 1971 Edgar Cayce's sons Edgar Evans Cayce and Hugh Lynn Cayce published a book titled \"The Outer Limits of Edgar Cayce's Power\", claiming Cayce's readings had an approximate 85% success rate. The majority of the book investigated cases where Cayce's readings were demonstrably incorrect.\n\nKetchum was a physician who worked with Cayce in the early 1900s. Ketchum himself was born in Lisbon, Ohio on November 11, 1878, to Saunders C. Ketchum and Bertha Bennett, and was the oldest of 7 children. He graduated from the Cleveland College of Homeopathic Medicine in 1904, and took up the practice of medicine in Hopkinsville Kentucky. He practiced medicine in Hopkinsville until 1912. In 1913 he traveled across country to San Francisco, and took passage to Honolulu, Hawaii, where he opened a new practice. He returned to California in 1918, and established an office in Palo Alto California, practicing medicine there until the 1950s. He retired to Southern California around 1963, settling in San Marino, just outside Pasadena. He died on November 28, 1968, in Canoga Park, California.\n\nHe wrote \"The Discovery of Edgar Cayce\", published by the A.R.E. Press in 1964.\n\nCayce advocated some controversial ideas in his trance readings. In many trance sessions, he interpreted the history of life on Earth. One of Cayce's controversial claims was that of polygenism. According to Cayce, five human races (white, black, red, brown, and yellow) had been created separately but simultaneously on different parts of the Earth. Cayce also accepted the existence of aliens and Atlantis, and claimed that \"the red race developed in Atlantis and its development was rapid.\" Another claim by Cayce was that \"soul-entities\" on Earth intermingled with animals to produce \"things\": giants that were as much as twelve feet tall.\n\nHistorian Olav Hammer wrote that many of Cayce's readings discussed race and skin color and that the explanation for this is that Cayce was not a racist but was influenced by the occult ideas of Madame Blavatsky. Cayce declared that the Piltdown man was genuine, claiming he was an Atlantean colonizer who had travelled to Britain. However, the Piltdown man was exposed as a hoax in 1953.\n\nPhilosopher and skeptic Robert Todd Carroll, in his book \"The Skeptic's Dictionary\", wrote, \"Cayce is one of the main people responsible for some of the sillier notions about Atlantis.\" Carroll mentioned some of Cayce's ideas, including his belief in a giant solar crystal, activated by the sun, and used to harness energy and provide power on Atlantis, and his prediction that in 1958, the United States would rediscover a death ray that had been used on Atlantis.\n\nIn 1930s, Cayce also incorrectly predicted that North America would experience chaos: \"Los Angeles, San Francisco... will be among those that will be destroyed before New York\". These events were to have happened \"in the period of '58 to '98\".\n\nSkeptics challenge Cayce's alleged psychic abilities. Medical health experts are critical of Cayce's unorthodox treatments, which they regard as quackery.\n\nScience writers and skeptics have suggested that the evidence for Cayce's alleged psychic powers comes from contemporaneous newspaper articles, affidavits, anecdotes, testimonials, and books. Martin Gardner, for example, wrote that while Cayce's trances did happen, most of the information from his trances was derived from books that Cayce had been reading by authors such as Carl Jung, P. D. Ouspensky, and Helena Blavatsky. Gardner's hypothesis was that the trance readings of Cayce contain, \"little bits of information gleaned from here and there in the occult literature, spiced with occasional novelties from Cayce's unconscious.\"\n\nMichael Shermer writes in \"Why People Believe Weird Things\", \"Uneducated beyond the ninth grade, Cayce acquired his broad knowledge through voracious reading and from this he wove elaborate tales.\" Shermer wrote that, \"Cayce was fantasy-prone from his youth, often talking with angels and receiving visions of his dead grandfather.\" Magician James Randi has said that \"Cayce was fond of expressions like 'I feel that' and 'perhaps'—qualifying words used to avoid positive declarations.\" Examination of the readings do not show qualifying terms.\n\nInvestigator Joe Nickell has noted:\n\nAlthough Cayce was never subjected to proper testing, ESP pioneer Joseph B. Rhine of Duke University — who should have been sympathetic to Cayce's claims — was unimpressed. A reading that Cayce gave for Rhine's daughter was notably inaccurate. Frequently, Cayce was even wider off the mark, as when he provided diagnoses of subjects \"who had died\" since the letters requesting the readings were sent.\n\nScience writer Karen Stollznow has written:\n\nTraditional Christians are critical of Cayce's views on issues such as reincarnation, oneness, and the Akashic records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19068598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068598", "title": "Electrohomeopathy", "text": "Electrohomeopathy\n\nElectrohomoeopathy (or Mattei cancer cure) is a derivative of homeopathy invented in the 19th century by Count Cesare Mattei. The name is derived from a combination of \"electro\" (referring to an electric bio-energy content supposedly extracted from plants and of therapeutic value, rather than electricity in its conventional sense) and \"homeopathy\" (referring to an alternative medicinal philosophy developed by Samuel Hahnemann in the 18th century). Electrohomeopathy has been defined as the combination of electrical devices and homeopathy.\n\nLucrative for its inventor and popular in the late nineteenth century, electrohomoeopathy has been described as \"utter idiocy\". Like all homeopathy, it is regarded by the medical and scientific communities as pseudoscience and its practice as quackery.\n\nElectrohomeopathy was devised by Cesare Mattei (1809–1896) in the latter part of the 19th century. Mattei, a nobleman living in a castle in the vicinity of Bologna, studied natural science, anatomy, physiology, pathology, chemistry and botany. He ultimately focused on the supposed therapeutic power of \"electricity\" in botanical extracts. Mattei made bold, unsupported claims for the efficacy of his treatments, including the claim that his treatments offered a nonsurgical alternative to cancer. His treatment regimens were met with scepticism by mainstream medicine:The electrohomeopathic system is an invention of Count Mattei who prates of \"red\", \"yellow\" and \"blue\", \"green\" and \"white\" electricity, a theory that, in spite of its utter idiocy, has attracted a considerable following and earned a large fortune for its chief promoter.\n\nNotwithstanding criticisms, including a challenge by the British medical establishment to the claimed success of his cancer treatments, electrohomeopathy (or Matteism, as it was sometimes known at the time) had adherents in Germany, France, the USA and the UK by the beginning of the 20th century; electrohomeopathy had been the subject of approximately 100 publications and there were three journals dedicated to it.\n\nRemedies are derived from what are said to be the active micro nutrients or mineral salts of certain plants. One contemporary account of the process of producing electrohomeopathic remedies was as follows:As to the nature of his remedies we learn ... that ... they are manufactured from certain herbs, and that the directions for the preparation of the necessary dilutions are given in the ordinary jargon of homeopathy. The globules and liquids, however, are \"instinct with a potent, vital, electrical force, which enables them to work wonders\". This process of \"fixing the electrical principle\" is carried on in the secret central chamber of a Neo-Moorish castle which Count Mattei has built for himself in the Bolognese Apennines ... The \"red electricity\" and \"white electricity\" supposed to be \"fixed\" in these \"vegetable compounds\" are in their very nomenclature and suggestion poor and miserable fictions.\n\nAccording to Mattei's own ideas however, every disease originates in the change of blood or of the lymphatic system or both, and remedies can therefore be mainly divided into two broad categories to be used in response to the dominant affected system. Mattei wrote that having obtained plant extracts, he was \"able to determine in the liquid vegetable electricity\". Allied to his theories and therapies were elements of Chinese medicine, of medical humours, of apparent Brownianism, as well as modified versions of Samuel Hahnemann's homeopathic principles. Electrohomeopathy has some associations with Spagyric medicine, a holistic medical philosophy claimed to be the practical application of alchemy in medical treatment, so that the principle of modern electrohomeopathy is that disease is typically multi-organic in cause or effect and therefore requires holistic treatment that is at once both complex and natural.\n\nA symposium took place in Bologna in 2008 to mark the 200th anniversary of the birth of Cesare Mattei, with attendees from India, Pakistan, Germany, UK, and the USA. Electrohomeopathy is practiced predominantly in India and Pakistan (RAJYA SABHA Parliamentary Bulletin- The Recognition of Electro Homeopathy System of Medicine Bill,\n2015 by E. M. Sudarsana Natchiappan, M. P), but there are also a number of electrohomeopathy organizations and institutions worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10515", "title": "Extrasensory perception", "text": "Extrasensory perception\n\nExtrasensory perception or ESP, also called sixth sense or second sight, includes claimed reception of information not gained through the recognized physical senses, but sensed with the mind. The term was adopted by Duke University psychologist J. B. Rhine to denote psychic abilities such as intuition, telepathy, psychometry, clairaudience, and clairvoyance, and their trans-temporal operation as precognition or retrocognition.\n\nParapsychology is the study of paranormal psychic phenomena, including ESP. Parapsychology has been criticized for continuing investigation despite being unable to provide convincing evidence for the existence of any psychic phenomena after more than a century of research. The scientific community rejects ESP due to the absence of an evidence base, the lack of a theory which would explain ESP and the lack of positive experimental results; it considers ESP to be pseudoscience.\n\nIn the 1930s, at Duke University in North Carolina, J. B. Rhine and his wife Louisa E. Rhine conducted investigation into extrasensory perception. While Louisa Rhine concentrated on collecting accounts of spontaneous cases, J. B. Rhine worked largely in the laboratory, carefully defining terms such as ESP and \"psi\" and designing experiments to test them. A simple set of cards was developed, originally called Zener cards – now called ESP cards. They bear the symbols circle, square, wavy lines, cross, and star; there are five cards of each in a pack of 25.\n\nIn a telepathy experiment, the \"sender\" looks at a series of cards while the \"receiver\" guesses the symbols. To try to observe clairvoyance, the pack of cards is hidden from everyone while the receiver guesses. To try to observe precognition, the order of the cards is determined after the guesses are made. Later he used dice to test for psychokinesis.\n\nThe parapsychology experiments at Duke evoked criticism from academics and others who challenged the concepts and evidence of ESP. A number of psychological departments attempted to repeat Rhine's experiments with failure. W. S. Cox (1936) from Princeton University with 132 subjects produced 25,064 trials in a playing card ESP experiment. Cox concluded \"There is no evidence of extrasensory perception either in the 'average man' or of the group investigated or in any particular individual of that group. The discrepancy between these results and those obtained by Rhine is due either to uncontrollable factors in experimental procedure or to the difference in the subjects.\" Four other psychological departments failed to replicate Rhine's results.\n\nIn 1938, the psychologist Joseph Jastrow wrote that much of the evidence for extrasensory perception collected by Rhine and other parapsychologists was anecdotal, biased, dubious and the result of \"faulty observation and familiar human frailties\". Rhine's experiments were discredited due to the discovery that sensory leakage or cheating could account for all his results such as the subject being able to read the symbols from the back of the cards and being able to see and hear the experimenter to note subtle clues.\n\nIn the 1960s parapsychologists became increasingly interested in the cognitive components of ESP, the subjective experience involved in making ESP responses, and the role of ESP in psychological life. This called for experimental procedures that were not limited to Rhine's favored forced-choice methodology. Such procedures have included dream telepathy experiments, and the ganzfeld experiments (a mild sensory deprivation procedure).\n\nThe scientific consensus does not view extrasensory perception as a real phenomenon. Skeptics have pointed out that there is no viable theory to explain the mechanism behind ESP, and that there are historical cases in which flaws have been discovered in the experimental design of parapsychological studies.\n\nThere are many criticisms pertaining to experiments involving extrasensory perception, particularly surrounding methodological flaws. These flaws are not unique to a single experimental design, and are effective in discrediting much of the positive research surrounding ESP. Many of the flaws seen in the Zener cards experiment are present in the Ganzfeld experiment as well. First is the stacking effect, an error that occurs in ESP research. Trial-by-trial feedback given in studies using a “closed” ESP target sequence (e.g., a deck of cards) violates the condition of independence used for most standard statistical tests. Multiple responses for a single target cannot be evaluated using statistical tests that assume independence of responses. This increases likelihood of card counting and in turn, increases the chances for the subject to guess correctly without using ESP. Another methodological flaw involves cues through sensory leakage. For example, when the subject receives a visual cue. This could be the reflection of a Zener card in the holder’s glasses. In this case, the subject is able to guess the card correctly because they can see it in the reflection, not because of ESP. Finally, poor randomization of target stimuli could be happening. Poor shuffling methods can make the orders of the cards easier to predict, or the cards could’ve been marked and manipulated, again, making it easier to predict which cards come next.\nThe results of a meta-analysis found that when these errors were corrected and accounted for, there was still no significant effect of ESP. Many of the studies only appeared to have significant occurrence of ESP, when in fact, this result was due to the many methodological errors in the research.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57855242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57855242", "title": "Fundación Española para la Ciencia y la Tecnología", "text": "Fundación Española para la Ciencia y la Tecnología\n\nThe Fundación Española para la Ciencia y la Tecnología (FECYT) (English: Spanish Foundation for Science and Technology) is an independent nonprofit organization in Spain that promotes Spanish science and technology. It formed in 2001, and receives funding from the national Ministerio de Ciencia, Innovación y Universidades (former Ministerio de Educación y Ciencia).\n\n"}
{"id": "89774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89774", "title": "Ganzfeld experiment", "text": "Ganzfeld experiment\n\nA ganzfeld experiment (from the German for “entire field”) is a technique used in parapsychology which is used to test individuals for extrasensory perception (ESP). The ganzfeld experiments are among the most recent in parapsychology for testing telepathy.\n\nConsistent, independent replication of ganzfeld experiments has not been achieved.\n\nThe ganzfeld was originally introduced into experimental psychology due to the experiments of the German psychologist Wolfgang Metzger (1899–1979) on the perception of a homogenous visual field. In the early 1970s, Charles Honorton had been investigating ESP and dreams at the Maimonides Medical Center and began using the ganzfeld technique to achieve a state of sensory deprivation in which he hypothesised that psi could work. Honorton believed that by reducing the ordinary sensory input, psi conductive states may be enhanced and psi-mediated information could be transmitted.\n\nSince the first full experiment was published by Honorton and Sharon Harper in the \"Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research\" in 1974, the Ganzfeld has remained a mainstay of parapsychological research.\n\nIn a typical ganzfeld experiment, a \"receiver\" is placed in a room relaxing in a comfortable chair with halved ping-pong balls over the eyes, having a red light shone on them. The receiver also wears a set of headphones through which white or pink noise (static) is played. The receiver is in this state of mild sensory deprivation for half an hour. During this time, a \"sender\" observes a randomly chosen target and tries to mentally send this information to the receiver. The receiver speaks out loud during the thirty minutes, describing what he or she can see. This is recorded by the experimenter (who is blind to the target) either by recording onto tape or by taking notes, and is used to help the receiver during the judging procedure.\n\nIn the judging procedure, the receiver is taken out of the Ganzfeld state and given a set of possible targets, from which they select one which most resembled the images they witnessed. Most commonly there are three decoys along with the target, giving an expected rate of 25%, by chance, over several dozens of trials.\n\nBetween 1974 and 1982, 42 ganzfeld experiments were performed. In 1982, Charles Honorton presented a paper at the annual convention of the Parapsychological Association that summarized the results of the ganzfeld experiments up to that date, and concluded that they represented sufficient evidence to demonstrate the existence of psi. Ray Hyman, a psychologist, disagreed. The two men later independently analyzed the same studies, and both presented meta-analyses of them in 1985.\n\nHyman criticized the ganzfeld papers for not describing optimal protocols, nor including the appropriate statistical analysis. He presented a factor analysis that he said demonstrated a link between success and three flaws, namely: flaws in randomization for choice of target; flaws in randomization in judging procedure; and insufficient documentation. Honorton asked a statistician, David Saunders, to look at Hyman's factor analysis and he concluded that the number of experiments was too small to complete a factor analysis.\n\nThe ganzfeld studies examined by Hyman and Honorton had methodological problems that were well documented. Honorton reported only 36% of the studies used duplicate target sets of pictures to avoid handling cues. Hyman discovered flaws in all of the 42 ganzfeld experiments and to assess each experiment, he devised a set of 12 categories of flaws. Six of these concerned statistical defects, the other six covered procedural flaws such as inadequate documentation, randomization and security as well as possibilities of sensory leakage..\" Over half of the studies failed to safeguard against sensory leakage and all of the studies contained at least one of the 12 flaws. Because of the flaws, Honorton agreed with Hyman the 42 ganzfeld studies could not support the claim for the existence of psi.\n\nIn 1986, Hyman and Honorton published \"A Joint Communiqué\" which agreed on the methodological problems and on ways to fix them. They suggested a computer-automated control, where randomization and the other methodological problems identified were eliminated. Hyman and Honorton agreed that replication of the studies was necessary before final conclusions could be drawn. They also agreed that more stringent standards were necessary for ganzfeld experiments, and they jointly specified what those standards should be.\n\nIn 1982 Honorton had started a series of autoganzfeld experiments at his Psychophysical Research Laboratories (PRL). These studies were specifically designed to avoid the same potential problems as those identified in the 1986 joint communiqué issued by Hyman and Honorton. The PRL trials continued until September 1989. In 1990 Honorton \"et al\". published the results of 11 autoganzfeld experiments they claimed met the standards specified by Hyman and Honorton (1986). In these experiments, 240 participants contributed 329 sessions.\n\nHyman analyzed these experiments and wrote they met most, but not all of the \"stringent standards\" of the joint communiqué. He expressed concerns with the randomization procedure, the reliability of which he was not able to confirm based on the data provided by Bem. Hyman further noted that although the overall hit rate of 32% was significant, the hit rate for static targets (pictures) was in fact insignificant (inconsistently with previous ganzfeld research). The overall significance of the experiments was solely due to dynamic targets (videos). In the hit rates regarding these dynamic targets, however, some interesting patterns were found that implied visual cues may have been leaked:\n\nHyman wrote these studies were an improvement over their older counterparts, but were not a successful replication of the ganzfeld experiments, nor a confirmation of psi. He concluded the autoganzfeld experiments were flawed because they did not preclude the possibility of sensory leakage.\n\nRichard Wiseman published a paper discussing a non-psi hypothesis based on possible sender to experimenter acoustic leakage in the autoganzfeld to account for the results. David Marks has written \"Wiseman and his colleagues identified various different ways in which knowledge of the target could have been leaked to the experimenter. These included cues from the videocassette recorder and sounds from the sender who, of course, knew the target's identity... their conclusions provide little reassurance that sensory cueing of the experimenter was in any way substantially blocked.\"\n\nMilton and Wiseman (1999) carried out a meta-analysis of ganzfeld experiments in other laboratories. They found no psi effect; the results showed no effect greater than chance from a database of 30 experiments and a non-significant Stouffer Z of 0.70.\n\nLance Storm and Suitbert Ertel (2001) published a meta-analysis of 79 studies published between 1974 and 1996 and concluded the positive statistically significant overall outcome indicates a psi effect. In response, Milton and Wiseman (2001) wrote the meta-analysis of Storm and Ertel was not an accurate quantitative summary of ganzfeld research as they had included early studies which had been widely recognized as having methodological problems which make it impossible to interpret the results as evidence of a psi effect.\n\nAnother meta-analysis was conducted by Daryl Bem, John Palmer, and Richard Broughton in which the experiments were sorted according to how closely they adhered to a pre-existing description of the ganzfeld procedure. Additionally, ten experiments that had been published in the time since Milton and Wiseman's deadline were introduced. Now the results were significant again with a Stouffer Z of 2.59.\n\nThe ganzfeld procedure has continued to be refined over the years. In its current incarnation, an automated computer system is used to select and display the targets (\"digital autoganzfeld\"). This overcomes many of the shortcomings of earlier experimental setups, such as randomization and experimenter blindness with respect to the targets.\n\nIn 2010, Lance Storm, Patrizio Tressoldi, and Lorenzo Di Risio analyzed 29 ganzfeld studies from 1997 to 2008. Of the 1,498 trials, 483 produced hits, corresponding to a hit rate of 32.2%. This hit rate is statistically significant with p < .001. Participants selected for personality traits and personal characteristics thought to be psi-conducive were found to perform significantly better than unselected participants in the ganzfeld condition. Hyman (2010) published a rebuttal to Storm \"et al\". According to Hyman \"reliance on meta-analysis as the sole basis for justifying the claim that an anomaly exists and that the evidence for it is consistent and replicable is fallacious. It distorts what scientists mean by confirmatory evidence.\" Hyman wrote the ganzfeld studies have not been independently replicated and have failed to produce evidence for psi. Storm \"et al\". published a response to Hyman claiming the ganzfeld experimental design has proved to be consistent and reliable but parapsychology is a struggling discipline that has not received much attention so further research on the subject is necessary. Rouder \"et al\". in 2013 wrote that critical evaluation of Storm \"et al\".'s meta-analysis reveals no evidence for psi, no plausible mechanism and omitted replication failures.\n\nA 2016 paper examined questionable research practices in the ganzfeld experiments.\n\nBem and Honorton (1994) investigated certain personality traits and characteristics as potential psi-conducive variables which they suggested play an important role in claimed ESP performance. According to parapsychologists these factors are thought to be positively correlated with increased scores in ganzfeld experiments, as compared to unselected participants. Traits and characteristics of subjects thought to increase the chance of obtaining a successful hit rate in a psi experiment include:\n\nWhile there are a number of reasons that researchers avoid special participants and sample only normal populations, these factors are important considerations in future replications of ganzfeld experiment, and may be useful in predicting the outcome of these studies.\n\nThere are several common criticisms of some or all of the ganzfeld experiments:\n\nWriting in 1985, C. E. M. Hansel discovered weaknesses in the design and possibilities of sensory leakage in the ganzfeld experiments reported by Carl Sargent and other parapsychologists. Hansel concluded the ganzfeld studies had not been independently replicated and that \"ESP is no nearer to being established than it was a hundred years ago.\"\n\nDavid Marks in his book \"The Psychology of the Psychic\" (2000) has noted that during the autoganzfeld experiments the experimenter sat only fourteen feet from the sender's room. Soundproofing tiles were eventually added but they were designed to \"absorb sound not to prevent transmission.\" According to Marks this was inadequate and no different than using any standard internal wall. The door and door frame were also a possible source of sensory leakage and none of these problems were ever eliminated.\n\nTerence Hines wrote in 2003 that the ganzfeld studies could not be said to provide evidence for psi as the alleged evidence disappears as the tightness of experimental controls is increased. As research progresses variables in science become clearer as more studies are published that describe under what specific condition the particular effect can be demonstrated. This is in opposition to the ganzfeld studies. According to Hines, there was \"no clear way to obtain results showing any psychic phenomenon reliably\" and that \"the most reasonable conclusion\" was that the effect did not exist and had never existed.\n\nIn a 2007 review, Ray Hyman wrote that parapsychologists agree they have no positive theory of psi as it is negatively defined as any effect that cannot be currently explained in terms of chance or normal causes. Hyman saw this as a fallacy, as it encouraged parapsychologists to use any peculiarity in the data as a characteristic of psi. Hyman also wrote that parapsychologists have admitted it is impossible to eliminate the possibility of non-paranormal causes in the ganzfeld experiment. There is no independent method to indicate the presence or absence of psi.\n\nIn their book \"50 Great Myths of Popular Psychology\" (2011), Scott O. Lilienfeld and colleagues have written that the ganzfeld being a reliable technique is far from being resolved. They concluded that ESP has not been successfully demonstrated in experiments for over 150 years so this is hardly encouraging.\n\nIn a 2013 podcast, Brian Dunning reviewed the flaws of the ganzfeld studies and came to the conclusion the technique had failed as evidence for psi and interest in ganzfeld has declined.\n\nIn 1979, Susan Blackmore visited the laboratories of Carl Sargent in Cambridge. She noticed a number of irregularities in the procedure and wrote about them for the \"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research\".\n\nThis article, along with further criticisms of Sargent's work from Adrian Parker and Nils Wiklund remained unpublished until 1987 but all were well known in parapsychological circles. Sargent wrote a rebuttal to these criticisms (also not published until 1987) in which he did not deny what Blackmore had observed, but argued that her conclusions based on those observations were wrong and prejudiced. His co-workers also responded, saying that any deviation from protocol was the result of “random errors” rather than any concerted attempt at fraud. Carl Sargent stopped working in parapsychology after this and did not respond \"in a timely fashion\" when the Council of the Parapsychological Association asked for his data, and so his membership of that organization was allowed to lapse.\n\nWriting for \"Skeptical Inquirer\" in 2018, Blackmore states that Sargent \"deliberately violated his own protocols and in one trial had almost certainly cheated.\" Psychologists reading Daryl Bem's review in \"Psychological Bulletin\" would \"not have a clue that serious doubt had been cast on more than a quarter of the studies involved\" Sargent and Chuck Honortons. When Blackmore confronted Sargent, he told her \"it wouldn't matter if some experiments were unreliable because, after all, we know that psi exists\". Blackmore also recounts having a discussion with Bem at a consciousness conference where she challenged him on his support of Sargent and Honorton's research, he replied \"it did not matter\". Blackmore writes, \"But it does matter. ... It matters because Bem's continued claims mislead a willing public into believing that there is reputable scientific evidence for ESP in the Ganzfeld when there is not\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "898161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898161", "title": "Geopark", "text": "Geopark\n\nA geopark is a unified area that advances the protection and use of geological heritage in a sustainable way, and promotes the economic well-being of the people who live there. There are global geoparks and national geoparks.\n\nA UNESCO definition of \"global geopark\" is a unified area with a geological heritage of international significance. Geoparks use that heritage to promote awareness of key issues facing society in the context of our dynamic planet. Many geoparks promote awareness of geological hazards, including volcanoes, earthquakes and tsunamis and many help prepare disaster mitigation strategies with local communities. Geoparks embody records of past climate changes and are indicators of current climate changes as well as demonstrating a \"best practise\" approach to using renewable energy and employing the best standards of \"green tourism\". Tourism industry promotion in geoparks, as a geographically sustainable and applicable tourism model, aims to sustain, and even enhance, the geographical character of a place.\n\nGeoparks also inform about the sustainable use and need for natural resources, whether they are mined, quarried or harnessed from the surrounding environment while at the same time promoting respect for the environment and the integrity of the landscape. Geoparks are not a legislative designation though the key heritage sites within a geopark are often protected under local, regional or national legislation. The multidisciplinary nature of the concept of geopark and tourism promotion in geoparks differentiates itself from other models of sustainable tourism. In fact, sustainable tourism promotion within geoparks encompasses many of the features of sustainable tourism including geo-tourism (geo-site tourism: as a basic factor), community-based tourism and integrated rural tourism (as a vital need), ecotourism, and cultural heritage tourism.\n\nThe Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is supported by United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). Many national geoparks and other local geoparks projects also exist which are not included in the Global Geoparks Network.\n\nThe geoparks initiative was launched by UNESCO in response to the perceived need for an international initiative that recognizes sites representing an earth science interest. Global Geoparks Network aims at enhancing the value of such sites while at the same time creating employment and promoting regional economic development. The Global Geoparks Network works in synergy with UNESCO's World Heritage Centre and Man and the Biosphere (MAB) World Network of Biosphere Reserves.\n\nThe Global Geoparks Network (GGN) is a UNESCO activity established in 1998. According to UNESCO, for a geopark to apply to be included in the GGN, it needs to:\n\n\nSee Members of the Global Geoparks Network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19161243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19161243", "title": "Global Challenge Award", "text": "Global Challenge Award\n\nThe Global Challenge Award is an online science and engineering design program for pre-college school students (e.g. middle school through high school) from all over the world. It is an initiative that started with a partnership with the University of Vermont in collaboration with the National Science Foundation, currently funded by the MacArthur Foundation Digital Media and Learning program as well as other foundations and corporations, wherein students have the opportunity to form teams with international counterparts and work towards a solution to mitigate global warming and help envision the future of renewable energy. The program is an online educational environment that uses game based learning, simulation and Web-based science resources in a global competition. It relies on the personal initiative and creativity of students working in diverse teams. The access to the project via the Web makes it possible for students, parents, homeschooling families, teachers and interested global community members to get involved to help young people with their creative ideas for innovation in new forms of energy, conservation and increased productivity.\n\nFounded in 2005 by Craig Deluca and David Rocchio of the Arno Group and Biddle Duke, the publisher of the Stowe Reporter newspaper company in Stowe, Vt., working in close partnership with Domenico Grasso of The University of Vermont (see) College of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences, the program gives international student teams the opportunity to experience the excitement of scientific understanding and engineering design while working on significant human and societal issues – bringing science to life in innovative new applications. The program mission is to \"give students the tools and confidence to solve global problems together.\"\n\nThe overarching model for the learning experiences offered worldwide to any student was influenced by The George Lucas Foundation's Big ideas For Better Schools, the Partnership for 21st Century Schools and game based learning. The Global Challenge was funded in part by a National Science Foundation award from the Innovative Technology Experiences for Students (ITEST) program, validating the project's design for engaging youth in science, technology, engineering and mathematics learning.\n\nSince its founding in 2005, The Global Challenge has reached over 100,000 people worldwide and engaged over 4,000 students from 60 countries in forming teams to solve the challenge. About $200,000 in scholarships, travel, summer study have been provided to over 200 students from 10 countries.\n\nThe Global Challenge Award is responsible for identification of high school students who represent the United States in the International Earth Science Olympiad or IESO. Students and teachers travel to South Korea in 2007 and the Philippines in 2008. Plans are now underway to form a US-IESO selection process with the support of the American Geological Institute.\n\nIn addition, the design of the program builds international student teams. Students from over 79 countries participate each year. Top countries by participation with over 100 students each year have been the United States, India, China, and South Korea.\n\nThere are several project areas in the Challenge. Some are designed specifically for teams, others students can work on alone. Students can mix and match projects based on their interest level and time. They can form a team to compete in one competition and, at the same time, work on individual points.\n\n\nEach Challenge earns certain points, and in the end, teams with the highest scores win and earn scholarships, travel awards to the Governor's Institute on Engineering in Vermont, cash prizes, and tuition scholarships.\n\nThe program was the lead story \"Save the World\" in Learning & Leading with Technology November 2007. In the Burlington Free Press in July 2008, and has led to a number of youth-authored articles on Cogito.org, for example: Using Nanotechnology for Cost Effective Converters as well as Educating Myself, International Style.\n\nThe Challenge's founders envision creating a World Game space for STEM learning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11415165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11415165", "title": "Goodman fatigue equation", "text": "Goodman fatigue equation\n\nThe Goodman fatigue equation is used by engineers for fatigue analysis. The equation is used to make correlations of experimental fatigue data of metals and other materials.\n\nThe equation is also used to determine the failure mechanisms of sucker rods in pumping oil wells worldwide, and to help design new sucker rod strings for rod-pumped oil wells.\n\nFrom similar triangles the Goodman fatigue equation is :\n\n( 4a) τm /Sus + τa /Ses = 1/n in which the stress components are given by \n\n"}
{"id": "54501175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54501175", "title": "Graviquake", "text": "Graviquake\n\nA graviquake is an earthquake occurring in an extensional tectonic setting, where the gravitational energy stored during the interseismic period is delivered by the collapse of a brittle upper crustal volume, slipping along a normal fault and generating the double couple recorded in the moment tensor solution.\n"}
{"id": "43707763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43707763", "title": "Hot hardness", "text": "Hot hardness\n\nIn materials engineering and metallurgy, hot hardness or red hardness (when a metal glows a dull red from the heat) corresponds to hardness of a material at high temperatures. As the temperature of material increases, hardness decreases and at some point a drastic change in hardness occurs. The hardness at this point is termed the \"hot\" or \"red\" hardness of that material. Such changes can be seen in materials such as heat treated alloys.\n"}
{"id": "20375066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20375066", "title": "Iatromathematicians", "text": "Iatromathematicians\n\nIatromathematicians (from Greek ἰατρική \"medicine\" and μαθηματικά \"mathematics\") were a school of physicians in 17th-century Italy who tried to apply the laws of mathematics and mechanics in order to understand the functioning of the human body. They were also keen students of anatomy. These iantromathematicians made an effort to prove that applying a purely mechanical conception to the study of the human body is futile. The mechanical conceptions that they had referred to was Leonardo da Vinci’s studies of the human body, and the writings of Aristotle about the motion of animals related to geometric analysis. Iantromathematicians considered the bodies functioning to be measured by quantifiable numbers, weights, and measures.\n\nThe field of iatromathematics is allied to science; however, it lacks the applicability of the proper scientific method and is therefore considered a form of pseudoscience. It applies the study of astrology to medicine.\n\nIatromathematicians viewed the human body through astrological reasoning as well as mechanics. They associate various stars, or zodiac signs with the functioning of the human body. The twelve astrological signs contribute to each part of the body from head to toe. Moreover, planets and existing cosmos in space are correlated with certain parts of the body. Through examining a natal chart, iatromathematicians attempt to predict biological setbacks in an individual.\n\nIatromathematicians examine the active and energetic temperament of the human body. Moreover, they explore the causes of various health problems and attempt to find ways to treat certain detrimental diseases. In iatromathematics, there is a particular assumption that there is an impact of various energetic fields caused on the star bodies. The star body of an individual is often referred to by astrologists as an energetic matrix and is believed to be spawned by heavenly bodies such as the sun, moon, planets, and several other astrological signs.\n\nIatromathematicians study these conceptions and try to regulate the path of the star body of individuals so that it will give a positive, rather than a negative result. By doing so, they believe that it will contribute to a healthier lifestyle. Its doctrine is based on cosmobiology in which several emotional and physiological dilemmas in the body are associated with the positioning of celestial bodies in outer space.\n\nIatromathematics is closely correlated with biomechanics because the field of biomechanics investigates macrobiotic bodies to a macroscopic degree through the appliance of several engineering principles. The perspective of iatromathematicians differed from that of iatrophysicists and iatrochemists in terms of the way human bodies function. Iatrophysicists predicted the deviations from the biological norm of the body through the appliance of physics, while iatrochemists measured the detrimental problems of the body by chemical means.\n\nSeveral individuals contributed to this field study of iatromathematics. For example, Ibn Ezra (Rabbi Avraham Ben Meir Ibn Ezra) wrote nine different astrological treatises. He covered all the subsections of astrology which include the branches of natal, medicinal, horary, electional, and mundane. Ibn Ezra’s best known work was known as \"The Beginning of Wisdom\". Over time, various individuals studied his works comprehensively. One such person was George Sarton, who is the founder of the History of Science Society.\n\nRecently, Archibald Pitcairne was mentioned as the \"forgotten father of mathematical medicine\" and his contribution praised to creating the bases of iatromathematics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44852441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44852441", "title": "Jeff Weld", "text": "Jeff Weld\n\nJeffrey \"Jeff\" Weld (born August 17, 1960 in Glendale, California) is a science educator serving as Senior Policy Advisor in STEM Education for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, on leave from his post as executive director of the Iowa Governor's STEM Advisory Council which he's occupied since its launch in July, 2011. He is an Associate Professor of Biology at the University of Northern Iowa (UNI) in Cedar Falls, Iowa.\n\nWeld is a prolific author, focusing on surmounting impediments to high quality science teaching. His latest publication, the book Creating a STEM Culture for Teaching and Learning (NSTA Press), examines all aspects of the nation's STEM (science-technology-engineering-mathematics) movement. Formerly a secondary school science teacher he was awarded as Ciba-Geigy 1993 Life Science Teacher of the Year in Iowa, the 1994 Pella Corporation Focus on Teaching Excellence award, and in 1995 a national Access Excellence Fellowship of the Genentech corporation. As a college professor Weld was named national collegiate biology teacher of the year, four-year institutions in 2007 by the National Association of Biology Teachers. In 2013, Weld received an \"Outstanding Service\" award from the Iowa Academy of Science and an \"Alumni Accomplishment Honor\" from his alma mater, the University of Iowa. In 2014, he received a \"STEM Champion\" award from the Triangle Coalition.\n\nWeld is the fifth of six offspring (Vicki, Douglas, Rhonda, Sandra, Eric) of single parent Aileen (Feany) Weld, a career government servant, first for the FBI then for the Veterans Administration, now retired. Weld’s father Don had served in the Marine Corp and written for newspapers. Weld spent his early school years, 1969 to 1977, in Iowa City, Iowa, before relocating to Northampton, Massachusetts, and graduating from Northampton High School in 1978. A first-generation collegian, he attended Greenfield Community College in Massachusetts before transferring to the University of Iowa in 1980. He earned a bachelor of science degree in secondary education from the University of Iowa in 1983. After serving Camp Fire youth camps in Anchorage, Alaska, followed by ski lodge maintenance at Millers Inn, Winter Park, Colorado, he returned to the University of Iowa for graduate study, completing an endorsement in science education (biology) in 1985. From 1990 to 1992 Weld enrolled in the master’s program in biology at the University of Missouri-St. Louis. He completed a master's degree in Science Education at the University of Iowa in 1994. In 1998, Weld completed the doctoral program in Science Education at the University of Iowa under John Penick and Robert Yager, earning competencies in ecology for work in predator-prey aquatic population regulation, and endocrinology for work on molt hormone synthesis in \"Cancer antennarius\".\n\nIn December, 2017, Dr. Weld commenced an appointment to the White House Office of Science And Technology Policy as Senior Policy Advisor for STEM Education. His main responsibility at the OSTP is to lead the development of an updated 2018-2023 Federal STEM Education 5-Year Strategic Plan. He is on leave from directing the Iowa Governor’s STEM Advisory Council, a role he has occupied since the Council's inception in July, 2011. Under Weld's directorship, Iowa showed annual gains in test scores, elective enrollments, post-secondary enrollments, and public support for STEM education. Weld previously directed the inter-university collaborative program the Iowa Mathematics and Science Education Partnership from 2008 to 2011. Weld has hosted an annual Midwest STEM Leaders Forum and served on the Boards of the national organizations the Triangle Coalition for STEM Education and the National Alliance for Partnerships in Equity Education Foundation.\nFrom 2000 to 2008 Dr. Weld occupied a faculty line in the department of biology at the University of Northern Iowa where he created a minor in Natural History Interpretation, taught courses in teacher preparation, published in scholarly and popular press including the popular textbook The Game of Science Education. During his faculty service Weld won $7.2 million in external funding, operated a teachers-in-research program, conducted faculty workshops on interdisciplinarity through Carver Trust grants, presided over the Iowa science teachers association, chaired the campus chapter of the scientific research society Sigma Xi, and served as Provost’s Administrative Fellow for the university’s central administration. \nFrom 1998 to 2000, Dr. Weld was an assistant professor in science education at Oklahoma State University.\nFrom 1985 to 1996 Weld taught high school sciences in Mission, Texas (1985-1988), Kirkwood, Missouri (1988 to 1992), and Pella, Iowa (1992-1996) and coached football, wrestling, baseball, basketball, and soccer. During that time he wrote columns for Educational Leadership and Phi Delta Kappan, among others.\n\nWeld resides in Cedar Falls, Iowa with his wife Mary Kathleen Rovane Weld, and has two grown sons, Andrew (Madison) of St. Paul, Minnesota, and David of Austin, Texas.\n\nWeld is a member of the following organizations:\nSigma Xi scientific research society;\nEpsilon Pi Tau international technology honor society;\nNational Association of Science Writers (NASW);\nAssociation for Science Teacher Education (ASTE); \nNational Science Teachers Association (NSTA);\nComputer Science Teachers Association (CSTA);\nIowa Academy of Science (IAS);\nIowa Council of Teachers of Mathematics (ICTM).\n\n"}
{"id": "53465035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53465035", "title": "Kalamos Island biological field station", "text": "Kalamos Island biological field station\n\nThe Kalamos Island biological field station is a research station located in the island Kalamos, in the Ionian Sea, in Western Greece. It is situated in the core of the inner Ionian marine protected area, site GR22220003 of the Natura 2000 network. The marine area is additionally protected under the Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans of the Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea and contiguous Atlantic area (ACCOBAMS).\n\nThe station is a base for year-round research activities in ecology, ecosystem management and sustainability issues such as permaculture. It was created as part of the Kalamos and Kastos sustainable development program of Terra Sylvestris, a non-governmental non profit organization that established the program in order to bring about sustainable development through rewilding in the area of the Island of Kalamos, Kastos and adjacent smaller islands and their marine environment.\n\nThe station conducts and facilitates a wide variety of research projects, ranging from biodiversity conservation to environmental justice to permaculture. The biological field station is also the base for the volunteer and internship programs of Terra Sylvestris, which enables people from all over the world to participate in the activities of Terra Sylvestris in the area and specifically the biological field station. The station is a member of the Organization of Biological Field Stations and the Global Ecovillage Network. The research station provides facilities for students as well as other visiting researchers and practitioners in the fields of ecology and biodiversity conservation to participate in or conduct projects in scientific research, ecosystem monitoring and ecosystem management.\n\n"}
{"id": "52141066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52141066", "title": "Leiden Bio Science Park", "text": "Leiden Bio Science Park\n\nThe Leiden Bio Science park (LBSP) ranks in the top five of the most successful science parks in Europe. It is part of Leiden and Oegstgeest and focuses on companies and Universities in the Biotechnology sector.\n\nThe park comprises 110 hectares (272 acres) with over 60 companies and knowledge-based institutions. The park is located mostly in Leiden and lies between Wassenaarseweg on the north and the Plesmanlaan on the south.\n\nThe park focuses mostly on the use of biotechnology for medical and biopharmaceutical applications.\n\nThe LBSP was founded in 1984 in the Leeuwenhoek area west of Leiden Central Station, between the Faculty of Science of the Leiden University and the former Academic Medical Hospital, known as the LUMC. The municipality decided that this area should primarily be focused on biotechnology.\n\nIn 2005 the foundation\" Leiden Life meets Science\" was founded by the Leiden University, the municipality, the LUMC, TNO, Naturalis, Chamber of Commerce, the province South Holland, University of Applied Sciences, and the ROC Leiden, with the purpose of growth the park in size and quality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2056943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2056943", "title": "List of IARC Group 3 carcinogens", "text": "List of IARC Group 3 carcinogens\n\nSubstances, mixtures and exposure circumstances in this list have been classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) as \"Group 3: The agent (mixture or exposure circumstance) is not classifiable as to its carcinogenicity to humans.\" This category is used most commonly for agents, mixtures and exposure circumstances for which the evidence of carcinogenicity is inadequate in humans and inadequate or limited in experimental animals. Exceptionally, agents (mixtures) for which the evidence of carcinogenicity is inadequate in humans but sufficient in experimental animals may be placed in this category when there is strong evidence that the mechanism of carcinogenicity in experimental animals does not operate in humans. Agents, mixtures and exposure circumstances that do not fall into any other group are also placed in this category.\n\nFurther details can be found in the IARC Monographs\n\n\n"}
{"id": "554991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=554991", "title": "List of effects", "text": "List of effects\n\nThis is a list of names for observable phenomena that contain the word effect, amplified by reference(s) to their respective fields of study.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8425007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8425007", "title": "List of organizations for women in science", "text": "List of organizations for women in science\n\nThis is a list of organizations for women in science and, more generally; science, technology, engineering, and math.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19737", "title": "Maxwell's equations", "text": "Maxwell's equations\n\nMaxwell's equations are a set of partial differential equations that, together with the Lorentz force law, form the foundation of classical electromagnetism, classical optics, and electric circuits. The equations provide a mathematical model for electric, optical and radio technologies, such as power generation, electric motors, wireless communication, lenses, radar etc. Maxwell's equations describe how electric and magnetic fields are generated by charges, currents, and changes of the fields. One important consequence of the equations is that they demonstrate how fluctuating electric and magnetic fields propagate at the speed of light. Known as electromagnetic radiation, these waves may occur at various wavelengths to produce a spectrum from radio waves to γ-rays. The equations are named after the physicist and mathematician James Clerk Maxwell, who between 1861 and 1862 published an early form of the equations that included the Lorentz force law. He also first used the equations to propose that light is an electromagnetic phenomenon.\n\nThe equations have two major variants. The microscopic Maxwell equations have universal applicability, but are unwieldy for common calculations. They relate the electric and magnetic fields to total charge and total current, including the complicated charges and currents in materials at the atomic scale. The \"macroscopic\" Maxwell equations define two new auxiliary fields that describe the large-scale behaviour of matter without having to consider atomic scale charges and quantum phenomena like spins. However, their use requires experimentally determined parameters for a phenomenological description of the electromagnetic response of materials.\n\nThe term \"Maxwell's equations\" is often also used for equivalent alternative formulations. Versions of Maxwell's equations based on the electric and magnetic potentials are preferred for explicitly solving the equations as a boundary value problem, analytical mechanics, or for use in quantum mechanics. The spacetime formulations (i.e., on spacetime rather than space and time separately), are commonly used in high energy and gravitational physics because they make the compatibility of the equations with special and general relativity manifest. In fact, Einstein developed special and general relativity to accommodate the invariant speed of light that drops out of the Maxwell equations with the principle that only relative movement has physical consequences.\n\nSince the mid-20th century, it has been understood that Maxwell's equations are not exact, but a classical limit of the fundamental theory of quantum electrodynamics.\n\nGauss's law describes the relationship between a static electric field and the electric charges that cause it: The static electric field points away from positive charges and towards negative charges, and the net outflow of the electric field through any closed surface is proportional to the charge enclosed by the surface. Picturing the electric field by its field lines, this means the field lines begin at positive electric charges and end at negative electric charges. 'Counting' the number of field lines passing through a closed surface yields the total charge (including bound charge due to polarization of material) enclosed by that surface, divided by dielectricity of free space (the vacuum permittivity).\n\nGauss's law for magnetism states that there are no \"magnetic charges\" (also called magnetic monopoles), analogous to electric charges. Instead, the magnetic field due to materials is generated by a configuration called a dipole, and the net outflow of the magnetic field through any closed surface is zero. Magnetic dipoles are best represented as loops of current but resemble positive and negative 'magnetic charges', inseparably bound together, having no net 'magnetic charge'. In terms of field lines, this equation states that magnetic field lines neither begin nor end but make loops or extend to infinity and back. In other words, any magnetic field line that enters a given volume must somewhere exit that volume. Equivalent technical statements are that the sum total magnetic flux through any Gaussian surface is zero, or that the magnetic field is a solenoidal vector field.\n\nThe Maxwell–Faraday version of Faraday's law of induction describes how a time varying magnetic field creates (\"induces\") an electric field. In integral form, it states that the work per unit charge required to move a charge around a closed loop equals the rate of decrease of the magnetic flux through the enclosed surface.\n\nThe dynamically induced electric field has closed field lines similar to a magnetic field, unless superposed by a static (charge induced) electric field. This aspect of electromagnetic induction is the operating principle behind many electric generators: for example, a rotating bar magnet creates a changing magnetic field, which in turn generates an electric field in a nearby wire.\n\nAmpère's law with Maxwell's addition states that magnetic fields can be generated in two ways: by electric current (this was the original \"Ampère's law\") and by changing electric fields (this was \"Maxwell's addition\", which he called displacement current). In integral form, the magnetic field induced around any closed loop is proportional to the electric current plus displacement current (proportional to the rate of change of electric flux) through the enclosed surface.\n\nMaxwell's addition to Ampère's law is particularly important: it makes the set of equations mathematically consistent for non static fields, without changing the laws of Ampere and Gauss for static fields. However, as a consequence, it predicts that a changing magnetic field induces an electric field and vice versa. Therefore, these equations allow self-sustaining \"electromagnetic waves\" to travel through empty space (see electromagnetic wave equation).\n\nThe speed calculated for electromagnetic waves, which could be predicted from experiments on charges and currents, exactly matches the speed of light; indeed, light \"is\" one form of electromagnetic radiation (as are X-rays, radio waves, and others). Maxwell understood the connection between electromagnetic waves and light in 1861, thereby unifying the theories of electromagnetism and optics.\n\nIn the electric and magnetic field formulation there are four equations that determine the fields for given charge and current distribution. A separate law of nature, the Lorentz force law, describes how, conversely, the electric and magnetic field act on charged particles and currents. A version of this law was included in the original equations by Maxwell but, by convention, is included no longer. The vector calculus formalism below, due to Oliver Heaviside, has become standard. It is manifestly rotation invariant, and therefore mathematically much more transparent than Maxwell's original 20 equations in x,y,z components. The relativistic formulations are even more symmetric and manifestly Lorentz invariant. For the same equations expressed using tensor calculus or differential forms, see alternative formulations.\n\nThe differential and integral equations formulations are mathematically equivalent and are both useful. The integral formulation relates fields within a region of space to fields on the boundary and can often be used to simplify and directly calculate fields from symmetric distributions of charges and currents. On the other hand, the differential equations are purely \"local\" and are a more natural starting point for calculating the fields in more complicated (less symmetric) situations, for example using finite element analysis.\n\nThe definitions of charge, electric field, and magnetic field can be altered to simplify theoretical calculation, by absorbing dimensioned factors of and into the units of calculation, by convention. With a corresponding change in convention for the Lorentz force law this yields the same physics, i.e. trajectories of charged particles, or work done by an electric motor. These definitions are often preferred in theoretical and high energy physics where it is natural to take the electric and magnetic field with the same units, to simplify the appearance of the electromagnetic tensor: the Lorentz covariant object unifying electric and magnetic field would then contain components with uniform unit and dimension. Such modified definitions are conventionally used with the Gaussian (CGS) units. Using these definitions and conventions, colloquially \"in Gaussian units\",\nthe Maxwell equations become:\n\nNote that the equations are particularly readable when length and time are measured in compatible units like seconds and lightseconds i.e. in units such that c = 1 unit of length/unit of time. Ever since 1983, metres and seconds are compatible except for historical legacy since \"by definition\" c = 299 792 458 m/s (≈ 1.0 feet/nanosecond).\n\nFurther cosmetic changes, called rationalisations, are possible by absorbing factors of depending on whether we want Coulomb's law or Gauss's law to come out nicely, see Lorentz-Heaviside units (used mainly in particle physics). In theoretical physics it is often useful to choose units such that Planck's constant, the elementary charge, and even Newton's constant are 1. See Planck units.\n\nSymbols in bold represent vector quantities, and symbols in \"italics\" represent scalar quantities, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nThe equations introduce the electric field, , a vector field, and the magnetic field, , a pseudovector field, each generally having a time and location dependence.\nThe sources are\n\nThe universal constants appearing in the equations are\n\nIn the differential equations, \n\nIn the integral equations, \nHere a \"fixed\" volume or surface means that it does not change over time.\nThe equations are correct, complete and a little easier to interpret with time-independent surfaces. For example, since the surface is time-independent, we can bring the differentiation under the integral sign in Faraday's law:\nMaxwell's equations can be formulated with possibly time-dependent surfaces and volumes by using the differential version and using Gauss and Stokes formula appropriately. \n\nThe equivalence of the differential and integral formulations are a consequence of the Gauss divergence theorem and the Kelvin–Stokes theorem.\n\nAccording to the (purely mathematical) Gauss divergence theorem the electric flux through the \nboundary surface can be rewritten as\nThe integral version of Gauss's equation can thus be rewritten as \nSince is arbitrary (e.g. an arbitrary small ball with arbitrary center), this is satisfied iff the integrand is zero. This is \nthe differential equations formulation of Gauss equation up to a trivial rearrangement.\n\nSimilarly rewriting the magnetic flux in Gauss's law for magnetism in integral form gives \nwhich is satisfied for all iff formula_7.\n\nBy the Kelvin–Stokes theorem we can rewrite the line integrals of the fields around the closed boundary curve to an integral of the \"circulation of the fields\" (i.e. their curls) over a surface it bounds, i.e.\n\nHence the modified Ampere law in integral form can be rewritten as \nSince can be chosen arbitrarily, e.g. as an arbitrary small, arbitrary oriented, and arbitrary centered disk, we conclude that the integrand is zero iff Ampere's modified law in differential equations form is satisfied.\nThe equivalence of Faraday's law in differential and integral form follows likewise.\n\nThe line integrals and curls are analogous to quantities in classical fluid dynamics: the circulation of a fluid is the line integral of the fluid's flow velocity field around a closed loop, and the vorticity of the fluid is the curl of the velocity field.\n\nThe invariance of charge can be derived as a corollary of Maxwell's equations. The left hand side of the modified Ampere's Law has zero divergence by the div–curl identity. Combining the right hand side, Gauss's law, and interchange of derivatives gives:\n\ni.e.\n\nBy the Gauss Divergence Theorem, this means the rate of change of charge in a fixed volume equals the net current flowing through the boundary:\nIn particular, in an isolated system the total charge is conserved.\n\nIn a region with no charges () and no currents (), such as in a vacuum, Maxwell's equations reduce to:\n\nTaking the curl of the curl equations, and using the curl of the curl identity we obtain\n\nThe quantity formula_14 has the dimension of (time/length). Defining\nformula_15, the equations above have the form of the standard wave equations\n\nAlready during Maxwell's lifetime, it was found that the known values for formula_17 and formula_18 give formula_19, then already known to be the speed of light in free space. This let him to propose that light and radio waves were propagating electromagnetic waves, since amply confirmed. In the old SI system of units, the values of formula_20 and formula_21 are defined constants, (which means that by definition formula_22) that define the ampere and the metre. In the new SI system, only \"c\" keeps its defined value, and the electron charge gets a defined value. \nIn materials with relative permittivity, , and relative permeability, , the phase velocity of light becomes\n\nwhich is usually less than .\n\nIn addition, and are perpendicular to each other and to the direction of wave propagation, and are in phase with each other. A sinusoidal plane wave is one special solution of these equations. Maxwell's equations explain how these waves can physically propagate through space. The changing magnetic field creates a changing electric field through Faraday's law. In turn, that electric field creates a changing magnetic field through Maxwell's addition to Ampère's law. This perpetual cycle allows these waves, now known as electromagnetic radiation, to move through space at velocity .\n\nThe above equations are the \"microscopic\" version of Maxwell's equations, expressing the electric and the magnetic fields in terms of the (possibly atomic-level) charges and currents present. This is sometimes called the \"general\" form, but the macroscopic version below is equally general, the difference being one of bookkeeping.\n\nThe microscopic version is sometimes called \"Maxwell's equations in a vacuum\": this refers to the fact that the material medium is not built into the structure of the equations, but appears only in the charge and current terms. The microscopic version was introduced by Lorentz, who tried to use it to derive the macroscopic properties of bulk matter from its microscopic constituents.\n\n\"Maxwell's macroscopic equations\", also known as Maxwell's equations in matter, are more similar to those that Maxwell introduced himself.\n\nIn the \"macroscopic\" equations, the influence of bound charge and bound current is incorporated into the displacement field and the magnetizing field , while the equations depend only on the free charges and free currents . This reflects a splitting of the total electric charge \"Q\" and current \"I\" (and their densities \"ρ\" and J) into free and bound parts:\n\nThe cost of this splitting is that the additional fields and need to be determined through phenomenological constituent equations relating these fields to the electric field and the magnetic field , together with the bound charge and current.\n\nSee below for a detailed description of the differences between the microscopic equations, dealing with \"total\" charge and current including material contributions, useful in air/vacuum;\nand the macroscopic equations, dealing with \"free\" charge and current, practical to use within materials.\n\nWhen an electric field is applied to a dielectric material its molecules respond by forming microscopic electric dipoles – their atomic nuclei move a tiny distance in the direction of the field, while their electrons move a tiny distance in the opposite direction. This produces a \"macroscopic\" \"bound charge\" in the material even though all of the charges involved are bound to individual molecules. For example, if every molecule responds the same, similar to that shown in the figure, these tiny movements of charge combine to produce a layer of positive bound charge on one side of the material and a layer of negative charge on the other side. The bound charge is most conveniently described in terms of the polarization of the material, its dipole moment per unit volume. If is uniform, a macroscopic separation of charge is produced only at the surfaces where enters and leaves the material. For non-uniform , a charge is also produced in the bulk.\n\nSomewhat similarly, in all materials the constituent atoms exhibit magnetic moments that are intrinsically linked to the angular momentum of the components of the atoms, most notably their electrons. The connection to angular momentum suggests the picture of an assembly of microscopic current loops. Outside the material, an assembly of such microscopic current loops is not different from a macroscopic current circulating around the material's surface, despite the fact that no individual charge is traveling a large distance. These \"bound currents\" can be described using the magnetization .\n\nThe very complicated and granular bound charges and bound currents, therefore, can be represented on the macroscopic scale in terms of and , which average these charges and currents on a sufficiently large scale so as not to see the granularity of individual atoms, but also sufficiently small that they vary with location in the material. As such, \"Maxwell's macroscopic equations\" ignore many details on a fine scale that can be unimportant to understanding matters on a gross scale by calculating fields that are averaged over some suitable volume.\n\nThe \"definitions\" (not constitutive relations) of the auxiliary fields are:\n\nwhere is the polarization field and is the magnetization field, which are defined in terms of microscopic bound charges and bound currents respectively. The macroscopic bound charge density and bound current density in terms of polarization and magnetization are then defined as\n\nIf we define the total, bound, and free charge and current density by\n\nand use the defining relations above to eliminate , and , the \"macroscopic\" Maxwell's equations reproduce the \"microscopic\" equations.\n\nIn order to apply 'Maxwell's macroscopic equations', it is necessary to specify the relations between displacement field and the electric field , as well as the magnetizing field and the magnetic field . Equivalently, we have to specify the dependence of the polarisation (hence the bound charge) and the magnetisation (hence the bound current) on the applied electric and magnetic field. The equations specifying this response are called constitutive relations. For real-world materials, the constitutive relations are rarely simple, except approximately, and usually determined by experiment. See the main article on constitutive relations for a fuller description.\n\nFor materials without polarization and magnetisation, the constitutive relations are (by definition)\nwhere is the permittivity of free space and the permeability of free space. Since there is no bound charge, the total and the free charge and current are equal.\n\nAn alternative viewpoint on the microscopic equations is that they are the macroscopic equations \"together\" with the statement that vacuum behaves like a perfect linear \"material\" without additional polarisation and magnetisation.\nMore generally, for linear materials the constitutive relations are\nwhere is the permittivity and the permeability of the material. For the displacement field the linear approximation is usually excellent because for all but the most extreme electric fields or temperatures obtainable in the laboratory (high power pulsed lasers) the interatomic electric fields of materials of the order of 10 V/m are much higher than the external field. For the magnetizing field formula_30, however, the linear approximation can break down in common materials like iron leading to phenomena like hysteresis. Even the linear case can have various complications, however.\n\nEven more generally, in the case of non-linear materials (see for example nonlinear optics), and are not necessarily proportional to , similarly or is not necessarily proportional to . In general and depend on both and , on location and time, and possibly other physical quantities.\n\nIn applications one also has to describe how the free currents and charge density behave in terms of and possibly coupled to other physical quantities like pressure, and the mass, number density, and velocity of charge-carrying particles. E.g., the original equations given by Maxwell (see History of Maxwell's equations) included Ohms law in the form\n\nFollowing is a summary of some of the numerous other mathematical formalisms to write the microscopic Maxwell's equations, with the columns separating the two homogeneous Maxwell equations from the two inhomogeneous ones involving charge and current. Each formulation has versions directly in terms of the electric and magnetic fields, and indirectly in terms of the electrical potential and the vector potential . Potentials were introduced as a convenient way to solve the homogeneous equations, but it was thought that all observable physics was contained in the electric and magnetic fields (or relativistically, the Faraday tensor). The potentials play a central role in quantum mechanics, however, and act quantum mechanically with observable consequences even when the electric and magnetic fields vanish (Aharonov–Bohm effect).\n\nEach table describes one formalism. See the main article for details of each formulation. SI units are used throughout.\n\nThe Maxwell equations can also be formulated on a spacetime-like Minkowski space where space and time are treated on equal footing. The direct spacetime formulations make manifest that the Maxwell equations are relativistically invariant. Because of this symmetry electric and magnetic field are treated on equal footing and are recognised as components of the Faraday tensor. This reduces the four Maxwell equations to two, which simplifies the equations, although we can no longer use the familiar vector formulation. In fact the Maxwell equations in the space + time formulation are not Galileo invariant and have Lorentz invariance as a hidden symmetry. This was a major source of inspiration for the development of relativity theory. To repeat: the space + time formulation is not a non-relativistic approximation and it describes the same physics by simply renaming variables. For this reason the relativistic invariant equations are usually called the Maxwell equations as well.\n\nEach table describes one formalism.\n\n\nOther formalisms include the geometric algebra formulation and a matrix representation of Maxwell's equations. Historically, a quaternionic formulation was used.\n\nMaxwell's equations are partial differential equations that relate the electric and magnetic fields to each other and to the electric charges and currents. Often, the charges and currents are themselves dependent on the electric and magnetic fields via the Lorentz force equation and the constitutive relations. These all form a set of coupled partial differential equations which are often very difficult to solve: the solutions encompass all the diverse phenomena of classical electromagnetism. Some general remarks follow.\n\nAs for any differential equation, boundary conditions and initial conditions are necessary for a unique solution. For example, even with no charges and no currents anywhere in spacetime, there are the obvious solutions for which E and B are zero or constant, but there are also non-trivial solutions corresponding to electromagnetic waves. In some cases, Maxwell's equations are solved over the whole of space, and boundary conditions are given as asymptotic limits at infinity. In other cases, Maxwell's equations are solved in a finite region of space, with appropriate conditions on the boundary of that region, for example an artificial absorbing boundary representing the rest of the universe, or periodic boundary conditions, or walls that isolate a small region from the outside world (as with a waveguide or cavity resonator).\n\nJefimenko's equations (or the closely related Liénard–Wiechert potentials) are the explicit solution to Maxwell's equations for the electric and magnetic fields created by any given distribution of charges and currents. It assumes specific initial conditions to obtain the so-called \"retarded solution\", where the only fields present are the ones created by the charges. However, Jefimenko's equations are unhelpful in situations when the charges and currents are themselves affected by the fields they create.\n\nNumerical methods for differential equations can be used to compute approximate solutions of Maxwell's equations when exact solutions are impossible. These include the finite element method and finite-difference time-domain method. For more details, see Computational electromagnetics.\n\nMaxwell's equations \"seem\" overdetermined, in that they involve six unknowns (the three components of and ) but eight equations (one for each of the two Gauss's laws, three vector components each for Faraday's and Ampere's laws). (The currents and charges are not unknowns, being freely specifiable subject to charge conservation.) This is related to a certain limited kind of redundancy in Maxwell's equations: It can be proven that any system satisfying Faraday's law and Ampere's law \"automatically\" also satisfies the two Gauss's laws, as long as the system's initial condition does. This explanation was first introduced by Julius Adams Stratton in 1941. Although it is possible to simply ignore the two Gauss's laws in a numerical algorithm (apart from the initial conditions), the imperfect precision of the calculations can lead to ever-increasing violations of those laws. By introducing dummy variables characterizing these violations, the four equations become not overdetermined after all. The resulting formulation can lead to more accurate algorithms that take all four laws into account.\n\nBoth identities formula_35, which reduce eight equations to six independent ones, are the true reason of overdetermination.\n\nMaxwell's equations and the Lorentz force law (along with the rest of classical electromagnetism) are extraordinarily successful at explaining and predicting a variety of phenomena; however they are not exact, but a classical limit of quantum electrodynamics (QED).\n\nSome observed electromagnetic phenomena are incompatible with Maxwell's equations. These include photon–photon scattering and many other phenomena related to photons or virtual photons, \"nonclassical light\" and quantum entanglement of electromagnetic fields (see quantum optics). E.g. quantum cryptography cannot be described by Maxwell theory, not even approximately. The approximate nature of Maxwell's equations becomes more and more apparent when going into the extremely strong field regime (see Euler–Heisenberg Lagrangian) or to extremely small distances.\n\nFinally, Maxwell's equations cannot explain any phenomenon involving individual photons interacting with quantum matter, such as the photoelectric effect, Planck's law, the Duane–Hunt law, and single-photon light detectors. However, many such phenomena may be approximated using a halfway theory of quantum matter coupled to a classical electromagnetic field, either as external field or with the expected value of the charge current and density on the right hand side of Maxwell's equations.\n\nPopular variations on the Maxwell equations as a classical theory of electromagnetic fields are relatively scarce because the standard equations have stood the test of time remarkably well.\n\nMaxwell's equations posit that there is electric charge, but no magnetic charge (also called magnetic monopoles), in the universe. Indeed, magnetic charge has never been observed (despite extensive searches) and may not exist. If they did exist, both Gauss's law for magnetism and Faraday's law would need to be modified, and the resulting four equations would be fully symmetric under the interchange of electric and magnetic fields.\n\n\nThe developments before relativity:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22649", "title": "Observation", "text": "Observation\n\nObservation is the active acquisition of information from a primary source. In living beings, observation employs the senses. In science, observation can also involve the recording of data via the use of scientific instruments. The term may also refer to any data collected during the scientific activity. Observations can be qualitative, that is, only the absence or presence of a property is noted, or quantitative if a numerical value is attached to the observed phenomenon by counting or measuring.\n\nThe scientific method requires observations of natural phenomena to formulate and test hypotheses. It consists of the following steps:\n\nObservations play a role in the second and fifth steps of the scientific method. However, the need for reproducibility requires that observations by different observers can be comparable. Human sense impressions are subjective and qualitative, making them difficult to record or compare. The use of measurement developed to allow recording and comparison of observations made at different times and places, by different people. Measurement consists of using observation to compare the phenomenon being observed to a standard unit. The standard unit can be an artifact, process, or definition which can be duplicated or shared by all observers. In measurement the number of standard units which is equal to the observation is counted. Measurement reduces an observation to a number which can be recorded, and two observations which result in the same number are equal within the resolution of the process.\n\nHuman senses are limited and subject to errors in perception, such as optical illusions. Scientific instruments were developed to aid human abilities of observation, such as weighing scales, clocks, telescopes, microscopes, thermometers, cameras, and tape recorders, and also translate into perceptible form events that are unobservable by the senses, such as indicator dyes, voltmeters, spectrometers, infrared cameras, oscilloscopes, interferometers, geiger counters, and radio receivers.\n\nOne problem encountered throughout scientific fields is that the observation may affect the process being observed, resulting in a different outcome than if the process was unobserved. This is called the \"observer effect\". For example, it is not normally possible to check the air pressure in an automobile tire without letting out some of the air, thereby changing the pressure. However, in most fields of science it is possible to reduce the effects of observation to insignificance by using better instruments.\n\nConsidered as a physical process itself, all forms of observation (human or instrumental) involve amplification and are thus thermodynamically irreversible processes, increasing entropy.\n\nIn some specific fields of science the results of observation differ depending on factors which are not important in everyday observation. These are usually illustrated with \"paradoxes\" in which an event appears different when observed from two different points of view, seeming to violate \"common sense\".\n\nThe human senses do not function like a video camcorder, impartially recording all observations. Human perception occurs by a complex, unconscious process of abstraction, in which certain details of the incoming sense data are noticed and remembered, and the rest forgotten. What is kept and what is thrown away depends on an internal model or representation of the world, called by psychologists a \"schema\", that is built up over our entire lives. The data is fitted into this schema. Later when events are remembered, memory gaps may even be filled by \"plausible\" data the mind makes up to fit the model; this is called \"reconstructive memory\". How much attention the various perceived data are given depends on an internal value system, which judges how important it is to the individual. Thus two people can view the same event and come away with entirely different perceptions of it, even disagreeing about simple facts. This is why eyewitness testimony is notoriously unreliable.\n\nSeveral of the more important ways observations can be affected by human psychology are given below.\n\nHuman observations are biased toward confirming the observer's conscious and unconscious expectations and view of the world; we \"see what we expect to see\". In psychology, this is called confirmation bias. Since the object of scientific research is the discovery of new phenomena, this bias can and has caused new discoveries to be overlooked; one example is the discovery of x-rays. It can also result in erroneous scientific support for widely held cultural myths, on the other hand, as in the scientific racism that supported ideas of racial superiority in the early 20th century. Correct scientific technique emphasizes careful recording of observations, separating experimental observations from the conclusions drawn from them, and techniques such as blind or double blind experiments, to minimize observational bias.\n\nAnother bias, which has become more prevalent with the advent of \"big science\" and the large rewards of new discoveries, is bias in favor of the researcher's desired hypothesis or outcome; we \"see what we want to see\". Called pathological science and cargo cult science, this is different from deliberate falsification of results, and can happen to good-faith researchers. Researchers with a great incentive or desire for a given outcome can misinterpret or misjudge results, or even persuade themselves they have seen something they haven't. Possible examples of mistaken discoveries caused by this bias are Martian \"canals\", N rays, polywater, cold fusion, and perpetual motion machines. Recent decades have seen scientific scandals caused by researchers playing \"fast and loose\" with observational methods in order to get their pet theories published. This type of bias is rampant in pseudoscience, where correct scientific techniques are not followed. The main defense against this bias, besides correct research techniques, is peer review and repetition of the experiment, or the observation, by other researchers with no incentive to bias. For example, an emerging practice in the competitive field of biotechnology is to require the physical results of experiments, such as serums and tissue cultures, be made available to competing laboratories for independent testing.\n\nModern scientific instruments can extensively process \"observations\" before they are presented to the human senses, and particularly with computerized instruments, there is sometimes a question as to where in the data processing chain \"observing\" ends and \"drawing conclusions\" begins. This has recently become an issue with digitally enhanced images published as experimental data in papers in scientific journals. The images are enhanced to bring out features that the researcher wants to emphasize, but this also has the effect of supporting the researcher's conclusions. This is a form of bias that is difficult to quantify. Some scientific journals have begun to set detailed standards for what types of image processing are allowed in research results. Computerized instruments often keep a copy of the \"raw data\" from sensors before processing, which is the ultimate defense against processing bias, and similarly scientific standards require preservation of the original unenhanced \"raw\" versions of images used as research data.\n\nAn observational bias occurs when researchers only look where they think they will find positive results, or where it is easy to record observations. This is called the \"streetlight effect\".\n\nObservation in philosophical terms is the process of filtering sensory information through the thought process. Input is received via hearing, sight, smell, taste, or touch and then analyzed through either rational or irrational thought.\nFor example, let us suppose that an observer \"sees\" a parent beat their child; and consequently \"observes\" that such an action is either good or bad. Deductions about what behaviors are good or bad may be based on preferences about building relationships, or study of the consequences resulting from the observed behavior. With the passage of time, impressions stored in the consciousness about many, together with the resulting relationships and consequences, permit the individual to build a construct about the moral implications of behavior.\n"}
{"id": "4624242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4624242", "title": "Parascience", "text": "Parascience\n\nParascience is the study of subjects that are outside the scope of the natural and social sciences because they cannot be explained by accepted scientific theory or tested by conventional scientific methods. This study may be concerned with phenomena assumed to be beyond the scope of scientific inquiry or for which no scientific explanation exists. The parasciences include history, philosophy, art, and religion.\n\nParascience can also be defined as a subject, method, etc., purporting to be scientific but regarded as unorthodox or unacceptable by the scientific community; an \"alternative\" science.\n"}
{"id": "48382760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48382760", "title": "Pathological Altruism", "text": "Pathological Altruism\n\nPathological Altruism is a book edited by Barbara Oakley, Ariel Knafo, Guruprasad Madhavan, and David Sloan Wilson. It was published on 5 January 2012 by Oxford University Press, and contains 31 academic papers. Oakley defines pathological altruism as \"altruism in which attempts to promote the welfare of others instead result in unanticipated harm.\"\n\nThe book comprises a collection of essays which discuss negative aspects of altruism and empathy towards others, such as when altruism hurts the altruist, is taken to an unhealthy extreme, or causes more harm than good. Examples given include depression and burnout seen in healthcare professionals, an unhealthy focus on others to the detriment of one's own needs, hoarding of animals, and ineffective philanthropic and social programs that ultimately worsen the situations they are meant to aid. It is considered the first book to explore negative aspects of altruism and empathy.\n\nAccording to Oakley, anorexia, supporting addictions of other people (codependency), animal hoarding, depression, guilt and self-righteousness can be pathological altruism. Oakley has also stated that suicide bombings and genocides can be caused by pathological altruism, when perpetrators of these acts believe they are behaving altruistically towards those who share their ideology. \nOakley further states that some people are naturally \"hypersensitive\" or they have an excessive desire to \"help\" others. According to Oakley, such people are convinced that they are helping others without considering the practical results of their \"help\".\n\n\nThe book was widely reviewed, including reviews in the \"New Scientist\", and \"The Independent\". \"Nursing Standard\" said \"I recommend this book to health professionals looking for a deeper understanding of altruism and its motivation. The arguments are clear and scholarly, and supported by a wealth of references.\"\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", Natalie Angier called book a \"scholarly yet surprisingly sprightly volume\". She wrote, pathological altruism is not limited to showcase acts of self-sacrifice... The book is the first comprehensive treatment of the idea that when ostensibly generous 'how can I help you?' behavior is taken to extremes, misapplied or stridently rhapsodized, it can become unhelpful, unproductive and even destructive. Selflessness gone awry may play a role in a broad variety of disorders, including anorexia and animal hoarding, women who put up with abusive partners and men who abide alcoholic ones. Because a certain degree of selfless behavior is essential to the smooth performance of any human group, selflessness run amok can crop up in political contexts. It fosters the exhilarating sensation of righteous indignation, the belief in the purity of your team and your cause and the perfidiousness of all competing teams and causes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1692795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1692795", "title": "Physics (Aristotle)", "text": "Physics (Aristotle)\n\nThe Physics (Greek: Φυσικὴ ἀκρόασις \"Phusike akroasis\"; Latin: \"Physica\", or \"Naturalis Auscultationes\", possibly meaning \"lectures on nature\") is a named text, written in ancient Greek, collated from a collection of surviving manuscripts known as the Corpus Aristotelicum because attributed to the 4th-century BC philosopher, teacher, and mentor of Macedonian rulers, Aristotle. Due to the unique educational methods of the Athenian school founded by Aristotle, the Lyceum, at the period of its greatest success, and the accidental circumstances surrounding the disposition and rediscovery of its library after his death, it is possible to say that without a doubt some of that library descends to the \"Corpus\" and that some must be attributed mainly or entirely to Aristotle, but it is not possible to say for sure which works. The two answers excluded by the circumstances are \"all\" and \"none\".\n\nStandard epistemological method has been to accept the entire \"Corpus\" tentatively as genuine; that is, transmitted by manuscript copying from one or more original manuscripts in the library. As soon as evidence is perceived or discovered to make a case that a work is not Aristotle's, it is crossed out, but left in the list. Such a cross-out does not mean that its author was not influenced by Aristotle, or did not have Aristotle's work in front of him.\n\nIt is a collection of treatises or lessons that deal with the most general (philosophical) principles of natural or moving things, both living and non-living, rather than physical theories (in the modern sense) or investigations of the particular contents of the universe. The chief purpose of the work is to discover the principles and causes of (and not merely to describe) change, or movement, or motion (κίνησις \"kinesis\"), especially that of natural wholes (mostly living things, but also inanimate wholes like the cosmos). In the conventional Andronicean ordering of Aristotle's works, it stands at the head of, as well as being foundational to, the long series of physical, cosmological and biological treatises, whose ancient Greek title, τὰ φυσικά, means \"the [writings] on nature\" or \"natural philosophy\".\n\nThe \"Physics\" is composed of eight books, which are further divided into chapters. This system is of ancient origin, now obscure. In modern languages, books are referenced with Roman numerals, standing for ancient Greek capital letters (the Greeks represented numbers with letters; i.e., I for A). Chapters are identified by Arabic numerals, but the use of the English word \"chapter\" is strictly conventional. Ancient \"chapters\" (capita) are generally very short, often less than a page. Additionally, the Bekker numbers give the page and column (a or b) used in the Prussian Academy of Sciences' edition of Aristotle's works, instigated and managed by Bekker himself. These are evident in the 1831 2-volume edition. Bekker's line numbers may be given. These are often given, but unless the edition is the Academy's, they do match any line counts.\n\nBook I introduces the Aristotle's approach to nature, which is to be based on principles, causes, and elements. Before offering his particular views, he engages previous theories, such as those offered by Melissus and Parmenides. Aristotle's own view comes out in Ch. 7 where he identifies three principles: substances, opposites, and privation.\n\nChapters 3 and 4 are among the most difficult in all of Aristotle's works and involve subtle refutations of the thought of Parmenides, Melissus and Anaxagoras.\n\nIn chapter 5, he continues his review of his predecessors, particularly how many first principles there are. Chapter 6 narrows down the number of principles to two or three. He presents his own account of the subject in chapter 7, where he first introduces the word matter (Greek: \"hyle\" to designate fundamental essence (ousia). He defines matter in chapter 9: \"For my definition of matter is just this—the primary substratum of each thing, from which it comes to be without qualification, and which persists in the result.\"\n\nMatter in Aristotle's thought is, however, defined in terms of sensible reality; for example, a horse eats grass: the horse changes the grass into itself; the grass as such does not persist in the horse, but some aspect of itits matterdoes. Matter is not specifically described, but consists of whatever is apart from quality or quantity and that of which something may be predicated. Matter in this understanding does not exist independently (i.e. as a substance), but exists interdependently (i.e. as a \"principle\") with form and only insofar as it underlies change. Matter and form are analogical terms.\n\nBook II identifies \"nature\" (\"physis\") as \"a source or cause of being moved and of being at rest in that to which it belongs primarily\" (1.192b21). Thus, those entities are natural which are capable of starting to move, e.g. growing, acquiring qualities, displacing themselves, and finally being born and dying. Aristotle contrasts natural things with the artificial: artificial things can move also, but they move according to what they are made of, not according to what they are. For example, if a wooden bed were buried and somehow sprouted as a tree, it would be according to what it is made of, not what it is. Aristotle contrasts two senses of nature: nature as matter and nature as form or definition.\n\nBy \"nature\", Aristotle means the natures of particular things and would perhaps be better translated \"a nature.\" In Book II, however, his appeal to \"nature\" as a source of activities is more typically to the genera of natural kinds (the secondary substance). But, contra Plato, Aristotle attempts to resolve a philosophical quandary that was well understood in the fourth century. The Eudoxian planetary model sufficed for the wandering stars, but no deduction of terrestrial substance would be forthcoming based solely on the mechanical principles of necessity, (ascribed by Aristotle to material causation in chapter 9). In the Enlightenment, centuries before modern science made good on atomist intuitions, a nominal allegiance to mechanistic materialism gained popularity despite harboring Newton's action at distance, and comprising the native habitat of teleological arguments: Machines or artifacts composed of parts lacking any intrinsic relationship to each other with their order imposed from without. Thus, the source of an apparent thing's activities is not the whole itself, but its parts. While Aristotle asserts that the matter (and parts) are a necessary cause of thingsthe material causehe says that nature is primarily the essence or formal cause (1.193b6), that is, the information, the whole species itself.\n\nIn chapter 3, Aristotle presents his theory of the four causes (material, efficient, formal, and final). Material cause explains what something is made of (for example, the wood of a house), formal cause explains the form which a thing follows to become that thing (the plans of an architect to build a house), efficient cause is the actual source of the change (the physical building of the house), and final cause is the intended purpose of the change (the final product of the house and its purpose as a shelter and home).\n\nOf particular importance is the \"final cause\" or purpose (\"telos\"). It is a common mistake to conceive of the four causes as additive or alternative forces pushing or pulling; in reality, all four are needed to explain (7.198a22-25). What we typically mean by cause in the modern scientific idiom is only a narrow part of what Aristotle means by efficient cause.\nHe contrasts purpose with the way in which \"nature\" does not work, chance (or luck), discussed in chapters 4, 5, and 6. (Chance working in the actions of humans is \"tuche\" and in unreasoning agents \"automaton\".) Something happens by chance when all the lines of causality converge without that convergence being purposefully chosen, and produce a result similar to the teleologically caused one.\n\nIn chapters 7 through 9, Aristotle returns to the discussion of nature. With the enrichment of the preceding four chapters, he concludes that nature acts for an end, and he discusses the way that necessity is present in natural things. For Aristotle, the motion of natural things is determined from within them, while in the modern empirical sciences, motion is determined from without (more properly speaking: there is nothing to have an inside).\n\nIn order to understand \"nature\" as defined in the previous book, one must understand the terms of the definition. To understand motion, book III begins with the definition of change based on Aristotle's notions of potentiality and actuality. Change, he says, is the actualization of a thing's ability insofar as it is able.\n\nThe rest of the book (chapters 4-8) discusses the infinite (\"apeiron\", the unlimited). He distinguishes between the infinite by addition and the infinite by division, and between the actually infinite and potentially infinite. He argues against the actually infinite in any form, including infinite bodies, substances, and voids. Aristotle here says the only type of infinity that exists is the potentially infinite. Aristotle characterizes this as that which serves as \"the matter for the completion of a magnitude and is potentially (but not actually) the completed whole\" (207a22-23). The infinite, lacking any form, is thereby unknowable. Aristotle writes, \"it is not what has nothing outside it that is infinite, but what always has something outside it\" (6.206b33-207a1-2).\n\nBook IV discusses the preconditions of motion: place (\"topos\", chapters 1-5), void (\"kenon\", chapters 6-9), and time (\"khronos\", chapters 10-14). The book starts by distinguishing the various ways a thing can \"be in\" another. He likens place to an immobile container or vessel: \"the innermost motionless boundary of what contains\" is the primary place of a body (4.212a20). Unlike space, which is a volume co-existent with a body, place is a boundary or surface.\n\nHe teaches that, contrary to the Atomists and others, a void is not only unnecessary, but leads to contradictions, e.g., making locomotion impossible.\n\nTime is a constant attribute of movements and, Aristotle thinks, does not exist on its own but is relative to the motions of things. Tony Roark describes Aristotle's view of time as follows:\nAristotle defines time as \"a number of motion with respect to the before and after\" (\"Phys.\" 219b1–2), by which he intends to denote motion’s susceptibility to division into undetached parts of arbitrary length, a property that it possesses both by virtue of its intrinsic nature and also by virtue of the capacities and activities of percipient souls. Motion is intrinsically indeterminate, but perceptually determinable, with respect to its length. Acts of perception function as determiners; the result is determinate units of kinetic length, which is precisely what a temporal unit is.\n\nBooks V and VI deal with \"how\" motion occurs. Book V classifies four species of movement, depending on where the opposites are located. Movement categories include quantity (e.g. a change in dimensions, from great to small), quality (as for colors: from pale to dark), place (local movements generally go from up downwards and vice versa), or, more controversially, substance. In fact, substances do not have opposites, so it is inappropriate to say that \"something\" properly becomes, from not-man, man: generation and corruption are not \"kinesis\" in the full sense.\n\nBook VI discusses how a changing thing can reach the opposite state, if it has to pass through infinite intermediate stages. It investigates by rational and logical arguments the notions of \"continuity\" and \"division\", establishing that change—and, consequently, time and place—are not divisible into indivisible parts; they are not mathematically discrete but continuous, that is, infinitely divisible (in other words, that you cannot build up a continuum out of discrete or indivisible points or moments). Among other things, this implies that there can be no definite (indivisible) moment when a motion begins. This discussion, together with that of speed and the different behavior of the four different species of motion, eventually helps Aristotle answer the famous paradoxes of Zeno, which purport to show the absurdity of motion's existence.\n\nBook VII briefly deals with the relationship of the moved to his mover, which Aristotle describes in substantial divergence with Plato's theory of the soul as capable of setting itself in motion (\"Laws\" book X, \"Phaedrus\", \"Phaedo\"). Everything which moves is moved by another. He then tries to correlate the species of motion and their speeds, with the local change (locomotion, \"phorà\") as the most fundamental to which the others can be reduced.\n\nBook VII.1-3 also exist in an alternative version, not included in the Bekker edition.\n\nBook VIII (which occupies almost a fourth of the entire \"Physics\", and probably constituted originally an independent course of lessons) discusses two main topics, though with a wide deployment of arguments: the time limits of the universe, and the existence of a Prime Mover — eternal, indivisible, without parts and without magnitude. Isn't the universe eternal, has it had a beginning, will it ever end? Aristotle's response, as a Greek, could hardly be affirmative, never having been told of a \"creatio ex nihilo,\" but he also has philosophical reasons for denying that motion had not always existed, on the grounds of the theory presented in the earlier books of the \"Physics\". Eternity of motion is also confirmed by the existence of a substance which is different from all the others in lacking matter; being pure form, it is also in an eternal actuality, not being imperfect in any respect; hence needing not to move. This is demonstrated by describing the celestial bodies thus: the first things to be moved must undergo an infinite, single and continuous movement, that is, circular. This is not caused by any contact but (integrating the view contained in the Metaphysics, bk. XII) by love and aspiration.\n\nThe works of Aristotle are typically considered foundational to Western science and philosophy. The citations below are not given as any sort of final modern judgement on the interpretation and significance of Aristotle, but are only the views of some modern notables.\n\nMartin Heidegger writes:\n\nBertrand Russell says of \"Physics\" and \"On the Heavens\" (which he believed was a continuation of \"Physics\") that they were:\nAccording to Diogenes Laertius, The library of the Lyceum at its peak under Aristotle comprised many types of books: works authored by the elders under their names, works authored by elders and young men, signatures uncertain, copies of works written by other authors on research topics, and research results of unspecified form. This same library continues under Theophrastus, acquiring more works of the same type, except that Aristotle is no longer a contributor. On the death of Theophrastus, we are led to believe, the library disappears for 200 years, having been safely abscended by Neleus. Just as suddenly it reappears, having been rescued, cared for by three editors and a powerful aristocrat, to be published in a new recension by Andronicus, and to descend to us this very day as Bekker pages. The paradox is that the recension that descends bears little resemblance to the library at Athens. It contains only books specifically authored by Aristotle with the inclusions of works later shown to be spurious. There are no works of Theophrastus or anyone else and no explanation of what happened to all the other books. The library that was rescued cannot possibly be the one that needed rescuing.\n\nRecent archaeological discoveries at Athens have verified that there was a school in the park called Lyceum and that one of the foundations fits the shape of a rectangular library. The site had in fact still been a park (or garden), and will remain one, according to the Greek government. Study of the ancient sources reveals that, regardless of its legal status, whether owned, rented, or just occupied, an organization did reside there, which called itself \"the friends\" (\"philoi\") and the establishment \"the school (\"diatribe\") of the friends.\". This was its own name, or endonym. It meant that the relationship of belonging to the school was \"completely informal.\" The name \"peripatetikoi\", those who inhabited the walkways, or \"peripatoi\", of the gymnasion in the park, is an exonym.\n\nThe friends lived in a \"cooperative\" (\"koinonia\"). They dined together and together had responsibility for the facilities, including the library and the museum. They paid no one and received no pay from anyone. The expenses for the establishment were assumed by wealthy patrons, one of whom was Aristotle; however, during the time that Alexander the Great was a friend, there were no financial worries. For all these informalities, they were nevertheless considered to be either \"young men\" (\"neaniskoi\") or \"elders\" (\"presbuteroi\"). Aristotle, moreover, did have some power, beginning with his position, described by English scholars as scholiarch, \"ruler of the school.\" This rule did not include the day-to-day operation of the school, as he instituted the equivalent of a maritime \"watch\" to take care of that; i.e., every 10 days he appointed an archon, \"master,\" from the friends.\n\nThe business of the friends was not merely education in existing knowledge. As is expressed in the first few paragraphs of \"Physics\", they were interested in discovering the principles, or elements of the knowledge, which was an entirely new goal in Greek education. This research was divided into specific \"fields\" (methodoi). First they collected written works representing the existing knowledge. Subsequently, they collected field data through interviews and specimen-hunting. Aristotle is the first known scientist to have sent out field workers, and to have sent them with military expeditions. Alexander's ethnic and political intelligence gathering as a friend of the school was certainly of greatest value in his ultimate goal, to create a new, multi-cultural world empire. His was the first known army to feature a military historian unit. He was said to have assigned thousands of men to the task of collecting specimens, presumably in addition to their military duties.\n\nThe final step in a research project was analysis of all the information to ascertain \"scientific knowledge\" (episteme) of the \"elements\" (stoicheia), the \"causes\" (aitia), and the \"first principles\" (archai) of the topic. These were written in a new type of document, which has survived in the \"corpus\". Beginning with a brief survey of the previous views, it launched into the definitions and conclusions in a style similar to a geometric presentation. The papers were then stored in the library. Their authors, analysts, contributors, whether or not they were emended, or corrected, and by whom, remain unknown for certain. Diogenes Laertius called these \"notebooks\" (hypomnemata) and said that Aristotle wrote \"an unusual number.\"\n\nAccording to Strabo, Neleus, son of Coriscus, a friend at the Lyceum, \"inherited the library (bibliotheke) of Theophrastus, which included that of Aristotle.\" Theophrastus received Aristotle's library by being bequeathed it along with the school. Theophrastus was the first book collector, as far as Strabo knew. Apparently, the elders owned their own libraries and could dispose of them as they pleased.\n\nThe main problems with this view are, first of all, that Aristotle's Will survives credibly in Diogenes Laertius' (D.L.'s) \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" under \"Aristotle\". There is not one word about a library. Moreover, Aristotle, a metic, or foreign resident of Athens, was not allowed to own property or bequeath it, so he could not have either owned the school with its library or have left it to anyone by legal process. Even if he were not a metic, he could not have disposed of the land and buildings, which were municipal property. None of the other friends could either. According to the laws in effect on the day Aristotle died, no one could own or bequeath the school to anyone. The city owned it. As to whether Aristotle and Theophrastus had additional personal libraries of their own, first, private ownership was not in the spirit of the school, and second, the fate of the school after Theophrastus suggests that the library was in fact the school library.\n\nAfter the death of Alexander, Athens staged a brief revolt against the Macedonians. Turning their attention to the school, they went after Aristotle, who went into exile to escape the death penalty. He died in exile. Within a few years Athens was again under Macedon ruled by Cassander. Theophrastus returned in triumph to the school under the authority of the new vice-regent of Athens, Demetrius of Phalerum, a friend of the school and former student of Theophrastus. The school became even greater than before, but Demetrius made some changes to the administration. D.L. says only that Theophrastus \"is said to have become the owner of a garden of his own after Aristotle's death, through the intervention of his friend, Demetrius of Phalerum.\" Apparently D.L. does not quite understand his source. The meaning was not \"his friend.\" This was not a personal favor. A \"friend\" is an associate of the school. There were not two gardens; Theophrastus was not a poor man in need of some property of his own. His extensive will details the disposition of the assets of the school as his own property, including the garden. He names the friends and wants to make sure that they understand the ownership is to be treated as joint. Demetrius had simply instituted the legal convention prevalent at other schools of having the master own the school and its assets.\n\nThe very disposition of the property in Theophrastus' will is an attempt to restore the koinonia established by Aristotle. The garden, the walks, and the buildings around the garden are to go to ten named friends, to be held in common, provided they use the property for the study of literature and philosophy. This is provisional ownership. If the provisions are not met, the property must revert to someone by law, probably the proprietor, or owner, of the school. The total property of Theophrastus as proprietor was much larger. The family estate at Eresus and the Aristotelian property at Stagira went to individual friends. He also owned funds in trust managed by Hipparchus. The latter was enjoined to use them to rebuild the museum and other buildings. He also had slaves in his possession (as had Aristotle). They were either set free or given to friends. He had one freedman client, whom he rewarded richly for four more years of maintaining the buildings.\n\nThe will contains one more bequest that is rather peculiar. It has a bearing on the nature of the \"Corpus\", whether it is Aristotle's, Aristotle's and Theophrastus', or of all the friends. There is as yet no solution to the problem of authorship, or rather lack of it. Ancient sources on the topic are inconsistent. There is no general scholarly consensus and no agreed preponderance of evidence.\n\nThe will relates in translation \"The whole of my library I give to Neleus.\" The heart of the school was its library, containing all the research results and analytical papers (the notebooks). Without it the friends could not produce current or meaningful lectures about the topics for which the school was known (physics, rhetoric, etc.) All the other school property was being redistributed to the friends in common (except that the foreign estates were given individual owners, probably for their management, while the slaves and the minor received individual guardians), but the heart of the school, without which it could not pump knowledge, was not to be common property, an anomalous approach for the circumstances. No explanation at all is to be found in ancient sources. The moderns almost universally retrieve one explanation, that Neleus was the intended heir of the archonship, although that, strangely, is nowhere suggested. The law still required an archon with property rights over the school.\n\nWhatever the implied expectation, Neleus did not become the scholiarch; instead, Strato of Lampsacus did. Again, there are no details of how or why he acquired the position or any statement of Neleus's feelings about it, inviting speculation. Strabo then relates what is universally considered an act of perfidy against the school. He was given the library with the understanding that it would be shared as common property. Instead \"Neleus took it to Skepsis and bequeathed it to his heirs, ordinary people, who kept the books locked up ...\" The result, according to Strabo, was that the school \"... had no books at all, with the exception of only a few, ... and were therefore able ... only to talk bombast about commonplace propositions ...\" No details or motives are given. Speculations are rife. Every author has something to say, some judgement to render. All are conscious of the fact that, were it not for this perfidy, there would be no \"corpus\" as it is known today.\n\nStrabo's anecdote is not the sole ancient authority on Neleus' disposition of the books. Athenaeus of Naucratis, in his work Deipnosophistae, \"Dinner Sophists,\" an imaginary portrayal of a series of banquets at which the guests are famous literary figures of the past (over 700), so that the reader is served up menus and snippets of sophistry together, has his main character, the host, \"Laurentius\" (\"Lawrence\") possessing \n\nBy the rules of logic (Aristotle's very rules) both accounts may not be received as \"the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,\" as the American legal principle for courtroom testimony requires. The easiest solution would be to drop one in favor of the other, and many authors take it. The remaining solution is to accept both as partially true, creating a window of opportunity for speculatory explanation of differences between the Alexandrian and Skepsian traditions.\n\nThe tradition best known to moderns is the \"Corpus Aristotelicum\", New Latin for \"Aristotelic body,\" a term not used by Bekker. The Prussian Academy published his 1831 edition under the name \"Aristoteles Graece\", \"Aristotle in Greek,\" where Aristoteles is the nominative case. In most Latin and New Latin book titles the author is in the genitive case, such as \"Aristotelis Opera\", \"the works of Aristotle.\" Individual works are so named by Bekker, but none of this is any sort of \"corpus\".\n\nIn the late 19th century the \"corpus\" phrase began to appear in the notes of the German historians of philosophy, such as Zeller and Windelband. By implication they meant Bekker, but even as they wrote a new manuscript was being excavated from the trash-heaps of Egypt about which Bekker knew nothing at all, or anyone else for at least a few thousand years: the Constitution of the Athenians (Aristotle). It was identified as being one of 158 political studies written by Aristotle and his students no earlier than 330 BC. It is in the \"notebook\" format. The content differs in that it is not an abstract treatise but is a history stating periods and dates. Not being able to fit it into an idea of the \"corpus\" based on Bekker, many rejected it. The date being quite ancient, the majority view is to accept it as of Alexandrian provenience, the only instance of an Aristotelicum from the library and school there.\n\nThe acceptance of the \"Constitution of the Athenians\" with the same credibility as the Bekkerian \"corpus\" lends a certain ambiguity to the meaning of \"corpus\". If it is to be only the works in Bekker, then such misleading phrases as \"the original corpus\" are possible, as though the works in Bekker are more authentic than any works out of it. Not even the works in Bekker are authentic beyond any doubt.\n\nThe next logical step is to attempt to modify the definition of the term so that it is not to be the Latin word \"corpus\" but some special use of it:\n\nThe phrase has such authority that it may not be used without meaning Bekker's collection, but it may be used to mean additional Aristotelica. It is often translated as \"the works of Aristotle.\" In that English sense it ought to mean every work ever attributed to Aristotle as well as every fragment. George Grote had said \n\nBy \"canon\" Grote meant \"the Berlin edition of Aristotle.\" He is totally innocent of any Aristotelian \"corpora\". Even if \"canon\" had survived instead of \"corpus\", such a meaning now would fail to distinguish Bekker. One translational solution is just to name Bekker, as in \"Bekker pages.\" Such an elevation of Bekker as the authority raises the question of the source of this aura of conviction surrounding the name. It seems likely that it was inherent in the sources.\n\nHaving determined to print all of Aristotle's authentic works, as far as could be ascertained, Bekker found himself looking back over a voluminous paper trail. He chose to use the texts found in 102 manuscripts (MSS), routinely identified by library name and access number. For use in the book, he gave each MS a letter code. These appear in the footnotes. The front material of the edition includes a list of MSS. His libraries are relatively few, including the Vatican Library at Rome, the Biblioteca Marciana at Venice, the Bibliothèque Nationale de France (formerly the Royal Library of Paris), and the Austrian National Library at Vienna. Typically the Aristotelica are included in famous MSS publishing a number of works.\n\nBekker did not seek out all possible MSS. The number of MSS still extant remains unknown. Before the invention of the printing press ca. 1440 by Johannes Gutenberg, who combined moveable type with a screw press, book reproduction was performed by copyists. It went on everywhere in institutions that could afford to undertake it.\n\nIn the 15th century copying slowed as the MSS were replaced by books. Due to cultural lag, some MSS production continued as late as the 17th century in the form of written books. For the most part the MSS were left where they were. Since Bekker, many previously unconsidered MSS have turned up. Their publication is ongoing. Based on them, works considered spurious are now believed genuine, and vice versa. The jury is always out, so to speak.\n\nThe date of a copy is to be distinguished from the date of its recension. Most Aristotle MSS were copied during centuries 13-15 at various scriptoria in Europe. The sequence of text is the recension, which might be instanced by many copies at diverse locations. The recension is not just the text, but is all the idiosyncrasies, such as a specific set of errors (miscopies, misspellings or variant texts), associated with it. The similarities or differences make possible the reconstruction of a tree of descent by the comparative method defining families of MSS, each designated by a capital letter. A family also is a recension. Its first member is its original. Typically originals are not available now but their existence and date can be predicated from different types of historical and textual evidence.\n\nExcluding anomalous archaeological finds, all the MSS copied most lately date to after 1000. Historical and internal clues point to originals in the last 3 centuries before 1000 and a provenience of the domain of the Byzantine Empire; that is, the Greek-speaking world as it was under the eastern Roman Empire. The crusaders broke the power of its capital city, Constantinople, leaving it helpless before the saracens, in this case the Turkish-language speakers from the plains of Central Asia, who became the Ottoman Turks. They soon colonized Anatolia, occupying the urban centers there and replacing the Greek-speakers, who escaped to Greece. As they were not much interested in copying Greek MSS, the task of transmitting them to posterity passed to Europe. (The Turkish people today have an abiding interest in antiquities). The Arabic-speaking saracens to the south after an initial zealous destruction of antiquities, including starting yet another fire in the library of Alexandria, seemed to be infused with the same magic of Aristotle and Alexander that had captured the Roman conquerors of Anatolia earlier. They began to translate Aristotle into Arabic, now the only source of some Aristotelica.\n\nHand-written MSS of Aristotle are missing from the 1st half of the 1st millennium. The ongoing sites of Oxyrhynchus and the Villa of the Papyri offer hope of the discovery of fragments outside the \"corpus\" tradition. Meanwhile, the commentaries, or explanations of the content of the \"corpus\", supply quotations and paraphrases filling in the gap. These \"lemmata\", or excerpts, are so close to the \"corpus\" that they can be assigned Bekker numbers, which is good evidence that \"corpus\" has been accepted as the work of Aristotle since the beginning of the Roman Empire. The \"corpus\" is universally attributed to a single recension, that of Andronicus of Rhodes, dated to mid-1st-century BC, in the late Roman Republic. The diagnostic of Andronicus' work is the division of the text into treatises, the names of some of the treatises, and the order and grouping of the treatises. Any work that does not conform to that diagnostic is immediately suspected of being \"spurious\" or non-authentic; that is, not of the \"corpus\" and not of Aristotle (rightly or wrongly).\n\nIn the story by Strabo, after Neleus has removed the books to Skepsis — many thousands in broad daylight on a caravan of wagons and in a fleet of ships, without objection or notice of any officials at Athens or Skepsis — history knows no more of him, even though he must have had plans for the books. Evidently the plans did not materialize. To take the passage literally, he must have died shortly thereafter, as the relatives received disposition of the property willed to them (the books).\n\nThe books arrived at Skepsis and were stored in a large outbuilding at what must have been a country estate, as the space requirements would not have changed any since Athens. The few small rooms of an ordinary dwelling in town would not have been suitable. Perhaps the relatives were not so poor and uneducated as depicted. As one man could not possibly have moved an entire library by himself, Neleus must have had a retinue of servants.\n\nHearing that Eumenes II, the Attalid king of Pergamon, was hunting books, the Corascid family \"hid their books underground in a kind of trench.\" The king must not even have suspected the presence of a huge underground cache at Skepsis, as kings have methods of investigation and confiscation not available to ordinary citizens. Apparently the king's system of \"eyes and ears,\" so well developed under Alexander, failed totally, that an entire building full of books could have been received and buried without him being informed. Moreover, the event remained a family secret for the next 200 years.\n\nOrdinary people do not keep property and family memory for so long, but the story is the story, and apart from the alternative by Athenaeus, is the only one available. Speculative answers are always possible. The general view is that Neleus only brought, and his family only hid, a small part of a library that had already otherwise been sold.\n\nFor the next event in the creation of the \"corpus\" the historical clock must be advanced from the accession of Strato as scholiarch (instead of Neleus) at 286 BC to the confiscation of the first recension of the re-discovered \"corpus\" from the home of the deceased re-discoverer, by general Sulla on his return to Athens after his conquest of Anatolia in 84 BC. For that approximately 200 years, Strabo would have us believe, the scholars of the Lyceum were a simple folk, unable to understand, repeat, or reconstruct the work of Aristotle, nor could they add to any of the previous investigations without his guidance. Moreover, when they finally did obtain a glimpse into what they believed were the words of the master, the only scholarly activities of which they were capable were trying to puzzle out what they mean. Whatever this condition might have been, it certainly was not science. Considering the activities of some of the graduates, there has been some grounds for thinking the Lyceum was gone, and the property was being held by greedy charlatans utilizing the name of peripatetic as a mask. Athenaeus tells the story of \"Athenion the Peripatetic philosopher\" (a contemporary of Apellicon),\n\nThe men to whom he refers did not wear ragged cloaks; they were among the richest in Athens, but they were so because they were charlatans, or, as would be said today, \"crooks.\" The school and the society in which it had been placed were different now. The diadochi were gone, or nearly so, including the Attalids. The eastern Mediterranean was divided into provinces of the Roman Republic, except that Mithridates VI of Pontus was successfully contesting Roman rule in Anatolia. The citizenship laws at Athens had changed somewhat. Athenion's mother had been an Egyptian slave owned by his father, and yet based on his father's citizenship he was enrolled as a citizen and inherited his father's estate. Apellicon (not an Athenian name), an immigrant from Teos in Asia MInor, was enrolled as a citizen after his adoption into the family of Aristotle, son of Apolexis.\n\nThe fact that the family included two members named Aristotle leads to the suggestion that the adoptive family had connections to the Lyceum and that Apellicon learned of the books through it. Moreover, references in the sources to Apellicon and Athenion as \"peripatetics\" may well be interpreted as meaning that they both went to the Lyceum, which would explain why they were later comrades-in-arms. The peripatetics never had a predictable philosophy. Both men were skilled orators, which was a specialty of the school at that time. Athenion went on to found a chain of schools for boys, on which account he is called a \"sophist\" (a teacher of conventional wisdom). Apellicon turned his love for books into something conceded to have been illegal for the times:\n\nAs there is no indication that the Apolexidis family were fabulously wealthy or that, being numerous, they had much to leave to their adopted son, Apellicon very likely made his money from the resale of rare documents he acquired for nothing except the cost of stealing them. These were the originals of the decrees, first written on paper and signed before they were carved in stone for public benefit. In describing the ideal library of \"Lawrence,\" Athenaeus points out that even then historians were expected to verify their claims against public documents. In one source Apellicon himself had written a book on Aristotle. Initially he might have yielded to the temptation to walk away with the source rather than return it to display in the temple. Becoming rich through the sale of stolen documents he decided to redeem the old cache, which was said to have been hidden not far from his home town.\n\nExamining the books, and finding that moths and mold had removed portions of the text, Apellicon created another recension, supplying the missing information himself. There is no indication of how much was missing or of what source Apellicon used, if any, or whether the supplied material was grammatical, orthographic, or epigraphic, or included philosophy as well. Subsequent editors judged his recension to have been full of errors, but no ancient source has said what sort of errors, or how they were judged to be errors. These editors made corrections, but the sources of information used for correction remain unknown. In short, the only thing known from ancient sources is that Apellicon made a recension that was later criticised for being erroneus. The contradiction of such a statement is that if they knew enough to correct Apellicon, why would the rediscovery of the books have added anything different to the obviously already known \"corpus\"?\n\nThe passage from Athenaeus also provides a rough time table for the recension of Apellicon. It was created toward the end of his years as a successful thief, presumably at his home in Athens. What happened to the damaged originals remains a total mystery. Perhaps they were repasted and sold. How many copies were made if any, and who got them, also is not known. Apellicon probably left town in such a hurry that the books remained in Athens under the care of friends or servants. There is no record that the city moved against his property. Thus in a short time when he returned under the protection of Athenion he took up residence in the same home housing the same library, which was found there by Sulla after Apellicon's death.\n\nIn the pages of Athenaeus, evil men come to a bad end, and the peripatetics are not good men. These were shortly to be tested in the First Mithridatic War with disastrous results. Bithynia and Pontus were independent kingdoms descending from Persian satrapies on the southern coast of the Black Sea never taken by Alexander. The descendants of the satraps remained as the Nicomedid and Mithridatid dynasties respectively. Walking a fine diplomatic balance they managed to coexist with the reigning diadochi (Attalids, Seleucids, etc.), but they made war on each other. When the diadochi were replaced by Roman provincial governors, Mithridates VI of Pontus attacked Nicomedes IV of Bithynia, claiming tort at the hands of Nicomedes supported by Rome, and further developing an Anatolian alliance defeated all the Roman commanders, massacring as well the helpless Roman citizens. Rome could not ignore these events.\n\nThe rise of Mithridates offered some hope of independence to the cities of Greece. The Athenian people made Athenion the ambassador to Mithridates on the basis of his skill at oratory and experience of the east. Mithridates had other ideas. Winning the ambassador by banquets and promises he sent him back to Athens, where he set up headquarters in front of the Stoa of Attalus. The Roman officers were accustomed to address the people at that location. After a running harangue, voting to declare independence, the Athenians elected Athenion as commander-in-chief of their armed forces. The historians refer to him as a tyrant.\n\nThe wealthy made it clear that the vote had not been theirs by attempting to escape the city. Posting a guard on the gates and dispatching cavalry to hunt the escapees Athenion held a sequence of drum-head trials for treason of which the result was always the same: death and confiscation of property. Athenaeus' account of other peripatetic tyrants at this time makes it clear that the issue was ideologic, the redistribution of wealth. Athenaeus, however, portrays it as thievery due to greed. He says that Athenion \"collected such a quantity of money as to fill several wells.\" Furthermore, he was lavish in his expenditures. Whether the motives were ideologic or personal is a difficult question to answer either then or now, but Athenion went to extremes. He took to torture to extort money. A curfew was set. The economy declined from want. Rationing was instituted.\n\nAthenion replaced all the magistrates with his own men. Choosing this moment to return to Athens, Apellicon was welcomed as an old comrade. Athenion sent him to Delos in command of a force with instructions to recapture the Athenian national treasury there and bring the money to Athens. It is peculiar that the force he was given is more of a mob than a detachment of soldiers, and that Apellicon evidences total ignorance of military matters. Landing on the shore at night they encamp without a palisade, fail to set a proper watch, and proceed to drink into the small hours. The commander of the Roman guard, Orobius, leads his soldiers into the camp, slaughters 600 men, takes another 400 captive, and hunts the escapees through the countryside, burning them up in their hiding places. Better at running than fighting, Apellicon manages to escape to Athens, where he disappears from politics, at least in the sources, until the brief notice of his death, apparently not of interest to Sulla until then.\n\nOn either side, victory depended on intervention. The Pontians moved first. Accompanying his fleet commander, Archelaus, as admiral Mithridates sails to Rhodes with his entire fleet. Lucius Cassius, Proconsul of Asia, had escaped to the fortified harbor in the city of the same name there with whatever refugees he could locate. All the Italians had been struck on a day pre-arranged by Mithridates. Their property was seized by forfeit under pretext of being for the public good, a motive that Appian, like Athenaeus, tears to shreds. The friends of Mithridates revelled in riches. Their cause was amply funded. Commanding from a state quinquereme, Mithridates throws all his naval resources at Rhodes. Failing to take the place, he retreats to his headquarters at Pergamon, instructing Archelaus to complete the conquest of the Cyclades. Archelaus overwhelms Delos, sending the treasury back to Athens with one Aristion under guard of 2000 men. He then anchors at Piraeus, fortifies Munichia, and uses the place as a headquarters, sending out forays to subdue new islands and new coastal cities. During this time Aristion is tyrant of Athens, and no more is heard of Athenion.\n\nThe sources on these two men are again contradictory. They are both tyrants of Athens. Athenaeus uses \"Athenion,\" as did his source, Posidonius, without mention of \"Aristion.\" Pausanias, Appian, and Plutarch refer to \"Aristion\" without mentioning \"Athenion.\" The main difference is that Athenion is a peripatetic, while Aristion is an epicurean. The scholar, Isaac Casaubon, proposed without further evidence that they were the same man, that, enrolling as a citizen, Athenion changed his name to Aristion (there was one other instance of the practice). The difference continued to be troubling, as the two philosophies were at upposite poles: the Epicureans were atomists following Democritus, while the peripatetics were hylomorphs, following Plato. The sources would have known the difference, even just to be men of letters.\n\nIn 1935 fragments of a monument were excavated from the Ancient Agora of Athens, which when joined formed part of a decree (I 2351) establishing a new government at Athens. According to Woodhead,\n\nA first analysis dated the Constitution to 84/83 BC, the time of Sulla’s visit after reaching an agreement with Mithridates. On subsequent revision of the text J.H. Oliver noticed that two of the provisions were so close to recommendations in Aristotle’s \"Politics\" that Bekker numbers could be As a peripatetic constitution would not be being restored in 84 BC after the final overthrow of the peripatetics. Oliver redates it to 87/86 BC suggesting that the author was a peripatetic; that is, Athenion with his friends. Furthermore, I 2351 is strong evidence that the recension of Apellicon was in fact close to the \"corpus Aristotelicum\". Antela-Bernardez suggests that after the Delian debacle Mithridates sacked all the peripatetics and elevated his own man, Aristion, to tyrant.\n\nOn the Roman side, the Asiatic Vespers (the massacre) resulted in an immediate declaration of war. Elections were due for the year 88 BC, which began January first. Sulla and Rufus (“red”) stood for consules and won (see List of Roman consuls). Rufus’ son, an officer under Sulla, had asked for Cornelia’s (Sulla’s eldest daughter’s) hand in marriage and won, a marriage which ended tragically. Sulla himself made a marriage with the daughter of the Chief Priest (Pontfex Maximus). The two consules cast lots for the major obligations, as required by law. Sulla won prosecution of the Mithridatic War.\n\nThese electoral victories represent a break-away from the political machine of which Gaius Marius was boss. He headed the Populares party; Sulla and Rufus were of the Optimates. Marius had nevertheless until now sponsored the career of Sulla. Born to the aristocratic Cornelii, Sulla was said to have had a way with women. His step-mother left him her fortune. He married into more wealth. His personal name, Sulla, was actually a food dish of white cheese sprinkled over a red sauce (pizza?) giving the same appearance as his face. He had joined a troupe of comedians who sang and danced making a mockery of famous people, leaving that to enter government service under Marius’ sponsorship. His taking for himself a position Marius had hoped to control was an unforgivable betrayal.\n\nThe animosity between them had begun previously when the ambitious Sulla ran for Praetor, lost, ran again, bought some votes and won, to be ridiculed for it by Julius Caesar. Sent to Asia without troops he brought about peace using the troops of his allies there. On his return the Populares impeached him for extorting an ally but the case was dropped. At the outbreak of the Social War (91–88 BC) both parties put their differences aside until victory was achieved and the Italians were restored to Roman rule. Sulla, leading troops recruited at Rome itself, had acquired “the name of a great commander,” but the aging Marius accomplished nothing of note.\n\nWasting no time, Marius subverted one of the Tribuni plebis, “Tribunes of the People,” Publius Sulpicius Rufus, a feared politician with a private army of 3000 men, to pass an ordinance giving conduct of the war to Marius. Sulpicius had changed allegiance from the \"optimates\" to the \"populares\" to qualify for the magistracy. As blandishment, Marius promised the relief of Sulpicius’ ruinous debt. Declaring a preventative cessation of business, the two consuls were attacked by Sulpicius’ men in assembly. Rufus escaped somehow. His son was killed. Marius offered shelter to Sulla for old time’s sake and in exchange for withdrawal of the cessation.\n\nThe tribunes sent to take command of the army at Nola (near Naples) were stoned to death by it. Sulla had gotten there first. Marius began to murder Sulla’s partisans and confiscate their property. Sulla marched on Rome with six legions. He was met by emissaries from the Senate, who would, they assured him, make things right. Sulla agreed but lied, following the emissaries back to Rome to capture the gate. Halted there by a mob, he set fire to Rome.\n\nMarius fled for his life. Sulla passed a death sentence in absentia (later rescinded). Sulpicius was executed. The elections for 87 were upon them. Rufus had been killed in a mutiny. Knowing he could not win, Sulla did not run. He did control who did win, making it possible for them to perform their duties or preventing them. His choices were Gnaeus Octavius (consul 87 BC), an optimate (although he disliked Sulla) and Lucius Cornelius Cinna, a popular. The price for Sulla’s support was that they swear a personal oath to leave Sulla in his command, now as Proconsul. Cinna broke it immediately, suborning a low-level tribune to trump up an accusation (not known what) on the basis of which he began impeachment proceedings against Sulla.\n\nOver a year had passed since the hapless Romans in Asia had sent urgent appeals for assistance. Mithridates had established sovereignty over nearly all of Greece. The Roman government seemed paralyzed by incidents of partisan contention. Meanwhile, Bruttius Sura, a Legate of one Gaius Sentius, Praetor of Macedonia, was conducting small-unit operations quasi-autonomously against the Pontians in Boeotia with minimal success. Boeotia though anti-Pontian was being compelled to submit. In the autumn of 88 BC Sulla's Quaestor (chief supply officer), one Lucullus (undoubtedly the same as Lucius Licinius Lucullus, written about by Plutarch), arrived to order Sura back to Macedonia and to make supply arrangements with Boeotia and the states of central Greece. In the spring of 87, Sulla abandoned the suite of impeachment and the Civil War to strike suddenly across the Adriatic into central Greece with 5 legions and some cavalry, in very round numbers, about 30,000 men, mainly veterans of the Social War, many no doubt from his prior command.\n\nImplied by the sudden strike story is the paradox of the ships. During the siege of Athens, lacking ships to conduct an amphibious assault on Piraeus, Sulla sends Lucullus to Egypt by night in disguised vessels to beg ships from Ptolemy IX Lathyros. Denied and redirected to Cyprus, Lucullus avoids an ambush there and collects a motley fleet from the islands. Meanwhile, Sulla has no ships, it is said. When history last saw Sulla’s five legions they had been sent back to the camp at Nola. Either Sulla acquired ships there and sailed around the south of Italy or they marched overland to Brindisi, the preferred port of embarcation for voyages to Greece. The sources give no clue.\n\nThe troops next appear at Athens without ships. How did they cross the Adriatic Sea? Mommsen says:\n\nHe could not have landed in Epirus without a single ship except by extraordinary means not explained by Mommsen. Similarly, the contemporaneous Long says:\n\nThe ships have appeared in this scenario (one cannot sail without them) but the march is unnecessarily laborious. There is no need to disembark at all: one enters the Gulf of Corinth, which is 81 miles long, and no more than a few days later arrives off the shores of Attica and Boeotia. If the ships are allowed, there is no necessity to have any “landing” or any “march” at all.\n\nThe current solution implied or expressed by the scholars is that by “ships” the sources mean warships capable of defeating Archelaus’ warships, which would otherwise ram and sink any troop transports. Sulla’s quaestorial organization would have acquired sufficient transports for the crossing in Italy. They did not sail to Athens with them as the seas were ruled by Archelaus. The only other route is through the Gulf of Corinth. It requires that either the ships be dragged across the Isthmus of Corinth on an overland route through enemy territory or be left behind in the Gulf.\n\nWhat the army did do depended on the disposition of the states on the east side of the Gulf and the moot question of supply. Mommsen and Long (and many others) speculate that the troops arrived in Epirus with empty larders, so to speak. On the contrary, as the master of Rome, Sulla would have had no trouble commandeering whatever initial supplies and ships he needed. His was not a poverty-stricken army. Armies on the move, however, require supply lines, which is what the Civil War would deny Sulla. As soon as he had departed his enemies assumed power, and they had no intention of supplying his army. He was on his own.\n\nAppian gives the most detail:\n\nThere is no mention of any land campaign. Aetolia was on the north shore of the Gulf. Thessaly was far to the north on the east coast of central Greece. This distance is the basis for Mommsen’s land campaign, as though Thessaly required one. Thessaly, however, was still pro-Roman. One does not devastate the country of an ally to acquire supplies. Apparently, Sulla landed in Aetolia to receive the assistance promised by both states to Lucullus the previous year.\n\nSupplied and augmented by Aetolians Sulla’s force marched through the adjoining country of Boeotia. As a symbol of Roman presence it was immensely successful. Every city of Boeotia, including the recalcitrant Thebes, rallied to the Roman cause. His flank now covered, Sulla entered Megaris, which had thrown in its lot with Boeotia. It was an important land link between Attica and the Gulf of Corinth. It had a fortified port, Aigosthena, on the Alkyonides Gulf. Arriving in the vicinity of Athens, Sulla constructed a larger castra (base) at Eleusis to support siege operations, supply and winter quarters for the men should that become necessary (it did).\n\nAfter constructing their castra — a Roman legion was prepared to throw up one of those in a single late afternoon, although a permanent camp may have taken longer — the Romans moved to the siege of Athens on the north side. If Sulla had faced the full weight of the Athenian army as it had been, he would perhaps simply have been cleared out of Attica. As it was, Aristion and his Mithridatic ally, Archelaus, were to demonstrate an astounding incompetence (the sources were astounded) against Roman veteran troops; nevertheless, they put up a strong resistance, Archelaus most of all.\n\nThe Athenians had created two fortified defensive communities: the city itself with the Acropolis and the Marketplace (\"agora\"), and the port, Piraeus, with a defensible elevation. The path between them was protected by two parallel “Long Walls.” Thinking them unimportant, the defenders allowed these walls to be taken and demolished, thus splitting their forces in two. Archelaus defending Piraeus could be resupplied and reinforced by sea. Aristion in Athens itself could not. Sulla threw the entire weight of his attack against Aristion.\n\nThe defenders did have a defense strategy, plotted between Mithridates and Archelaus, who were in relatively rapid communication by swift vessel. Mithridates dispatched a strike force of 120,000 men under his son, Arcathias (or Ariathes). He took Macedonia and Thessaly but the force was delayed by the natural death of the son. Had he succeeded in reaching Attica in a timely manner Sulla would have been pinned between three forces. This remedy offers some explanation for Aristion’s strange behavior: he sang and danced on the walls of Athens, mocking Sulla by recalling his early career as an entertainer. One source proposes that he was just a fool who liked to entertain the men of his command. Another informs us that he was trying to anger Sulla to keep him on the attack, which also would be a strange thing to do if he did not expect a relieving force. He succeeded all too well, but the timing went wrong.\n\nSulla sent for some siege engines from Thebes. It was at this time that he crossed paths unkowingly with Aristotle and also made the originally honest decisions that would lead to the plundering of Greek \"objects d’art\". A mere agreement with the allies to provide supplies in kind was grossly insufficient. Cash was needed to pay the men and to buy the goods and services needed for the siege, such as thousands of working mules, drivers and wagons. Just after he was assigned the Mithridatic War, the Senate voted to:\n\nThat money was gone and Sulla was cut off from Rome, but there were plenty of temples in Greece, each of which served as a repository of wealth. He and Lucullus made the decision to tax these temples for their valuable objects. Letters of appropriation were sent forthwith, delivered by revenue agents in wagons and ships.\n\nThe sources concentrate on the three most famous temples: the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, the Asclepeion at Epidaurus, and the Temple of Zeus, Olympia, which latter yielded “a vast fortune” according to Diodorus Siculus These were not the only temples taxed; there is evidence that the tax might have been on all temples. Pausanias mentions the removal of the statue of Athena from a temple in Haliartus, Boeotia. At this time Sulla was still arguing national security as a motive. After the war he compensated at least some of the temples by giving them confiscated farmland for a yearly income.\n\nSulla was primarily interested in currency. He could obtain it either by resale of the art objects or by melting them and issuing coin. We are told he founded a mint in the Peloponnesus and that he issued gold and silver coins of greater than standard weight for “purchasing the services of their soldiers with lavish sums.” This money was subsequently called “Lucullian,” according to Plutarch. The coin discoveries from the region are consistent with this view, although not conclusive. A gold aureus and a silver denarius believed from the times are overweight and bear an image of Venus, Sulla’s patron goddess, on one side with a double cornucopia and the letter Q for Quaestor on the other. Minting was not the only disposition of the antiques; Sulla was aware of the high resale value of such objects. He took many objects not of precious metal, such as the antique shields of the Greeks who had stopped Brennus (3rd century BC) at Thermopylae. These must have been sold to the highest bidder.\n\n\nA recension is a selection of a specific text for publication. The manuscripts on a given work attributed to Aristotle offer textual variants. One recension makes a selection of one continuous text, but typically gives notes stating the alternative sections of text. Determining which text is to be presented as \"original\" is a detailed scholarly investigation. The recension is often known by its scholar's name.\nIn reverse chronological order:\n\nA commentary differs from a note in being a distinct work analyzing the language and subsumed concepts of some other work classically notable. A note appears within the annotated work on the same page or in a separate list. Commentaries are typically arranged by lemmas, or quotes from the notable work, followed by an analysis of the author of the commentary.\n\nThe commentaries on every work of Aristotle are a vast and mainly unpublished topic. They extend continuously from the death of the philosopher, representing the entire history of Graeco-Roman philosophy. There are thousands of commentators and commentaries known wholly or more typically in fragments of manuscripts. The latter especially occupy the vaults of institutions formerly responsible for copying them, such as monasteries. The process of publishing them is slow and ongoing.\n\nBelow is a brief representative bibliography of published commentaries on Aristotle's \"Physics\" available on or through the Internet. Like the topic itself, they are perforce multi-cultural, but English has been favored, as well as the original languages, ancient Greek and Latin.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4521723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4521723", "title": "Principles of Philosophy", "text": "Principles of Philosophy\n\nPrinciples of Philosophy () is a book by René Descartes. In essence it is a synthesis of the \"Discourse on Method\" and \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" It was written in Latin, published in 1644 and dedicated to Elisabeth of Bohemia, with whom Descartes had a long-standing friendship. A French version (\"Les Principes de la Philosophie\") followed in 1647. It set forth the principles of nature—the Laws of Physics—as Descartes viewed them. Most notably, it set forth the principle that in the absence of external forces, an object's motion will be uniform and in a straight line. Newton borrowed this principle from Descartes and included it in his own \"Principia\"; to this day, it is still generally referred to as Newton's First Law of Motion. The book was primarily intended to replace the Aristotelian curriculum then used in French and British universities. The work provides a systematic statement of his metaphysics and natural philosophy, and represents the first truly comprehensive, mechanistic account of the universe.\n\nDescartes asked Abbot Claude Picot to translate his Latin \"Principia Philosophiæ\" into French. For this edition he wrote a preface, disguised as a letter to the translator, whose title is \"Letter of the author to the translator of the book, that may be used as a preface\". This was published in 1647, a date already in the maturity final period of his life. In this writing Descartes pours some reflexions about his idea of wisdom and philosophy. Its content may be summarized as follows.\n\nConcept of philosophy. Philosophy is the study of \"wisdom\", understood as the ability to conduct the human activities; and also as the perfect knowledge of all the things that a man can know for the direction of his life, maintenance of his health, and knowledge of the arts. Only God is perfectly wise, and the man is more or less wise, in proportion to the knowledge he has of the most important truths.\n\nThe degrees of knowledge. Descartes identifies four degrees of knowledge, he names \"common\", and a fifth one he designates as \"higher\". The first degree consists on clear and evident notions that can be acquired without need of any meditation. The second degree is all that is learned by means of the senses. The third comprises what we learn when talking with other men. The fourth consists on what we can learn from the writings of men capable of giving good instructions.\n\nHigher wisdom. There have been great men in all times that have sought after a better and more secure wisdom, a \"fifth degree\" of knowledge. This has consisted on the search for the \"first causes\", and those that have followed this pursuit have been named \"philosophers\", but he thinks that no one has been successful yet.\n\nDoubt and certainty. Since Plato and Aristotle there has been a discussion about doubt and certainty. Those that have favored doubt have arrived to extremes of doubting even the most evident things, and those that have sought certainty have relied excessively on senses. Though it is true that it has been accepted that the senses may mislead us, according to Descartes nobody had yet expressed that the truth can not be based on the senses, but in the \"understanding\", when it is founded on \"evident perceptions\".\n\nMeditations on first philosophy. The search for the first causes, or basic truths, as undertaken by Descartes is contained in this work. It explains the metaphysical principles on which to build the rest of knowledge.\n\nThe tree of philosophy. The philosophy is like a tree, whose roots are the \"metaphysics\", its trunk the \"physics\", and the branches the rest of sciences, mainly \"medicine\", \"mechanics\", and \"morals\" that is the last level of wisdom. In the same way that the tree has its fruits in its outer parts, the usefulness of philosophy is also contained in the parts that are learnt at the end.\n\nA copy of Descartes' \"Principia philosophiæ\" dated 1656 is owned by the Tom Slick rare book collection at the Southwest Research Institute in Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41872647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41872647", "title": "Registry of Research Data Repositories", "text": "Registry of Research Data Repositories\n\nThe Registry of Research Data Repositories (re3data.org) is an Open Science tool that offers researchers, funding organizations, libraries and publishers an overview of existing international repositories for research data.\n\nre3data.org is a global registry of research data repositories from all academic disciplines. It provides an overview of existing research data repositories in order to help researchers to identify a suitable repository for their data and thus comply with requirements set out in data policies.\nThe registry was officially launched in May 2013.\n\nIn March 2014 the registry lists 634 research data repositories from around the world covering all academic disciplines. 586 of these are described in detail using the re3data.org schema.\nThe project makes all metadata in the registry available for open use under the Creative Commons deed CC0.\n\nThe majority of the listed research data repositories are described in detail by a comprehensive schema, namely the re3data.org Schema for the Description of Research Data Repositories.\nInformation icons support researchers to identify an adequate repository for the storage and reuse of their data.\n\nA repository is indexed when the minimum requirements for inclusion in re3data.org are met: the repository has to be run by a legal entity, such as a sustainable institution (e.g. library, university) and clearly state access conditions to the data and repository as well as the terms of use. Additionally, an English graphical user interface (GUI) plus a focus on research data is needed.\n\nre3data.org is a joint project of the Berlin School of Library and Information Science, the GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences and the Library of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT). The project is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG).\nThe project cooperates with other Open Science initiatives like Databib, BioSharing, DataCite and OpenAIRE. Several publishers, research institutions and funders refer to re3data.org in their Editorial Policies and guidelines as a tool for the identification of suitable data repositories, e.g. Nature, Springer and the European Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2253593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253593", "title": "Royal College of Science for Ireland", "text": "Royal College of Science for Ireland\n\nThe Royal College of Science for Ireland (RCScI) was an institute for higher education in Dublin which existed from 1867 to 1926, specialising in physical sciences and applied science. It was originally based on St. Stephen's Green, moving in 1911 to a purpose-built \"Royal College of Science\" building on Merrion Street. In 1926 it was absorbed into University College Dublin (UCD) as the faculty of Science and Engineering.\n\nThe Museum of Economic Geology was founded by the Dublin Castle administration in 1845, with chemist Robert Kane as curator, and a focus on mining in Ireland similar to the Museum of Practical Geology in London. In 1847, Kane was promoted to director, expanding its remit, and renaming it the Museum of Irish Industry (MII). In 1853 a new Science and Art Department was created within the Whitehall administration, and in 1854 the MII placed under its remit. A School of Science applied to Mining and the Arts was created, modelled on the Royal School of Mines in London, with four professorships shared jointly by the MII school and the Royal Dublin Society (RDS). The MII and School shared premises at 51, St. Stephen's Green, acquired in 1846 and fitted out by 1852. In 1864, a select committee of the UK parliament recommended that the MII and School be entirely separated from the RDS and broadened into a government-supported College of Science for Ireland. In 1865, HM Treasury agreed and in 1867 a commission was appointed by the education committee of the Privy Council. The commission, headed by William Parsons, 3rd Earl of Rosse, outlined the scope and functions of the proposed college, and the RCScI mission statement on 11 September 1867 was: \n\nGeorge Sigerson complained in 1868 that the RCScI was less open to Catholics than the MII had been.\n\nThe RCScI's remit was later changed to exclude include agriculture and include \"Physics and Natural Science\". The number of students enrolled increased gradually.\n\nBy 1898 the RCScI had chairs of Mining and Mineralogy, Physics, Chemistry, Zoology, Botany, Geology, Applied Mathematics and Mechanism, Descriptive Geometry and Engineering. In 1900, control was transferred from the Science and Art Department in London to the Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction in Dublin, headed by Horace Plunkett. A new building was proposed in 1897 and a site from Merrion Street to Kildare Street was chosen in 1898; in 1899 the plan was extended to include government administrative offices as well as the new college. The new building was designed by Sir Aston Webb; the foundation stone was laid in 1904 by Edward VII and it was opened in 1911 by George V.\n\nIn 1926 the RCScI was absorbed into UCD where it became the UCD Science and Engineering faculties. Science moved to UCD's Earlsfort Terrace building, and on to Belfield in the 1960s; Engineering moved from Merrion Street to Belfield in 1989. The RCScI building was then absorbed into Government Buildings with the rest of Aston Webb's complex, lavishly renovated by Charles Haughey and used to house the Department of the Taoiseach.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10681803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10681803", "title": "Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award", "text": "Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award\n\nThe Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Grant Award was a grant award originally announced in 2000. which has now been superseded by the Royal Society Wolfson Fellowships. \n\nIt was administered by the Royal Society and jointly funded by the Wolfson Foundation and the UK Office of Science and Technology, to give universities additional financial support to attract key researchers to this country or to retain those who might seek to gain higher salaries elsewhere.\" to tackle the brain drain. They were given in four annual rounds, with up to seven awards per round.\n\nWinners of this grant (see ) award included:\n"}
{"id": "26762483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26762483", "title": "Science 2.0", "text": "Science 2.0\n\nScience 2.0 is a suggested new approach to science that uses information-sharing and collaboration made possible by network technologies. It is similar to the open research and open science movements and is inspired by Web 2.0 technologies. Science 2.0 stresses the benefits of increased collaboration between scientists. Science 2.0 uses collaborative tools like wikis, blogs and video journals to share findings, raw data and \"nascent theories\" online. Science 2.0 benefits from openness and sharing, regarding papers and research ideas and partial solutions.\n\nA general view is that Science 2.0 is gaining traction with websites beginning to proliferate, yet at the same time there is considerable resistance within the scientific community about aspects of the transition as well as discussion about what, exactly, the term means. There are several views that there is a \"sea change\" happening in the status quo of scientific publishing, and substantive change regarding how scientists share research data. There is considerable discussion in the scientific community about whether scientists should embrace the model and exactly how Science 2.0 might work, as well as several reports that many scientists are slow to embrace collaborative methods and are somewhat \"inhibited and slow to adopt a lot of online tools.\"\n\nThe term has many meanings and continues to evolve in scientific parlance. It not only describes what is currently happening in science, but describes a direction in which proponents believe science should move towards, as well as a growing number of websites which promote free scientific collaboration.\nThe term \"Science 2.0\" suggests a contrast between traditional ways of doing science, often denoted \"Science 1.0\", with more collaborative approaches, and suggests that the new forms of science will work with Web 2.0 technologies. One description from \"Science\" is that Science 2.0 uses the \"networking power of the internet to tackle problems with multiple interacting variables - the problems, in other words, of everyday life.\" A different and somewhat controversial view is that of Ben Shneiderman, who suggested that Science 2.0 combines hypothesis-based inquiries with social science methods, partially for the purpose of improving those new networks.\n\nWhile the term describes websites for sharing scientific knowledge, it also includes efforts by existing science publishers to embrace new digital tools, such as offering areas for discussions following published online articles. Sometimes it denotes open access which, according to one view, means that the author continues to hold the copyright but that others can read it and use it for reasonable purposes, provided that the attribution is maintained. Most online scientific literature is behind paywalls, meaning that a person can find the title of an article on Google but they can not read the actual article. People who can access these articles are generally affiliated with a university or secondary school or library or other educational institution, or who pay on a per-article or subscription basis.\n\nOne view is that \"Science 2.0\" should include an effort by scientists to offer papers in non-technical language, as a way of reaching out to non-scientists. For others, it includes building vast databases of case histories. There is a sense in which \"Science 2.0\" indicates a general direction for scientific collaboration, although there is little clarity about how exactly this might happen. One aim is to \"make scientific collaboration as easy as sharing videos of trips home from the dentist,\" according to one view.\n\nClosely related terms are \"cyberscience\" focussing on scientists communicating in the cyberspace and \"cyberscience 2.0\" expanding the notion to the emerging trend of academics using Web 2.0 tools.\n\nThe rise of the Internet has transformed many activities such as retailing and information searching. In journalism, Internet technologies such as blogging, tagging and social networking have caused many existing media sources such as newspapers to \"adopt whole new ways of thinking and operating,\" according to a report in \"Scientific American\" in 2008. The idea is that while the Internet has transformed many aspects of life, it has not changed scientific research as much as it could. While firms such as eBay, Amazon and Netflix have changed consumer retailing, and online patient-centered medical data has enabled better health care, Science 2.0 advocate Ben Shneiderman said:\n\nAccording to one view, a similar web-inspired transformation that has happened to other areas is now happening to science. The general view is that science has been slower than other areas to embrace the web technology, but that it is beginning to catch up.\nBefore the Internet, scientific publishing has been described as a \"highly integrated and controlled process.\" Research was done in private. Next, it was submitted to scientific publications and reviewed by editors and gatekeepers and other scientists. Last, it was published. This has been the traditional pathway of scientific advancement, sometimes dubbed \"Science 1.0\".\n\nEstablished journals provided a \"critical service\", according to one view. Publications such as \"Science\" and \"Nature\" have large editorial staffs to manage the peer-review process as well as have hired fact-checkers and screeners to look over submissions. These publications get revenue from subscriptions, including online ones, as well as advertising revenue and fees paid by authors. According to advocates of Science 2.0, however, this process of paper-submission and review was rather long. Detractors complained that the system is \"hidebound, expensive and elitist\", sometimes \"reductionist\", as well as being slow and \"prohibitively costly\". Only a select group of gatekeepers—those in charge of the traditional publications—limited the flow of information. Proponents of open science claimed that scientists could learn more and learn faster if there is a \"friction-free collaboration over the Internet.\"\n\nYet there is considerable resistance within the scientific community to a change of approach. The act of publishing a new finding in a major journal has been at the \"heart of the career of scientists,\" according to one view, which elaborated that many scientists would be reluctant to sacrifice the \"emotional reward\" of having their discoveries published in the usual, traditional way. Established scientists are often loath to switch to an open-source model, according to one view.\n\nTimo Hannay explained that the traditional publish-a-paper model, sometimes described as \"Science 1.0\", was a workable one but there need to be other ways for scientists to make contributions and get credit for their work:\n\nIn 2008, a scientist at the University of Maryland named Ben Shneiderman wrote an editorial entitled \"Science 2.0\". Shneiderman argued that Science 2.0 was about studying social interactions in the \"real world\" with study of e-commerce, online communities and so forth. A writer in \"Wired Magazine\" criticized Shneiderman's view, suggesting that Shneiderman's call for more collaboration, more real-world tests, and more progress should not be called \"Science 2.0\" or \"Science 1.0\" but simply science.\n\nThere are reports that established journals are moving towards greater openness. Some help readers network online; others enable commenters to post links to websites; others make papers accessible after a certain period of time has elapsed. But it remains a \"hotly debated question\", according to one view, whether the business of scientific research can move away from the model of \"peer-vetted, high-quality content without requiring payment for access.\" The topic has been discussed in a lecture series at the California Institute of Technology. Proponent Adam Bly thinks that the key elements needed to transform Science 2.0 are \"vision\" and \"infrastructure\":\n\nThere are numerous examples of more websites offering opportunities for scientific collaboration.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "511222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511222", "title": "Scientific phenomena named after people", "text": "Scientific phenomena named after people\n\nThis is a list of scientific phenomena and concepts named after people (eponymous phenomena). For other lists of eponyms, see eponym.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13433031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13433031", "title": "Scientific temper", "text": "Scientific temper\n\nThe Scientific temper is a way of life (defined in this context as an individual and social process of thinking and acting) which uses the scientific method and which may, consequently, include questioning, observing physical reality, testing, hypothesizing, analysing, and communicating (not necessarily in that order). \"Scientific temper\" describes an attitude which involves the application of logic. Discussion, argument and analysis are vital parts of scientific temper. Elements of fairness, equality and democracy are built into it. Jawaharlal Nehru was the first to use the phrase in 1946. He later gave a descriptive explanation:\nNehru wrote that the scientific temper goes beyond the domains to which science is conventionally understood to be limited to, and deals also with the consideration of ultimate purposes, beauty, goodness and truth. Nehru also contended that the scientific temper is the opposite of the method of religion, which relies on emotion and intuition and is (mis)applied \"to everything in life, even to those things which are capable of intellectual inquiry and observation.\" While religion tends to close the mind and produce \"intolerance, credulity and superstition, emotionalism and irrationalism\", and \"a temper of a dependent, unfree person\", a scientific temper \"is the temper of a free man\". He also indicated that the scientific temper goes beyond objectivity and fosters creativity and progress. He envisioned that the spread of scientific temper would be accompanied by a shrinking of the domain of religion, and \"the exciting adventure of fresh and never ceasing discoveries, of new panoramas opening out and new ways of living, adding to [life's] fullness and ever making it richer and more complete.\" Nehru states (that) \"It is science alone that can solve the problems of hunger and poverty, of insanitation and illiteracy, of superstition and deadening custom and tradition, of vast resources running to waste, of a rich country inhabited by starving people.\"\n\nThe genesis and development of the idea of the scientific temper is connected to ideas expressed earlier by Charles Darwin when he said, \"[F]reedom of thought is best promoted by the gradual illumination of men's minds, which follows from the advance of science,\" and by Karl Marx when he said, \"Religion is the sigh of the oppressed creature, the heart of a heartless world, and the soul of soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people. The abolition of religion as the illusory happiness of the people is the demand for their real happiness. To call on them to give up their illusions about their condition is to call on them to give up a condition that requires illusions.\"\n\n\"To develop scientific temper, humanism and the spirit of inquiry and reform\" is one of the fundamental duties of the people of the Republic of India, according to the Constitution of India.\n\nThe Government of India, through the National Council for Science and Technology Communication, dedicated the 28 February National Science Day of 2014 to the theme \"Fostering Scientific Temper\" to spread Nehru's vision.\n\nThe National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources launched the scholarly serial \"Journal of Scientific Temper\" in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "27006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27006", "title": "Serendipity", "text": "Serendipity\n\nSerendipity means an unplanned, fortunate discovery.\n\nThe notion of serendipity is a common occurrence throughout the history of scientific innovation. Examples are Alexander Fleming's accidental discovery of penicillin in 1928, the invention of the microwave oven by Percy Spencer in 1945, and the invention of the Post-it note by Spencer Silver in 1968.\n\nIn June 2004, a British translation company voted the word to be one of the ten English words hardest to translate. However, due to its sociological use, the word has since been exported into many other languages.\n\nThe first noted use of \"serendipity\" in the English language was by Horace Walpole in 1754. In a letter he wrote to his friend Horace Mann, Walpole explained an unexpected discovery he had made about a (lost) painting of Bianca Cappello by Giorgio Vasari by reference to a Persian fairy tale, \"The Three Princes of Serendip\". The princes, he told his correspondent, were \"always making discoveries, by accidents and sagacity, of things which they were not in quest of\". The name comes from \"Serendip\", an old name for Sri Lanka (Ceylon), hence \"Sarandib\" by Arab traders. It is derived from the Sanskrit \"Siṃhaladvīpaḥ\" (Siṃhalaḥ, Sri Lanka + dvīpaḥ, island).\n\nM. E. Graebner describes serendipitous value in the context of the acquisition of a business as \"windfalls that were not anticipated by the buyer prior to the deal\": i.e., unexpected advantages or benefits incurred due to positive synergy effects of the merger.\n\nIkujiro Nonaka points out that the serendipitous quality of innovation is highly recognized by managers and links the success of Japanese enterprises to their ability to create knowledge not by processing information but rather by \"tapping the tacit and often highly subjective insights, intuitions, and hunches of individual employees and making those insights available for testing and use by the company as a whole\".\n\nSerendipity is postulated by Napier and Vuong (2013) as a 'strategic advantage' with which a firm can tap its potential creativity.\n\nSerendipity is a key concept in competitive intelligence because it is one of the tools for avoiding blind spots (see Blindspots analysis).\n\nSerendipity is used as a sociological method in Anselm L. Strauss' and Barney G. Glaser's \"grounded theory\", building on ideas by sociologist Robert K. Merton, who in \"Social Theory and Social Structure\" (1949) referred to the \"serendipity pattern\" as the fairly common experience of observing an unanticipated, anomalous and strategic datum which becomes the occasion for developing a new theory or for extending an existing theory. Merton also co-authored (with Elinor Barber) \"The Travels and Adventures of Serendipity\", which traces the origins and uses of the word \"serendipity\" since it was coined. The book is \"a study in sociological semantics and the sociology of science\", as the subtitle of the book declares. It further develops the idea of serendipity as scientific \"method\" (as juxtaposed with purposeful discovery by experiment or retrospective prophecy).\n\nWilliam Boyd coined the term zemblanity in the late twentieth century to mean somewhat the opposite of serendipity: \"making unhappy, unlucky and unexpected discoveries occurring by design\". A zemblanity is, effectively, an \"unpleasant unsurprise\". It derives from Novaya Zemlya (or Nova Zembla), a cold, barren land with many features opposite to the lush Sri Lanka (Serendip). On this island Willem Barents and his crew were stranded while searching for a new route to the east.\n\nBahramdipity is derived directly from Bahram Gur as characterized in \"The Three Princes of Serendip\". It describes the \"suppression\" of serendipitous discoveries or research results by powerful individuals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16225496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16225496", "title": "The Science Network", "text": "The Science Network\n\nThe Science Network (TSN) is a non-profit virtual forum dedicated to science and its impact on society. Initially conceived in 2003 by Roger Bingham and Terry Sejnowski as a cable science network, TSN would soon become a global digital platform. TSN currently offers free access to over 1100 videos of lectures from scientific meetings and long form one-on-one conversations with prominent scientists and communicators of science, including Neil deGrasse Tyson, V.S. Ramachandran, Helen S. Mayberg, and Barbara Landau, on topics including education, aging, neuroscience, and stem cells. As part of its mission, TSN has also sponsored and co-sponsored scientific forums, such as the landmark Symposium and Town Hall meeting, \"Stem cells: science, ethics and politics at the crossroads\", held at the Salk Institute in 2004 and the \"Beyond Belief\" conference series.\n\nTSN's signature series \"Beyond Belief\" was conceived to bring together a community of scientists, philosophers, scholars from the humanities, and social commentators. Speakers at these meetings have included Steven Weinberg, Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Harry Kroto, Neil deGrasse Tyson, and Stuart Kauffman. So far, the following three \"Beyond Belief\" conferences were organized:\n\n\"\", the first of The Science Network's annual Beyond Belief symposia, held from November 5 to November 7, 2006, was described by \"The New York Times\", as \"a free-for-all on science and religion,\" which seemed at times like \"the founding convention for a political party built on a single plank: in a world dangerously charged with ideology, science needs to take on an evangelical role, vying with religion as teller of the greatest story ever told.\" According to participant Melvin Konner, however, the event came to resemble a \"den of vipers” debating the issue, \"Should we bash religion with a crowbar or only with a baseball bat?”\n\nNew Scientist summed up the topics to be discussed as a list of three questions:\n\n\nSpeakers included physicists Steven Weinberg, Lawrence Krauss, author Sam Harris, biologist Joan Roughgarden, and astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson.\n\n\"Beyond Belief: Enlightenment 2.0\" was the second annual symposium and was held from 31 October to 2 November 2007 at the Frederic de Hoffmann Auditorium of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies.\n\n\"Beyond Belief: Candles in the Dark\" was the third annual Beyond Belief symposium. This event was organized by The Science Network and held from 3 October to 6 October 2008 in La Jolla, CA.\n"}
{"id": "400598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400598", "title": "Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program", "text": "Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program\n\nAn Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program provides funding and/or credit to undergraduate students who volunteer for faculty-mentored research projects pertaining to all academic disciplines at universities such as The University of Queensland, Boston University, the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech), the University of California, Irvine, California State University, Long Beach, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the University of Michigan, the University of Michigan-Flint, Florida State University, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST), the University of Minnesota, the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, the RWTH Aachen University, Imperial College London, the University of New Hampshire, the Nanyang Technological University and the University of Oregon.\n\nThe MIT program was founded in 1969, and the program at the University of Michigan was founded in the 1989 (primarily to help minorities and women break into science and mathematics). The University of California, Irvine founded its program in 1995. In the United Kingdom, Imperial College London provides a program for doing research in most of its departments for undergraduates at Imperial. Furthermore, the UROP scheme is also available at the University of Cambridge, the University of Reading, the University of Essex and the National University of Singapore. In 2008 the RWTH Aachen University started the first international UROP program for students from the United States and Canada in Germany. The University of Sussex runs a similar scheme, across all of its departments, where undergraduates are funded for 6 weeks as Junior Research Associates. The California State University, Long Beach program does not serve transfer students.\n\nStudents can apply for funding by submitting a proposal during \"Calls for Proposals\", which occur throughout the school year.\n\nThe Calls are announced on the school web sites and distributed to faculty members and the undergraduate counseling offices. Students have approximately one month from the announcement to submit their proposals. All undergraduate students from all disciplines and majors who are participating in a research project with a faculty advisor (usually a full-time professor at the university) eligible to respond to the current Call for Proposals if they are in good academic standing with the school.\n\nProposals are prepared by the student applicant and jointly submitted by the student and the faculty advisors. UROP funds a variety of projects with grants depending upon the merits of the project. At UC Irvine, an individual student may receive up to $1,000 through UROP for projects during the school year, to help pay for supplies and other necessary materials. Alternatively, UC Irvine students may also apply for a prestigious summer fellowship, by which they may be awarded as much as $3,000 per project, which is meant to reward them for their time and efforts. Higher amounts may be awarded for group projects. The UROP Faculty Advisory Board reviews proposals and decides whether the project merits funding. The UROP Faculty Advisory Board also makes the funding recommendations.\n\nUpon completion of the year-long research project, students are expected to present their findings at the school's research symposium. Although not a requirement, some students may submit their written reports (ranging from 15-25 pages) to the faculty committee in order to be considered for publication in the university's research journals. Publication in the UROP undergraduate research journal is known to be extremely competitive. In many cases, students are asked to submit numerous drafts to the faculty committee for review, only to find out that their papers are later denied publication. In the past, a mere 5% of all submissions were accepted for publication in the UC Irvine and MIT journals.\n\nIn addition, the University of Michigan housing also offers a UROP in residence option, called the Michigan Research Community, or MRC. This is an option for UROP students to live with each other and get an in-depth education in the University of Michigan's research. Additionally, students can also apply for a summer scholarship fellowship, in which students are given up to $3,000 to fund their own project.\n\n"}
