{"id": "18936343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18936343", "title": "Amethyst Initiative", "text": "Amethyst Initiative\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative is an organization made up of U.S. college presidents and chancellors that in July 2008 launched a movement calling for the reconsideration of U.S. legal drinking age, particularly the minimum age of 21. The National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984 requires all US states to raise their minimum age for purchase and public possession of alcohol to 21 or face a reduction in highway funds under the Federal-Aid Highway Act. The Amethyst Initiative was initiated by John McCardell, founder of Choose Responsibility, a former professor of history at Middlebury College in Middlebury, Vermont and current Vice-Chancellor of , and is currently supported by 136 college presidents who signed a statement proclaiming, \"It’s time to rethink the drinking age\".\n\nAccording to Greek and Roman legend, amethysts protected their owners from drunkenness.\n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states that, in their experience as university presidents, they have observed, \"Alcohol education that mandates abstinence as the only legal option has not resulted in significant constructive behavioral change among our students,\" and therefore they urge lawmakers \"to invite new ideas about the best ways to prepare young adults to make responsible decisions about alcohol\".\n\nGustavus Adolphus College President Jack R. Ohle said in a statement that the initiative is not about lowering the drinking age, but to open a debate on alcohol policies that affect young people and their choices about alcohol use. \n\nThe Amethyst Initiative states the following:\n\nSignatories of the initiative include:\n\nThe initiative's proposal has been criticized by several groups and government and industry officials, including Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). Joining MADD's criticism are other groups, including the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the American Medical Association, and the National Transportation Safety Board. A spokesman for the Governors Highway Safety Association told \"The Washington Post\" that university leaders \"are really just punting on the issue and leaving the high school principals to deal with it.\" However, Amethyst Initiative's parent organization, Choose Responsibility, proposes that only high school graduates should be eligible.\n\nIn a press release, MADD argues that lowering the drinking age would result in greater numbers of fatal automobile accidents, and that the presidents are \"looking for an easy way out of an inconvenient problem\" and \"misrepresenting science.\" MADD cited former U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Secretary, and current University of Miami president Donna Shalala statement that \"maintaining the legal drinking age at 21 is a socially and medically sound policy that helps parents, schools and law enforcement protect our youth from the potentially life-threatening effects of underage drinking.\"\nChoose Responsibility argues that scientific evidence supports the Amethyst Initiative's views and goals, and refutes some of MADD's past claims. Sanford Ungar, president of Goucher College and signee of the initiative argues that opponents should not fear because the Amethyst Initiative is about opening up the debate to improve alcohol policy. He brings about the misconception that they want to \"polarize\" the issue at hand, but instead wishes to find a better alternative to the current drinking age.\n\nRadley Balko, of \"Reason,\" wryly noted inconsistency opponents of the Amethyst Initiative believe that it \"would be a \"national tragedy\" to, for example, allow 19- and 20-year-old men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan to have a beer in celebration of completing their tours of duty.\" Balko also noted research showing that underage drinking laws had not reduced highway deaths.\n\nIn November 2008, the Student Senate at the University of Wisconsin–La Crosse rejected a proposal to urge that university's chancellor to sign the Amethyst Initiative. Supposedly the first such attempt by a student body to ask a president or chancellor to sign on, the measure at UW–L was defeated 14-19 after three weeks' debate. Chancellor Joe Gow said this vote, \"certainly defies the 'conventional wisdom' regarding young people being eager to lower the drinking age.\"\n\nIn 2014, a pair of researchers published a literature review in Journal of Studies on Alcohol and Drugs of studies on the effect of the drinking age in response to the Amethyst Initiative; the review indicates support for the drinking age remaining at 21. That review, however, was specific to studies focused on the United States of America and comparing trends before and after 1984; based on World Health Organization (WHO) data from 2011 and 2014, foreign countries with lesser drinking ages often have fewer alcohol-related deaths per capita annually than the USA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230542", "title": "Appreciative inquiry", "text": "Appreciative inquiry\n\nAppreciative inquiry (AI) is a model that seeks to engage stakeholders in self-determined change. According to Bushe \"AI revolutionized the field of organization development and was a precursor to the rise of positive organization studies and the strengths based movement in American management.\" It was developed at Case Western Reserve University's department of organizational behavior, starting with a 1987 article by David Cooperrider and Suresh Srivastva. They felt that the overuse of \"problem solving\" hampered any kind of social improvement, and what was needed were new methods of inquiry that would help generate new ideas and models for how to organize.\n\nCooperrider and Srivastva took a social constructionist approach, arguing that organizations are created, maintained and changed by conversations, and claiming that methods of organizing were only limited by people's imaginations and the agreements among them.\n\nIn 2001, Cooperrider and Diana Whitney published an article outlining the five principles of AI.\n\nIn 1996, Cooperrider, Whitney and several of their colleagues became centrally involved using AI to mid-wife the creation of the United Religions Initiative, a global organization dedicated to promoting grassroots interfaith cooperation for peace, justice and healing. This early partnership between URI and AI is chronicled in Birth of a Global Community: Appreciative Inquiry in Action by Charles Gibbs and Sally Mahé. AI was also used in the first (1999) and subsequent meetings of business leaders that created the UN's Global Compact. In another of the early applications, Cooperrider and Whitney taught AI to employees of GTE (now part of Verizon) resulting in improvements in employees' support for GTE's business direction and. as a part of continuous process improvement generated both improvements in revenue collection and cost savings earning GTE an ASTD award for the best organisational change program in the US in 1997.\"\n\nOn May 8, 2010, Suresh Srivastva died.\n\nGervase Bushe, a researcher on the topic, published a 2011 review of the model, including its processes, critiques, and evidence. He also published a history of the model in 2012.\n\nAccording to Bushe, AI \"advocates collective inquiry into the best of what is, in order to imagine what could be, followed by collective design of a desired future state that is compelling and thus, does not require the use of incentives, coercion or persuasion for planned change to occur.\"\n\nThe model is based on the assumption that the questions we ask will tend to focus our attention in a particular direction, that organizations evolve in the direction of the questions they most persistently and passionately ask. In the mid 80's most methods of assessing and evaluating a situation and then proposing solutions were based on a \"deficiency\" model, predominantly asking questions such as \"What are the problems?\", \"What's wrong?\" or \"What needs to be fixed?\". Instead of asking \"What's the problem?\", others couched the question in terms of \"challenges\", which still focused on deficiency, on what needs to be fixed or solved. Appreciative Inquiry was the first serious managerial method to refocus attention on what works, the positive core, and on what people really care about. Today, these ways of approaching organizational change are common\n\nThe five principles of AI are:\n\nSome researchers believe that excessive focus on dysfunctions can actually cause them to become worse or fail to become better. By contrast, AI argues, when all members of an organization are motivated to understand and value the most favourable features of its culture, it can make rapid improvements.\n\nStrength-based methods are used in the creation of organizational development strategy and implementation of organizational effectiveness tactics. The \"appreciative\" mode of inquiry often relies on interviews to qualitatively understand the organization's potential strengths by looking at an organization's experience and its potential; the objective is to elucidate the assets and personal motivations that are its strengths.\n\nBushe has argued that mainstream proponents of AI focus too much attention on \"the positive\" and not enough on the transformation that AI can bring about through generating new ideas and the will to act on them. In a 2010 comparative study in a school district he found that even in cases where no change occurred participants were highly positive during the AI process. What distinguished those sites that experienced transformational changes was the creation of new ideas that gave people new ways to address old problems. He argues that for transformational change to occur, AI must address problems that concern people enough to want to change. However, AI addresses them not through problem-solving, but through generative images. Some of this is covered in a 90-minute discussion about AI, positivity and generativity by Bushe and Dr. Ron Fry of Case Western, at the 2012 World Appreciative Inquiry Conference.\n\nThe following table comes from the Cooperrider and Whitney (2001) article and is used to describe some of the distinctions between AI and approaches to organizational development not based on what they call positive potential:\n\nAppreciative inquiry attempts to use ways of asking questions and envisioning the future in order to foster positive relationships and build on the present potential of a given person, organization or situation. The most common model utilizes a cycle of four processes, which focus on what it calls:\n\nThe aim is to build – or rebuild – organizations around what works, rather than trying to fix what doesn't. AI practitioners try to convey this approach as the opposite of problem solving.\n\nThere are a variety of approaches to implementing appreciative inquiry, including mass-mobilised interviews and a large, diverse gathering called an Appreciative Inquiry Summit. These approaches involve bringing large, diverse groups of people together to study and build upon the \"best\" in an organization or community.\n\nAI is used in organizational development and as a consultancy tool in an attempt to bring about strategic change. It has been applied in businesses, health care bodies, social non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and government operations. Although originating in the US, it is also used in the UK – for example in the National Support Teams and around the world. Since 2000, \"The AI Practitioner\", a quarterly publication, has described applications in a variety of settings around the world.\n\nAI has various business applications and can effectively be used to elicit information from stakeholders. Positivity is paired with a group consensus to envision and begin producing an optimistic future based on existing strengths and successes. As seen in Harbarian process modeling, AI has been used in Business process modeling to elicit information about an organization's present state and desired future state.\n\nIn Vancouver, AI is being used by the Dalai Lama Center for Peace and Education. The Center, which was founded by the Dalai Lama and Victor Chan, is using AI to facilitate compassionate communities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51023476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51023476", "title": "Artificial empathy", "text": "Artificial empathy\n\nArtificial empathy (AE) is the development of AI systems − such as companion robots − that are able to detect and respond to human emotions. According to scientists, although the technology can be perceived as scary or threatening by many people, it could also have a significant advantage over humans in professions which are traditionally involved in emotional role-playing such as the health care sector. From the care-giver perspective for instance, performing emotional labor above and beyond the requirements of paid labor often results in chronic stress or burnout, and the development of a feeling of being desensitized to patients. However, it is argued that the emotional role-playing between the care-receiver and a robot can actually have a more positive outcome in terms of creating the conditions of less fear and concern for one's own predicament best exemplified by the phrase: \"if it is just a robot taking care of me it cannot be that critical.\" Scholars debate the possible outcome of such technology using two different perspectives. Either, the AE could help the socialization of care-givers, or serve as role model for emotional detachment.\n\nThere are a variety of philosophical, theoretical, and applicative questions related to AE. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "497025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=497025", "title": "Buddy system", "text": "Buddy system\n\nThe buddy system is a procedure in which two people, the \"buddies\", operate together as a single unit so that they are able to monitor and help each other.\nAs per Merriam-Webster, the first known use of the phrase “buddy system” goes as far back as 1942. Webster goes on to define the buddy system as “an arrangement in which two individuals are paired (as for mutual safety in a hazardous situation).” \nThe buddy system is basically working together in pairs in a large group or alone. Both the individuals have to do the job. The job could be to ensure that the work is finished safely or the skill/learning is transferred effectively from one individual to the other.\n\nIn adventurous or dangerous activities, where buddies are often required, the main benefit of the system is improved safety; each may be able to prevent the other becoming a casualty or rescue the other in a crisis.\n\nWhen this system is used as part of training or the induction of newcomers to an organization, the less experienced buddy learns more quickly from close and frequent contact with the experienced buddy than when operating alone.\n\nThe buddy system is used in the United States Armed Forces, and referred to by various names in each branch (\"Wingmen\" in the Air Force, \"Battle Buddies\" in the Army, \"Shipmates\" in the Navy), as well as the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of the USA\n\nIt is also used by religious organisations like the LDS Church. Members on mission form a companionship constituted by two or sometimes more missionaries, which are not allowed to be alone for a two-year time period: \"Stay Together. Never be alone. It is extremely important that you stay with your companion at all times.\"\n\nThe buddy system is used in new employee induction for assisting with the formalities in an organization. The period could be from a month to two months. The buddy helps in acclimatizing the new employee to the culture and day to day aspects of working, in a shorter period of time. The buddy helps the new employee to become knowledgeable about department practices and organizational culture in a shorter period. The purpose of assigning new employees with a buddy is to help welcome employees and reaffirms their decision to join the organization. It provides new employees with a reliable, motivated, single point-of-contact for their basic questions regarding their work experience. The buddy system is an effective method to provide support, monitor stress, and reinforce safety procedures.\n\nThe buddy system is also informally used by school-aged children, especially on field trips. Assigning each student a buddy provides an extra measure of safety and removes some of the burden of keeping an eye on a large number of children in an unfamiliar environment from the supervising adults.\n\nThe buddy system encourages open and effective dialogue among peers and tends to break down social barriers with their classmates. It helps create a collaborative learning environment in which peers feel less hesitant to raise questions. This enables students to develop social networks, cross-cultural experiences. It provides effective support for the students who are ‘at risk’ and to lower the attrition rate at the higher education level.\n\nA buddy system in a school is where a child gets paired with another child, usually one that is older and of higher abilities. A buddy system helps to promote friendship, better support of coursework, behavioral and social needs, and can foster a greater sense of belonging and a more inclusive school community. Students create friendships that enable both older and younger \"buddies\" to bond more closely with their school, increasing the likelihood of more positive school behavior and positive response towards learning for all students. The buddy system helps students starting at a new school have a welcoming experience from the very beginning. The older children learn to take on responsibility, while the younger children know that they have a fellow student they can confidently turn to for support.\nBuddy systems in schools can have numerous benefits such as promoting an inclusive environment for all, better acceptance of differences, promoting better self-control, expansion of communicative interaction with peers, decrease in behavioral problems, and even personal maturation or growth in career aspirations.\nThe buddy system positively affects the culture of the school and it greatly affects the troubled student as well as the older buddy.\nThe students learn and share from their peers and learn collaboratively. The students actively participate with each other and enjoy the informal setting and feel comfortable discussing with peers rather than a teacher. The opportunity for active participation, clearing doubts and discussions help students to continue with studies or activities with joy and creates a depth in the subject matter. The buddy system helps to increase self-confidence for all involved in the system and in the process helps build trust and co-operation within individuals. It benefits the buddies, buddy learner, school/university and the parents as well. The buddies involved also learn leadership skills and in turn can take up the role of buddy leader. \nThe buddy system helps in reducing the stress level of the learner. It reduces the levels of anxiety experienced by the students who struggle to engage with course material or with the school/university in general. \"When there's a companion available, the physiological measure of stress—cortisol levels in the blood—can be alleviated somewhat\", explains Jim Winslow, PhD, a specialist in behavioral neuroscience and pharmacology and head of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Intramural Research Program, Non-Human Primate Core.\nTeachers at progressive schools collaborate to improve their students' learning—and their own. It gives independence to all students, and increases self-esteem and peer acceptance. Children become protectors of each other.\nChristine Hogan states that the buddy system approach is highly appropriate for organizational behavior studies adding to the students' range of learning strategies. The technique not only works with peers of the same nation but has also proved to be of particular importance to foreign students.\n\nThere are numerous pairings styles: newly admitted students paired with older students, low achieving elementary school students paired with high achieving elementary school students; behaviorally challenged teenagers paired with adults; autistic children paired with neurotypical children; severely disabled children paired with neurotypical children; and even college students paired with post-bachelor students.\n\nAn example of a successful peer buddy system was in Nashville, Tennessee's McGavock High School. Teachers were concerned with having a more inclusive environment for special education students. Not only were the specialized students excluded academically but there was social exclusion as well. This adversely affects specialized students when there is a need for them to later assimilate when out of high school. Students with disabilities were eating with their buddies and their friends, which resulted in the expansion of their circle of friendship and thus allowed for the special needs students to feel more normal and included. The program was so successful it was later adopted in the other 11 high schools of that district.\n\nThere are more examples of buddy systems for developmentally challenged students than there are of students with normal development but with behavioral or academic needs. If a system can be implemented that can help autistic or behaviorally challenged children or children with intellectual disabilities, than similar buddy systems can be incorporated into mainstream classrooms to help aid students that have a hard time learning but who may not qualify for the special needs programs. Students with disabilities report feeling more included, able to start friendships and conversations, and these same benefits can be transferred over to students that have social problems but are not able to be in special needs programs. Similarly, a student who is struggling academically can be paired with someone more adept with certain subjects.\n\nPeer buddy groups can benefit many people. More research is needed to understand the possible impact of buddy systems for the general student population. Students that qualify for special services receive a lot of attention but students struggling behaviorally and socially would highly benefit from such an inclusive service.\n\nStudents that qualify for special needs services receive a lot of attention. For the students that do not qualify but might be struggling behaviorally and socially, then programs like these could potentially have similar benefits for them as well. Carolyn Hughes and Erik Carter promote a more ubiquitous peer buddy system in their book by laying out different strategies and benefits if schools were to include these systems in their curriculum. Examples they provide are: administrators assisting in the publication of the program, school counselors signing up students for a credit based buddy system course, general education teachers providing support for special needs students who might be in there classroom and having parents providing impetus and support for a program to begin. Carolyn Hughes and Erik Carter suggest starting on a smaller scale, perhaps a classroom or two and then growing a base of support.\n\nA key element of education is to build empathy and understand other people in the society. This approach sees a small group of students in a class being made \"buddies\" for an autistic student. The students are made aware of particular challenge a student has and are asked to take special care to include them, to be on the lookout for any bullying or exclusion and to be supportive to the student if they get stressed out or upset at break time or in class. The students who are selected would be chosen for their maturity and kindness. Parental consent would be sought from the parents of the students involved. While not every autistic student will instantly begin to socialise or make friends, this approach will at the very least ensure inclusion and also that there will be a friendly pair of eyes when teachers are not present or are out of ear-shot. Everyone needs a buddy sometimes – maybe a student is having a bad day, is upset about something or just is not very good at starting conversations or making friends alone. Under this system, a class would explore difference as a whole and recognize that everyone in a class is different and so have different needs, strengths, abilities and oddities. They would then either be paired up or each student would draw a name and become \"buddy\" to that person, perhaps without them even being made aware of it. Before the draw or pairing it could be discussed with the teacher, to ensure an autistic student gets an especially strong buddy.\nThe advantage of this system is that it does not single out the autistic student, especially if they are not comfortable with that, and instead includes everyone. Additionally, it gives the autistic person a role in being a buddy too, which can be used to teach social skills, expectations and etiquette.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6131049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6131049", "title": "Civic nationalism", "text": "Civic nationalism\n\nCivic nationalism, also known as liberal nationalism, is a form of nationalism identified by political philosophers who believe in an inclusive form of nationalism that adheres with traditional liberal values of freedom, tolerance, equality, and individual rights.\n\nCivic nationalists often defend the value of national identity by saying that individuals need a national identity in order to lead meaningful, autonomous lives and that democratic polities need national identity in order to function properly. Civic nationalism is frequently contrasted with ethnic nationalism.\n\nErnest Renan is often thought to be an early civic nationalist.\n\nCivic nationhood is a political identity built around shared citizenship within the state. Thus, a \"civic nation\" isn't defined by its language or culture, but by its political institutions and liberal principles, which its citizens pledge to uphold. Membership in the civic nation is open to anyone who shares these values.\n\nIn theory, a civic nation or state does not aim to promote one culture over another. German philosopher Jürgen Habermas argued that immigrants to a liberal-democratic state need not assimilate into the host culture, but only need to accept the principles of the country's constitution (cf. Constitutional patriotism).\n\nCivic nationalism lies within the traditions of rationalism and liberalism, but as a form of nationalism it is contrasted with ethnic nationalism. Membership of the civic nation is considered voluntary, as in Ernest Renan's classical definition in \"Qu'est-ce qu'une nation?\" of the nation as a \"daily referendum\" characterized by the \"will to live together\". Civic-national ideals influenced the development of representative democracy in countries such as the United States and France (see the United States Declaration of Independence of 1776, and the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" of 1789).\n\nThe Corsican nationalist movement organized around the FLNC is giving a civic definition of the Corsican nation (\"destiny communauty\") in the continuity of Pasquale Paoli and the ideas of the Lumières.\n\nThe Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru, which advocate independence of their respective nations from the United Kingdom, proclaim themselves to be civic nationalist parties, in which they advocate the independence and popular sovereignty of the people living in their nations society, not individual ethnic groups.\n\nThe Republican Left of Catalonia supports a civic Catalan independentism and defends a Catalan Republic based on republicanism and civic values within a diverse society.\n\nOutside Europe, it has also been used to describe the Civil War-era Republican Party in the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "2502980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2502980", "title": "Civil courage", "text": "Civil courage\n\nCivil courage is a type of courage, related closely to heroism, in which a person acts bravely to intervene in a social situation.\n\nItalian journalist and writer (1925-1996) wrote, \"Je mehr Bürger mit Zivilcourage ein Land hat, desto weniger Helden wird es einmal brauchen\" (\"The more citizens with civil courage which a country has, the fewer heroes it needs\").\n\nCivil courage has been referred to by psychologist Tobias Greitemeyer as constituting acts of bravery, carried out with the objective of enforcing a societal or ethical standard, without concern for the effect these acts might have on one’s own position. In this way it is distinguished from altruistic behavior and other forms of courage. \n\nIn the case of altruistic, helping behavior, an individual might expect to be praised or receive positive social consequences from the result of their having helped, despite possible financial or material loss. In actions where civil courage is demonstrated, the person carrying out the action may experience negative social consequences such as alienation, verbal abuse or violence. Civil courage is displayed when a person, in spite of the perceived threat of negative consequences acts to intervene in a social context. \n\n"}
{"id": "5251321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5251321", "title": "Collective effervescence", "text": "Collective effervescence\n\nCollective effervescence (CE) is a sociological concept introduced by Émile Durkheim. According to Durkheim, a community or society may at times come together and simultaneously communicate the same thought and participate in the same action. Such an event then causes collective effervescence which excites individuals and serves to unify the group.\n\nCollective effervescence is the basis for Émile Durkheim's theory of religion as laid out in his 1912 volume \"Elementary Forms of Religious Life\". Durkheim argues that the universal religious dichotomy of profane and sacred results from the lives of these tribe members: most of their life is spent performing menial tasks such as hunting and gathering. These tasks are profane. The rare occasions on which the entire tribe gathers together become sacred, and the high energy level associated with these events gets directed onto physical objects or people which also become sacred.\n\nThe force is thus associated with the totem which is the symbol of the clan, mentioned by Durkheim in his study of \"elementary forms\" of religion in Aboriginal societies. Because it provides the tribe's name, the symbol is present during the gathering of the clan. Its presence during these scenes, the totem comes to represent both the scene and the strong emotional felt, thus becoming a collective representation of the group.\n\nFor Durkheim, religion is a fundamentally social phenomenon. The beliefs and practices of the sacred are a method of social organization. This explanation is detailed in \"Elementary Forms\" \"Book 2/The Elementary Beliefs\", chapter 7, \"Origins of These Beliefs: Origin of the Idea of the Totemic Principle or Mana\". According to Durkheim, \"god and society are one of the same…the god of the clan…can be none other than the clan itself, but the clan transfigured and imagined in the physical form of a plant or animal that serves as a totem.\"\n\nThe group members experience a feeling of a loss of individuality and unity with the gods and according to Durkheim, thus with the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "45206870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45206870", "title": "Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking", "text": "Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking\n\nThe Comprehensive Model of Information Seeking, or CMIS, is a theoretical construct designed to predict how people will seek information. It was first developed by J. David Johnson and has been utilized by a variety of disciplines including Library and Information Science and Health Communication.\n\nThe CMIS has been empirically tested in health and organizational contexts. It has inherent strengths for studying how people react to health problems such as cancer. It specifies \"antecedents\" that explain why people become information seekers, \"information carrier characteristic\" that shape how they go about looking for information, and \"information seeking actions\" that reflect the nature of the search itself.\n\nThe CMIS has been quantitatively tested and performs well when it comes to health information seeking behaviors (HISB). There are three main schemas in the CMIS. These are: Antecedents, information field, and information seeking actions. The antecedents are those factors that determine how an information consumer will receive the information. Those factors are: Demographics, personal experience, salience, and beliefs. These factors are fluid and can change during the health information seeking process. The second schema is the information fields that consist of characteristics and utilities. This schema is concerned with the channels and carriers of information. A person’s understanding is developed through the information field. The third schema involves the transformational processes and measured by the consumer’s understanding of the messages received through the information field. The final schema involves information seeking actions. This is what the consumer does as a result of the first two schemas through information seeking. There are three major dimensions: the scope, depth, and method of information seeking.\n\nThe CMIS antecedents—demographics, personal experience, salience, and beliefs—are factors that determine an individual's natural predisposition to search for information from particular information carriers. Certain types of health information seeking can be triggered by an individual's degree of personal experience with disease. In the CMIS framework, two personal relevance factors, salience and beliefs, are seen as the primary determinants in translating a perceived gap into an active search for information. Salience refers to the personal significance of health information to the individual, such as perceptions of risk to one's health, which are likely to result in information seeking action. However, people also may be motivated to gather information to determine the implications of health events for themselves and/or others related to their future activities, a factor directly related to the rapidly growing field of genetics. An individual's beliefs about the nature of a particular disease, its impacts, and level of control, all directly relate to self-efficacy, one of our key variables, and one that plays an important role in information seeking and people's more general pattern of actions related to health.\n\nThe information carrier characteristics are drawn from a model of Media Exposure and Appraisal (MEA) that has been tested on a variety of information carriers, including both sources and channels, and in a variety of cultural settings. Following the MEA, the CMIS focuses on editorial tone, communication potential, and utility. In the CMIS, characteristics are composed of editorial tone, which reflects an audience member's perception of credibility, while communication potential relates to issues of style and comprehensiveness. Utility relates the characteristics of a medium directly to the needs of an individual, and shares much with the uses and gratifications perspectives. For example, is the information contained in the medium relevant, topical, and important for the individual's purposes? In general, utility is very important for health information seeking.\n\nThere are several types of information seeking actions that can result from the impetus provided by the factors identified by the CMIS. For example, search behavior can be characterized by its extent, or the number of activities carried out, which has two components: scope, the number of alternatives investigated; and, depth, the number of dimensions of an alternative investigated. There is also the method of the search, or channel, as another major dimension of the search. For instance, an individual might choose the method of consulting a telephone information service, decide to have a narrow scope by only asking questions about smoking cessation clinics, but investigate every recommendation in detail, thus increasing the depth of the search.\n\nA key concept from the CMIS is the notion of “stages,” or “cancer involvement”. According to the CMIS, an individual may be at one of four stages regarding a cancer threat, and thereby have differing information needs and behaviors.\n\nThe first stage, \"Casual\", is characterized by a general lack of concern or interest. At this stage, individuals are not purposive in their search for cancer-related information; rather, their search is accidental and aimless, even apathetic.\nThe second stage is \"Purposive-Placid\". This is characterized by the question, “What can I do to prevent cancer?” Individuals here might have some passing interest in cancer or genetic information, but are generally still not affected or directly concerned.\n\nThe third stage is \"Purposive-Clustered\". Here, an individual will be in closer proximity to cancer. This is the point at which a person is motivated to look for practical information that will address the specific problem. For example, a first-degree relative of a recently diagnosed breast cancer patient may seek genetic screening or BRCA 1/2 testing. The person could clearly benefit from such information- seeking behavior since medical authorities acknowledge that early detection of cancer leads to earlier treatments and better treatment outcomes.\n\nThe fourth stage, \"Directed\", includes individuals who have been diagnosed as having cancer. Such individuals need knowledge for making informed decisions about treatment and management of the disease.\n"}
{"id": "25707018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25707018", "title": "Concision", "text": "Concision\n\nConcision (alternatively brevity, laconicism, terseness, or conciseness) is the cutting out of unnecessary words while conveying an idea. It aims to enhance communication by eliminating redundancy without omitting important information. Concision has been described as one of the elementary principles of writing. The related concept of succinctness is the opposite of verbosity.\n\nConcision means to be economical with words, expressing what's needed using the fewest words necessary. That may involve removing redundant or unnecessary phrases or replacing them with shorter ones. It is described in \"The Elements of Style\" by Strunk and White as follows:\n\nConcision has also been described as \"eliminat[ing] words that take up space without saying much.\" Simple examples include replacing \"\" with \"because\" or \"at this point in time\" with \"now\" or \"currently.\"\n\nAn example sentence, with explanation:\n\nThe following example is taken from:\n\nThe source suggests this replacement:\n\nIn the second quote, the same information is communicated in less than half the length. However, it could be more concisely rewritten and communicate the same information:\n\nConcise expression, particularly in writing, is considered one of the basic goals of teaching the English language. Techniques to achieve concise writing are taught for students at all levels, from the introduction to writing to the preparation of PhD dissertations, and legal writing for law students.\n\nIt has been argued that although \"in expository prose English places a high value on conciseness... [t]he value placed on conciseness... is not shared by all cultures\", with, for example, the Thai culture as one where redundancy is prized as an opportunity to use additional words to demonstrate the writer's command of the language. This may lead to a tendency for people from those cultures to use repetitive or redundant phrasing when learning English.\n\nThe related concept of succinctness is a characteristic of speech, writing, data structure, algorithmic games, and thought in general, exhibiting both clarity and brevity. It is the opposite of verbosity, in which there is an excess of words.\n\nBrevity in succinctness is not achieved by shortening original material by coding or compressing it, but rather by omitting redundant material from it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3842821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3842821", "title": "Council for Voluntary Service", "text": "Council for Voluntary Service\n\nA Council for Voluntary Service (CVS) is a type of charity in England. CVSs are \"the place at which local voluntary and community organisations speak to each other\". They offer a wide variety of services and support for local organisations, for example training, or advice on funding.\n\nCVSs are also involved in advocacy for the organisations they represent, and aid in communication between the local voluntary and community sector and the statutory sector. They will typically provide fora for organisations to meet, often a Community Empowerment Network, and will interact with, or have a seat on, the local strategic partnership. They may also advocate on behalf of the organisations they represent on a one-to-one basis.\n\nA CVS may or may not incorporate the local volunteer centre.\n\nCVS are brought together nationally by the National Association for Voluntary and Community Action (which before 14 June 2006 was known as NACVS, the National Association of Councils for voluntary service). \n\nEach county in Wales has a County Voluntary Council rather than a CVS.\n\n"}
{"id": "168919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168919", "title": "Deliberative democracy", "text": "Deliberative democracy\n\nDeliberative democracy or discursive democracy is a form of democracy in which deliberation is central to decision-making. It adopts elements of both consensus decision-making and majority rule. Deliberative democracy differs from traditional democratic theory in that authentic deliberation, not mere voting, is the primary source of legitimacy for the law.\n\nWhile deliberative democracy is generally seen as some form of an amalgam of representative democracy and direct democracy, the actual relationship is usually open to dispute. Some practitioners and theorists use the term to encompass representative bodies whose members authentically deliberate on legislation without unequal distributions of power, while others use the term exclusively to refer to decision-making directly by lay citizens, as in direct democracy.\n\nThe term \"deliberative democracy\" was originally coined by Joseph M. Bessette in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\".\n\nDeliberative democracy holds that, for a democratic decision to be legitimate, it must be preceded by authentic deliberation, not merely the aggregation of preferences that occurs in voting. \"Authentic deliberation\" is deliberation among decision-makers that is free from distortions of unequal political power, such as power a decision-maker obtained through economic wealth or the support of interest groups. If the decision-makers cannot reach consensus after authentically deliberating on a proposal, then they vote on the proposal using a form of majority rule.\n\nThe roots of deliberative democracy can be traced back to Aristotle and his notion of politics; however, the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas' work on communicative rationality and the public sphere is often identified as a major work in this area.\n\nDeliberative democracy can be practiced by decision-makers in both representative democracies and direct democracies. In \"elitist deliberative democracy,\" principles of deliberative democracy apply to elite societal decision-making bodies, such as legislatures and courts; in \"populist deliberative democracy,\" principles of deliberative democracy apply to groups of lay citizens who are empowered to make decisions. One purpose of populist deliberative democracy can be to use deliberation among a group of lay citizens to distill a more authentic public opinion about societal issues but not directly create binding law; devices such as the deliberative opinion poll have been designed to achieve this goal. Another purpose of populist deliberative democracy can be to serve as a form of direct democracy, where deliberation among a group of lay citizens forms a \"public will\" and directly creates binding law. If political decisions are made by deliberation but not by the people themselves or their elected representatives, then there is no democratic element; this deliberative process is called \"elite deliberation\". According to Fishkin, this process attempts to indirectly filter the mass public opinion because representatives are better equipped with the knowledge of the common good than ordinary citizens.\n\nJames Fishkin, who has designed practical implementations of deliberative democracy for over 15 years in various countries, describes five characteristics essential for legitimate deliberation:\nIn Fishkin's definition of deliberative democracy, lay citizens must participate in the decision-making process, thus making it a subtype of direct democracy.\n\nJames Fishkin and Robert Luskin suggest that deliberative discussion should be:\n\nJoshua Cohen, a student of John Rawls, outlined conditions that he thinks constitute the root principles of the theory of deliberative democracy, in the article \"Deliberation and Democratic Legitimacy\" in the 1989 book \"The Good Polity\". He outlines five main features of deliberative democracy, which include:\n\nThis can be construed as the idea that in the legislative process, we \"owe\" one another reasons for our proposals.\n\nCohen presents deliberative democracy as more than a theory of legitimacy, and forms a body of substantive rights around it based on achieving \"ideal deliberation\":\n\nIn \"Democracy and Liberty\", an essay published in 1998, Cohen reiterated many of these points, also emphasizing the concept of \"reasonable pluralism\" – the acceptance of different, incompatible worldviews and the importance of good faith deliberative efforts to ensure that as far as possible the holders of these views can live together on terms acceptable to all.\n\nAmy Gutmann and Dennis F. Thompson's definition captures the elements that are found in most conceptions of deliberative democracy. They define it as \"a form of government in which free and equal citizens and their representatives justify decisions in a process in which they give one another reasons that are mutually acceptable and generally accessible, with the aim of reaching decisions that are binding on all at present but open to challenge in the future\".\n\nThey state that deliberative democracy has four requirements, which refer to the kind of reasons that citizens and their representatives are expected to give to one another:\n\nA claimed strength of deliberative democratic models is that they are more easily able to incorporate scientific opinion and base policy on outputs of ongoing research, because:\n\nAccording to proponents such as James Fearon, another strength of deliberative democratic models is that they tend, more than any other model, to generate ideal conditions of impartiality, rationality and knowledge of the relevant facts. The more these conditions are fulfilled, the greater the likelihood that the decisions reached are morally correct. Deliberative democracy takes on the role of an \"epistemic democracy\" in this way, as it thus has an \"epistemic\" value: it allows participants to deduce what is morally correct. This view has been prominently held by Carlos Nino.\n\nStudies by James Fishkin and others have found that deliberative democracy tends to produce outcomes which are superior to those in other forms of democracy. Deliberative democracy produces less partisanship and more sympathy with opposing views; more respect for evidence-based reasoning rather than opinion; a greater commitment to the decisions taken by those involved; and a greater chance for widely shared consensus to emerge, thus promoting social cohesion between people from different backgrounds. Fishkin cites extensive empirical support for the increase in public spiritedness that is often caused by participation in deliberation, and says theoretical support can be traced back to foundational democratic thinkers such as John Stuart Mill and Alexis de Tocqueville. Former diplomat Carne Ross writes that in 2011 that the debates arising from deliberative democracy are also much more civil, collaborative, and evidence-based than the debates in traditional town hall meetings or in internet forums. For Ross, the key reason for this is that in deliberative democracy citizens are empowered by knowledge that their debates will have a measurable impact on society.\n\nA claimed failure of most theories of deliberative democracy is that they do not address the problems of voting. James Fishkin's 1991 work, \"Democracy and Deliberation\", introduced a way to apply the theory of deliberative democracy to real-world decision making, by way of what he calls the deliberative opinion poll. In the deliberative opinion poll, a statistically representative sample of the nation or a community is gathered to discuss an issue in conditions that further deliberation. The group is then polled, and the results of the poll and the actual deliberation can be used both as a recommending force and in certain circumstances, to replace a vote. Dozens of deliberative opinion polls have been conducted across the United States since his book was published.\n\nThe political philosopher Charles Blattberg has criticized deliberative democracy on four grounds: (i) the rules for deliberation that deliberative theorists affirm interfere with, rather than facilitate, good practical reasoning; (ii) deliberative democracy is ideologically biased in favor of liberalism as well as republican over parliamentary democratic systems; (iii) deliberative democrats assert a too-sharp division between just and rational deliberation on the one hand and self-interested and coercive bargaining or negotiation on the other; and (iv) deliberative democrats encourage an adversarial relationship between state and society, one that undermines solidarity between citizens.\n\nA criticism of deliberation is that potentially it allows those most skilled in rhetoric to sway the decision in their favour. This criticism has been made since deliberative democracy first arose in Ancient Athens.\n\nConsensus-based decision making similar to deliberative democracy is characteristic of the hunter gather band societies thought to predominate in pre-historical times. As some of these societies became more complex with developments like division of labour, community-based decision making was displaced by various forms of authoritarian rule. The first example of democracy arose in Greece as Athenian democracy during the sixth century BC. Athenian democracy was both \"deliberative\" and largely \"direct\": some decisions were made by representatives but most were made by ″the people″ directly. Athenian democracy came to an end in 322BC. When democracy was revived as a political system about 2000 years later, decisions were made by representatives rather than directly by the people. In a sense, this revived version was deliberative from its beginnings; for example, in 1774 Edmund Burke made a famous speech where he called Great Britain's parliament a deliberative assembly. Similarly, the Founding Fathers of the United States considered deliberation an essential part of the government they created in the late 18th century.\n\nThe deliberative element of democracy was not widely studied by academics until the late 20th century. Although some of the seminal work was done in the 1970s and 80s, it was only in 1990 that deliberative democracy began to attract substantial attention from political scientists. According to Professor John Dryzek, early work on Deliberative Democracy was part of efforts to develop a theory of Democratic legitimacy. Theorists such as Carne Ross advocate deliberative democracy as a complete alternative to representative democracy. The more common view, held by contributors such as James Fishkin, is that direct deliberative democracy can be complementary to traditional representative democracy. Since 1994, hundreds of implementations of direct deliberative democracy have taken place throughout the world. For example, lay citizens have used deliberative democracy to determine local budget allocations in various cities and to undertake major public projects, such as the rebuilding of New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.\n\nDeliberative democracy recognizes a conflict of interest between the citizen participating, those affected or victimized by the process being undertaken, and the group-entity that organizes the decision. Thus it usually involves an extensive outreach effort to include marginalized, isolated, ignored groups in decisions, and to extensively document dissent, grounds for dissent, and future predictions of consequences of actions. It focuses as much on the process as the results. In this form it is a complete theory of civics.\n\nOn the other hand, many practitioners of deliberative democracy attempt to be as neutral and open-ended as possible, inviting (or even randomly selecting) people who represent a wide range of views and providing them with balanced materials to guide their discussions. Examples include National Issues Forums, Choices for the 21st Century, study circles, deliberative opinion polls, the Citizens' Initiative Review, and the 21st-century town meetings convened by AmericaSpeaks, among others. In these cases, deliberative democracy is not connected to left-wing politics but is intended to create a conversation among people of different philosophies and beliefs.\n\nIn Canada, there have been two prominent applications of deliberative democratic models. In 2004, the British Columbia Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform convened a policy jury to consider alternatives to the first-past-the-post electoral systems. In 2007, the Ontario Citizens' Assembly on Electoral Reform convened to consider alternative electoral systems in that province. Similarly, three of Ontario's Local Health Integration Networks (LHIN) have referred their budget priorities to a policy jury for advice and refinement.\n\nThe Green Party of the United States refers to its particular proposals for grassroots democracy and electoral reform by this name. Although not always the case, participation in deliberation has often been found to shift participants opinions in favour of Green positions, and can even cause a favourable change of voting intention. For example, with Europolis 2009, at the time one of the largest deliberative assemblies ever held, which set out to assess the public's view on a wide range of issues and included representatives from all 27 EU member nations, the share of citizens intending to vote for the Greens increased from 8% to 18%.\n\nAccording to Professor Stephen Tierney, perhaps the earliest notable example of academic interest in the deliberative aspects of democracy occurred in John Rawls 1971 work \"A Theory of Justice\".\n\nJoseph M. Bessette coined the term \"deliberative democracy\" in his 1980 work \"Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government\", and went on to elaborate and defend the notion in \"The Mild Voice of Reason\" (1994). Others contributing to the notion of deliberative democracy include Carlos Nino, Jon Elster, Roberto Gargarella, John Gastil, Jürgen Habermas, David Held, Joshua Cohen, John Rawls, Amy Gutmann, Noëlle McAfee, John Dryzek, Rense Bos, James S. Fishkin, Jane Mansbridge, Jose Luis Marti, Dennis Thompson, Benny Hjern, Hal Koch, Seyla Benhabib, Ethan Leib, Charles Sabel, Jeffrey K. Tulis, David Estlund, Mariah Zeisberg, Jeffrey L. McNairn, Iris Marion Young and Robert B. Talisse.\n\nAlthough political theorists took the lead in the study of deliberative democracy, political scientists have in recent years begun to investigate its processes. One of the main challenges currently is to discover more about the actual conditions under which the ideals of deliberative democracy are more or less likely to be realized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3720589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720589", "title": "Entertainment technology", "text": "Entertainment technology\n\nEntertainment technology is the discipline of using manufactured or created components to enhance or make possible any sort of entertainment experience. Because entertainment categories are so broad, and because entertainment models the world in many ways, the types of implemented technology are derived from a variety of sources. Thus, in theatre, for example, entertainment technology practitioners must be able to design and construct scenery, install electrical systems, build clothing, use motors if there is scenery automation, provide plumbing (if functioning kitchen fixtures are required, or if \"singing in the rain\"), etc. In this way, the entertainment technology field intersects with most other types of technology.\n\nTraditionally, entertainment technology is derived from theatrical stagecraft, and stagecraft is an important subset of the discipline. However, the rise of new types and venues for entertainment, as well as rapidly advancing technological development, has increased the range and scope of its practice.\n\nEntertainment technology includes:\n\n\nIn animation and game design, the phrase \"entertainment technology\" refers to a very real world of entertainment experiences made possible by the advent of primarily computer-mediated digital technologies.\n\nEntertainment Technology can be traced back to the “Pre-digital Age.” The invention of the first phonograph machine, which is used to record and playback sound, dates back to 1877 by inventor Thomas Edison. There has been a significant progression from that antiquated modality of entertainment. From silent films (which also gave way to the art of creative storytelling using moving pictures) to the digital age, in which we now see growth on a global scale and, relative to earlier inventions, an extremely fast pace. By comparison, from the invention of the phonograph machine in 1877 to the invention of the first motion picture camera by Louis Lumiere in 1895 shows a gap of 18 years between significant entertainment technology inventions. Whereas compact discs were introduced in the 1980’s and within the next 10 years, satellite television was introduced. More recent developments in entertainment technology are sometimes considered to be a “race” in terms of which company will develop and distribute their product first. Knowing what we have available to us and where it all began can be used as a footnote in our ever-increasing development of entertainment and other technological advances.\n\nSociety has completely been changed and advanced in many different ways by all the advancements in entertainment technology. Ranging from how companies get their product name out and get customers to buy into that product, to how people come into contact with one another and how we converse. Media and entertainment have become such a huge part of everyone’s life. We are all invested in some kind of media whether it is a tv show or a vlog and the producer of those are all very aware of the consumption of their product and will try to advertise it in as many ways as possible. They will reach out and promote their form of entertainment by having it on multiple platforms. Media companies will share their product on many different popular websites and forms of social media and ask its consumers to share it as well, generating more views and continuously advancing their products notoriety. Millions of dollars have been spent on Artificial Intelligence. Companies use AI because it is so detailed and precise with all of its obtained knowledge, they will use it to help market their brand because AI knows exactly what people like and what they want to see and will put together the final product that will succeed the most. Entertainment websites and websites that sell goods maintain and expand their viewers and customers by advertising something new you haven’t seen before when you are done with what you originally visited the website for. A big reason why a company became so successful and became so popular is that they bundled everything people want into a smaller collection, instead of having a much larger bundle that only included a couple items a consumer wants. Virtual reality is giving us a new way to experience the world. You can travel to see your favorite live event anywhere in the world without even having to leave your house.\n\nA three dimensional, computer generated simulation of a real seeming environment brought on by the use of special electronic equipment. This technology is used to replace the user’s entire real world environment with a computer generated (or simulated) one.\n\nAn interactive technology that intertwines computer generated images with real world objects. These artificial images can align with or block the real world environment. This technology is used to alter the user’s perception of the real world which should not to be confused with virtual reality in which the user’s whole perception is changed.\n\nA rich visual and audio experience that provides a greater contrast than standard dynamic range. This technology is most associated with display devices, sound recording, 3D rendering, and photography. Technology like this provides a more lifelike image in the visual aspect.\n\nA device (usually a camera) that captures information about the light field that is emerging from a real life scene which is; the direction of the light rays in space and the intensity of the light in the actual environment/scene. This technology will someday surpass Virtual Reality.\n\nVideo streaming is becoming a huge part of society in this day and age and it’s only beginning to expand. Video streaming brought in a revenue of $30.29 billion in 2016 and based on projections conducted by Research and Markets, will reach an astonishing $70.05 billion in the year 2021. This projected drastic increase has caused there to be more competition in streaming, which has led to rapid growth, development, and a large increase in the amount of users. Technology is a data based driven field, and with this rapid growth the future is bright for this field. Technology has been enhancing discoveries for as long as it’s been invented. It holds the digital power to entertain, inform, and persuade. Technology will continue to provide all of these sentiments and will continue to do so for as long as developments keep forthcoming. Rapid growth and development does not only affect the consumers, but the producers. Large technology companies will have improve content quality of all while extracting maximum value of the product. Challenges for development in the media industry are how to maximize content, brands, and advertising. While also created tailoring consumers needs to enhance their experience. Consumers drive this field, companies are constantly running data about consumers preferences, relationships, habits, and locations. Technology is a growing field and with companies beginning to care more about the consumers, and with rapid growing development in this field, expect technology to take bigger steps forward in years to come.  \n\nSchools that offer programs or degrees in entertainment technology include:\n\n\nCurrently, the only university offering a degree specifically in Entertainment Engineering and Design (EED) is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV). Because UNLV's program is in its infancy, current entertainment technologists come from a wide variety of educational backgrounds, the most prevalent of which are theater and mechanical technology. Several other institutions of higher education offer similar programs for entertainment-related ventures.\n\nA bachelor's degree in these areas will typically have a difference of only a few specialized classes.\n\nTraditionally, people interested in careers in this field either presented themselves as apprentices within craft unions, or attended college programs in theatre technology. Although both are appropriate in limited ways, the growing world of entertainment technology encompasses many different types of performance and display environments than the theatre. To this end, newer opportunities have arisen that provide a wider educational base than these more traditional environments. An article \"Rethinking Entertainment Technology Education\" by John Huntington describes new teaching philosophies that resonate with the need for a richer and more flexible educational environment:\n\n"}
{"id": "35411581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35411581", "title": "Erotic plasticity", "text": "Erotic plasticity\n\nErotic plasticity is the degree to which one's sex drive can be changed by cultural or social factors. Someone has \"high erotic plasticity\" when their sex drives can be affected by situational, social and cultural influences, whereas someone with “low erotic plasticity” has a sex drive that is relatively rigid and unsusceptible to change. Since social psychologist Roy Baumeister coined the term in 2000, only two studies directly assessing erotic plasticity have been completed .\n\nThe female erotic plasticity hypothesis states that women have higher erotic plasticity than men, and therefore their sex drives are more socially flexible and responsive than those of men (factors such as religion, culture and education have a greater effect on women's sexual behaviors). Men, on the other hand, remain relatively rigid after puberty but can still be affected by these factors.\n\nAs women have been theorised to possess a weaker sex drive than men, they may more readily accept substitutes or alternate forms of satisfaction. Baumeister theorized that weaker motivations tend to lead to greater plasticity. For example, the paternal role has greater plasticity than the maternal role because males have a weaker motivation in the parenting context. However, a lower sex drive does not necessarily imply that sex is less important for women, or that females have a lower capacity to become aroused. Rather, Baumeister's hypothesis supports the notion that women are less willing to engage in sex than their male counterparts.\n\nAccording to Baumeister, the culture a woman is raised in affects her sexual attitudes and behaviours more than it would affect a man raised in the same culture. Factors such as politics, cultural and societal views on sexual behaviours would all play a role. A multinational study by Lippa (2009) found that women are more variable in their sex drives, suggesting that their sexuality is more malleable and influenced by society than men's. Another study showed that South Korean women had a higher median age of first intercourse, lower rates of premarital sex, and greater disapproval of premarital sex. In South Korea, there are strong gender-based sexual double standards such that women are expected to be passive and virgins at marriage. Therefore, Baumeister theorized that cultural norms have affected women's attitudes and behaviours more so than men. Another study showed that female, but not male, Hispanic immigrants to the United States were less likely to engage in vaginal, oral, and anal sex than Hispanics who had been born and raised in the United States. Condom use was unaffected by whether or not the person was an immigrant, suggesting that upbringing and acculturation had a significant impact on engaging in sexual activity and not on how they would protect themselves during sex.\n\nBaumeister predicted that acculturation, the process of adopting the behaviour patterns and attitudes of the surrounding culture, should have a greater effect on the sexual behaviours and attitudes of female immigrants. However, in a study conducted by Benuto and Meana, one of the two studies conducted about erotic plasticity, supporting evidence was not found. When examining the acculturation of college students from an American college of non-American background, acculturation had the same effect on sexual behaviours and attitudes of both men and women. Numerous potential methodological flaws of the study are indicated that may have produced this contradictory data, such as women trying to appear socially desirable in their responses (see social desirability bias) or that participants were too acculturated.\n\nCatholic nuns are more successful at fulfilling their vows of celibacy and more willing to commit to their promises of sexual abstinence than male clergy, suggesting women can more easily adapt to such high non-permissive standards. A study on older unmarried adults found that those who were highly religious were less likely to have recently had sex compared to non-religious unmarried adults. However, this effect was stronger in women, suggesting a stronger influence on women's sexual behaviour. Church attendance and religiosity is also associated with lower odds of reporting masturbation among females. One possible explanation is that higher levels of spirituality and religiosity are associated with higher levels of sex guilt in women. One study even suggests that this differs amongst women of different culture. Religious Euro-Canadian women reported significantly higher levels of sexual desire and less sex guilt than Eastern Asian women. This is an example of two societal pressures, religion and culture, interacting to shape sexuality. Finally, Farmer and colleagues (2009) found that unreligious women are more likely to engage in unrestricted premarital intercourse behaviour than religious women. Such a difference was not demonstrated in religious and non-religious men.\n\nReligiosity can also affect whether adolescents choose to abstain from sexual conduct. Commitment to religion and having friends with similar commitments has a stronger impact on girls than boys. Other factors, such as family members’ disapproval of adolescent sexual behaviour also play a significant role.\n\nHeritability is the amount of differences between individuals that is the product of genetics. According to female erotic plasticity theory, sexual behaviours of men should be more heritable because there is a stronger biological component driving these behaviours. A study examining adult twins in Sweden found a lower genetic component for the engagement in same-sex behaviours in women than in men. Shared environment also played a larger role in women's same-sex behaviours than in men's, although unique environmental factors were roughly the same. On the other hand, in their study of Australian twins, Bailey, Dunne and Martin found a concordance in sexual behaviour of 20% for male MZ twins, and of 24% for female MZ twins.\n\nAnother twin study showed male identical twins are more likely than female identical twins to begin having sex at the same age. Shared environment plays a greater role than genetics in risky sexual behaviours in adolescent females.\n\nBaumeister's 3rd prediction states that women should have greater inconsistencies between their attitudes towards sexual behaviours and whether they actually engage in said behaviours. Wives are more likely than husbands to report that they changed a \"great deal\" in their habits, ideas and expectations of sex over 20 years of marriage. Even more husbands reported that their spouses changed than did wives. Another example is condom use, for which women in the past have demonstrated difficulty in expressing their desire to use them during sex. However, a 2008 study by Woolf and Maisto found that this trend is declining, suggesting traditional gender roles in culture may be changing.\n\nAlthough the female erotic plasticity theory states that the men's and women's sexuality are different, some evidence suggests that men's sexuality too can be affected by sociocultural factors. Although religious commitment and family member's stances on adolescent sexual behaviours have a significant impact on females' choice to abstain, to a lesser extent it affects males' choice as well. Also, the fact that some male clergy are successful in maintaining their vows of celibacy suggests some degree of erotic plasticity. College education is associated with an increase in variety of sexual behaviours in both men and women. Asian males and females consistently report more conservative sexual attitudes than Hispanic and Euro-Americans.\n\nAccording to Meredith Chivers, straight women are physically aroused by a greater variety of erotic images than men, and this physical arousal does not match subjective arousal.\nSimilar results were found in a study that showed both consensual and non-consensual sex scenes to men and women. Neither men nor women reported sexual arousal to the rape scenes, but women's bodies responded in a similar way to both scenarios. The usual explanation for this is that women's physical arousal is an evolutionary automatic response, to prevent damage during rape.\nHowever, a study that measured sexual arousal through pupil dilation found that physical response of lesbian and bisexual women to erotic images was more category-specific, with lesbian women showing more response to women, and bisexual women showing more response to the preferred sex than the other. This may be due to masculinization of the brain via prenatal hormones. The difference between straight and non-straight women was consistent with Chivers' findings.\nThe same study found also sexual fluidity in men's response, that moved along a continuum between heterosexuality and homosexuality.\n\nA 1996 study by Henry E. Adams et al. showed that a significant percentage of heterosexual men, both homophobic (80%) and non-homophobic (34%), became aroused by homosexual male pornography, as well as heterosexual and lesbian, suggesting that sexual arousal in men is also fluid.\n\nSexual fluidity is the concept that sexual orientation or sexuality is not rigid, but rather can change over time. According to Lisa Diamond, developer of the concept, women generally tend to be more fluid in their sexuality than men. In her study of lesbian, bisexual and unlabeled women, she found that these had a tendency of changing their sexual identities and behaviour over time. \nOther studies have shown as well greater fluidity among lesbians, compared with homosexual men. However, heterosexual men and women were equally stable in their orientation, and bisexual men and women were similarly unstable.\n\nAlfred Kinsey proposed that sexuality moves along a continuum, and it's not reduced to two extremes. In his studies he found substantial same-sex behaviour among the general population: 46% of men had reacted sexually to persons of both sexes during the course of their lives, while 36% of men and 13% of women had an overt homosexual experience.\n\nWomen who remained in relationships with male-to-female transsexuals maintained a heterosexual identity, yet reported changes in their sexual lives. (Aramburu Alegría, 2012) Some women reported that their relationships no longer included sexual activity, while others reported that things were still changing. This suggests women are able to change their sexuality without changing their sexual orientation.\nAlso, according to Lippa (2006), heterosexual women with high sex drives tend to be attracted to both women and men, whereas heterosexual men with high sex drives are only associated with attraction to either women or men, suggesting greater plasticity in women's sexuality.\nAlthough, according to Van Wyk and Geist (1984) and Dixon (1985), a high sex drive is also associated with bisexuality in men.\n\nLesbians are more likely than gay men to engage in heterosexual sex, suggesting greater variability in their sexuality. No research has been done on people with gender variation, such as transgender people.\n\nLittle is known about erotic plasticity in transsexuals. Sexual reassignment surgery and hormone therapy (i.e. testosterone) in female-to-male transsexuals produce an increase in their sexual desire, but it is uncertain how erotic plasticity plays a role. Heterosexual female-to-male transsexuals – those who are sexually attracted to women – have more sexual partners than nonheterosexual female-to-male transsexuals, but again, erotic plasticity's role in this - if one actually exists - is uncertain.\n\nIn her Ph.D. dissertation in 2009, Lorraine Benuto attempted to create a scale measuring erotic plasticity. Her scale, the EPQ (\"Erotic Plasticity Questionnaire\"), contained the following subscales, each believed to be a component of erotic plasticity:\n\nWhen administered to a test population, women scored higher on fluidity, attitude-behaviour inconsistency, and overall erotic plasticity. There were no significant gender differences in changes in attitudes, perception of choice and sociocultural influences. The test also did not demonstrate any relationship between erotic plasticity and locus of control, sexual liberality and openness. Benuto also did not find a negative correlation between sex drive and EPQ score, which is unexpected. This is either because of a methodological problem in the scale or a problem in Baumeister's hypothesis that plasticity is related to sex drive. Furthermore, the subscales of the EPQ did not correlate well with each other, leading Benuto to hypothesize that perhaps there is not just one type of plasticity, but plasticities, and erotic plasticity is a much more complicated construct than initially imagined.\n\nContrary to the numerous studies Baumeister cites as evidence of sociocultural influences on women, Benuto did not find a gender difference on the sociocultural influence subscale. However, Baumeister's cited studies were not self-report studies, whereas Benuto's scale was, which may have contributed to the discrepancy.\n\nBaumeister provided three applications of the theory of erotic plasticity in sex therapy. Sex differences in erotic plasticity can change how therapists will approach providing sex therapy to men and women. Baumeister found that cognitive therapy would be a better approach for female patients because sexual responses and behaviours are influenced by what things mean, therefore working with women's interpretations and understanding of these responses and behaviours would be of greatest benefit. Physiological therapy, such as hormone therapy, would therefore be best for male patients, since the focus would be more on the body than on the man's cognitions. Also, someone with high erotic plasticity will have less sexual self-knowledge and self-understanding than someone with low erotic plasticity since their behaviours and tastes are susceptible to change; this knowledge could be useful in helping someone perhaps confused about his or her sexual identity. Finally, prospects for successful sex therapy may be better for women than men, because if men develop a problem, their low plasticity will make it difficult to allow significant change after puberty.\n\nOther useful applications of erotic plasticity in sex therapy include having women place much consideration in family and peer relationships, and any internal and external pressures that may be affecting their sexual identity, such as religious influences, cultural norms and politics.\n\nBaumeister's theory of female erotic plasticity has been met with some criticism. Some argue Baumeister makes causal inferences from correlational research when discussing how education affects men and women differently. He was also criticized for his use of extreme groups to support his predictions, such as people of the least and most amount of education. Below are two posited alternate explanations of erotic plasticity:\n\nIn a 2000 paper, Janet Shibley Hyde and Amanda M. Durik argued that a more sociocultural explanation could be used to explain erotic plasticity. Firstly, education does not affect men's and women's sexual behaviour differently. Instead, it increases women's power, therefore women with the greatest amount of education are nearly equal in power with men. On the other hand, women who are the least educated have the least power relative to men. When comparing sexual behaviours of most educated and least educated men and women, they found that education actually increased the prevalence of many sexual activities in both sexes, including oral sex, anal sex, and having a same sex partner. The differences between men and women were much smaller in the most educated group than in the least educated group. Shibley Hyde and Durik speculate that more educated women are better at communicating their desires and have enough self-confidence to do so. They also may perform a greater variety of sexual activities because of their greater exposure to ideas and their commitment to learning.\n\nShibley Hyde and Durik also asserted that religion has a greater effect on women's sexual behaviours because a group with less power – in this case, women – will shape their behaviour to be more like the group with power, in this case, men. Therefore, women pay more attention to and conform more to religious teachings since it is the culture to which they must adapt. They back up this claim by presenting evidence that non-religious women and men are similar in the prevalence of all sexual activities, minus masturbation. On the contrary, Conservative Protestant men and women differed significantly in all sexual behaviours.\n\nThey also argued for a modern sexual double standard that is more restrictive of female sexuality than male sexuality. They claimed that now, extramarital sex is more tolerated in women than in the past, but it is still less acceptable in women than in men. Therefore, these different gender roles will exert powerful influences on both men's and women's behaviour and sexuality. Finally, they claim that the greater evidence for attitude-behaviour inconsistency in women is not the result of high erotic plasticity, but because of men's greater interpersonal power. Although women may, for example, have the intention of using condoms or have negative attitudes towards anal sex, men may use their greater power to do what it is they desire if it differs from what their partner wants.\n\nBenuto (2009) argues that heightened fluidity and sociocultural influences, two components of erotic plasticity, actually stand in opposition to each other. Although scientific evidence exists that women's sexual behaviours are indeed more fluid than men's, Benuto argues there is nothing in society that would encourage women to engage in same-sex behaviour. She hypothesizes that, based on the properties of her EPQ scale (Benuto, 2009), erotic plasticity may not be a unitary construct like Baumeister initially proposed, and that there perhaps may be multiple “plasticities”, each composed of different constructs. Such constructs include sociocultural influences, locus of control and changes of sexual attitudes over time. Finally, it is possible that the heightened attitude-behaviour inconsistency in women could either be due to the powerlessness of women, or women wanting to maintain harmony and nurturance in their relationship.\n"}
{"id": "49451268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49451268", "title": "Father absence", "text": "Father absence\n\nParental separation affects a child's development. Early parental divorce (during primary school) has been associated with greater internalising and externalising behaviour problems in the child, while divorce later in childhood or adolescence may dampen academic performance. Children of unmarried parents tend to suffer greater emotional and social difficulties than others do.\n\nWhilst father absence mainly results from parental divorce and separation, other factors such as family poverty, developmental difficulties have been associated with father absence, the effects of which have been explained by various theoretical approaches.\n\nDespite limited agreement among researchers regarding the exact significance of fathering, fathers are traditionally deemed a provider of protection and support for the child's development. Through a number of pathways, father absence may influence child behaviour, especially in early and middle childhood. These include a decline in household income and ineffective parenting arising from continued conflicts and psychological distress.\n\nThe issue of divorce is a crucial aspect in the society in relations to the life of children. The separation of a married couple due to irreconcilable differences is a matter that is common in the society and its effects on children is negative. It will impact negatively on the education of the children, health conditions of the children, children's relation with their parents as well as the future well-being of the children (Amato, 2000). Therefore, the area relating to the effects of divorce on children is significant for academic inquiry. It makes sense to research on this particular area since it will help learn on the effects that comes with divorce, how children adjust and adapt to divorce and how they are being treated. It is also worth to mention that, parents who divorce have their minds lingering on how their actions will affect their children's happiness as well as health.\n\nIn attempting to explain how divorce will affect children, it is necessary for a research to first examine and categorize children in groups which will make it easy to carry out the study. This is because children will be affected differently by divorce depending on the age factor. It becomes even wise for a researcher to adopt the following groups: pre-schoolers (nine years and below), adolescents (9–13 years) and youths/young adults (14–25 years). The research will become more attainable if carried out using learning institutions which will include pre-schools, secondary schools and colleges. Therefore, a city within a state is selected where the research will be conducted and a preschool, one secondary school and one college is selected within the city where respondents (children) are found.\nObjectives becomes necessary for the study. This will allow a research to focus on certain areas and completely address the matter at hand without leaving gaps in the area of research. In addressing the topic, ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ the following research objectives can be used:\nResearch questions are also vital in this study. They offer guidelines on realizing the objectives of the study. At the conclusion, a researcher will review the research questions and establish whether they have been answered or not. The topic under study here will encompass the following research questions:\nIt is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nResearch methodology will consist of the research design suitable for the topic of study, the target population, the sampling design, data collection and data analysis. The research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will consist of all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and willfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn regard to the effects of father absence, a recent British study assessed child problem behaviour in over 15,000 families using the clinical cut-offs of the Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (SDQ), controlling for household factors such as resources, parental mental health and inter-parental relationship. The study found that father absence at a given age, similar to poverty and parental psychological distress, predicted a high probability of the child scoring above the cut-off score for total difficulties two years later. Likewise, father absence predicted several specific difficulties including borderline personality disorder, severe hyperactivity and abnormal emotional problems. Reciprocally, a child's severe externalising and social during their preschool years were also associated with a greater probability of the father being absent two years later. The authors concluded that father absence seemed to be more of a cause than a consequence of child problem behaviour.\n\nThrough direct interaction, fathers’ involvement in children's development has a positive influence on their social, behavioural and psychological outcomes. In general, engagement of a fatherly figure reduces the frequency of behavioural problems and delinquency in sons and psychological problems in daughters, all the while facilitating children's cognitive development.\n\nEvolutionary life-history theory postulates that women may invest more in their offspring than the opposite gender due to a slower rate of reproduction in females. Some theorists add that the assured maternal relatedness to one's offspring may also make women invest more than men. This is because some men may have variable paternity confidence that the child is his offspring. In light of this, some researchers argue that assured maternal relatedness, together with the lower variance in female reproductive success, may lead parents to bias investment towards female offspring under less favourable household conditions. In other words, father absence and the associated socioeconomic constraints it puts on the household may pose a greater risk to sons’ rather than daughters’ survival.\n\nThe psychodynamic approach posits that behaviour is motivated by basic needs, and drives and is sometimes shaped by unconscious childhood experiences. It is implicated that for a child to develop a “normal” gender identity, they will have to be raised in a conventional family where there is a father and a mother. Freud believed that being parented by a single mother could confuse the child's identity or lead them to become homosexual. Father absence may hinder the son's acquisition of the traditional masculine role, as he is not able to model his own behaviour and attitude on his fathers’. Along similar lines, sons with absent fathers could have confused gender identities – if the son was separated from his father by age four, he would be less assertive, less involved in sport, less masculine than other boys and more dependent on his peers. Nevertheless, findings of certain empirical studies on psychosexual gender identification have been deemed contradictory and inconclusive. A number of studies have highlighted such negative consequences of the two-parent heterosexual household on children. Contrarily, others have pointed out that being reared in lesbian and single-parent households where the father was absent did not affect the psychosexual development of children, despite higher aggressiveness and submissiveness and lower assertiveness.\n\nGenes and hormones may account for the tendency of fathers to be absent. Certain DNA patterns have been shown to affect an individual's degree of fidelity and investment in their offspring. In particular, a study in prairie voles indicates that the gene AVPR1A affects the activity of vasopressin receptors in brain regions and thus predicts less cheating on their partners. Similar to oxytocin, the hormone vasopressin can facilitate trust, empathy and social bonding. Injection of vasopressin in polygamous montane voles significantly increased their likelihood of becoming monogamous. This may in turn decrease their likelihood of being an absent father.\n\nA meta-analysis based on 56 twin and adoption studies totalling over 200,000 families has revealed that genetic makeup significantly affects the individual's parenting behaviour. Genes in the father reliability predict up to 40% of his positive or negative emotions towards his children. In this sense, genes contribute to a father's liking or repulsion for his children, the latter of which may result in father absence.\n\nThere is mixed empirical evidence on the relative impact of father absence on the development of male and female offspring. A recent study in rural Ethiopia, where father absence could mean a significant drop in household income, revealed a considerable difference between the wellbeing of male and female offspring. In particular, the author found that a male infant's risk of dying per month was doubled if the biological father was absent – a 30% greater risk than that for females. For female infants, father absence (as opposed to presence) was associated with a lower risk of dying, as well as higher nutritional status. That is to say, father absence was only a statistical predictor of infant death only for male infants. Such a gender difference has been observed despite a strong cultural preference for sons in the area. On the other hand, in developed countries such as the United Kingdom where father absence may not inflict as much harm on the family's income, the effects of father absence are not noticeably gendered.\n\nEarly pubertal timing – precocious puberty – is associated with negative outcomes in both genders. Early maturing girls have been found to be at risk for teenage pregnancy, drinking and weight problems, and giving birth to low birth weight infants. Early maturing boys are at risk for sexual promiscuity and delinquency and testicular and prostate cancer. Individual difference in pubertal timing may be influenced by weight, physical activity and genetics.\n\nA central event of female puberty – menarche – is associated with father absence. According to the evolutionary explanation, an unstable home environment (e.g. father absence) discourages a long-term mating life history, leading girls to adopt a short-term reproductive strategy, such as early menarche. This is because they perceive resources they have as scarce and, possibly, their lifespan to be shorter, under the influence of father absence. An early menarche can increase the chance of fertility, while other short-term reproductive strategies can diversify the genes inherited in offspring. These could lift up a higher success rate of rearing children to adolescence. Moreover, the stress of father absence prompts girls to develop a variety of internalising disorders, such as bulimia and depression, which may lower the person's metabolism leading to excessive weight gain which precipitates early menarche. A study shows that there are fewer monitored meals in the father-absent household. Having meals in the family is arguably more beneficial to children than is eating alone (i.e. solitary eating), as the former lowers the chance of obesity.\n\nHowever, it has been disputed whether the environmental stress of father absence stimulates weight gain, and thus accelerates early puberty. Likewise, the stress arisen from the absence of mother has been shown to have little influence on the child's body weight. Since mother absence does not predict weight gain in children, it seems that the increase in the child's body weight observed is due to the isolated genetic influence of an absent father, rather than the global environmental stress cause by the absence of either parent. This is possibly because in ancestral times the survival rate of children with mother being absent was extremely low. A specialised mechanism to deal with mother absence has never been developed.\n\nIn addition, recent findings seem to regard genes, rather than the environment, as the mechanism underlying the positive correlation between high body mass index and earlier first menarche onset. Androgen receptor gene may predispose a father to impulsive and externalising behaviours (e.g. family abandonment) and his offspring to early puberty. The essentialness of androgen receptor to female fertility and ovary development has been proven by rodent studies.\n\nFather absence in a household can result in children (of both sexes) having earlier average ages of first sexual intercourse than those raised in father present households. There is also the effect of increased rates of teenage pregnancy. Some evolutionary theories propose that early childhood is vital for encoding information that shapes future reproductive strategies in regulating physical and motivational pathways of sexual behaviour. Conflicting and stressful parental relationships can lead children to believe that resources are limited, people are untrustworthy, and relationships are opportunistic. As they replicate their parents’ mating-oriented reproductive behaviour, they tend to have multiple sexual partners and erratic relationships. Children implicitly and explicitly model their sexual attitudes and behaviours on their parents, see engagement in non-marital sex as normative. Father absence however can be a byproduct of initial social and economic strain within the household (e.g. violence, lack of educational opportunities and cumulative life exposure to poverty can increase the likelihood of early sexual endeavours and pregnancy). The timing of first intercourse can be heritable - shorter alleles of the X-linked androgen receptor (AR) gene has been associated with aggression, impulsivity, high number of sexual partners, divorce in males and earlier ages of physical maturation in females.\n\nDespite being poorer overall, widowed and divorced women are on average 2.4 kg heavier than women whose children's fathers are present. Widowed and divorced mothers as well as their daughters are reported to have substantially improved nutritional status which could be explained by them having greater access to the mother's relatives (matrilateral kin). Furthermore, proximity to a mother's relatives can dramatically improve female children's height for age, an indicator of good nutrition. Women who return to their village of birth following marital dissolution are seen to benefit from extra matrilateral kin support, which replaces the help of the missing husband. Female headed families are found to be similar to traditional families regarding a range of measures such as quality of parenting and young adult's psychological adjustment. Children were also found to have more positive family relationships and greater psychological wellbeing as young adults. Children without their biological fathers present can also grow up in same sex parent households, where they can experience far more interaction with their mothers and be more likely to perceive them as available and dependent compared to peers from father present homes. there were no negative effect on social and emotional development or differences in parenting or children development. Although boys showed more feminine characteristics this did not mean they showed less masculine characteristics. Father absence here can influence adolescents relationships with their mothers but no negative consequences for children. No significant differences are found regarding families of heterosexual and homosexual mothers for boys, there was no influence over sexual identity conflict or even peer group stigmatisation.It is also necessary that significance of the study be stated by a researcher which will make the research meaningful. In line with this topic, parents will be informed of the underlying behaviours of children as a result of absence of parent following divorce. The study will also enlighten parents on the roles they play to shape their children when they live as a couple, therefore, parents will try to their best to reconcile their differences and live as one. The challenges that young adults at the age of 14 to 25 years and whose parents divorced faces as they enter into romantic relationships are revealed. The aim of the study is to explore knowledge relating to counselling of such cases.\nThe study will be easier when the scope is mentioned. This is the area the study will cover or rather the number of respondents. The study on ‘The effect on children of an absent parent following divorce,’ will be focus on pre-schoolers, adolescents as well as young adults in a particular area which can be certain learning institutions within a specific city. There are also certain assumptions which a researcher will have to make in this study. For example, it will be assumed that at the time the research will be done. All the learning institutions will be on session and can be accessed and that the respondents will be willing to share the information required.\n\nAs part of the research, a literature review is necessary. This will involve carrying out various theoretical reviews to examine various theories related to the topic under study. Such theories will include attachment theory, social learning theory, among many others. The theories will lay a foundation to the topic. Moreover, empirical review is another part of literature review where various literary works carried out by other researchers relating to the topic of study are examined in detail.\n\nThe research design in relation to the topic of this study will be descriptive survey design. The target population will be all the students in the learning institutions selected that will be used for the research. Stratified sampling design is suitable for the study since data will be collected and based on three strata; pre-schoolers, secondary and college. Data collection will be by use of questionnaires and finally, data analysis will be both quantitative and qualitative. The quantitative will encompass such descriptive statistics as mean and standard deviation while the qualitative will take into account attaching significance to the themes as well as the patterns observed (Bryman, 2008).\nThe results and findings will be finally presented summarizing the information obtained from data collection and analysed. The summary of the findings will provide answers to the research questions, reveal the challenges experienced throughout the research and expose gabs that can aid in further research concerning the topic.\n\nThe research especially when administering questionnaires and interviews if any should be carried out in a manner which is within two key aspects: conforming to ethical practices and adhering to approved protocol. Ethical practices in research are very vital and plays a very important role in protecting the rights and privacy of the respondents. The use of human subjects is a critical ethical consideration. This study will have to adhere to the guidelines set by Institutional Review Board of the schools which data will be collected. The board is composed of people who will check to ensure that the information gathered from the respondents are safe and that human rights of the respondents are not violated in any case. The ethical considerations that are relevant to this study will involve voluntary participation by the respondents and the informed consent (Vanclay, 2013).\nIt is important to note that ethical standards very important roles in this research work. They guarantee that all human subjects that become respondents in the study accepted freely and wilfully to participate and that they have been fully updated on the purpose of the research. Moreover, the subjects’ confidentiality and anonymity is highly protected.\n\nIn light of certain research, father absence can be disadvantageous; certain evidence suggests stepfather presence does not reduce these disadvantages but in fact has a worsening effect on such issues. For example, the Cinderella effect, which refers to the observation that stepchildren are at a dramatically increased risk of physical abuse and homicide than children living with their biological parents. Although there researchers have found a negative relationship between stepmothers and food expenditure, this effect is not observed with stepfathers and their stepchildren. Ellis and Garber (2000) and Ellis (2004) suggest that stepfather presence is a better predictor of age of menarche than father absence, as it indicates lower quality paternal investment. In accordance with their findings, results show that girls raised in families with stepfathers exhibit a significantly earlier age of menarche than girls raised without stepfathers.\n\nRelative to other groups, children with a constantly absent biological father but a stepfather present reported more frequent incidences of sexual intercourse, as well as an earlier onset of sexual behaviour. The mean age of children with their biological father absent or partially absent is approximately 15. A higher percentage of children with a constantly absent biological father reported having sexual intercourse than those in the partially absent group. Those with a stepfather present and those with a biological father always absent have the earliest first time experiences of sexual intercourse at on average 15.11 years old, whereas children without a stepfather or their biological father partially absent at the age of 15.38 experience their first encounter of sexual intercourse. The effect of having a partially absent biological father with stepfather absence and the effect both stepfather or biological father absence are the same. This study indicated that the presence of a stepfather is not compensating to the disadvantages of a biological father being absent. In some situations, it can cause an even bigger negative effect on children.\n\nChoice of effective treatment can be greatly varied and thus can be affected by many factors such as age, one's ability to understand and deal with emotionally heavy material, family members involvement and the family and child's priorities and needs. In treating some of the negative effects that young girls may have, transference to a male therapist could help facilitate the opportunity to fill any emotional void created through father absence. On the other hand, simply through the existence of a connection with a consistent and empathetic adult can provide some paternal function, regardless of gender.\n"}
{"id": "18963910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18963910", "title": "Geography", "text": "Geography\n\nGeography (from Greek: , \"geographia\", literally \"earth description\") is a field of science devoted to the study of the lands, features, inhabitants, and phenomena of the Earth and planets. The first person to use the word γεωγραφία was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geography is an all-encompassing discipline that seeks an understanding of Earth and its human and natural complexities—not merely where objects are, but also how they have changed and come to be.\n\nGeography is often defined in terms of two branches: human geography and physical geography. Human geography deals with the study of people and their communities, cultures, economies, and interactions with the environment by studying their relations with and across space and place. Physical geography deals with the study of processes and patterns in the natural environment like the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and geosphere.\n\nThe four historical traditions in geographical research are: spatial analyses of natural and the human phenomena, area studies of places and regions, studies of human-land relationships, and the Earth sciences. Geography has been called \"the world discipline\" and \"the bridge between the human and the physical sciences\".\n\nGeography is a systematic study of the Universe and its features. Traditionally, geography has been associated with cartography and place names. Although many geographers are trained in toponymy and cartology, this is not their main preoccupation. Geographers study the space and the temporal database distribution of phenomena, processes, and features as well as the interaction of humans and their environment. Because space and place affect a variety of topics, such as economics, health, climate, plants and animals, geography is highly interdisciplinary. The interdisciplinary nature of the geographical approach depends on an attentiveness to the relationship between physical and human phenomena and its spatial patterns.\n\nGeography as a discipline can be split broadly into two main subsidiary fields: human geography and physical geography. The former largely focuses on the built environment and how humans create, view, manage, and influence space. The latter examines the natural environment, and how organisms, climate, soil, water, and landforms produce and interact. The difference between these approaches led to a third field, environmental geography, which combines physical and human geography and concerns the interactions between the environment and humans.\n\nPhysical geography (or physiography) focuses on geography as an Earth science. It aims to understand the physical problems and the issues of lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, pedosphere, and global flora and fauna patterns (biosphere).\n\nHuman geography is a branch of geography that focuses on the study of patterns and processes that shape the human society. It encompasses the human, political, cultural, social, and economic aspects.\n\nVarious approaches to the study of human geography have also arisen through time and include:\n\nEnvironmental geography is concerned with the description of the spatial interactions between humans and the natural world. It requires an understanding of the traditional aspects of physical and human geography, as well as the ways that human societies conceptualize the environment. Environmental geography has emerged as a bridge between the human and the physical geography, as a result of the increasing specialisation of the two sub-fields. Furthermore, as human relationship with the environment has changed as a result of globalization and technological change, a new approach was needed to understand the changing and dynamic relationship. Examples of areas of research in the environmental geography include: emergency management, environmental management, sustainability, and political ecology.\n\nGeomatics is concerned with the application of computers to the traditional spatial techniques used in cartography and topography. Geomatics emerged from the quantitative revolution in geography in the mid-1950s. Today, geomatics methods include spatial analysis, geographic information systems (GIS), remote sensing, and global positioning systems (GPS). Geomatics has led to a revitalization of some geography departments, especially in Northern America where the subject had a declining status during the 1950s.\n\nRegional geography is concerned with the description of the unique characteristics of a particular region such as its natural or human elements. The main aim is to understand, or define the uniqueness, or character of a particular region that consists of natural as well as human elements. Attention is paid also to regionalization, which covers the proper techniques of space delimitation into regions.\n\n\nAs spatial interrelationships are key to this synoptic science, maps are a key tool. Classical cartography has been joined by a more modern approach to geographical analysis, computer-based geographic information systems (GIS).\n\nIn their study, geographers use four interrelated approaches:\n\nCartography studies the representation of the Earth's surface with abstract symbols (map making). Although other subdisciplines of geography rely on maps for presenting their analyses, the actual making of maps is abstract enough to be regarded separately. Cartography has grown from a collection of drafting techniques into an actual science.\n\nCartographers must learn cognitive psychology and ergonomics to understand which symbols convey information about the Earth most effectively, and behavioural psychology to induce the readers of their maps to act on the information. They must learn geodesy and fairly advanced mathematics to understand how the shape of the Earth affects the distortion of map symbols projected onto a flat surface for viewing. It can be said, without much controversy, that cartography is the seed from which the larger field of geography grew. Most geographers will cite a childhood fascination with maps as an early sign they would end up in the field.\n\nGeographic information systems (GIS) deal with the storage of information about the Earth for automatic retrieval by a computer, in an accurate manner appropriate to the information's purpose. In addition to all of the other subdisciplines of geography, GIS specialists must understand computer science and database systems. GIS has revolutionized the field of cartography: nearly all mapmaking is now done with the assistance of some form of GIS software. GIS also refers to the science of using GIS software and GIS techniques to represent, analyse, and predict the spatial relationships. In this context, GIS stands for \"geographic information science\".\n\nRemote sensing is the science of obtaining information about Earth features from measurements made at a distance. Remotely sensed data comes in many forms, such as satellite imagery, aerial photography, and data obtained from hand-held sensors. Geographers increasingly use remotely sensed data to obtain information about the Earth's land surface, ocean, and atmosphere, because it: (a) supplies objective information at a variety of spatial scales (local to global), (b) provides a synoptic view of the area of interest, (c) allows access to distant and inaccessible sites, (d) provides spectral information outside the visible portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, and (e) facilitates studies of how features/areas change over time. Remotely sensed data may be analysed either independently of, or in conjunction with other digital data layers (e.g., in a geographic information system).\n\nGeostatistics deal with quantitative data analysis, specifically the application of statistical methodology to the exploration of geographic phenomena. Geostatistics is used extensively in a variety of fields, including hydrology, geology, petroleum exploration, weather analysis, urban planning, logistics, and epidemiology. The mathematical basis for geostatistics derives from cluster analysis, linear discriminant analysis and non-parametric statistical tests, and a variety of other subjects. Applications of geostatistics rely heavily on geographic information systems, particularly for the interpolation (estimate) of unmeasured points. Geographers are making notable contributions to the method of quantitative techniques.\n\nGeographic qualitative methods, or ethnographical research techniques, are used by human geographers. In cultural geography there is a tradition of employing qualitative research techniques, also used in anthropology and sociology. Participant observation and in-depth interviews provide human geographers with qualitative data.\n\nThe oldest known world maps date back to ancient Babylon from the 9th century BC. The best known Babylonian world map, however, is the \"Imago Mundi\" of 600 BC. The map as reconstructed by Eckhard Unger shows Babylon on the Euphrates, surrounded by a circular landmass showing Assyria, Urartu and several cities, in turn surrounded by a \"bitter river\" (Oceanus), with seven islands arranged around it so as to form a seven-pointed star. The accompanying text mentions seven outer regions beyond the encircling ocean. The descriptions of five of them have survived. In contrast to the \"Imago Mundi\", an earlier Babylonian world map dating back to the 9th century BC depicted Babylon as being further north from the center of the world, though it is not certain what that center was supposed to represent.\n\nThe ideas of Anaximander (c. 610–545 BC): considered by later Greek writers to be the true founder of geography, come to us through fragments quoted by his successors. Anaximander is credited with the invention of the gnomon, the simple, yet efficient Greek instrument that allowed the early measurement of latitude. Thales is also credited with the prediction of eclipses. The foundations of geography can be traced to the ancient cultures, such as the ancient, medieval, and early modern Chinese. The Greeks, who were the first to explore geography as both art and science, achieved this through Cartography, Philosophy, and Literature, or through Mathematics. There is some debate about who was the first person to assert that the Earth is spherical in shape, with the credit going either to Parmenides or Pythagoras. Anaxagoras was able to demonstrate that the profile of the Earth was circular by explaining eclipses. However, he still believed that the Earth was a flat disk, as did many of his contemporaries. One of the first estimates of the radius of the Earth was made by Eratosthenes.\n\nThe first rigorous system of latitude and longitude lines is credited to Hipparchus. He employed a sexagesimal system that was derived from Babylonian mathematics. The meridians were sub-divided into 360°, with each degree further subdivided into 60 (minutes). To measure the longitude at different locations on Earth, he suggested using eclipses to determine the relative difference in time. The extensive mapping by the Romans as they explored new lands would later provide a high level of information for Ptolemy to construct detailed atlases. He extended the work of Hipparchus, using a grid system on his maps and adopting a length of 56.5 miles for a degree.\n\nFrom the 3rd century onwards, Chinese methods of geographical study and writing of geographical literature became much more comprehensive than what was found in Europe at the time (until the 13th century). Chinese geographers such as Liu An, Pei Xiu, Jia Dan, Shen Kuo, Fan Chengda, Zhou Daguan, and Xu Xiake wrote important treatises, yet by the 17th century advanced ideas and methods of Western-style geography were adopted in China.\nDuring the Middle Ages, the fall of the Roman empire led to a shift in the evolution of geography from Europe to the Islamic world. Muslim geographers such as Muhammad al-Idrisi produced detailed world maps (such as Tabula Rogeriana), while other geographers such as Yaqut al-Hamawi, Abu Rayhan Biruni, Ibn Battuta, and Ibn Khaldun provided detailed accounts of their journeys and the geography of the regions they visited. Turkish geographer, Mahmud al-Kashgari drew a world map on a linguistic basis, and later so did Piri Reis (Piri Reis map). Further, Islamic scholars translated and interpreted the earlier works of the Romans and the Greeks and established the House of Wisdom in Baghdad for this purpose. Abū Zayd al-Balkhī, originally from Balkh, founded the \"Balkhī school\" of terrestrial mapping in Baghdad. Suhrāb, a late tenth century Muslim geographer accompanied a book of geographical coordinates, with instructions for making a rectangular world map with equirectangular projection or cylindrical equidistant projection.\n\nAbu Rayhan Biruni (976–1048) first described a polar equi-azimuthal equidistant projection of the celestial sphere. He was regarded as the most skilled when it came to mapping cities and measuring the distances between them, which he did for many cities in the Middle East and the Indian subcontinent. He often combined astronomical readings and mathematical equations, in order to develop methods of pin-pointing locations by recording degrees of latitude and longitude. He also developed similar techniques when it came to measuring the heights of mountains, depths of the valleys, and expanse of the horizon. He also discussed human geography and the planetary habitability of the Earth. He also calculated the latitude of Kath, Khwarezm, using the maximum altitude of the Sun, and solved a complex geodesic equation in order to accurately compute the Earth's circumference, which was close to modern values of the Earth's circumference. His estimate of 6,339.9 km for the Earth radius was only 16.8 km less than the modern value of 6,356.7 km. In contrast to his predecessors, who measured the Earth's circumference by sighting the Sun simultaneously from two different locations, al-Biruni developed a new method of using trigonometric calculations, based on the angle between a plain and mountain top, which yielded more accurate measurements of the Earth's circumference, and made it possible for it to be measured by a single person from a single location.\nThe European Age of Discovery during the 16th and the 17th centuries, where many new lands were discovered and accounts by European explorers such as Christopher Columbus, Marco Polo, and James Cook revived a desire for both accurate geographic detail, and more solid theoretical foundations in Europe. The problem facing both explorers and geographers was finding the latitude and longitude of a geographic location. The problem of latitude was solved long ago but that of longitude remained; agreeing on what zero meridian should be was only part of the problem. It was left to John Harrison to solve it by inventing the chronometer H-4 in 1760, and later in 1884 for the International Meridian Conference to adopt by convention the Greenwich meridian as zero meridian.\n\nThe 18th and the 19th centuries were the times when geography became recognized as a discrete academic discipline, and became part of a typical university curriculum in Europe (especially Paris and Berlin). The development of many geographic societies also occurred during the 19th century, with the foundations of the Société de Géographie in 1821, the Royal Geographical Society in 1830, Russian Geographical Society in 1845, American Geographical Society in 1851, and the National Geographic Society in 1888. The influence of Immanuel Kant, Alexander von Humboldt, Carl Ritter, and Paul Vidal de la Blache can be seen as a major turning point in geography from a philosophy to an academic subject.\n\nOver the past two centuries, the advancements in technology with computers have led to the development of geomatics and new practices such as participant observation and geostatistics being incorporated into geography's portfolio of tools. In the West during the 20th century, the discipline of geography went through four major phases: environmental determinism, regional geography, the quantitative revolution, and critical geography. The strong interdisciplinary links between geography and the sciences of geology and botany, as well as economics, sociology and demographics have also grown greatly, especially as a result of earth system science that seeks to understand the world in a holistic view.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13305402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13305402", "title": "Global brain", "text": "Global brain\n\nThe global brain is a neuroscience-inspired and futurological vision of the planetary information and communications technology network that interconnects all humans and their technological artifacts. As this network stores ever more information, takes over ever more functions of coordination and communication from traditional organizations, and becomes increasingly intelligent, it increasingly plays the role of a brain for the planet Earth.\n\nProponents of the global brain hypothesis claim that the Internet increasingly ties its users together into a single information processing system that functions as part of the collective nervous system of the planet. The intelligence of this network is collective or distributed: it is not centralized or localized in any particular individual, organization or computer system. Therefore, no one can command or control it. Rather, it self-organizes or emerges from the dynamic networks of interactions between its components. This is a property typical of complex adaptive systems.\n\nThe World-wide web in particular resembles the organization of a brain with its webpages (playing a role similar to neurons) connected by hyperlinks (playing a role similar to synapses), together forming an associative network along which information propagates. This analogy becomes stronger with the rise of social media, such as Facebook, where links between personal pages represent relationships in a social network along which information propagates from person to person.\nSuch propagation is similar to the spreading activation that neural networks in the brain use to process information in a parallel, distributed manner.\n\nAlthough some of the underlying ideas were already expressed by Nikola Tesla in the late 19th century and were written about by many others before him, the term “global brain” was coined in 1982 by Peter Russell in his book \"The Global Brain\". How the Internet might be developed to achieve this was set out in 1986. The first peer-reviewed article on the subject was published by Gottfried Mayer-Kress in 1995, while the first algorithms that could turn the world-wide web into a collectively intelligent network were proposed by Francis Heylighen and Johan Bollen in 1996.\n\nReviewing the strands of intellectual history that contributed to the global brain hypothesis, Francis Heylighen distinguishes four perspectives: \"“organicism”\", \"“encyclopedism”\", \"“emergentism”\" and \"“evolutionary cybernetics”\". He asserts that these developed in relative independence but now are converging in his own scientific re-formulation.\n\nIn the 19th century, the sociologist Herbert Spencer saw society as a social organism and reflected about its need for a nervous system. Entomologist William Wheeler developed the concept of the ant colony as a spatially extended organism, and in the 1930s he coined the term superorganism to describe such an entity. This concept was later adopted by thinkers such as Gregory Stock in his book Metaman and Joel de Rosnay to describe planetary society as a superorganism.\n\nThe mental aspects of such an organic system at the planetary level were perhaps first broadly elaborated by palaeontologist and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin. In 1945, he described a coming “planetisation” of humanity, which he saw as the next phase of accelerating human “socialisation”. Teilhard described both socialization and planetization as irreversible, irresistible processes of \"macrobiological development\" culminating in the emergence of a noosphere, or global mind (see Emergentism below).\n\nThe more recent living systems theory describes both organisms and social systems in terms of the \"critical subsystems\" (\"organs\") they need to contain in order to survive, such as an internal transport system, a resource reserve, and a decision-making system. This theory has inspired several thinkers, including Peter Russell and Francis Heylighen to define the global brain as the network of information processing subsystems for the planetary social system.\n\nIn the perspective of encyclopedism, the emphasis is on developing a universal knowledge network. The first systematic attempt to create such an integrated system of the world's knowledge was the 18th century \"Encyclopédie\" of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert. However, by the end of the 19th century, the amount of knowledge had become too large to be published in a single synthetic volume. To tackle this problem, Paul Otlet founded the science of documentation, now called information science. In the 1930s he envisaged a World Wide Web-like system of associations between documents and telecommunication links that would make all the world's knowledge available immediately to anybody. H. G. Wells proposed a similar vision of a collaboratively developed world encyclopedia that would be constantly updated by a global university-like institution. He called this a World Brain, as it would function as a continuously updated memory for the planet, although the image of humanity acting informally as a more organic global brain is a recurring motif in other of his works.\n\nTim Berners-Lee, the inventor of the World Wide Web, too, was inspired by the free-associative possibilities of the brain for his invention. The brain can link different kinds of information without any apparent link otherwise; Berners-Lee thought that computers could become much more powerful if they could imitate this functioning, i.e. make links between any arbitrary piece of information. The most powerful implementation of encyclopedism to date is Wikipedia, which integrates the associative powers of the world-wide-web with the collective intelligence of its millions of contributors, approaching the ideal of a global memory. The Semantic web, also first proposed by Berners-Lee, is a system of protocols to make the pieces of knowledge and their links readable by machines, so that they could be used to make automatic inferences, thus providing this brain-like network with some capacity for autonomous \"thinking\" or reflection.\n\nThis approach focuses on the emergent aspects of the evolution and development of complexity, including the spiritual, psychological, and moral-ethical aspects of the global brain, and is at present the most speculative approach. The global brain is here seen as a natural and emergent process of planetary evolutionary development. Here again Pierre Teilhard de Chardin attempted a synthesis of science, social values, and religion in his The Phenomenon of Man, which argues that the \"telos\" (drive, purpose) of universal evolutionary process is the development of greater levels of both complexity and consciousness. Teilhard proposed that if life persists then planetization, as a biological process producing a global brain, would necessarily also produce a global mind, a new level of planetary consciousness and a technologically supported network of thoughts which he called the \"noosphere\". Teilhard's proposed technological layer for the noosphere can be interpreted as an early anticipation of the Internet and the Web.\n\nPhysicist and philosopher Peter Russell elaborates a similar view, and stresses the importance of personal spiritual growth, in order to build and to achieve synergy with the spiritual dimension of the emerging superorganism. This approach is most popular in New Age circles, which emphasize growth in consciousness rather than scientific modelling or the implementation of technological and social systems.\n\nSystems theorists and cyberneticists commonly describe the emergence of a higher order system in evolutionary development as a “metasystem transition” (a concept introduced by Valentin Turchin) or a “major evolutionary transition”. Such a metasystem consists of a group of subsystems that work together in a coordinated, goal-directed manner. It is as such much more powerful and intelligent than its constituent systems. Francis Heylighen has argued that the global brain is an emerging metasystem with respect to the level of individual human intelligence, and investigated the specific evolutionary mechanisms that promote this transition\n\nIn this scenario, the Internet fulfils the role of the network of “nerves” that interconnect the subsystems and thus coordinates their activity. The cybernetic approach makes it possible to develop mathematical models and simulations of the processes of self-organization through which such coordination and collective intelligence emerges.\n\nIn 1994 Kevin Kelly, in his popular book \"\", posited the emergence of a \"hive mind\" from a discussion of cybernetics and evolutionary biology.\n\nIn 1996, Francis Heylighen and Ben Goertzel founded the Global Brain group, a discussion forum grouping most of the researchers that had been working on the subject of the global brain to further investigate this phenomenon. The group organized the first international conference on the topic in 2001 at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel.\n\nAfter a period of relative neglect, the Global Brain idea has recently seen a resurgence in interest, in part due to talks given on the topic by Tim O'Reilly, the Internet forecaster who popularized the term Web 2.0, and Yuri Milner, the social media investor. In January 2012, the Global Brain Institute (GBI) was founded at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel to develop a mathematical theory of the “brainlike” propagation of information across the Internet. In the same year, Thomas W. Malone and collaborators from the MIT Center for Collective Intelligence have started to explore how the global brain could be “programmed” to work more effectively, using mechanisms of collective intelligence. The complexity scientist Dirk Helbing and his NervousNet group have recently started developing a \"Planetary Nervous System\", which includes a \"Global Participatory Platform\", as part of the large-scale FuturICT project, thus preparing some of the groundwork for a Global Brain.\n\nIn July 2017 Elon Musk founded the company Neuralink, which aims to create a Neural Lace, which is a concept invented by the novelist Iain M. Banks and basically refers to a machine interface woven into the brain, to allow the user to access all available human information. A core driver behind this business idea is Mr Musk’s argument, that human beings soon have to embrace brain implants to stay relevant in a world which, he believes, will soon be dominated by artificial intelligence. The firm raised $27m from 12 Investors in 2017 .\n\nA common criticism of the idea that humanity would become directed by a global brain is that this would reduce individual diversity and freedom, and lead to mass surveillance. This criticism is inspired by totalitarian forms of government, as exemplified by George Orwell's character of \"Big Brother\". It is also inspired by the analogy between collective intelligence or swarm intelligence and insect societies, such as beehives and ant colonies, in which individuals are essentially interchangeable. In a more extreme view, the global brain has been compared with the Borg, the race of collectively thinking cyborgs conceived by the Star Trek science fiction franchise.\n\nGlobal brain theorists reply that the emergence of distributed intelligence would lead to the exact opposite of this vision. The reason is that effective collective intelligence requires diversity of opinion, decentralization and individual independence, as demonstrated by James Surowiecki in his book The Wisdom of Crowds. Moreover, a more distributed form of decision-making would decrease the power of governments, corporations or political leaders, thus increasing democratic participation and reducing the dangers of totalitarian control.\n\n\n\n\nFor more references, check the GBI bibliography:\n\n"}
{"id": "34955132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34955132", "title": "Infopoverty", "text": "Infopoverty\n\nInfopoverty is the name given to the Programme and the World Conference started in 2001, in the ambit of the United Nations, aimed to fight poverty towards the application of ICT, Information and Communication Technologies.\nThe term has been coined in 1998 by Arch. Pierpaolo Saporito, Founder and President of OCCAM - Observatory on Digital Communication and Gerardo Zepeda-Bermudez, Vice-President and Member of the Board.\n\nThe Infopoverty World Conference is the annual international conference, under the auspices of the United Nations, at the United Nations headquarters, New York, organized by OCCAM, together with the European Parliament, UNESCO, and other scientific and university institutions (Infopoverty Institute at Oklahoma University). At its 13th edition, the Infopoverty World Conference saw the participation of more than 100 international organizations,hundreds of from Governments, international and regional organizations, public and private institutions and the civil society and 63 countries.\n\nThe Infopoverty Programme transfers into concrete actions the orientations emerged from the Conference, realizing the ICT Villages, aimed to help the most disadvantaged communities.The first pilot projects were realized at San Ramon and San Pedro, Honduras, in cooperation with the local Ministry of Science and Technologies, following the devastation from Hurricane Mitch.\nThese experiences were instrumental for the definition, thanks to the collaboration with the most important international institutions, of the ICT Village model, validated by the World Summit on the Information Society in Tunis, 2005, with the creation of the Borj Touil Village.\nSubsequently, the model was developed in Sambaina (Madagascar) which was proclaimed Millennium Village Project by the United Nations, and are in progress in Leshoto, in Peru and Ethiopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "35604930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35604930", "title": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg", "text": "International Science Festival in Gothenburg\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg (Swedish: Vetenskapsfestivalen) is an annual festival in Gothenburg with science activities.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg took place for the first time in April 1997 and is since then an annual recurrent event.\nThe purpose is to communicate science to the public and schools in an easy accessible and in a thought provoking manner. Another objective is to create a positive attitude to research and science which is intended to encourage higher education.\n\nAbout come each year. This makes it the largest popular science event in Sweden and one of the largest popular science events in Europe.\n\nUniversity of Gothenburg and Chalmers University of Technology contributes with the knowledge.\n\nThe International Science Festival in Gothenburg is a member of the \"European Science Events Association\", EUSCEA.\n\nEach year a special theme that the festival focuses on is chosen: (translated)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1791212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1791212", "title": "Josephine Butler", "text": "Josephine Butler\n\nJosephine Elizabeth Butler (' Grey; 13 April 1828 – 30 December 1906) was an English feminist and social reformer in the Victorian era. She campaigned for women's suffrage, the right of women to better education, the end of coverture in British law, the abolition of child prostitution, and an end to human trafficking of young women and children into European prostitution.\n\nGrey grew up in a well-to-do and politically connected progressive family which helped develop in her a strong social conscience and firmly held religious ideals. She married George Butler, an Anglican divine and schoolmaster, and the couple had four children, the last of whom, Eva, died falling from a banister. The death was a turning point for Butler, and she focused her feelings on helping others, starting with the inhabitants of a local workhouse. She began to campaign for women's rights in British law. In 1869 she became involved in the campaign to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts, legislation that attempted to control the spread of venereal diseases—particularly in the British Army and Royal Navy—through the forced medical examination of prostitutes, a process she described as surgical or steel rape. The campaign achieved its final success in 1886 with the repeal of the Acts. Butler also formed the International Abolitionist Federation, a Europe-wide organisation to combat similar systems on the continent.\n\nWhile investigating the effect of the Acts, Butler had been appalled that some of the prostitutes were as young as 12, and that there was a slave trade of young women and children from England to the continent for the purpose of prostitution. A campaign to combat the trafficking led to the removal from office of the head of the Belgian \"\", and the trial and imprisonment of his deputy and 12 brothel owners, who were all involved in the trade. Butler fought child prostitution with help from the campaigning editor of \"The Pall Mall Gazette\", William Thomas Stead, who purchased a 13-year-old girl from her mother for £5. The subsequent outcry led to the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 which raised the age of consent from 13 to 16 and brought in measures to stop children becoming prostitutes. Her final campaign was in the late-1890s, against the Contagious Diseases Acts which continued to be implemented in the British Raj.\n\nButler wrote more than 90 books and pamphlets over the course of her career, most of which were in support of her campaigning, although she also produced biographies of her father, her husband and Catherine of Siena. Butler's Christian feminism is celebrated by the Church of England with a Lesser Festival, and by representations of her in the stained glass windows of Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral and St Olave's Church in the City of London. Her name appears on the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery, London, and Durham University named one of their colleges after her. Her campaign strategies changed the way feminist and suffragists conducted future struggles, and her work brought into the political milieu groups of people that had never been active before. After her death in 1906 the feminist intellectual Millicent Fawcett hailed her as \"the most distinguished Englishwoman of the nineteenth century\".\n\nJosephine Grey was born on 13 April 1828 at Milfield, Northumberland. She was the fourth daughter and seventh child of Hannah (\"\" Annett) and John Grey, a land agent and agricultural expert, who was a cousin of the reformist British Prime Minister, Lord Grey. In 1833 John was appointed manager of the Greenwich Hospital Estates in Dilston, near Corbridge, Northumberland, and the family moved to the area, where John acted as Lord Grey's chief political agent in Northumberland. In this role John promoted his cousin's political opinions locally, including support for Catholic emancipation, the abolition of slavery, the repeal of the Corn Laws and reform of the poor laws. Josephine was taught at home before completing her schooling at a boarding school in Newcastle upon Tyne which she attended for two years.\n\nJohn treated his children equally within the home. He educated them in politics and social issues and exposed them to various politically important visitors. John's political work and ideology had a strong influence on his daughter, as did the religious teaching she received from her mother; the family background and the circles in which she moved formed a strong social conscience and a staunch religious faith.\n\nAt about the age of 17 Grey went through a religious crisis, which probably stemmed from an incident in which she discovered the body of a suicide while out riding. She became disenchanted with her weekly church attendance, describing the local vicar as \"an honest man in the pulpit ... [who] taught us loyally all that he probably himself knew about God, but whose words did not even touch the fringe of my soul's deep discontent\". Following her crisis, Grey did not identify with any single strand of Christianity, and remained critical of the Anglican church. She later wrote that she \"imbibed from childhood the widest ideas of vital Christianity, only it \"was\" Christianity. I have not much sympathy with the \"Church\". She began to speak directly to God in her prayers:\n\nIn mid-1847 Grey visited her brother in County Laois, Ireland. It was at the height of the Great Famine and the first time she had come into contact with widespread suffering among the poor; she was deeply affected by her experiences and later recalled that \"As a young girl, I had no conception of the full meaning of the misery I saw around me, yet it printed itself upon my brain and memory.\"\n\nBy 1850 Grey had grown close to George Butler, a Fellow of Exeter College, Oxford, whom she had met at several of the balls hosted around County Durham. By October that year George was sending her self-penned poems; the couple were engaged in January 1851 and married in January 1852. The Butlers set up home at 124, High Street, Oxford. George was a scholar and cleric and shared with his wife a commitment to liberal reforms and a love of Italian culture. The couple also both had a strong Christian belief and Josephine Butler later wrote of her husband that they often \"prayed together that a holy revolution might come about and that the Kingdom of God might be established on the earth\".\n\nIn November 1852 the Butlers had a son, George Grey Butler, followed by a second, Arthur Stanley—known as Stanley—in May 1854. Butler's later memories of Oxford were of a closeted and misogynist community lacking in family life; she was often the only female at social gatherings and would listen in anger to what her biographer Judith Walkowitz describes as \"the open acceptance of the double standard by the gentlemen of the university\". Butler was offended by a discussion regarding the publication in 1853 of Elizabeth Gaskell's novel \"Ruth\" in which the heroine is seduced by a man of means and subsequently abandoned. Butler saw that the male conversationalists considered it natural that a \"moral lapse in a woman was spoken of as an immensely worse thing than in a man\"; she decided not to voice her feelings on the point but \"to speak little with men, but much with God\". As a more practical measure she—and George—began to help many of the fallen woman of Oxford and invited some to live in their house. One case in which they were involved concerned a young woman serving a prison sentence at Newgate Prison. She had been seduced by a university don who had subsequently abandoned her; the woman had murdered her baby in despair. The Butlers contacted the governor of Newgate to arrange for her to stay in their house at the end of her sentence.\nIn 1856 Butler's health began to suffer from Oxford's damp atmosphere, which exacerbated a long-standing lesion on her lung; her doctor informed her that to remain in Oxford could be fatal. As an immediate step George purchased a house in Clifton, near Bristol, where their third son, Charles, was born in 1857. The same year, as a longer-term measure, George took the position of vice-principal at Cheltenham College and they moved to a local house. They continued their support for liberal causes, including that of the Italian nationalist Giuseppe Garibaldi, although their sympathy for the Union side in the American Civil War led to social ostracism; Butler considered that the resultant feeling of social isolation \"was often painful ... but the discipline was useful\".\n\nIn May 1859, Butler gave birth to her final child, a daughter, Evangeline Mary, known as Eva. In August 1864 Eva fell from the top-floor banister onto the stone floor of the hallway in her home; she died three hours later. Butler was distraught at the loss and had disturbed sleep for several years; she was unable to write about the circumstances until 30 years later. The subsequent inquest gave a verdict of accidental death.\n\nIn October 1864 Stanley contracted diphtheria while Butler was still grieving for Eva. She was suffering from depression and was in poor health. After the worst of Stanley's ailment passed, Butler decided to take him to Naples for them both to rest and recuperate. The ship in which they travelled down the west coast of Italy faced rough weather, and Butler had a physical breakdown on board from which she nearly died.\n\nIn January 1866 George was appointed headmaster of Liverpool College, and the family moved to premises in the Dingle area. Despite the new surroundings, Butler continued to mourn for Eva but focused her feelings on helping others; she later wrote that she \"became possessed with an irresistible urge to go forth and find some pain keener than my own, to meet with people more unhappy than myself. ... It was not difficult to find misery in Liverpool.\" She made regular visits to the workhouse at Brownlow Hill, an institution that could hold 5,000 individuals. She would sit with the women in the cellars—many of whom were prisoners—and pick oakum with them, while discussing the Bible or praying with them.\n\nJust as they had done in Cheltenham, the Butlers began providing shelter in their own home for some of the women, often prostitutes in the terminal stages of venereal disease. It soon became clear that there were more women in need than they could provide for, so Butler set up a hostel, with funds from local men of means. By Easter 1867 she had established a second, larger home, in which more appropriate work was provided, such as sewing and the manufacture of envelopes; the \"Industrial Home\", as she called it, was funded by the workhouse committee and local merchants.\n\nButler campaigned for women's rights, including the right to the vote and to have a better education. In 1866 she was a signatory on a petition to amend the Reform Bill to widen the franchise to include women. The petition, which was supported by the MP and philosopher John Stuart Mill, was ignored and the bill became law.\n\nButler considered the Liverpool hostels a stop-gap; women would continue to struggle to find employment until they had been better educated. In 1867, with the suffragist Anne Clough, she established the North of England Council for Promoting the Higher Education of Women, which aimed to raise the status of governesses and female teachers to that of a profession; She served as its president until 1873. A series of lectures, initially in towns in the north of England, began under James Stuart, a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Although it was thought thirty students would sign up, three hundred joined. In 1868 Butler published \"The Education and Employment of Women\", her first pamphlet, in which she argued for access to higher education for women, and more equal access to a wider range of jobs. It was the first of 90 books and pamphlets she wrote. That May she petitioned the senate of the University of Cambridge to provide examinations for women; the Cambridge Higher Examination for women was introduced the following year. Jordan notes that \"much of the credit for this should go to Anne Clough, but ... Butler played a very influential part ... of the campaign.\"\n\nAt the time British law relating to marriage was based on the legal doctrine of coverture, in which a woman's legal rights and obligations were subsumed by those of her husband upon their matrimony. By law a woman had no separate legal existence, and all her property became her husband's; divorce initiated by a woman was difficult and complicated. In April 1868 Butler and fellow suffragist Elizabeth Wolstenholme set up and became joint secretaries of the Married Women's Property Committee to pressure parliament into changing the law. Butler remained on the committee until the campaign was successful, with the passing into law of the Married Women's Property Act 1882.\n\nIn 1869 Butler became aware of the Contagious Diseases Acts. They had been introduced in 1864, 1866 and 1869 to regulate prostitution in an attempt to control the spread of venereal diseases, particularly in the British Army and Royal Navy. The Acts authorised the police to detain women in specific areas considered to be prostitutes—no evidence was needed, other than the police officer's word. If a magistrate agreed, women were given genital examinations. If women were suffering from sexually transmitted diseases, they were held in a lock hospital until the condition was cured. If they refused to be examined or hospitalised they could be imprisoned, often with hard labour.\n\nUnits of plain-clothed policemen specialised in arresting suspected prostitutes; according to Jordan, the officers were \"hated for their surveillance and harassment of prostitutes and working-class women ... who they treated with little regard for their legal rights\". Women who were subjected to the examination found their names and reputations affected and, according to the historian Hilary Cashman, \"the Acts had the effect of turning them to prostitution by barring respectable ways of life to them\".\n\nIn September 1869 Wolstenholme met Butler in Bristol to discuss what could be done about the Acts. The National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts was founded that October, but excluded women from its membership. In response, Wolstenholme and Butler formed the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts (LNA) before the end of the year. The organisation published a \"Ladies Manifesto\", which stated that the Acts were discriminatory on grounds of both sex and class; the Acts, it was claimed:\n\nOn 31 December 1869 the Ladies National Association published a statement in \"The Daily News\" that it had \"been formed for the purposes of obtaining the repeal of these obnoxious Acts\". Among the 124 signatories were the social theorist Harriet Martineau and the social reformer Florence Nightingale.\n\nButler toured Britain in 1870, travelling 3,700 miles to attend 99 meetings in the course of the year. She focused her attention on working-class family men, the majority of whom were outraged at the description Butler gave of the examination women were forced to undergo; she called the process surgical or steel rape. Although she persuaded many members of her audiences, she faced significant opposition, which put her in danger. At one meeting pimps threw cow dung at her; at another, the windows of her hotel were smashed, while at a third, threats were made to burn down the building where she was hosting a meeting.\n\nAt the 1870 Colchester parliamentary by-election the LNA fielded a candidate against the Liberal Party candidate Sir Henry Storks, a supporter of the Acts, who had implemented a similar regime when he commanded the British army in Malta. Butler held several local meetings during the campaign; during one, she was chased by a group of brothel owners. The presence of the LNA candidate split the Liberal vote and allowed the Conservative Party candidate to win the seat; Butler considered that \"it proved to be somewhat of a turning-point in the history of our crusade\". Because of Stork's loss at the by-election the Home Secretary, Henry Bruce, announced a Royal Commission to examine the situation. One MP told Butler that\n\nThe commission began work in early January 1871 and spent six months taking evidence. After Butler testified on 18 March, a member of the committee, Liberal MP Peter Rylands, stated: \"I am not accustomed to religious phraseology, but I cannot give you an idea of the effect produced except by saying that the spirit of God was there\". Nevertheless, the commission's report defended the one-sided nature of the legislation, saying \"... there is no comparison to be made between prostitutes and the men who consort with them. With the one sex the offence is committed as a matter of gain; with the other it is an irregular indulgence of a natural impulse.\" The report accepted the findings that the sexual health of men in the 18 areas covered by the Acts had improved. In relation to the compulsory examinations, the commission was swayed by the descriptions of \"steel rape\", and suggested it should be voluntary not compulsory. The commission heard significant evidence that many prostitutes were as young as 12 and recommended that the age of consent should be raised from 12 to 14. Bruce took no action on the recommendations for six months.\n\nIn February 1872 Bruce proposed a bill that took some of the commission's recommendations, but widened the geographical scope from the 18 military centres to the whole of the UK. Although the LNA's initial stance was to accept some of the bill's clauses and try and change others, Butler rejected it in its entirety and published \"The New Era\", a 56-page pamphlet attacking the legislation; the pamphlet was re-published in serial form in \"The Shield\". It was the first split in the repeal movement and she lost many personal supporters because of her stance. The bill faced too much opposition from the parliamentary supporters of the Contagious Diseases Acts, and was withdrawn.\n\nTwo months after the withdrawal of Bruce's bill, a ministerial by-election in Pontefract in 1872 gave the LNA an opportunity for further action. Although they did not field a candidate, Butler attended meetings in the town. At one LNA meeting the floor of the room had been liberally sprinkled with cayenne pepper by her opponents, making speaking difficult. After it was cleared away, her opponents set bales of straw alight in a storeroom below, which led to smoke rising through the floorboards; two members of the Metropolitan Police—specially drafted into the town for the by-election—looked on but took no action. Although the incumbent Liberal candidate, Hugh Childers, was returned, there were heavy abstentions, and his vote was reduced by around 150 (from an electorate of 2,000). In December 1872 Butler met the Prime Minister, William Gladstone, when he visited Liverpool College. Although he supported the aims of the LNA, he was politically unable to back the LNA publicly, and had supported Bruce's bill.\n\nThe fall of the Liberal government in 1874, and its replacement with Benjamin Disraeli's Conservative administration meant that the repeal campaign stalled; Butler called it a \"year of discouragement\" when there was \"deep depression in the work\". Although the LNA kept up the pressure, progress in persuading Liberal MPs to oppose the Contagious Diseases Acts was slow, and the government was implacable in its support of the measures.\n\nAt a meeting of regional LNA branches in May, one speech focused on legislation in Europe; the meeting resolved to correspond with sister organisations on the continent. At the start of December 1874 Butler left for Paris and a tour that covered France, Italy and Switzerland, where she met with local pressure groups and civic authorities. She encountered strong support from feminist groups, but hostility from the authorities. She returned from her travels at the end of February 1875.\n\nAs a result of her experiences, in March 1875 Butler formed the British and Continental Federation for the Abolition of Prostitution (later renamed the International Abolitionist Federation), an organisation that campaigned against state regulation of prostitution and for \"the abolition of female slavery and the elevation of public morality among men\". The Liberal MP James Stansfeld—who wished to repeal the Acts—became the federation's first general secretary; Butler and her friend, the Liberal MP Henry Wilson, became joint secretaries.\n\nIn 1878 Josephine wrote a biography of Catherine of Siena, which Glen Petrie—her biographer—thought was probably her best work; Walkowitz considers the work provided a \"historical justification for her own political activism\". Another biographer, Helen Mathers, believes that \"in emphasising that she and Catherine were born to be leaders, of both men and women, ... [Butler] made a profound contribution to feminism\".\n\nButler became aware of the slave trade of young women and children from England to mainland Europe in 1879. Young girls were considered \"fair game\", according to Mathers, as the law allowed them to become prostitutes at the age of 13. After playing a minor role in starting an investigation into an accusation of trafficking, Butler became active in the campaign in May 1880, and wrote to \"The Shield\" that \"the official houses of prostitution in Brussels are crowded with English minor girls\", and that in one house \"there are immured little children, English girls of from twelve to fifteen years of age ... stolen, kidnapped, betrayed, got from English country villages by every artifice and sold to these human shambles\". She visited Brussels where she met the mayor and local councillors and made allegations against the head of the Belgian ' and his deputy as to their involvement in the trade. After the meeting she was contacted by a detective who confirmed that the senior members of the ' were guilty of collusion with brothel keepers. She returned home and filed a deposition containing a copy of the statement from the detective and sent them to the ' (Chief Prosecutor) and the British Home Secretary. Following an investigation in Belgium, the head of the ' was removed from office, and his deputy was put on trial alongside 12 brothel owners; all were imprisoned for their roles in the trade.\n\nThe 1880 general election had removed Disraeli's Conservative party from office; they were replaced by Gladstone's second ministry containing a high proportion of MPs who wanted to repeal the Acts. As Prime Minister, Gladstone had the power to nominate candidates to vacant positions within the Church and, in June 1882, he offered George Butler the position of canon of Winchester Cathedral. George had been considering retirement, but he and Josephine were concerned about their finances, as much of their income had been spent on the LNA and other causes Josephine supported. George accepted the appointment, and they moved into a grace and favour home near the cathedral. Josephine Butler set up another hostel for women near their home.\n\nPolitical pressure from Liberal backbenchers, particularly Joseph Chamberlain and Charles Hopwood, led to increasing opposition to the Acts. In February 1883 Hopwood tabled a resolution in parliament: \"That this House disapproves of the compulsory examination of women under the Contagious Diseases Acts\", which was debated in April. MPs voted by a majority of 72 to suspend the inspections; three years later the Acts were formally repealed.\n\nIn 1885 Butler met Florence Soper Booth, the daughter-in-law of William Booth, who founded the Salvation Army. The meeting led to Butler's involvement in the campaign to expose child prostitution in Britain and its associated trade. Along with Booth and several supporters from the LNA, she persuaded the campaigning editor of \"The Pall Mall Gazette\", William Thomas Stead, to help their cause.\n\nStead considered the best way to prove that the purchase of young girls for prostitution took place in London, was to buy a girl himself. Butler introduced him to a former prostitute and brothel owner who was staying in her hostel. In a slum in Marylebone, Stead purchased a 13-year-old girl from her mother for £5, and took her to France. In July 1885 Stead began the publication of a series of articles entitled \"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\", exposing the extent of child prostitution in London. In the first article—which covered six pages of the \"Gazette\"—Stead recounted an interview he had with Howard Vincent, the head of the Criminal Investigation Department:\n\nOn 16 July—ten days after the article was published—Butler gave a speech at a meeting at London's Exeter Hall calling for increased protection for the young and the raising of the age of consent. The following day she and George left for a holiday in Switzerland and France. While they were away, a moribund parliamentary bill from 1883 dealing with the age of consent was re-debated by MPs; the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885 was passed on 14 August 1885. The Act raised the age of consent from 13 to 16 years of age, while the procurement of girls for prostitution by administering drugs, intimidation or fraud was made a criminal offence, as was the abduction of a girl under 18 for purposes of carnal knowledge. The police investigated Stead's purchase, and Butler was forced to cut her holiday short to return for questioning. Although she avoided all charges, Stead was imprisoned for three months.\n\nThe passing of the Criminal Law Amendment Act led to the formation of purity societies, such as the White Cross Army, whose aims were to force the closure of brothels through prosecution. The societies widened their remit to suppress what they considered indecent literature—including information on birth control—and the entertainment provided by the music halls. Butler warned against the purity societies because of their \"fatuous belief that you can oblige human beings to be moral by force, and in so doing that you may in some way promote social purity\". Her warnings went unheeded by other suffragists, and some, such as Millicent Fawcett—who was later Butler's biographer—continued to combine their activities in the feminist movement with the work for the purity societies.\n\nAlthough the Contagious Diseases Acts had been repealed in the UK, the equivalent legislation was active in the British Raj in India, where prostitutes near the British cantonments were subjected to regular forced examinations. The relevant law was contained in the Special Cantonments Acts which had been put on to a practical footing by Major-General Edward Chapman, who issued standing orders for the inspection of prostitutes, and the provision of \"a sufficient number of women, to take care that they are sufficiently attractive, to provide them with proper houses\".\n\nButler began a new campaign to have the legislation repealed, comparing the girls to slaves. After the campaign put pressure on MPs, the widespread publication of Chapman's orders led to what Mathers describes as \"outrage across Britain\". In June 1888 the House of Commons passed a unanimous resolution repealing the legislation, and the Indian government was ordered to cancel the Acts. To circumvent the order, the India Office advised the Viceroy of India to instigate new legislation ensuring that prostitutes suspected of carrying contagious diseases had to undergo an examination or face expulsion from the cantonment.\n\nTowards the end of the 1880s George's health began to decline, and Butler spent increasing time looking after him. They holidayed in Naples in 1889, but George contracted influenza in the 1889–90 pandemic. They returned to Britain but George died on 14 March 1890; Butler suspended campaigning in the aftermath of his death. Soon after, she left Winchester, and moved to a house in Wimbledon, London, which she shared with her eldest son and his wife.\n\nButler, at 62, felt she was too old to travel to India, but two American supporters visited on her behalf and spent four months building a dossier showing that the lock hospitals, compulsory examination and use of underage prostitutes—some as young as 11—were all continuing to operate. The campaign in Britain pushed again for changes, and Butler spoke at meetings, published pamphlets and wrote to missionaries in India.\n\nAlthough many of Butler's friends and supporters of shared causes spoke out against British Imperial Policy, Butler did not. She wrote that because of the work Britain had undertaken in making slavery illegal, \"[w]ith all her faults, looked at from God's point of view, England is the best, and the \"least\" guilty of the nations\". During the Second Boer War (1899–1902), Butler published \"Native Races and the War\" (1900), in which she supported British action and its imperialist policy. In the book she took a strong line against the casual racism inherent in her countrymen's dealings with foreigners, writing:\n\nFrom 1901 Butler began to withdraw from public life, resigning her positions in the campaign organisations and spending more time with her family. In 1903 she moved to Wooler in Northumberland, to live near her eldest son. On 30 December 1906 she died at home and was buried in the nearby village of Kirknewton.\n\nIn 1907 Josephine Butler's name was added to the south side of the Reformers' Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery, London. The memorial was erected for those \"who had defied custom and interest for the sake of conscience and public good\". She is celebrated in the Church of England with a Lesser Festival on 30 May, and represented in a stained glass window in Liverpool's Anglican Cathedral, All Saints' Church, Cambridge and St Olave's Church in the City of London.\n\nHer connections to Liverpool were memorialised in a more secular fashion. A building in the Faculty of Business and Law at Liverpool John Moores University was named \"Josephine Butler House\". The building, originally the first Radium Institute in the UK, in the Cultural Quarter in Hope Street, was built in 1867 and demolished in 2013 when the site became a car park and subsequently student housing which opened in 2015.\n\nIn 1915 the LNA merged with the International Abolitionist Federation to form the Association of Moral and Social Hygiene, which changed its name to the Josephine Butler Society in 1953. As at 2017 the society still operates; it campaigns for the protection of prostitutes and provides \"protection for women and children who are criminally detained, violently abused or exploited by others who profit from their prostitution\".\n\nIn 2005 Durham University named Josephine Butler College after her, reflecting her and George's connection to the area and the university. The Women's Library, at the London School of Economics, holds a number of collections related to Butler. They include papers from the Ladies' National Association; more than 2,500 letters in the Josephine Butler Letter Collection; and the Josephine Butler Society Library consisting of books and pamphlets collected by the society. In 2001 English Heritage placed a blue plaque on her former residence in Wimbledon; her former house in Cheltenham was demolished in the 1970s, but in 2002 the Cheltenham Civic Society placed a plaque on the building which now occupies the site.\n\nButler was not only a staunch feminist but a passionate Christian, whose favourite phrase was \"God and one woman make a majority\". Although staunchly liberal, she felt constant tensions between her liberal and feminist philosophies. According to the feminist historian Barbara Caine, \"Liberalism provided the framework for Butler's whole social and political approach. It was an integral part of her feminism\", although it was in conflict with the liberal approach to sexuality and desire. Butler resolved the conflict through her religion.\n\nAccording to Walkowitz, Butler \"pushed liberal feminism in new directions, developing theories and methods of political agitation that directly affected future campaigns for the emancipation of women\". She developed new approaches to campaigning and moved the debate beyond discussions in middle-class houses to the public forum, bringing into the political debate women who had never been involved before. Butler's campaigning, says Walkowitz, \"not only reshaped gender, class, and sexual subjectivities in late Victorian Britain but also informed national political history and state-building\".\n\nNumerous historians consider the success of the campaign to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts to be a milestone in the history of female emancipation. According to the political historian Margaret Hamilton, the campaign showed that \"attitudes toward women were changing\". The feminist scholar Sheila Jeffreys says that Butler is \"one of the bravest and most imaginative feminists in history\", while Fawcett wrote that she was \"convinced that ... [Butler] should take the rank of the most distinguished Englishwoman of the nineteenth century\". Her unnamed obituarist in \"The Daily News\" considered that Butler's name\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55746813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55746813", "title": "Judith Walker Andrews", "text": "Judith Walker Andrews\n\nJudith Walker Andrews (April 26, 1826 – August 29, 1914) was an American philanthropist and social reformer.\n\nHer brother, Dr. Clement A. Walker, was appointed in charge of the hospital for the insane in Boston, and Andrews joined him there to assist in the work in which she was deeply interested. Her work in this line was of great value. From 1889, she was very much interested in the child-widows of India and formed an association to carry out the plans of Pandita Ramabai. Andrews and her co-workers managed a school at Puna, Gujarat, India.\n\nJudith Walker was born in Fryeburg, Maine, April 26, 1826. She was educated in Fryeburgh Academy with the intention, so common with New England girls, of becoming a teacher. Her brother. \n\nDr. Clement A. Walker, one of the first of the new school of physicians for the insane, having been appointed to the charge of the newly established hospital of the city of Boston, his sister joined him there. Although never officially connected with the institution, which had already gained a reputation as a pioneer in improved administration of the work for the insane, Andrews interested herself in the details of that administration, and by her personal attention to the patients endeared herself to them. No better school of training could be found in that day for the activities to which she gave her life. She was married while in the institution, on January 15, 1857, to Joseph Andrews (died 1869), of Salem, Massachusetts, who gave much time and labor to the improvement of the militia system of the commonwealth, both before and during the American Civil War. They had three children, all boys, and she attended to their education.\n\nRemoving to Boston in 1863, she became a member of the South Congregational Church (Unitarian), and in 1876 was elected president of its ladies' organization, the South Friendly Society. Her service of 16 years in that office was only one of five such terms in the history of the society. Under the influence of its pastor, Dr. Edward Everett Hale, the South Congregational Church had wide relations both inside and outside denominational lines, and these relations brought to Andrews opportunities for religious and philanthropic work to which she was always ready to respond. While most of these, though requiring much work and thought, were of a local character, two lines of her work made her name familiar to a large circle. Elected, in 1886, president of the Women's Auxiliary Conference, she was active in the movement to enlarge its scope and usefulness, and in 1889, when the National Alliance of Unitarian and Other Liberal Christian Women was organized, she became its first president, declining re-election in 1891. From 1889, she was a member of the Council of the National Unitarian Conference. Having become interested in the child-widows of India, through the eloquence, and later the personal friendship, of Pandita Ramabai, Andrews was largely instrumental in the formation of the Ramabai Association, to carry out the plans of Ramabai and to systematize the work of her friends throughout the country. To the executive committee of that association, of which Andrews was chairman from the beginning, was entrusted the oversight of the management of the school for child-widows, the Sharada Sadana at Poona and the settlement of the many delicate questions arising from a work so opposed to the customs though fortunately not to the best traditions, of India. She died August 29, 1914, in Boston, and was buried at Harmony Grove Cemetery, in Salem.\n\n"}
{"id": "37278553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37278553", "title": "Kingston Bridal Week", "text": "Kingston Bridal Week\n\nKingston Bridal Week is Jamaica’s first and only annual Bridal Week. The event was founded in 2012 by Kibwe McGann, Sean Lyn and Kara-Ann Anderson, and was produced by Intuit Concepts. In the second year, Nicola Barbar of Phoenix printery became an official partner and was added to the directorship. In September 2013, for the second staging of Kingston Bridal Week, and for the first time in Jamaica, Kingston Bridal Week hosted Randy Fenoli, TV star of TLC 's Say Yes To The Dress and Randy to the Rescue and author of\nIt's all About the Dress.\n\nAs part of Kingston Bridal Week's Lifestyle and Honeymoon fashion shows, the event has featured international designers Rebacca Ansah (UK), Kesia Eastwick (Barbados), Cedella Marley (Jamaica), Spokes Apparel, Roger Gary (Guyana), and Lubica (Slovakia).\n\nKingston Bridal Week has hosted three charity events as part of annual bridal week: In 2012 - a charity dinner in partnership with Angels of Love, A Jamaican charity for children was hosted by international recording artist Tami Chynn, sister of Jamaican singer Tessanne Chin; Brides for Haiti, charity dress drive; and Baggage Claim charity movie premiere.\n\nIntuit Concepts is the management and execution company that conceptualized Kingston Bridal Week. The company also produces Wedding Spectacular a two-day annual bridal event held in February which is also hosted in Jamaica.\n\n"}
{"id": "52572062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52572062", "title": "Legion Hacktivist Group", "text": "Legion Hacktivist Group\n\nLegion is a hacktivist group that has attacked some rich and powerful people in India by hacking their twitter handlers. The group claims to have access to many email servers in India and has the encryption keys used by Indian banks over the Internet.\n\nLegion came in news when it launched its series of attacks starting with Rahul Gandhi, the current president of Indian National Congress.\n\nReports say that not only Rahul's twitter handler was hacked but his mail server was also hacked. The very next day, INC's twitter handler was also hacked and tweeted irrelevant content. The group then hacked twitter handlers of Vijay Mallya, Barkha Dutt and Ravish Kumar.\n"}
{"id": "47191596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47191596", "title": "List of things named after Kim Il-sung", "text": "List of things named after Kim Il-sung\n\nKim Il-sung was the founder and first leader of North Korea. Jane Portal, the author of \"Art Under Control in North Korea\", assesses that: \"[i]t is probably the case that Kim Il-sung [had] more buildings named after him during his lifetime than any other leader in history\". North Korea claims that \"[m]ore than 480 streets, institutions and organizations in 100 countries were named after Kim Il Sung\". Since Kim Il-sung's name \"Il-sung\" () can mean \"the Sun\", many things named after him are actually called this way.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55132100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55132100", "title": "Mary A. Ahrens", "text": "Mary A. Ahrens\n\nMary A. Ahrens, née Jones (December 29, 1836 – ?), was an English-born American teacher, lawyer, and social reformer.\n\nBorn Mary A. Jones in Staffordshire, England, she was the daughter of William H. Jones, a clergyman, and Ann (Brown) Jones. When she was fifteen, the family move to America and settled in Illinois.\n\nShe was married twice. In 1857 she married Philip Fellows, with whom she had two sons and a daughter. In 1886, she married Louis Ahrens, a lawyer and artist.\n\nAfter raising her children, Ahrens became a teacher of black Americans, who had been emancipated not long before. \n\nNot long after her second marriage, Ahrens decided to study law. She erolled in the Chicago Union College of Law, graduating with honors in 1889. Her primary clients were women and children and the poor. She was a strong advocate for women's suffrage, pursuing this goal through public talks, through legal efforts, and through activity in various organizations. She is credited with helping to open school elections to women in Illinois. She served as chair of the Woman's School Suffrage Association of Cook County and as vice-president of the Protective Agency for Women and Children.\n\nIn 1890, she became the founding president of the Chicago Immediate Aid Society, which opened a relief station offering meals and lodging to homeless men as well as helping them find work. Recognizing a similar need among women, in early 1894 she founded the Mary A. Ahrens Mission, a home for destitute women in Chicago.\n\nHer date of death is uncertain, but she was alive when her husband Louis died in October 1907.\n"}
{"id": "26514096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26514096", "title": "Mary Elliott Flanery", "text": "Mary Elliott Flanery\n\nMary Elliott Flanery (April 27, 1867 – July 19, 1933) was an American progressive era social reformer, suffragist, politician, and journalist who is best remembered as the first women elected to the Kentucky General Assembly and first women elected to a state legislature south of the Mason–Dixon line. Flanery was an advocate for equal rights for women, and actively worked to pass legislation that would give women the right to vote.\n\nMary Elliott, daughter of Benjamin Franklin Elliott and Nancy (Kegley) Elliott, was born April 27, 1867 in a part of Carter County, Kentucky that would later become Elliott County, Kentucky. After completing her schooling at University of Charleston in West Virginia and the University of Kentucky, she was a public school teacher.\n\nMary married William \"Harvey\" Flanery on June 28, 1893, and moved with him to Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Flanery family moved to Pikeville, Kentucky in 1896 for Harvey to work for Northern Coal and Coke as an attorney.\n\nHarvey and Mary had five children together; Sue, Merle, Dawn, Dew, and John.\n\nWhile residing in Pikeville, Mary Flanery began a career as a writer. From 1904 until 1926, she worked as a journalist for the Ashland Daily Independent. She wrote a column called \"Impressions of Kentucky's Legislature,\" and she advocated for legislation as a means for social reform.\n\nFlanery \"discovered\" female African-American poet Effie Waller Smith, who live and worked in Pike County, Kentucky.\n\nFlanery was a member of the Kentucky Equal Right Association, and actively worked for women to have the right to vote. She worked for to improve the lives of women through reform of suffrage, marriage, and divorce laws.\n\nAfter women gained suffrage in Kentucky, in 1921, Flanery ran as the Democratic party candidate for a seat in the Kentucky House of Representative from the 89th District representing Boyd County, Kentucky and won by a 250-vote margin. When Flanery took her seat in the lower house of the General Assembly in January 1922, she was the first female state legislator elected in Kentucky and the first female legislator elected south of the Mason–Dixon line.\n\nAs an legislator, Flanery continued her advocacy for women's rights. She urged her colleagues to change legislation about marriage and divorce, and to implement the federal Shepard-Towner Maternity Act, a progressive era program that provided medical care to pregnant women and their children.\n\nFlanery's time in the General Assembly ended with an unsuccessful campaign for Secretary of State in 1923. She was defeated by another female trailblazer, Emma Guy Cromwell, who was the first female to hold a statewide office. Flanery stayed active in politics and was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1924.\n\nFlanery was active member of in the General Federation of Women's Clubs of Kentucky. She was a member of the Daughters of the Revolution and in 1926, she founded the John Milton Elliott chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy.\n\nFlanery died at her residence, Elliot Hall, in Cattlettsburg on July 19, 1933, and was buried at Ashland Cemetery in Ashland, Kentucky.\n\nAfter Flanery became the first woman elected to the Kentucky State legislature, she was honored by the Kentucky Historical Society as Kentucky's Most Prominent Female. Mary Elliott Flanery is remembered today as a trailblazer for her work as a social reformer and her advocacy for women's rights through her work as a journalist and politician. In 1963, the Kentucky General Assembly honored Flanery by placing a bronze plaque at her desk in the Kentucky House of Representatives. In 2005, Kentucky Commission on Women recognized her by adding her portrait to the \"Kentucky Women Remembered\" exhibit at the Kentucky State Capitol building.\n"}
{"id": "31768127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31768127", "title": "Mature minor doctrine", "text": "Mature minor doctrine\n\nThe mature minor doctrine is an American term for the statutory, regulatory, or common law policy accepting that an unemancipated minor patient may possess the maturity to choose or reject a particular health care treatment, sometimes without the knowledge or agreement of parents, and should be permitted to do so. It is now generally considered a form of patients rights; formerly, the mature minor rule was largely seen as protecting health care providers from criminal and civil claims by parents of minors at least 15.\n\nJurisdictions may codify an age of medical consent, accept the judgment of licensed providers regarding an individual minor, or accept a formal court decision following a request that a patient be designated a mature minor, or may rely on some combination. For example, patients at least 16 may be assumed to be mature minors for this purpose, patients aged 13 to 15 may be designated so by licensed providers, and pre-teen patients may be so-designated after evaluation by an agency or court. The mature minor doctrine is sometimes connected with enforcing confidentiality of minor patients from their parents.\n\nIn the United States, a typical statute lists: \"Who may consent [or withhold consent for] surgical or medical treatment or procedures.\"\n\nBy definition, a \"mature minor\" has been found to have the capacity to make serious medical decisions alone. By contrast, \"medical emancipation\" formally releases children from some parental involvement requirements but does not necessarily grant that decision making to children themselves. Pursuant to statute, several jurisdictions grant medical emancipation to a minor who has become pregnant or requires sexual-health services, thereby permitting medical treatment without parental consent and, often, confidentiality from parents. A limited guardianship may be appointed to make medical decisions for the medically emancipated minor and the minor may not be permitted to refuse or even choose treatment.\n\nOne early U.S. case of significance, \"Smith v. Seibly\", 72 Wn.2d 16, 431 P.2d 719 (1967), before the Washington Supreme Court, establishes precedent on the mature minor doctrine. The plaintiff, Albert G. Smith, an 18-year-old married father, was suffering from myasthenia gravis, a progressive disease. Because of this, Smith expressed concern that his wife might become burdened in caring for him for their existing child and possibly for additional children. On March 9, 1961, while still 18, Smith requested a vasectomy. His doctor required written consent, which Smith provided, and the surgery was performed. Later, after reaching Washington's statutory age of majority, then 21, the doctor was sued by Smith, who now claimed that he had been a minor and thus unable to grant surgical or medical consent. The Court rejected Smith's argument: \"Thus, age, intelligence, maturity, training, experience, economic independence or lack thereof, general conduct as an adult and freedom from the control of parents are all factors to be considered in such a case [involving consent to surgery].\"\n\nThe court further quoted another recently decided case, \"Grannum v. Berard\", 70 Wn.2d 304, 307, 422 P.2d 812 (1967): \"The mental capacity necessary to consent to a surgical operation is a question of fact to be determined from the circumstances of each individual case.\" The court explicitly stated that a minor may grant surgical consent even without formal emancipation.\n\nEspecially since the 1970s, older pediatric patients sought to make autonomous decisions regarding their own treatment and sometimes sued successfully to do so. The decades of accumulated evidence tended to demonstrate that children are capable of participating in medical decision-making in a meaningful way; and legal and medical communities have demonstrated an increasing willingness of formally affirming decisions made by young people, even regarding life and death.\n\nReligious beliefs have repeatedly influenced a patient's decision to choose treatment or not. In a case in 1989 in Illinois, a 17 year old female Jehovah's Witness was permitted to refuse necessary life saving treatments.\n\nIn 1990, the United States Congress passed the Patient Self-Determination Act; even though key provisions apply only to patients over age 18, the legislation advanced patient involvement in decisionmaking. The West Virginia Supreme Court, in \"Belcher v. Charleston Area Medical Center\", 422 S.E.2d 827, 188 W.Va. 105 (1992), defined a \"mature minor\" exception to parental consent, according consideration to seven factors to be weighed regarding such a minor: age, ability, experience, education, exhibited judgment, conduct, and appreciation of relevant risks and consequences.\n\nIn the United States, bodily integrity has long been considered a common law right; the United States Supreme Court, in 1891's \"Union Pacific Railway Company v. Botsford\", found, \"No right is held more sacred, or is more carefully guarded, by the common law, than the right of every individual to the possession and control of his own person, free from all restraint or interference of others, unless by clear and unquestionable authority of law.\" The Supreme Court in 1990 (\"Cruzan v. Director, Missouri Department of Health\") allowed that \"constitutionally protected liberty interest in refusing unwanted medical treatment may be inferred\" in the \"Due Process Clause\" of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but the Court refrained from explicitly establishing what would have been a newly enumerated right. Nevertheless, lower courts have increasingly held that competent patients have the right to refuse any treatment for themselves.\n\nIn 1989, the Supreme Court of Illinois interpreted the Supreme Court of the United States to have already adopted major aspects of mature minor doctrine, concluding,\n\nAn ongoing case of Z.M is being heard in Maryland regarding the minor's right to refuse chemotherapy.\n\nIn Connecticut, Cassandra C. a seventeen year old was ordered by the Connecticut Supreme Court to receive treatment. The court decided that Cassandra was not mature enough to make medical decisions.\n\nIn 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada ruling in \"A.C. v. Manitoba\" [2009] SCC 30 (CanLII) found that children \"may\" make life and death decisions about their medical treatment. In the majority opinion, Justice Rosalie Abella wrote:\nA \"dissenting\" opinion by Justice Ian Binnie would have gone further:\nAnalysts note that the Canadian decision merely requires that younger patients be permitted a \"hearing\", and still allows a judge to \"decide whether or not to order a medical procedure on an unwilling minor\".\n"}
{"id": "47158660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47158660", "title": "Medical paternalism", "text": "Medical paternalism\n\nMedical paternalism is a set of attitudes and practices in medicine in which a physician determines that a patient's wishes or choices should not be honored. These practices were current through the early to mid 20th century, and were characterised by a paternalistic attitude, surrogate decision-making and a lack of respect for patient autonomy. It is almost exclusively undertaken with the intention of benefiting the patient, although this is not always the case. In the past, paternalism was considered an absolute medical necessity, as there was little to no public understanding of medical procedures and practices. However, in recent years, paternalism has become limited and blind faith in doctors' decisions has come to be frowned upon.\n\nBy the end of the 20th century and into the 21st, paternalistic medicine was increasingly seen as inappropriate in the West with guidance from professional bodies such as the General Medical Council indicating that it is ethically unsupportable.\n\nIn the 18th century, medical paternalism was considered necessary. It was believed that only a doctor could properly understand symptoms and draw useful conclusions. During this period, the prevailing consensus was that disease was nothing more than symptoms. This meant that the individual history of the patient didn't matter in providing care, so the patient him or herself was irrelevant in the medical encounter. Thus it was deemed necessary that physicians make decisions for patients. This view of paternalism was only encouraged by the rise of hospitals in the later 18th century. Because patients in hospitals were often sick and disabled, the view of them as passive recipients of medical care only became more prevalent.\n\nThe movement away from paternalism can be traced back to the relationship between early psychologists and their patients. In particular, Josef Breuer and Sigmund Freud urged that importance be placed on communication with and understanding of the patient. This sharply contrasted the view of patients as passive, and placed them at the center of the medical encounter. These practices also treated patients as unique, instead of simply being a collection of symptoms to be fixed by a paternalistic doctor.\n\nIn 1956, Szasz and Hollender introduced three models of paternalism to the medical community, thereby legitimizing the view that doctors did not necessarily have to dominate patients. The models are as follows:\n\nStrong and weak paternalism (sometimes referred to as limited and extended paternalism) are two philosophies regarding when it is appropriate for a doctor to ignore a patient's wishes. The fundamental difference lies in the patient's capacity to make well-informed decisions for themselves. Weak (or limited) paternalism refers to a situation in which the physician will only disobey the patient's requests if the patient cannot demonstrate that their choices are voluntary and well-informed. As such, even if the doctor disagrees with the patient's desire, he or she will not intervene as long as the patient is of sound mind. Strong (or extended) paternalism involves a doctor superseding a patient's requests in cases where the doctor has determined a better course of action, even when the patient's requests are made voluntarily. These cases typically arise when the physician has determined that a patient's decision is unreasonable because of the risks involved, or potential costs to the patient's well-being.\n\nDue to the subjective nature of when and to what extent paternalism is necessary, physicians who engage in paternalism may find themselves in a complicated legal situation. Throughout history there have been many cases in which a patient is reported to have made a well-informed choice (while of sound mind) to opt for a medically improper treatment, or one that is very costly to their well-being. If the doctor does not take a paternalistic stance, and instead goes through with the patient's wishes, the question arises as to whether malpractice occurred. There exists an expectation of doctors to provide as much information as is appropriate to their patients, as well as an expectation that they do not keep anything relevant secret. This creates a difficult legal situation in which a decision has to be made about what the correct amount of information is, and how best to present it. For example, a patient may read everything available to them and ultimately decide on undergoing a procedure with a 95% survival rate. However, that same patient may not choose the same procedure if it is presented as carrying a 5% risk of dying. As such, in cases in which things go awry it is the courts' responsibility to determine whether the physician is at fault, and whether he or she should have ignored the patient's requests.\n\nIn many cases, particularly countries in which voluntary euthanasia is illegal, physicians must exercise medical paternalism by not respecting patients' wishes to die. There are contrasting views on whether this constitutes weak or strong paternalism. One argument is that weak paternalism allows the physician to stay completely hands-off. If the patient is in a sound state of mind and the doctor can reasonably guess what they desire, so there is no need for further action. They do not need to keep the patient alive, nor do they need to allow the patient to die. In this sense, one could argue that weak medical paternalism has no contradictions with allowing a patient to undergo voluntary euthanasia.\n\nThe relationship between strong medical paternalism and euthanasia is slightly more complicated. There are questions of a philosophical nature that must be addressed. For example, a strong paternalist would have to determine whether it is always objectively bad for a human to die, even if that human could prove that it was their desire to do so. In these cases, a physician may defer to morality or religion in order to make a decision. They would perhaps present the argument that even if a person wished to die, it would be an irrational desire and they should not indulge it. However, in the absence of these factors, it is possible for strong paternalism to be compatible with voluntary euthanasia. This would require the patient to make it clear that he or she would not be losing anything of value to them by dying, i.e. fundamentally disconnecting life from goodness. For example, if a patient learns that he or she would be in constant pain for the rest of his or her life, it is not irrational to honor their wishes to die. In these cases, some argue, even a strong paternalism does not justify prolonging the patient's life, because the physicians actions would not truly be for the patient's own good.\n\n"}
{"id": "4843104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4843104", "title": "Michael O'Neill (educator)", "text": "Michael O'Neill (educator)\n\nMichael O'Neill received a doctorate in education from Harvard University in 1967.\n\nHe is one of the pioneers in non-profit management education and founded the Institute for Nonprofit Organization Management at the University of San Francisco.\n\nBooks and monographs\n\n\nArticles, chapters, reviews\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1499717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499717", "title": "Myth of redemptive violence", "text": "Myth of redemptive violence\n\nThe Myth of Redemptive Violence is an archetypal plot in literature, especially in imperial cultures. One of the oldest versions of this story is the creation myth of Babylon (the Enûma Elish) from around 1250 B.C. Walter Wink coined the term as part of an analysis of its impact on modern culture and its role in maintaining oppressive power structures in his book \"The Powers That Be\".\n\nWhile contrasting the Enûma Elish with the Genesis creation myth found in the Book of Genesis, Wink examines the psychological effects of each phase of the story. He asserts that every phase of the narrative serves to reinforce the ideology of the status quo and convince us to perpetuate the ruling power structure:\n\nThe primacy of Tiamat suggests that chaos and evil are the original and natural state of the universe. This can be used to convince us to fear and oppose any threat to the current order, under the assumption that things can only get worse. Superheroes especially have dark origins (for example, the murder of Bruce Wayne's parents and the destruction of planet Krypton), and the pervasiveness of evil is depicted by the resurrection of villains in horror movies and cartoons, the exaggerated presence of violent crime in news coverage, and the overwhelming number and variety of bad creatures in The Lord of the Rings.\n\nTiamat and her allies oppress the other gods, who, at first, seem powerless to resist. This acknowledges the effectiveness of alternative systems, and gives us the guilty pleasure of vicariously harming our \"betters\" and breaking their rules. However, all this is constrained by the exaggerated flaws of the antagonists, which foreshadow their failure and make us ashamed to identify with them. Horror films tend to emphasize this part of the narrative to the extreme, whereas superhero stories often marginalize it.\n\nMarduk offers to defeat Tiamat in exchange for absolute rule over the remaining gods, and they all agree. This elevates \"might makes right\" to a contract made at the beginning of the universe. People are inclined to identify with the hero because of his privileges and his good attributes, and to sympathize with any subsequent oppression. Modern examples include James Bond's license to kill, the gold mine given to Doc Savage's father, Friday's loyalty to Robinson Crusoe, the brazen dishonesty of Jedi knights, the extremes of Jack Bauer, etc.\n\nMarduk slays his enemies in creative, gory, and intricate ways, then goes on to enslave their underlings. This shows that good prevails and evil suffers; the corollary to this is that those who prevail are good. This gives us the catharsis of vengeance and indignation. Once again we can sadistically enjoy a character's suffering, but this time in a sanctioned, acceptable context. The spectacular downfall and glorious victory prompt us to reject the antagonist and reaffirm our commitment to the winning party, respectively. Action movies and video games tend to have a decisive final battle. An opposition leader's death scene often includes ridiculously thorough destruction of his or her body, property, and/or organization, such as Dr. No drowning in the core of his nuclear reactor, which then melts down.\n\nMarduk makes the world from Tiamat's corpse and humanity from the blood of Kingu. This leaves us with the message that our prosperity and even our very existence required past violence and destruction; as Wink puts it, \"We are the outcome of deicide.\" This helps justify recent and ongoing violence by appealing to our self-interest. The death or defeat of the antagonist tends to be immediately followed by an idyllic happy ending in simple, violent plots of all stripes. Current examples include the Ewok percussion instrument made from Storm Trooper and other Imperial helmets (or heads) at the end of Return of the Jedi, and the brain surgery Doc Savage uses to turn criminals into productive citizens.\n\nTraditionally, anthropologists have noted that myths transmit elements of culture and shape the listener's worldview without making value judgments as to the merit of a given culture or the validity of its worldview. Wink's analysis is predicated on the notion that Babylonian society and pagan religion, as well as Western society and popular culture, are intrinsically less valid than his notion of first century Christian society and \"pure\" monotheism.\n\nIt has also been postulated that the creation story of Genesis was developed in reaction to earlier stories, including the Enûma Elish, since the stories share common elements that other creation beliefs lack. Adherents of meme theory see the similarity as more fundamental: each story advocates a certain power structure, which has led people in power to support the story that favors them, often oppressively and often using violence. Whether or not a myth directly advocates violence and oppression, it may still foster misery and destruction.\n\nThe Tale of Two Brothers is an ancient Egyptian story from around the 13th century BCE. The narrative is preserved on the Papyrus D'Orbiney. [Tale of Two Brothers] which had belonged to Seti II (1209-1205 B.C.) of the nineteenth Egyptian dynasty when he was crown prince [William Matthew Flinders Petrie, Egyptian Tales: Translated from the Papyri, 1895, p. 66 ] and may have been a political satire based in part on his own difficulties with his half brother, the usurper Amenmesse[J. H. Breasted Ancient Records of Egypt, Part Three, §§ 239ff. ], but the historical facts concerning this period are so uncertain as to render such a conclusion speculative. The text has similarities to the story of Joseph in the house of Potiphar, in Genesis 39:1-20, however the relation between the two texts is unclear, if, indeed, there is one.[Shaw, Ian. & Nicholson, Paul. The Dictionary of Ancient Egypt, p. 54. The British Museum Press, 1995] Further elements of the story seem to be derived from the myths concerning Osiris' death and resurrection.[Erman, Adolph. Life in Ancient Egypt. p. 379. Dover Publications, 1971. ] The protagonists Anpu and Bata both bear names of gods of the 17th nome of Upper Egypt.\n\nBata lives with his married brother Anpu. One day, when Anpu is not at home, his wife tries to seduce Bata, and, having been repelled, accuses Bata of having made advances towards her. Anpu grows angry and wants to kill his younger brother who flees. Pre-Harakhte saves him by creating a body of water full of crocodiles between him and his brother. Bata tells his brother what has occurred and, as proof of his sincerity, cuts off his genitals which are swallowed by a fish. Anpu returns home and kills his wife. Bata lives alone in the wilderness until the gods create a wife for him. Bata loves her very much and reveals to her that his heart is hidden in a pine. Pharaoh, on learning of her existence has her brought to his court. She tells him Bata's secret and he has the pine cut down, killing Bata. Anpu goes to look for his brother, and after finding his body he searches for his heart and finds it after years of searching. Bata is revived and wants to take revenge on his wife. He changes himself into a beautiful bull and his brother takes him to Pharaoh. Bata reveals himself to his wife who has him killed. Two drops of his blood are spilled and from them grow two persea trees, incarnations of Bata. His wife has them felled, but a splinter of their wood enters her mouth, she swallows it and becomes pregnant. She gives birth to a boy, a reincarnation of Bata, who is acknowledged as the Pharaoh's heir. When Pharaoh dies and he becomes king, he has the queen tried and killed.\n• P. D'Orbiney (P. Brit. Mus. 10183), written towards the end of the 19th dynasty by the scribe Ennana.[Lichtheim, Ancient Egyptian Literature, vol.2, 1980, p. 203 ] It was acquired by the British Museum in 1857.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27240903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240903", "title": "Online vetting", "text": "Online vetting\n\nOnline vetting, also known as cyber-vetting is increasingly being used by potential employers and other acquaintances to vet people's online presence or \"internet reputation\" (\"netrep\") on social network services such as Facebook, MySpace, Twitter, Bebo, and LinkedIn. Employers may check profiles, posts, and photographs for indications that the candidate is unsuitable.\n\nA survey in 2007 found that half of UK employees would be outraged if their employers looked up information about them on social networking sites, and 56% thought it would be unethical. Employer surveys found that between approximately 20-67% of employers conduct internet searches, including of social networking sites, and that some have turned down applicants as a result of their searches. 21% of colleges and universities surveyed said they looked at the social networking of prospective students, usually for those applying for scholarships and other limited awards and programmes. Prospective political appointees to the Obama administration were asked to list all their blog posts, any emails, text messages, and instant messages that could suggest a conflict of interest or public source of embarrassment, the URLs of any sites that featured them in a personal or professional capacity, and all of their online aliases.\n\nJob applicants have been refused due to criticising previous employers and discussing company information online, as well as for posting provocative and inappropriate photographs, drinking or drug use, poor communication skills, making discriminatory comments, and lying about qualifications. Several companies offer online reputation management services, including helping to remove embarrassing information from websites.\n\nAnother recent research findings conducted with recruiters published in 2017 listed three primary function of a cybervetting process:\n\n\nThe cybervetting is so contradictory that most of the participants didn’t acknowledge its usage regardless the familiarity they have with this theme. Only a few number of participants talked openly about having cybervetting current candidates.\n\nLegal experts have warned human resources departments about vetting prospective employees online, due to the possibility of discrimination and the unreliability of this information. The chairman of the UK Children's Charities' Coalition on Internet Safety argued that it was \"possibly illegal, but certainly unethical\". While the Information Commissioner's Office advised that just looking at information on someone's social networking profiles would not be illegal, an employment law specialist noted that under the Data Protection Act 1998, processing and storing the information or using it to make discriminatory decisions could be.\n\nAge discrimination might result from such a practice, due to the age profile of users of social networking sites. Failed candidates may be able to use discrimination legislation to ask about vetting operations and even ask for IT records to check access to social networks. In the US, vetting using social networking sites risks breaching the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), which requires employers to gain the consent of applicants before doing a background check, state laws that limit the consideration of off-duty conduct in making employment decisions, and any searches risk breaching prohibitions against commercial use contained in the terms of service of the social networking sites.\n\nIn 2006, a trainee teacher at a high school in Pennsylvania was denied her teaching degree after her supervisor found a picture she posted on MySpace captioned \"Drunken pirate\" and deemed it \"unprofessional\". She sued, arguing that by acting on the basis of her legal out-of-hours behavior Millersville University had breached her First Amendment rights, but a federal district court ruled that the photograph was not \"protected speech\" under the First Amendment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24493", "title": "Outline of public affairs", "text": "Outline of public affairs\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to public affairs:\n\nPublic affairs – catch-all term that includes public policy as well as public administration, both of which are closely related to and draw upon the fields of political science and economics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2860038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2860038", "title": "Paedology", "text": "Paedology\n\nPedology (paidology, paedology) is the study of children's behavior and development (as distinct from pedagogy, the art or science of teaching, and pediatrics, the field of medicine relating to children). \n\nThe origins of this trend in psychology and pedagogy go back to the end of the 18th century with the separation of a branch of psychology that would form the basis of pedagogy, a pedagogic psychology or \"experimental pedagogic psychology\", \"experimental pedagogy\", \"experimental education\". \n\nG. Stanley Hall (1844-1924) fostered pedology as a separate study, and also became instrumental in the development of modern educational psychology. An American researcher, Oscar Chrisman, proposed the term \"pedology\" in 1893. At the end of the 19th century, pedology as a comprehensive study of the child came to prominence in Europe as an attempt to create a study of children in the manner of natural sciences. In 1909 Professor Kazimierz Twardowski organized a Pedological Society in Lviv, Austro-Hungary (now Ukraine). In 1910 a similar society was organized in Kraków. In 1911 the first World Congress in Pedology took place in Brussels, Belgium, with attendants from 22 countries.\n\nWorld War I (1914-1918) effectively put an end to the development of this study in Western Europe.\n\nSince pedology as a branch of science never reached its maturity, there is no common established understanding as to the scope or instruments of pedology. \n\nBowie State University in Bowie, Maryland became the first university in the United States to offer a Bachelor's Degree in pedology. A 2014 document from the university refers to \"the pedology major (now known as child and adolescent studies)\".\n\nIn Imperial Russia a prominent developer of the field was Aleksandr Nechayev (Александр Петрович Нечаев) in St. Petersburg, who in 1901 created the laboratory of experimental pedagogical psychology. Soviet pedology is traditionally thought to be founded by the efforts of Vladimir Bekhterev; in particular, in 1918 he founded the Institute of Pedology as part of psychological institutions united into the Institute for Study of Brain and Psychical Activity.\n\nThis science was intensively pursued in 1920s-1930s in the Soviet Union. A journal \"Pedologiya\" (\"Педология\") was issued. Lev Vygotsky was one of its prominent supporters. \n\nWhile many works of pedologists were of considerable value, the approach was severely criticized for over-enthusiastic but poorly grounded approach of testing for predicting a child's mental development, in addition to estimating its status. \n\nIt was officially banned in 1936 after a special decree of VKP(b) Central Committee \"On Pedological Perversions in the Narkompros System\" on July 4, 1936 .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3352973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3352973", "title": "Pederasty in ancient Greece", "text": "Pederasty in ancient Greece\n\nPederasty in ancient Greece was a socially acknowledged romantic relationship between an adult male (the \"erastes\") and a younger male (the \"eromenos\") usually in his teens. It was characteristic of the Archaic and Classical periods. The influence of pederasty on Greek culture of these periods was so pervasive that it has been called \"the principal cultural model for free relationships between citizens.\"\n\nSome scholars locate its origin in initiation ritual, particularly rites of passage on Crete, where it was associated with entrance into military life and the religion of Zeus. It has no formal existence in the Homeric epics, and seems to have developed in the late 7th century BC as an aspect of Greek homosocial culture, which was characterized also by athletic and artistic nudity, delayed marriage for aristocrats, symposia, and the social seclusion of women.\nPederasty was both idealized and criticized in ancient literature and philosophy. The argument has recently been made that idealization was universal in the Archaic period; criticism began in Athens as part of the general Classical Athenian reassessment of Archaic culture.\n\nScholars have debated the role or extent of pederasty, which is likely to have varied according to local custom and individual inclination. The English word \"pederasty\" in present-day usage might imply the abuse of minors in certain jurisdictions, but Athenian law, for instance, recognized consent but not age as a factor in regulating sexual behavior.\n\nThe Greek word \"paiderastia\" () is an abstract noun. It is formed from \"paiderastês\", which in turn is a compound of \"pais\" (\"child\", plural \"paides\") and \"erastês\" (see below). Although the word \"pais\" can refer to a child of either sex, \"paiderastia\" is defined by Liddell and Scott's \"Greek-English Lexicon\" as \"the love of boys\", and the verb \"paiderasteuein\" as \"to be a lover of boys\".\n\nSince the publication of Kenneth Dover's work \"Greek Homosexuality\", the terms \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" have been standard for the two pederastic roles. Both words derive from the Greek verb \"erô\", \"erân\", \"to love\"; see also eros. In Dover's strict dichotomy, the \"erastês\" (, plural \"erastai\") is the older lover, seen as the active or dominant partner, with the suffix \"-tês\" (-) denoting agency. \"Erastês\" should be distinguished from Greek \"paiderastês\", which meant \"lover of boys\" usually with a negative connotation. The \"erastês\" himself might only be in his early twenties, and thus the age difference between the two lovers might be negligible.\n\nThe word \"erômenos\", or \"beloved\" (ἐρώμενος, plural \"eromenoi\"), is the masculine form of the present passive participle from \"erô\", viewed by Dover as the passive or subordinate partner. An \"erômenos\" can also be called \"pais\", \"child\". The \"pais\" was regarded as a future citizen, not an \"inferior object of sexual gratification\", and was portrayed with respect in art. The word can be understood as an endearment such as a parent might use, found also in the poetry of Sappho and a designation of only relative age. Both art and other literary references show that the \"erômenos\" was at least a teen, with modern age estimates ranging from 13 to 20, or in some cases up to 30. Most evidence indicates that to be an eligible \"erômenos\", a youth would be of an age when an aristocrat began his formal military training, that is, from fifteen to seventeen. As an indication of physical maturity, the \"erômenos\" was sometimes as tall as or taller than the older \"erastês\", and may have his first facial hair. Another word used by the Greeks for the younger partner was \"paidika\", a neuter plural adjective (\"things having to do with children\") treated syntactically as masculine singular.\n\nIn poetry and philosophical literature, the \"erômenos\" is often an embodiment of idealized youth; a related ideal depiction of youth in Archaic culture was the \"kouros\", the long-haired male statuary nude. In \"The Fragility of Goodness\", Martha Nussbaum, following Dover, defines the ideal \"erômenos\" as\na beautiful creature without pressing needs of his own. He is aware of his attractiveness, but self-absorbed in his relationship with those who desire him. He will smile sweetly at the admiring lover; he will show appreciation for the other's friendship, advice, and assistance. He will allow the lover to greet him by touching, affectionately, his genitals and his face, while he looks, himself, demurely at the ground. … The inner experience of an \"erômenos\" would be characterized, we may imagine, by a feeling of proud self-sufficiency. Though the object of importunate solicitation, he is himself not in need of anything beyond himself. He is unwilling to let himself be explored by the other's needy curiosity, and he has, himself, little curiosity about the other. He is something like a god, or the statue of a god.\nDover insisted that the active role of the \"erastês\" and the passivity of the \"erômenos\" is a distinction \"of the highest importance\", but subsequent scholars have tried to present a more varied picture of the behaviors and values associated with \"paiderastia\". Although ancient Greek writers use \"erastês\" and \"erômenos\" in a pederastic context, the words are not technical terms for social roles, and can refer to the \"lover\" and \"beloved\" in other hetero- and homosexual couples.\n\nThe Greek practice of pederasty came suddenly into prominence at the end of the Archaic period of Greek history; there is a brass plaque from Crete, about 650-625 BC, which is the oldest surviving representation of pederastic custom. Such representations appear from all over Greece in the next century; literary sources show it as being established custom in many cities by the 5th century BC.\n\nCretan pederasty as a social institution seems to have been grounded in an initiation which involved abduction. A man ( – \"philetor\", \"lover\") selected a youth, enlisted the chosen one's friends to help him, and carried off the object of his affections to his \"andreion\", a sort of men's club or meeting hall. The youth received gifts, and the \"philetor\" along with the friends went away with him for two months into the countryside, where they hunted and feasted. At the end of this time, the \"philetor\" presented the youth with three contractually required gifts: military attire, an ox, and a drinking cup. Other costly gifts followed. Upon their return to the city, the youth sacrificed the ox to Zeus, and his friends joined him at the feast. He received special clothing that in adult life marked him as \"kleinos\", \"famous, renowned\". The initiate was called a \"parastatheis\", \"he who stands beside\", perhaps because, like Ganymede the cup-bearer of Zeus, he stood at the side of the \"philetor\" during meals in the \"andreion\" and served him from the cup that had been ceremonially presented. In this interpretation, the formal custom reflects myth and ritual.\n\nThe erastes-eromenos relationship played a role in the Classical Greek social and educational system, had its own complex social-sexual etiquette and was an important social institution among the upper classes. Pederasty has been understood as educative, and Greek authors from Aristophanes to Pindar felt it naturally present in the context of aristocratic education (\"paideia\"). In general, pederasty as described in the Greek literary sources is an institution reserved for free citizens, perhaps to be regarded as a dyadic mentorship: \"pederasty was widely accepted in Greece as part of a male's coming-of-age, even if its function is still widely debated.\"\n\nIn Crete, in order for the suitor to carry out the ritual abduction, the father had to approve him as worthy of the honor. Among the Athenians, as Socrates claims in Xenophon's \"Symposium,\" \"Nothing [of what concerns the boy] is kept hidden from the father, by an ideal lover.\" In order to protect their sons from inappropriate attempts at seduction, fathers appointed slaves called \"pedagogues\" to watch over their sons. However, according to Aeschines, Athenian fathers would pray that their sons would be handsome and attractive, with the full knowledge that they would then attract the attention of men and \"be the objects of fights because of erotic passions\".\n\nThe age-range when boys entered into such relationships was consonant with that of Greek girls given in marriage, often to adult husbands many years their senior. Boys, however, usually had to be courted and were free to choose their mate, while marriages for girls were arranged for economic and political advantage at the discretion of father and suitor. These connections were also an advantage for a youth and his family, as the relationship with an influential older man resulted in an expanded social network. Thus, some considered it desirable to have had many admirers or mentors, if not necessarily lovers per se, in one’s younger years. Typically, after their sexual relationship had ended and the young man had married, the older man and his protégé would remain on close terms throughout their life. For those lovers who continued their lovemaking after their beloveds had matured, the Greeks made allowances, saying, \"You can lift up a bull, if you carried the calf.\"\n\nIn parts of Greece, pederasty was an acceptable form of homoeroticism that had other, less socially accepted manifestations, such as the sexual use of slaves or being a \"pornos\" (prostitute) or \"hetairos\" (the male equivalent of a hetaira). Male prostitution was treated as a perfectly routine matter and visiting prostitutes of either sex was considered completely acceptable for a male citizen. However, adolescent citizens of free status who prostituted themselves were sometimes ridiculed, and were permanently prohibited by Attic law from performing some seven official functions because it was believed that since they had sold their own body \"for the pleasure of others\" ( \"eph’ hybrei\"), they would not hesitate to sell the interests of the community as a whole. If they, or an adult citizen of free status who had prostituted himself, performed any of the official functions prohibited to them by law (in later life), they were liable to prosecution and punishment. However, if they did not perform those specific functions, did not present themselves for the allocation of those functions and declared themselves ineligible if they were somehow mistakenly elected to perform those specific functions, they were safe from prosecution and punishment. As non-citizens visiting or residing in a city-state could not perform official functions in any case whatsoever, they could prostitute themselves as much as they wanted.\n\nTransgressions of the customs pertaining to the proper expression of homosexuality within the bounds of \"pederaistia\" could be used to damage the reputation of a public figure. In his speech \"Against Timarchus\" in 346 BC, the Athenian politician Aeschines argues against further allowing Timarchus, an experienced middle-aged politician, certain political rights as Attic law prohibited anyone who had prostituted himself from exercising those rights and Timarchus was known to have spent his adolescence as the sexual partner of a series of wealthy men in order to obtain money. Such a law existed because it was believed that anyone who had sold their own body would not hesitate to sell the interests of the city-state. Aeschines won his case, and Timarchus was sentenced to \"atimia\" (disenfranchisement and civic disempowerment). Aeschines acknowledges his own dalliances with beautiful boys, the erotic poems he dedicated to these youths, and the scrapes he has gotten into as a result of his affairs, but emphasizes that none of these were mediated by money. A financial motive thus was viewed as threatening a man's status as free.\n\nBy contrast, as expressed in Pausanias' speech in Plato's \"Symposium,\" pederastic love was said to be favorable to democracy and feared by tyrants, because the bond between the \"erastes\" and \"eromenos\" was stronger than that of obedience to a despotic ruler. Athenaeus states that \"Hieronymus the Aristotelian says that love with boys was fashionable because several tyrannies had been overturned by young men in their prime, joined together as comrades in mutual sympathy.\" He gives as examples of such pederastic couples the Athenians Harmodius and Aristogeiton, who were credited (perhaps symbolically) with the overthrow of the tyrant Hippias and the establishment of the democracy, and also Chariton and Melanippus. Others, such as Aristotle, claimed that the Cretan lawgivers encouraged pederasty as a means of population control, by directing love and sexual desire into non-procreative channels:\n\nand the lawgiver has devised many wise measures to secure the benefit of moderation at table, and the segregation of the women in order that they may not bear many children, for which purpose he instituted association with the male sex.\n\nSocrates' love of Alcibiades, which was more than reciprocated, is held as an example of chaste pederasty.. Socrates remarks in the dialogue Phaedrus that sexual pederasty is driven by the appetital part of the soul, but can be balanced by self-control and reason. He likens wanton lust for a boy to allowing a disobedient horse to control a chariot, but remarks that sexual desire for a boy if combined with a love for their other qualities is acceptable.\n\nPhaedrus in Plato's Symposium remarks:\nFor I know not any greater blessing to a young man who is beginning in life than a virtuous lover, or to a lover than a beloved youth. For the principle, I say, neither kindred, nor honor, nor wealth, nor any motive is able to implant so well as love. Of what am I speaking? Of the sense of honor and dishonor, without which neither states nor individuals ever do any good or great work… And if there were only some way of contriving that a state or an army should be made up of lovers and their loves, they would be the very best governors of their own city, abstaining from all dishonor and emulating one another in honor; and it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that when fighting at each other’s side, although a mere handful, they would overcome the world.\nIn Laws, Plato takes a much more austere stance to homosexuality than in previous works, stating:\n\nPlato states here that \"we all\", possibly referring to society as a whole or simply his social group, believe the story of Ganymede's homosexuality to have been fabricated by the Cretans to justify immoral behaviours. \n\nThe Athenian stranger in Plato's \"Laws\" blames pederasty for promoting civil strife and driving many to their wits' end, and recommends the prohibition of sexual intercourse with youths, laying out a path whereby this may be accomplished.\n\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction by Zeus was invoked as a precedent for the pederastic relationship, as Theognis asserts to a friend:\nThere is some pleasure in loving a boy \"(paidophilein)\", since once in fact even the son of Cronus \"(that is, Zeus)\", king of immortals, fell in love with Ganymede, seized him, carried him off to Olympus, and made him divine, keeping the lovely bloom of boyhood \"(paideia)\". So, don't be astonished, Simonides, that I too have been revealed as captivated by love for a handsome boy.\nThe myth of Ganymede's abduction, however, was not taken seriously by some in Athenian society, and deemed to be a Cretan fabrication designed to justify their homoeroticism.\n\nThe scholar Joseph Pequigney states:\n\nThe 5th century BC poet Pindar constructed the story of a sexual pederastic relationship between Poseidon and Pelops, this was intended to replace an earlier story of cannibalism that Pindar deemed an unsavoury representation of the Gods. The story tells of Poseidon's love for a mortal boy, Pelops, who wins a chariot race with help from his admirer Poseidon. \n\nThough examples of such a custom exist in earlier Greek works, myths providing examples of young men who were the lovers of gods began to emerge in classical literature, around the 6th century BC. In these later tales, pederastic love is ascribed to Zeus (with Ganymede), Poseidon (with Pelops), Apollo (with Cyparissus, Hyacinthus and Adnetus), Orpheus, Heracles, Dionysus, Hermes, and Pan. All the Olympian gods except Ares are purported to have had these relationships, which some scholars argue demonstrates that the specific customs of \"paiderastia\" originated in initiatory rituals.\n\nMyths attributed to the homosexuality of Dionysus are very late and often post-pagan additions. The tale of Dionyssus and Ampelos was written by the Egyptian poet Nonnus some time between the 4th and 5th centuries AD, making it unreliable. Likewise, the tale of Dionysus and Polymnus, which tells that the former anally masturbated with a fig branch over the latter's grave, was written by Christians, whose aim was to discredit pagan mythology.\n\nDover, however, believed that these myths are only literary versions expressing or explaining the \"overt\" homosexuality of Greek archaic culture, the distinctiveness of which he contrasted to attitudes in other ancient societies such as Egypt and Israel.\n\nGreek vase painting is a major source for scholars seeking to understand attitudes and practices associated with \"paiderastia\". Hundreds of pederastic scenes are depicted on Attic black-figure vases. In the early 20th century, John Beazley classified pederastic vases into three types:\n\nCertain gifts traditionally given by the \"eromenos\" become symbols that contribute to interpreting a given scene as pederastic. Animal gifts—most commonly hares and roosters, but also deer and felines—point toward hunting as an aristocratic pastime and as a metaphor for sexual pursuit.\n\nThe explicit nature of some images has led in particular to discussions of whether the \"eromenos\" took active pleasure in the sex act. The youthful beloved is never pictured with an erection; his penis \"remains flaccid even in circumstances to which one would expect the penis of any healthy adolescent to respond willy-nilly\". Fondling the youth's genitals was one of the most common images of pederastic courtship on vases, a gesture indicated also in Aristophanes' comedy \"Birds\" (line 142). Some vases do show the younger partner as sexually responsive, prompting one scholar to wonder, \"What can the point of this act have been unless lovers in fact derived some pleasure from feeling and watching the boy's developing organ wake up and respond to their manual stimulation?\"\n\nChronological study of the vase paintings also reveals a changing aesthetic in the depiction of the \"erômenos\". In the 6th century BC, he is a young beardless man with long hair, of adult height and physique, usually nude. As the 5th century begins, he has become smaller and slighter, \"barely pubescent\", and often draped as a girl would be. No inferences about social customs should be based on this element of the courtship scene alone.\n\nThere are many pederastic references among the works of the Megaran poet Theognis addressed to Cyrnus (Greek \"Kyrnos\"). Some portions of the Theognidean corpus are probably not by the individual from Megara, but rather represent \"several generations of wisdom poetry\". The poems are \"social, political, or ethical precepts transmitted to Cyrnus as part of his formation into an adult Megarian aristocrat in Theognis' own image\".\n\nThe relationship between Theognis and Kyrnos eludes categorization. Although it was assumed in antiquity that Kyrnos was the poet's \"eromenos\", the poems that are most explicitly erotic are not addressed to him; the poetry on \"the joys and sorrows\" of pederasty seem more apt for sharing with a fellow \"erastes\", perhaps in the setting of the symposium: \"the relationship, in any case, is left vague.\" In general, Theognis (and the tradition that appears under his name) treats the pederastic relationship as heavily pedagogical.\n\nThe poetic traditions of Ionia and Aeolia featured poets such as Anacreon, Mimnermus and Alcaeus, who composed many of the sympotic skolia that were to become later part of the mainland tradition. Ibycus came from Rhegium in the Greek west and entertained the court of Polycrates in Samos with pederastic verses. By contrast with Theognis, these poets portray a version of pederasty that is non-pedagogical, focused exclusively on love and seduction. Theocritus, a Hellenistic poet, describes a kissing contest for youths that took place at the tomb of a certain Diocles, renowned for friendship; he notes that invoking Ganymede was proper to the occasion.\n\nVase paintings and references to the eromenos's thighs in poetry indicate that when the pederastic couple engaged in sex acts, the preferred form was intercrural. To preserve his dignity and honor, the \"erômenos\" limits the man who desires him to penetration between closed thighs.\n\nThere are no known visual depictions of Anal sex between pederastic couples, though this does not prove the behavior did not occur. Some vase paintings, which Percy considers a fourth type of pederastic scene in addition to Beazley's three, show the \"erastês\" seated with an erection and the \"erômenos\" either approaching or climbing into his lap. The composition of these scenes is the same as that for depictions of women mounting men who are seated and aroused for intercourse. As a cultural norm considered apart from personal preference, anal penetration was most often seen as dishonorable to the one penetrated, or shameful, because of \"its potential appearance of being turned into a woman\" and because it was feared that it may distract the \"erômenos\" from playing the active, penetrative role later in life. A fable attributed to Aesop tells how Aeschyne (Shame) consented to enter the human body from behind only as long as Eros did not follow the same path, and would fly away at once if he did. A man who acted as the receiver during anal intercourse may have been the recipient of the insult \"kinaidos\", meaning effeminate. No shame was associated with intercrural penetration or any other act that did not involve anal penetration. Oral sex is likewise not depicted, or directly suggested, anal or oral penetration seems to have been reserved for prostitutes or slaves.\n\nDover maintained that the erômenos was ideally not supposed to feel \"unmanly\" desire for the erastês. Nussbaum argues that the depiction of the erômenos as deriving no sexual pleasure from sex with the erastês \"may well be a cultural norm that conceals a more complicated reality\", as the erômenos is known to have frequently felt intense affection for his erastês and there is evidence that he experienced sexual arousal with him as well. In Plato's \"Phaedrus\", it is related that, with time, the erômenos develops a \"passionate longing\" for his erastês and a \"reciprocal love\" (\"anteros\") for him that is a replica of the erastês' love. The eromenos is also said to have a desire \"similar to the erastes', albeit weaker, to see, to touch, to kiss and to lie with him\".\n\nUnlike the Dorians, where a lover would usually have only one eromenos, in the east a man might have several eromenoi over the course of his life. From the poems of Alcaeus we learn that the lover would customarily invite his eromenos to dine with him.\n\nThe nature of this relationship is in dispute among ancient sources, and modern historians. \n\nSpartan views on pederasty and homoeroticism were much more austere than those of other parts of Greece.\n\nXenophon says in Constitution of the Lacaedemonians that Spartan customs were unsuited to pederasty: a man might aim for idealized friendship with a boy but a sexual relationship was considered \"an abomination\" tantamount to incest. Aelian's Historical Miscellany talks about the responsibilities of an older Spartan citizen to younger inexperienced male lovers. Thomas F. Scanlon believes Sparta, during its Dorian polis time, is thought to be the first city to practice athletic nudity, and one of the first to formalize pederasty.\n\nMegara cultivated good relations with Sparta, and may have been culturally attracted to emulate Spartan practices in the 7th century, when pederasty is postulated to have first been formalized in Dorian cities. One of the first cities after Sparta to be associated with the custom of athletic nudity, Megara was home to the runner Orsippus who was famed as the first to run the footrace naked at the Olympic Games and \"first of all Greeks to be crowned victor naked\". In one poem, the Megaran poet Theognis saw athletic nudity as a prelude to pederasty: \"Happy is the lover who works out naked / And then goes home to sleep all day with a beautiful boy.\"\n\nIn Athens, as elsewhere, \"pederastia\" appears to have been a characteristic of the aristocracy. Attic pottery is a major source for modern scholars attempting to understand the institution of pederasty. The age of youth depicted has been estimated variously from 12 to 18. A number of Athenian laws addressed the pederastic relationship.\n\nIn Thebes, the main polis in Boeotia, renowned for its practice of pederasty, the tradition was enshrined in the founding myth of the city. In this instance the story was meant to teach by counterexample: it depicts Laius, one of the mythical ancestors of the Thebans, in the role of a lover who betrays the father and rapes the son. Another Boeotian pederastic myth is the story of Narcissus.\n\nAccording to Plutarch, Theban pederasty was instituted as an educational device for boys in order to \"soften, while they were young, their natural fierceness, and to \"temper the manners and characters of the youth\". According to a tradition, The Sacred Band of Thebes comprised pederastic couples.\n\nBoeotian pottery, in contrast to that of Athens, does not exhibit the three types of pederastic scenes identified by Beazley. The limited survival and cataloguing of pottery that can be proven to have been made in Boeotia diminishes the value of this evidence in distinguishing a specifically local tradition of \"paiderastia\".\n\nThe ethical views held in ancient societies, such as Athens, Thebes, Crete, Sparta, Elis and others, on the practice of pederasty have been explored by scholars only since the end of the 19th century. One of the first to do so was John Addington Symonds, who wrote his seminal work \"A Problem in Greek Ethics\" in 1873, but after a private edition of 10 copies (1883) only in 1901 could the work really be published, in revised form. Edward Carpenter expanded the scope of the study, with his 1914 work, \"Intermediate Types among Primitive Folk\". The text examines homoerotic practices of all types, not only pederastic ones, and ranges over cultures spanning the whole globe. In Germany the work was continued by classicist Paul Brandt writing under the pseudonym Hans Licht, who published his \"Sexual Life in Ancient Greece\" in 1932.\n\nMainstream Ancient Greek studies however had historically omitted references of the widespread practice of homosexuality. E. M. Forster's 1914 novel \"Maurice\" makes reference to modern European ambivalence toward this aspect of ancient Greek culture in a scene where a Cambridge professor, leading a group of students in translating an ancient Greek text says, \"Omit the reference to the unspeakable vice of the Greeks.\" Later in the 1940s H. Mitchell wrote: \"This aspect of Greek morals is an extraordinary one, into which, for the sake of our equanimity, it is unprofitable to pry too closely\". It would not be until 1978 and K. J. Dover's book \"Greek Homosexuality,\" that the topic would be widely and frankly discussed.\n\nDover's work triggered a number of debates which still continue. Sociologist of the 20th century Michel Foucault declared that pederasty was \"problematized\" in Greek culture, that it was \"the object of a special—and especially intense—moral preoccupation\", which was \"subjected to an interplay of positive and negative interplays so complex as to make the ethics that governed it difficult to decipher\", focusing on concern with the chastity/moderation of the \"erōmenos\" (the term used for the \"beloved\" youth). A modern line of thought leading from Dover to Foucault to Halperin holds that the erōmenos did not reciprocate the love and desire of the erastes, and that the relationship was factored on a sexual domination of the younger by the older, a politics of penetration held to be true of all adult male Athenians' relations with their social inferiors—boys, women and slaves—a theory propounded also by Eva Keuls. From this perspective, the relationships are characterized and factored on a power differential between the participants, and as essentially asymmetrical.\n\nOther scholars point to artwork on vases, poetry and philosophical works such as the Platonic discussion of anteros, \"love returned\", all of which show tenderness and desire and love on the part of the eromenos matching and responding to that of the erastes. Critics of Dover and his followers also point out that they ignore all material which argued against their \"overly theoretical\" interpretation of a human and emotional relationship and counter that \"Clearly, a mutual, consensual bond was formed\", and that it is \"a modern fairy tale that the younger eromenos was never aroused\".\n\nHalperin's position has been criticized as a \"persistently negative and judgmental rhetoric implying exploitation and domination as the fundamental characteristics of pre-modern sexual models\" and challenged as a polemic of \"mainstream assimilationist gay apologists\" and an attempt to \"demonize and purge from the movement\" all non-orthodox male sexualities, especially that involving adults and adolescents.\n\nAs classical historian Robin Osborne has pointed out, historical discussion of \"paiderastia\" is complicated by 21st-century moral standards:\nIt is the historian's job to draw attention to the personal, social, political and indeed moral issues behind the literary and artistic representations of the Greek world. The historian's job is to present pederasty and all, to make sure that … we come face to face with the way the glory that was Greece was part of a world in which many of our own core values find themselves challenged rather than reinforced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893089", "title": "Public awareness of science", "text": "Public awareness of science\n\nPublic awareness of science (PAwS), public understanding of science (PUS), or more recently, Public Engagement with Science and Technology (PEST) are terms relating to the attitudes, behaviours, opinions, and activities that comprise the relations between the general public or lay society as a whole to scientific knowledge and organisation. It is a comparatively new approach to the task of exploring the multitude of relations and linkages science, technology, and innovation have among the general public. While earlier work in the discipline had focused on augmenting public knowledge of scientific topics, in line with the information deficit model of science communication, the discrediting of the model has led to an increased emphasis on how the public chooses to use scientific knowledge and on the development of interfaces to mediate between expert and lay understandings of an issue.\n\nThe area integrates a series of fields and themes such as:\n\nHow to raise public awareness and public understanding of science and technology, and how the public feels and knows about science in general, and specific subjects, such as genetic engineering, bioethics, etc., are important lines of research in this area. Professor of communication, Matthew Nisbet, points up the challenge, for example, in terms of the paradox of the success of science and engineering creating the conditions that have led to the trust or distrust of experts among certain populations and that the correlation appears to be more socioeconomic than religious or ideological.\n\nThe publication of the Royal Society's' report \"The Public Understanding of Science\" (or \"Bodmer Report\") in 1985 is widely held to be the birth of the Public Understanding of Science movement in Britain. The report led to the foundation of the Committee on the Public Understanding of Science and a cultural change in the attitude of scientists to outreach activities.\n\nIn the 1990s, a new perspective emerged in the field with the classic study of Cumbrian Sheep Farmers' interaction with the Nuclear scientists in England, where Brian Wynne demonstrated how the experts were ignorant or disinterested in taking into account the lay knowledge of the sheep farmers while conducting field experiments on the impact of the Chernobyl Nuclear fall out on the sheep in the region. Because of this shortcoming from the side of the scientists, local farmers lost their trust in them. The experts were unaware of the local environmental conditions and the behaviour of sheep and this has eventually led to the failure of their experimental models. Following this study, scholars have studies similar micro-sociological contexts of expert-lay interaction and proposed that the context of knowledge communication is important to understand public engagement with science. Instead of large scale public opinion surveys, researchers proposed studies informed by Sociology of Scientific Knowledge (SSK). The contextualist model focuses on the social impediments in the bidirectional flow of scientific knowledge between experts and laypersons/communities.\n\nThe scholarly debate on public engagement with science developed further into analyzing the deliberations on science through various institutional forms, with the help of the theory of deliberative democracy. Public deliberation of and participation in science practiced through public spheres became a major emphasis. Scholars like Sheila Jasanoff argues for wider public deliberation on science in democratic societies which is a basic condition for decision making regarding science and technology. There are also attempts to develop more inclusive participatory models of technological governance in the form of consensus conferences, citizen juries, extended peer reviews, and deliberative mapping.\n\nSocial scientists use various metrics to measure public understanding of science, including:\n\n\n\nThe nature of connections among different pieces of information in memory \n\n\nGovernment and private-led campaigns and events, such as Dana Foundation's \"Brain Awareness Week,\" are becoming a strong focus of programmes which try to promote public awareness of science.\n\nThe UK PAWS Foundation dramatically went as far as establishing a Drama Fund with the BBC in 1994. The purpose was to encourage and support the creation of new drama for television, drawing on the world of science and technology.\n\nThe Vega Science Trust was set up in 1994 to promote science through the media of television and the internet with the aim of giving scientists a platform from which to communicate to the general public.\n\nThe Simonyi Professorship for the Public Understanding of Science chair at The University of Oxford was established in 1995 for the ethologist Richard Dawkins by an endowment from Charles Simonyi. Mathematician Marcus du Sautoy has held the chair since Dawkins' retirement in 2008. Similar professorships have since been created at other British universities. Professorships in the field have been held by well-known academics including Richard Fortey and Kathy Sykes at the University of Bristol, Brian Cox at Manchester University, Tanya Byron at Edge Hill University, Jim Al-Khalili at the University of Surrey and Alice Roberts at the University of Birmingham.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3475312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3475312", "title": "Public figure", "text": "Public figure\n\nA public figure is a person such as a politician, celebrity, or business leader, who has a certain social position within a certain scope and a significant influence and so is often widely concerned by the public, can benefit enormously from society, and is closely related to public interests in society.\n\nIn the context of defamation actions (libel and slander) as well as invasion of privacy, a public figure cannot succeed in a lawsuit on incorrect harmful statements in the United States unless there is proof that the writer or publisher acted with actual malice by knowing the falsity or by reckless disregard for the truth. The legal burden of proof in defamation actions is thus higher in the case of a public figure than in the case of an ordinary person.\n\nThe controlling precedent in the United States was set in 1964 by the United States Supreme Court in \"New York Times Co. v. Sullivan\", which is considered a key decision in supporting the First Amendment and freedom of the press.\n\nA fairly high threshold of public activity is necessary to elevate people to a public figure status. Typically, they must either be:\nDiscussion of a person on the Internet may at times rise to the level that it causes the subject of discussion to be treated as an involuntary public figure.\n\nCorporations are not automatically treated as public figures, and defamation claims made by corporations are evaluated under the same standard as those made by individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "395621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395621", "title": "Public interest defence", "text": "Public interest defence\n\nIn the context of secrecy laws, a public interest defence is a defence that allows a defendant who disclosed classified or protected information to avoid criminality by establishing that the public interest in disclosure of the information outweighs the public interest in nondisclosure. It is aimed at protecting whistleblowers of government misconduct. \n\nThe inclusion of the defence was a subject of debate in the legislative process of the Official Secrets Act 1989 of the United Kingdom. The defence was not included in the final Act. The defence was also absent in secrecy laws in other countries that were based on the Act. \n\nCanada has reformed its secrecy laws in 2001 by adding the defence in its Security of Information Act. However, its application is limited to situations in which the defendant has followed a series of steps set out in the legislation before making the disclosure, and the person's purpose in making the disclosure is to reveal an offence committed by another person in his official duties.\n\nThe inclusion of the defence has been a subject of debate in Hong Kong in 2003 during its legislative process to implement Article 23 of the Basic Law in the media in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "20334071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20334071", "title": "Public water system", "text": "Public water system\n\nPublic water system is a regulatory term used in the United States and Canada, referring to certain utilities and organizations providing drinking water.\n\nThe US Safe Drinking Water Act and derivative legislation define \"public water system\" as an entity that provides \"water for human consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances to at least 15 service connections or serves an average of at least 25 people for at least 60 days a year.\" The term \"public\" in \"public water system\" refers to the people drinking the water, not to the ownership of the system.\n\nSome US states (e.g. New York) have varying definitions.\nOver 286 million Americans get their tap water from a community water system. Eight percent of the community water systems—large municipal water systems—provide water to 82 percent of the US population.\n\nThe United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has defined three types of public water systems:\n\nThere are over 150,000 public water systems.\n\nEPA also classifies water systems according to the number of people they serve:\n\nWater systems may be categorized by their source of water:\n\nSources of drinking water are subject to contamination and require appropriate treatment to remove disease-causing contaminants. Contamination of drinking water supplies can occur in the source water as well as in the distribution system after water treatment has already occurred. There are many sources of water contamination, including naturally occurring chemicals and minerals (for example, arsenic, radon, uranium), local land use practices (application of fertilizers and pesticides; concentrated animal feeding operations), manufacturing processes, and sewer overflows or wastewater releases.\n\nThe presence of contaminants in water can lead to adverse health effects, including gastrointestinal illness, reproductive problems, and neurological disorders. Infants, young children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people whose immune systems are compromised because of AIDS, chemotherapy, or transplant medications, may be especially susceptible to illness from some contaminants.\n\nThe US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention publishes a list of the leading causes of waterborne outbreaks in public water systems.\n\nThe Canadian provinces of Manitoba and Nova Scotia also use this definition.\n\n"}
{"id": "53585937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53585937", "title": "Quantum coin flipping", "text": "Quantum coin flipping\n\nQuantum coin flipping uses the principles of quantum mechanics to encrypt messages for secure communication. Unlike in other types of quantum cryptography, quantum coin flipping is a protocol used between two users who do not trust each other. Since the players do not trust each other, they both want to win the coin toss and, thus, they will try to cheat in various ways.\n\nQuantum coin flipping and other types of quantum cryptography communicate information through the transmission of qubits. The accepting player does not know the information in the qubit until he performs a measurement. The security of quantum cryptography is in the qubits. In each of the qubits, information is carried by a single photon. Once the receiving player measures the photon, it is altered and will not measure the same way again. The fact that a photon can only be read the same way once allows for an easy detection of any other party attempting to intercept the message.\n\nQuantum coin flipping is a secure means of communicating in theory, but difficult to accomplish.\n\nManuel Blum introduced coin flipping as part of a classical system in 1983. Blum’s coin flipping protocol was based on computational algorithms and assumptions. Blum’s version of coin flipping answers the cryptographic problem in the example:\n\nThus, the problems with Alice and Bob are that they do not trust each other, the only resource they have is the telephone communication channel, and there is not a third party available to read the coin. The only way that Alice and Bob can exchange information is if they are both being truthful and agree on a value or until one of them is convinced that the other is cheating.\n\nIn 1984, quantum cryptography emerged in the paper written by Charles H. Bennett and Giles Brassard. In this paper, the two introduced the idea of using quantum mechanics to enhance previous cryptographic protocols such as coin flipping. Since 1984, many researchers have applied quantum mechanics to cryptography as they have proven theoretically to be more secure than classical cryptography. However, demonstrating these protocols, like quantum coin flipping, in practical systems has been difficult to accomplish.\n\nAs published in 2014, a group of scientists at the Laboratory for Communication and Processing of Information (LTCI) in Paris have implemented quantum coin flipping protocols experimentally. The researchers have reported that the protocol performs better than a classical system over a suitable distance for a metropolitan area optical network.\n\nQuantum coin flipping is when random qubits are generated between two players that do not trust each other because both of them want to win the coin toss, which could lead them to cheat in a variety of ways. The essence of coin flipping occurs when the two players issue a sequence of instructions over a communication channel that then eventually results in an output.\n\nA basic quantum coin flipping protocol involves two people: Alice and Bob. \n\nA more general explanation of the above protocol is as follows:\n\nThe key issue with coin flipping is that it occurs between two distrustful parties. These two parties are communicating through the communication channel some distance from each other and they have to agree on a winner or loser with each having a 50 percent chance of winning. However, since they are distrustful of one another, cheating is likely to occur. Cheating can occur in a number of ways such as claiming they lost some of the message when they do not like the result or increasing the average number of photons contained in each of the pulses.\n\nFor Bob to cheat, he would have to be able to guess Alice’s basis with a probability greater than ½. In order to accomplish this, Bob would have to be able to determine a train of photons randomly polarized in one basis from a train of photons polarized in another basis.\n\nAlice, on the other hand, could cheat in a couple of different ways, but she has to be careful because Bob could easily detect them as cheating. When Bob sends a correct guess to Alice, she could convince Bob that her photons are actually polarized the opposite of Bob’s correct guess. Alice could also send Bob a different original sequence than she actually used in order to beat Bob.\n\nSingle photons are used to pass the information from one player to the other (qubits). In this protocol, the information is encoded in the single photons with polarization directions of 0, 45, 90, and 135 degrees, non-orthogonal quantum states. When a third party attempts to read or gain information on the transmission, they alter the photon’s polarization in a random way that is likely detected by the two players because it does not match the pattern exchanged between the two legitimate users.\n\nAs mentioned in the history section, scientists at the LTCI in Paris have experimentally carried out a quantum coin flipping protocol, giving an example of using quantum coin flipping. Previous protocols called for a single photon source or an entangled source to be secure. However, these sources are why it is difficult for quantum coin flipping to be implemented. Instead the researchers at LTCI used the effects of quantum superposition rather than a single photon source, which they claim makes implementation easier with the standard photon sources available.\n\nThese researchers used the Clavis2 platform developed by IdQuantique for their protocol. The researchers had to modify the Clavis2 system to get it to work for the coin flipping protocol. The experimental setup they used with the Clavis2 system, involves a two-way approach. Light pulsed at 1550 nanometres is sent from Bob to Alice. Alice then uses a phase modulator to encrypt the information. After encryption, she then uses a Faraday mirror to reflect and attenuate the pulses at her chosen level and sends them back to Bob. Using two high quality single photon detectors, Bob chooses a measurement basis in his phase modulator to detect the pulses from Alice.\n\nThey replaced the detectors on Bob’s side because of the low detection efficiencies of the previous detectors. When they replaced the detectors, they were able to show a quantum advantage on a channel for over . A couple of other challenges the group faced was reprogramming the system because photon source attenuation was high and performing system analyses to identify losses and errors in system components. With these corrections, the scientists were capable of implementing a coin flipping protocol by introducing a small honest abort probability, the probability that two honest participants cannot obtain a coin flip at the end of the protocol, but at a short communication distance.\n"}
{"id": "53487778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53487778", "title": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard", "text": "Rebecca Naylor Hazard\n\nRebecca Ann Naylor Hazard (née Rebecca Ann Naylor; November 10, 1826 - March 1, 1912) was a 19th-century American philanthropist, suffragette, reformer, and writer from the U.S. state of Ohio. With a few other women, she formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri and an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. She organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, and served as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association.\n\nRebecca Naylor was born in Woodsfield, Ohio, November 10, 1826, the daughter of Robert F. Naylor (born in Pennsylvania, but lived mostly in Virgini) and Mary Bettis Archbold (of Virginia). Till the age of 14, she studied at Monroe Institute and the Marietta Seminary. The family then removed to Cincinnati, Ohio, and later to Quincy, Illinois. In Quincy, in 1844, while still a teenager, she married William Tweedy Hazard, of Newport, Rhode Island. \n\nThe husband was not a college man. His occupation during most of his life was that of a manufacturer (flour mills). Five children were born to the couple. In 1850, the family removed to St. Louis, Missouri. For many years, domestic affairs claimed the attention of Hazard. \n\nIn 1854, she united with other women in establishing an Industrial Home for Girls in St. Louis. For five years she was on the board of managers of that institution, which has sheltered thousands of homeless children. At the breaking out of the American Civil War, Hazard, who was an ardent Unionist, engaged in hospital work, including the care of sick and wounded soldiers. She helped to organize the Union Aid Society and served as a member of the executive committee in the great Western Sanitary Fair. Finding that large numbers of African American women and children were by the exigencies of war helplessly stranded in the city, Hazard sought means for their relief. They were in a deplorable condition, and, as the supplies contributed to the soldiers could not be used for them, she organized a society known as the Freedmen's Aid Society, for their special benefit. At the close of the war, that society was merged in an orphan asylum. Closely following that work came the establishment of a home for women, which was maintained under great difficulties for some years, before being abandoned. With Mary Foote Henderson, Hazard co-founded the School of Design for women in the field of decorative art. It later became part of the Woman’s Exchange.\n\nDeeply impressed with the disabilities under which women labor in being deprived of political rights, Hazard, Virginia Minor, Anna Clapp, Lucretia Hall, and Penelope Allen, met in May 1867, and formed the Woman Suffrage Association of Missouri, the first society bearing the name, and having for its sole object the ballot for woman. Devoted to this cause, Hazard gave it her attention for many years, filling the various offices of the association, and also serving one term as president of the American Woman Suffrage Association. In 1870, the city of St. Louis, falling under evil counsels, framed into law the Social Evil Ordinance. Realizing the danger to good morals, Hazard at once engaged in the conflict for the overthrow of law. Three years later, she met with other women and organized an appeal to the legislature through a petition campaign to rescind it. The law was repealed by the Missouri Legislature in 1874. The call for the formation of the association for the advancement of women, known as the Woman's Congress, was signed by Hazard, and she continued to be a member of that body, contributing at various times to its sessions the following papers: \"Home Studies for Women,\" \"Business Opportunities for Women,\" and \"Crime and its Punishment.\" \n\nAfter the death of her husband, in 1879, Hazard mostly retired from public work, but at her home in Kirkwood, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis, a class of women met each week for study and mutual improvement. As a result of these studies, Hazard published two papers on the \"Divina Commedia.\" She also wrote a volume on the war period in St. Louis. Her contributions to local and other papers were numerous. Hazard was a member of the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and of the American Akademe, a philosophical society having headquarters in Jacksonville, Illinois. She died in Kirkwood in 1912.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22351741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22351741", "title": "Regulatory focus theory", "text": "Regulatory focus theory\n\nRegulatory focus theory (RFT) is a goal pursuit theory formulated by Columbia University psychology professor and researcher E. Tory Higgins regarding people's perceptions in the decision making process. RFT examines the relationship between the motivation of a person and the way in which they go about achieving their goal. RFT posits two separate and independent self-regulatory orientations: prevention and promotion (Higgins, 1997).\n\nThis psychological theory, like many others, is applied in communication, specifically in the subfields of nonverbal communication and persuasion.Chronic regulatory focus is measured using the Regulatory Focus Questionnaire (Higgins et al., 2001) or the Regulatory Strength measure. Momentary regulatory focus can be primed or induced.\n\nTo understand RFT, it is important to understand another of E. Tory Higgins' theories: regulatory fit theory. When a person believes that there is \"fit\", they will involve themselves more in what they are doing and \"feel right\" about it. Regulatory fit should not directly affect the hedonic occurrence of a thing or occasion, but should influence a person's assurance in their reaction to the object or event.\n\nRegulatory fit theory suggests that a match between orientation to a goal and the means used to approach that goal produces a state of regulatory fit that both creates a feeling of rightness about the goal pursuit and increases task engagement (Higgins, 2001, 2005). Regulatory fit intensifies responses, such as the value of a chosen object, persuasion, and job satisfaction.\n\nRegulatory fit does not increase the assessment of a decision; instead when someone feels \"right\" about their decision, the experience of \"correctness and importance\" is transferred to the ensuing assessment of the chosen object, increasing its superficial worth. Research suggests that the \"feeling right\" experience can then sway retrospective or prospective evaluations. Regulatory fit can be manipulated incidentally (outside the context of interest) or integrally (within the context of interest).\n\nRFT refers to when a person pursues a goal in a way that maintains the person's own personal values and beliefs, also known as \"regulatory orientation\". This theory operates on the basic principle that people embrace pleasure but avoid pain, and they then maintain their regulatory fit based on this standard.\n\nThe \"regulatory focus\" is basically the way in which someone approaches pleasure but avoids pain. An individual's regulatory focus concentrates on desired end-states, and the approach motivation used to go from the current state to the desired end-state. This theory differentiates between a \"promotion-focus\" on hopes and accomplishments, also known as gains. This focus is more concerned with higher level gains such as advancement and accomplishment.\n\nAnother focus is the \"prevention-focus\" based on safety and responsibilities, also known as non-losses. This focus emphasizes security and safety by following the guidelines and the rules.\n\nThese two regulatory focuses regulate the influences that a person would be exposed to in the decision-making process, and determine the different ways they achieve their goal, as discussed by RFT. An individual's regulatory orientation is not necessarily fixed. While individuals have chronic tendencies towards either promotion or prevention, these preferences may not hold for all situations. Furthermore, a specific regulatory focus can be induced.\n\nThe value taken from interaction and goal attainment can be either positive or negative. The decision has positive value when people attempt to attain their goal in a way that fits their regulatory orientation and it will have negative value when people attempt to attain their goal in a way that does not fit their regulatory orientation. Regulatory fit allows value to be created by intensifying the commitment, based on one of the regulatory focus orientations. Making choices and fulfilling objectives are considered as activities, and with any activity, people can be more or less involved. When this involvement is strong, it can intensify the feelings and values about this activity, and the approach to the activity determines whether they are or are not satisfied with the outcome and method of achieving the outcome.\n\nThis theory has noteworthy implications for increasing the value of life. For example, in interpersonal conflict, if each person experiences \"fit\", each one will be satisfied with and committed to the outcome. In the broad sense, for people to appreciate their own lives, they need to be satisfied and \"feel right\" about what they are doing, and the way they are doing it. If it is not satisfying, it is known as \"non-fit\", and they will not reach their desired goal.\n\nRegulatory focus theory, according to Higgins, views motivation in a way that allows an understanding of the foundational ways we approach a task or a goal. Different factors can motivate people during goal pursuit, and we self-regulate our methods and processes during our goal pursuit. RFT proposes that motivational strength is enhanced when the manner in which people work toward a goal sustains their regulatory orientation. Achieving a goal in a way that is consistent to a person's regulatory orientation leads to an individual sense of importance to the event. The impact of motivation is considered calculated and this creates a greater sense of commitment to the goal. The more strongly an individual is engaged (i.e., involved, occupied, fully engrossed) in an activity, the more intense the motivational force experienced. Engagement is of great importance to attain and motivate in order to reach a goal. Engagement serves as intensifier of the directional component of the value experience. An individual who is strongly engaged in a goal pursuits will experience a positive target more positively and a negative target more negatively.\n\nIndividuals can pursue different goals with diverse regulatory orientations and in unlike ways. There are two different kinds of regulatory orientations that people use to obtain their goals: \"promotion-focus orientation\" and \"prevention-focus orientation\". These terms are derived from E. Tory Higgins's Theory of Regulatory Focus. In which, he adds to the notion that people regulate their goal-oriented behavior in two very distinct ways, coined \"promotion-focus orientation\" and \"prevention-focus orientation\"\n\nE. Tory Higgins uses this example: there is Student A and Student B, and they both have the shared goal to make an \"A\" in a class they are both taking in college. Student A uses a \"promotion-focus orientation\" which slants them towards achieving their goal and towards advancement, growth and life accomplishment. This would cause Student A to view the goal as an ideal that satisfies their need for accomplishment. Student B uses a \"prevention-focus orientation\" where the goal is something that should be realized because it fulfills their need for security, protection and prevention of negative outcomes. Student A uses an eager approach where they read extra materials to obtain their goal of an \"A\". Student B uses a vigilant approach where they become more detail oriented and pay careful attention to completing all of the course requirements.\n\nBoth forms of regulatory orientation can work to fulfill goals, but the choice of orientation is based on individual preferences and style. When a person pursues their goal in the focus that fits their regulatory orientation, they are more likely to pursue their goal more eagerly and aggressively than if they were using the other focus.In this case each student has different styles. They both feel more comfortable in persuading their goal. The outcome in this experiment would have been different if the students were given an undesirable choice.\n\nWhen people make decisions, they often envision the possible \"pleasure or pain\" of the possible outcomes that the focus orientation will produce. A person imagining making a pleasing choice is more likely to engage in promotion-focus orientation because envisioning the possible outcome of success maintains eagerness about the outcome but does not place importance on vigilance. A person imagining the possible pain by making an undesirable choice maintains more vigilance but less eagerness.\n\nA person with promotion-focus orientation is more likely to remember the occasions where the goal is pursued by using eagerness approaches and less likely to remember occasions where the goal is pursued by vigilance approaches. A person with prevention-focus orientation is more likely to remember events where the goal is pursued by means of vigilance than if it was pursued using eagerness approaches.\n\nWhen relating regulatory focus theory to persuasion, it is important to remember that RFT is a goal-attainment theory, and that RFT can spawn feelings of rightness/wrongness which in turn may produce formulations for judgments.\n\nThe feelings of rightness give an individual more commitment to the information coming in and therefore can avoid endangering their regulatory fit which in turn changes their regulatory focus and accepting a probable motive to change. If a person experiences feelings of wrongness they will suffer negative emotions and deem the experience \nand information as a threat to their regulatory fit and therefore a threat to their regulatory focus and their goal.\n\nStudies have been done where fit and focus have been applied to show their applicability to consumer purchasing, health advisories, and social policy issues. To be persuaded is to change your prior feelings, actions, and/or beliefs on a matter to where you agree with the persuader.\n\nThe \"fit\" involved in RFT plays a large role in such issues and stories because it can be a device to help an individual receive and review the experience during a particular message delivery. Positive reinforcement and feelings of rightness while decoding the message creates a stronger engagement and relationship with processing the message, and negative reinforcement and feelings of wrongness lessens the engagement and attachment.\n\nResearchers found that targeting the two different regulatory focus orientations, and their coinciding types of fit, works as an effective process to aid in persuasive charm or pull when they introduced a manner of persuasion where the framing of the message was everything and the content was irrelevant to uphold or interrupt a person's regulatory fit and follow the pattern of logic used in regulatory orientation.\n\nLee and Aaker (2004) conducted an experiment that involved whether or not to give their information in a prevention-focus- or promotion-focus-concerning way. The study involved an advertisement for a grape juice drink, which they split into two to create prevention-focus concerns (disease-preventing) and then promotion-focus concerns (energy enhancement). In doing so, they demonstrated that rather than trying to know each individual recipient's qualities, one needs only to start by nailing the focus (prevention/promotion) and then framing the message so that it creates that \"rightness\".\n\nSome may confuse RFT with regulatory fit, regulatory relevance, message matching, and source attractiveness in such an example. The extent of similarities between closely related theories of RFT, such as ones stated above, make it hard to clarify when this theory is applicable or apparent in respect to the persuasion process.\n\nRFT can be a useful outline for a better understanding of the effects of nonverbal cues in persuasion and impression formation. Regulatory Fit Theory suggests that the effect of a cue cannot be understood without remembering what the cue means given a recipient's focus orientation.\n\nNonverbal cues can be used by the message source to vary delivery style, more specifically to convey eagerness or vigilance, of a given message in a way that will produce regulatory fit in message recipients of different focus orientations.\n\nAdvancement implies eager movement forward, so eagerness is conveyed by gestures that involve animated, broad opening movements such as hand movements projecting outward, forward leaning body positions, fast body movement, and fast speech rate. Caution implies vigilant carefulness, so vigilance should be conveyed by gestures that show precision like slightly backward-leaning body positions, slower body movement, and slower speech rate.\n\nAn eager nonverbal delivery style will result in greater message effectiveness for promotion-focus recipients than for prevention-focus recipients, while the opposite is true for a vigilant nonverbal style.\n\nThere are various aspects, which may contribute to whether or not a message's persuasive element is successful. One aspect is the effect of nonverbal cues and their association with persuasive appeals based on the message recipient's motivational regulatory orientation. This determines the recipient's impression of the source during impression formation.\n\nResearch has found that nonverbal cues are an essential element of most persuasive appeals. RFT creates the background that allows a prediction for when and for whom a nonverbal cue can have an effect on persuasion. When nonverbal cues and signals are used appropriately, they increase the effectiveness of persuasion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36921056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36921056", "title": "Samuel Hume Blake", "text": "Samuel Hume Blake\n\nSamuel Hume Blake (31 August 1835 – 23 June 1914) was the son of William Hume Blake, an Irish-Canadian jurist and politician, and the brother of Edward Blake, the second Premier of Ontario.\n\nBlake had a long career as a lawyer and a judge. He was an active Anglican layman, as well as a philanthropist and social reformer. He was also a dedicated pamphleteer. He was an important figure, helping to shape the dialogue of political, social and religious life of his time. \n"}
{"id": "11033682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11033682", "title": "Societal marketing", "text": "Societal marketing\n\nThe societal marketing is a marketing concept that holds that a company should make marketing decisions not only by considering consumers' wants, the company's requirements, but also society's long-term interests.\n\nThe societal marketing concept holds that the organization's task is to determine the needs, wants, and interests of a target market and to deliver the desired satisfactions more effectively and efficiently than competitors in a way that preserves or enhances the well being of both the individual consumer and society in general. Therefore, marketers must endeavor to satisfy the needs and wants of their target markets in ways that preserve and enhance the well-being of consumers and society as a whole. It is closely linked with the principles of corporate social responsibility and of sustainable development.\n\nSocietal marketing can be defined as a \"marketing with a social dimension or marketing that includes non-economic criteria\". Societal marketing \"concerns for society's long term interests\". It is about \"the direct benefits for the organization and secondary benefit for the community\". Societal marketing distinguishes between the consumer's immediate satisfaction and longer term consumer and social benefits. Accordingly, Andreas Kaplan defines societal management as \"management that takes into account society's overall welfare in addition to mere profitability considerations.\" Its a 3 dimensional concept of marketing ;Social welfare,Individual welfare,Company profits.\n\nVarious attempts to define the objectives of societal marketing have been noted, such as:\n\nThe concept of societal marketing emerged in the early 1970s, promoting a more socially responsible, moral and ethical model of marketing in an effort to counter some of the more serious criticisms of marketing that had arisen out of the consumerist movement around that time. \n\nPhilip Kotler is generally credited with introducing the societal marketing concept to the literature in a 1972 article \"What Consumerism Means for Marketers\" in the \"Harvard Business Review\" of 1972. Certainly Kotler believed that he had coined the term, \"societal marketing\" and was the first to codify it within the marketing literature. Some marketing historians, notably Wilkie and Moore, have argued that a societal perspective was not new, and that evidence for it could be found in marketing theory and in marketing texts, since the discipline's inception in the early 1900s. Kotler introduced both the concept of social marketing (extending marketing technologies into non-business areas) and societal marketing, arguing that the marketing concept and its technologies must be tempered and ultimately revised by adopting a more explicit social orientation. The novelty of Kotler's concept was the idea of \"long-run consumer welfare\", emphasizing that the short-term desires might not support the consumer's long term interests or be good for the society as a whole.\n\nThe societal marketing concept adopts the position that marketers have a greater social responsibility than simply satisfying customers and providing them with superior value. Instead, marketing activities should strive to benefit society's overall well-being. Marketing organisations that have embraced the societal marketing concept typically identify key stakeholder groups including: employees, customers, local communities, the wider public and government and consider the impact of their activities on all stakeholders. They ensure that marketing activities do not damage the environment and are not hazardous to broader society. Societal marketing developed into sustainable marketing. Societal marketing requires businesses to include social, ethical and ecological considerations in product and market planning. \n\nKotler identified four categories of products, classified in terms of long term benefits and immediate satisfaction: \n\n\nKotler's concept of societal marketing suggested that for the well-being of society, deficient products should be eliminated from the market, pleasing and salutary products should go through a product modification process to acquire desirable status, by incorporating missing short term benefits into salutary products and long term benefits into pleasing products, and the companies' ultimate goal should be to develop desirable products. Rather than focusing on selling a products, which can be good or bad for the consumers, companies should focus on consumer and society's well-being.\n\nMost companies recognize that socially responsible activities improve their image among customers, stockholders, the financial community, and other relevant publics. Ethical and socially responsible practices are simply good business, resulting not only in favorable image, but ultimately in increased sales.\n\n\nSocietal marketing should not be confused with social marketing. Societal marketing is a philosophy or mindset that informs marketing decisions whereas social marketing is a distinct branch within the marketing discipline. Societal marketing is concerned with the consideration of the social and ethical aspects of marketing planning. Social marketing is concerned with facilitating social change. A key difference is that the greater 'social good' is the \"principal\" consideration in social marketing while social benefits are one of a number of considerations in societal marketing. \n\nOn the other hand, social marketing is a sub-branch of marketing that began in 1971, with the publication of an article by Kotler and Zaltman, emphasising a planned approach to achieving social change. It is primarily concerned with encouraging pro-social behaviours (e.g. recycling, sun-safety, safe driving practices) and discouraging anti-social behaviours (e.g. littering, drink-driving). It is defined as an \"adaptation of commercial marketing technologies to programs designed to influence the voluntary behavior of target audiences to improve their personal welfare and that of the society of which they are a part\". \n\nSocial marketing uses more traditional commercial techniques and strategies, focusing on persuasion, to achieve goals for the greater social good. Its campaigns can either encourage merit goods, as for example fund raising for not-for-profit organizations or dissuade the use of demerit goods promoting society's well being, as non-smoking campaigns or promote the use of seat belts. Another characteristic of social marketing is that is planned to influence individual behaviour to improve well-being. It includes more than just advertising in traditional mass media, and may extend to educational programs and formal enforcement regimes in the case of road safety campaigns. It planned campaigns, implemented by governmental and non-governmental organisations. A clear example that differentiates societal from social marketing is a marketing campaign on non-smoking. A smoking cessation advertisement is an example of social marketing, but if the marketing strategies and techniques used in that campaign focus on increasing the well-being of society, that same campaign can be an example of societal marketing.\n\nThe societal marketing concept was a forerunner of sustainable marketing in integrating issues of social responsibility into commercial marketing strategies. In contrast to that, social marketing uses commercial marketing theories, tools and techniques to influence social change. Social marketing applies a \"customer orientated\" approach and uses the concepts and tools used by commercial marketers in pursuit of social goals like Anti-Smoking-Campaigns or fund raising for NGOs.\n\nUnlike societal marketing, CSR has existed for many years. Another difference is that CSR \"focuses more in a corporate level and stakeholders\", while societal marketing is more concerned about the consumer and their long term benefits. CSR social and environmental concerns are integrated into all business operations. CSR is mainly run by companies, while social marketing mainly by Government or Non profits organizations. One example of CSR among companies is what Häagen-Dazs is doing with their \"microsite\" to raise awareness to the general public about the preservation of the honeybee.\n\nCorporations are the one who are striving during the whole time for improvements. They are turning to all kind of forms of corporate societal marketing programs to help build and repair their brand images.\n\nCorporate Social Marketing, or CSM, usually refers to marketing efforts that have at least one social related objective, such as charity founding, among its goals. Typical examples are releasing a certain percentage of the final sale product to a charity related to the product, or sponsoring events that encourage social well-being such as the Olympic Games. Corporate Social Marketing benefits a company in many ways, but its main goal is to improve the image the public has of the company. A company that appears committed to improving the lives or others, the environment or other worthy causes is seen in a better light than one who doesn't, and more and more business are hoping to benefit from that.\n\nSo, it can be so, that CSM programs are becoming extremely popular because the leaders believe that it is a good business to be viewed as a socially responsible company. However, even though past research suggests that CSM may be effective in improving brand equity and increasing market share, there are limits to the effectiveness of these initiatives.\n\nAn example of his is how corporate social initiatives adversely affected purchase intentions if consumers perceived that the company would forgo product quality in order to be socially responsible.\n\nDepending on the nature of the CSM program, the intent of the corporation may not be as obvious to the consumers. This happens if the benefits to the corporation are not apparent or conflicts with what the consumer already believes about a specific firm or industry.\n\nSince firms exist to make a profit, consumers may spend considerable energy in an attempt to infer motives related to the profit-oriented goals. As an example, a consumer may be suspicious of a tobacco company that undertakes a campaign to prevent underage smoking. If this is successful, the company would be affected and the cigarette sales will be lowered. So, in this situation, consumers' suspicions may lead them to infer motives that would actually protect the companies financial condition – as they are trying to improve their image to sell more cigarettes to adults. However, if a tobacco company undertook a CSM Campaign, that would sustain their business consumers may be able to infer profit motives more easily and then have a more favorable attitude toward the partnership. Therefore, it can be concluded that the attitude of the consumers could be better if they knew more about the motives of the companies and they were more obvious.\n\nAnother aspect that may cause suspicion with consumers is the amount of harm that a company has already done, either because of unsafe products or harmful production practices. It is logical that consumers are more suspicious to companies that sell harmful products. Again examples are the tobacco companies and alcohol companies as well. They will meet resistance from consumers when they undertake socially-oriented campaigns aimed at mitigating the effects of their products. That is why when different industries are separated, two very general dimensions are used – the harmful nature of the products and the harmful nature of the production methods.\n\nThis classification can briefly show how consumer are influenced by the various CSM efforts. Companies that work in this \"dangerous\" industries are not that successful always, because the consumers may be suspicious of any societal efforts the company attempts to undertake. Consumers will infer less society-serving motives and more self-serving motives for corporate societal marketing programs undertaken by firms that operate in mixed or sin industries.\n\nBased on how easily consumers could infer profit-driven motives, are classified the types of CSM campaigns: Positively tied to product sales, positively tied to product sales, not directly tied to sales but aimed at sustaining the company's business, completely unrelated.\n\nSocietal marketing has been the subject of a number of criticisms: \n\nA key issue concerns the question of who decides what is in the public’s best interests. The moral agenda implicit in the societal marketing concept is underdeveloped and often implicit. Gaski argued that marketers should step away from their classic goal of customer satisfaction and profit maximization while respecting the minimum governmental standards imposed by law and enter this public policy area, since marketers themselves would have to decide what actions are consistent with public welfare. Marketers might have neither the competence nor the right to determine the \"public interest.\" Instead, it should be the customers who decide what is good for them, or their political representatives and dictate that to the industry. \n\nSome scholars have argued that societal marketing is not a distinct concept, but rather it is a mere extension of the marketing concept. Others have pointed out that the literature in the field is vague, poorly defined and underdeveloped. The societal marketing concept has become an excellent strategy for promotions with social dimensions and for exploring consumers' behavioural response to such corporate 'doing good'.\n\nSocietal marketing is gaining the marketers and consumer attention and there is every reason to expect it to continue to evolve in practice. It focuses on providing win-win opportunities to companies, consumers and society. But achieving the compelling benefits for each party involved is very complicated. So much more research is needed. To achieve a win situation for organization involved, is dependent largely upon how the key constituents react. In this context, anticipating consumer reaction is really challenging which can be affected by number of factors that often vary across different segments. The several research questions remain to be answered like how different factors affects reaction to societal marketing and how do the various factors interact? How can societal initiatives be designed to leverage positive reaction and mitigate negative ones? \n\nFor consumers to win, societal marketing must provide them with compelling benefits that increase their overall welfare. What benefits did societal marketing initiative actually provided to consumers? Are there direct benefits such as increased satisfaction with their interaction with commercial or nonprofit organization?\nDetermining whether there is a win situation for society by societal marketing initiative is the most difficult question to be answered. We turn to the two questions proposed by Bloom, Hussien and Szykmann (1995): Is the society better off because of this program? Does corporate involvement result in better performance than if it would have been managed by NGOs or government agencies? \nSocietal marketing is becoming globally popular but there exist a scarcity of research in this field. Therefore extensive future research is needed particularly investigating questions with respect to its impact on consumer attitudes to corporate image, product image and their purchase intention or brand choice as well as on positive impact on society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7287735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7287735", "title": "Tellus Institute", "text": "Tellus Institute\n\nThe Tellus Institute is a non-profit research and policy organization based in Boston, Massachusetts. Its mission is to advance the transition to a sustainable, equitable, and humane global civilization. The Tellus Institute was founded in 1976 by Paul Raskin, Richard Rosen, Stephen Bernow, John Stutz, and David Nichols for the purpose of research on resource and environmental strategies. Dr. Paul Raskin is the President of the Institute. Initially called the Energy Systems Research Group (ESRG), the Institute adopted its current name in 1990.\n\nSince 1976, Tellus has conducted over 3,500 resource management and environmental strategy projects throughout the world. The Institute is well known in the environmental strategies domain for its many studies on state and municipality recycling programs, including its 1992 Packaging study, the 2008 Assessment of Options for Massachusetts' Solid Waste Master Plan, and the Preliminary Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Bottle Bills study done for the US EPA.\n\nThrough the years Tellus has created numerous scientific tools and reports in many different areas, including energy, water, sustainable communities, corporate social responsibility, and climate change; however, since 2005 the Institute has shifted its focus to developing a Great Transition vision for a sustainable future.\n\nThe main body of Tellus' current research specializes in the application of quantitative analysis to the development of possible future scenarios.\n\nTellus has also launched a number of subsidiary working groups and research programs:\n\n\nTellus developed and uses a series of software programs in its research. These programs were designed for strategic planning and scenario analysis, allowing the user to create, evaluate, and compare alternative futures based on current data and hypothetical trends. Long range Energy Alternatives Planning (LEAP) System software facilitates energy-environment planning; WEAP, water planning; WastePlan, solid waste planning; and PoleStar, sustainability planning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30702076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30702076", "title": "Violence begets violence", "text": "Violence begets violence\n\nThe phrase \"violence begets violence\" (or \"hate begets hate\") means that violent behavior promotes other violent behavior, in return. The phrase has been used since at least the 1830s.\n\nViolence begets violence is a concept described in the Gospel of Matthew, verse 26:52. The passage depicts a disciple (identified in the Gospel of John as Saint Peter) drawing a sword to defend against the arrest of Jesus but being told to sheath his weapon:\n\n\"Put your sword back in its place,\" Jesus said to him, \"for all who draw the sword will die by the sword.\"\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. (1929–1968) used the phrase when saying:\n\n"}
{"id": "28831284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831284", "title": "Voluntary association", "text": "Voluntary association\n\nA voluntary group or union (also sometimes called a voluntary organization, common-interest association, association, or society) is a group of individuals who enter into an agreement, usually as volunteers, to form a body (or organization) to accomplish a purpose. Common examples include trade associations, trade unions, learned societies, professional associations, and environmental groups.\n\nMembership is not necessarily voluntary: in order for particular associations to function correctly they might need to be mandatory or at least strongly encouraged, as is common with many teachers unions in the US. Because of this, some people use the term common-interest association to describe groups which form out of a common interest, although this term is not widely used or understood.\n\nVoluntary associations may be incorporated or unincorporated; for example, in the US, unions gained additional powers by incorporating. In the UK, the terms Voluntary Association or Voluntary Organisation cover every type of group from a small local Residents' Association to large Associations (often Registered Charities) with multimillion-pound turnover that run large-scale business operations (often providing some kind of public service as subcontractors to government departments or local authorities).\n\nIn many jurisdictions no formalities are necessary to start an association. In some jurisdictions, there is a minimum for the number of persons starting an association.\n\nSome jurisdictions require that the association register with the police or other official body to inform the public of the association's existence. This could be a tool of political control or intimidation, and also a way of protecting the economy from fraud.\n\nIn many such jurisdictions, only a registered association (or in the UK an incorporated body) is a juristic person whose members are not responsible for the financial acts of the association. Any group of persons may, of course, work as an informal association, but in such cases, each person making a transaction in the name of the association takes responsibility for that transaction, just as if it were that individual's personal transaction.\n\nThere are many countries where the formation of truly independent Voluntary Associations is effectively proscribed by law or where they are theoretically legally permitted, but in practice are persecuted; for example, where membership brings unwelcome attention from police or other state agencies.\n\nVoluntary groups are a broad and original form of nonprofit organizations, and have existed since ancient history. In Ancient Greece, for example, there were various organizations ranging from elite clubs of wealthy men (\"hetaireiai\") to private religious or professional associations.\n\nIn preindustrial societies, governmental administrative duties were often handled by voluntary associations such as guilds. In medieval Europe, guilds often controlled towns. Merchant guilds enforced contracts through embargoes and sanctions on their members, and also adjudicated disputes. However, by the 1800s, merchant guilds had largely disappeared. Economic historians have debated the precise role that merchant guilds played in premodern society and economic growth.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, craft guilds were more successful than merchant guilds and formed livery companies which exerted significant influence on society.\n\nA standard definition of an unincorporated association was given by Lord Justice Lawton in the English trust law case \"Conservative and Unionist Central Office v Burrell\" (1981):\n\nIn most countries, an unincorporated association does not have separate legal personality, and few members of the association usually enjoy limited liability. However, in some countries they are treated as having separate legal personality for tax purposes. However, because of their lack of legal personality, legacies to unincorporated associations are sometimes subject to general common law prohibitions against purpose trusts.\n\nAssociations that are organized for profit or financial gain are usually called partnerships. A special kind of partnership is a co-operative which is usually founded on one person—one vote principle and distributes its profits according to the amount of goods produced or bought by the members. Associations may take the form of a non-profit organization or they may be not-for-profit corporations; this does not mean that the association cannot make benefits from its activity, but all the benefits must be reinvested. Most associations have some kind of document or documents that regulate the way in which the body meets and operates. Such an instrument is often called the organization's bylaws, constitution, regulations, or agreement of association.\n\nUnder English law, an unincorporated association consists of two or more members bound by the rules of a society which has at some point in time, been founded.\n\nSeveral theories have been proposed as to the way that such associations hold rights. A transfer may be considered to have been made to the association's members directly as joint tenants or tenants in common. Alternatively, the funds transferred may be considered to have been under the terms of a private purpose trust. Many purpose trusts fail for want of a beneficiary and this may therefore may result in the gift failing. However, some purpose trusts are valid, and, accordingly, some cases have decided that the rights associated with unincorporated associations are held on this basis. The dominant theory, however, is that the rights are transferred to the members or officers absolutely, perhaps on trust for the members, but are importantly bound by contracts \"inter se\".\n\nAccordingly, on dissolution, the distribution of these rights depends on how they were held. A purpose trust may by its nature survive the dissolution of the association, or it may not. If it fails as a result of the dissolution, then the rights will be held on resulting trust for the contributors, unless they can be shown to have renounced their right to such a trust in their favour. If the rights are held subject to contract, then they will be divided among the surviving membership upon dissolution, according to the terms of the contracts \"inter se\" or an implied term according to contribution. If, as a result of this contract or statute, no member can claim, the rights will pass to the Crown as \"bona vacantia\". This conclusion has also been suggested where the association dissolves because only one member remains, although this has been doubted by some commentators who believe the last members should be entitled to the rights.\n\nScottish law on unincorporated associations is essentially the same as English law.\n\nEach state sets its own laws as to what constitutes an unincorporated association and how it is to be treated under the laws. In the United States, voluntary associations which were incorporated were \"pre-eminent\" in collective action.\n\nIn most Australian states and territories, a similar set of laws allows not-for-profit associations to become legal entities with a limit to the liability of their members. An example of such a law, the Associations Incorporation Act that is in force in South Australia, allows for the creation of a legal entity able to buy and sell land and in general, enter into legally binding contracts. Many clubs and societies begin life as an unincorporated body and seek to attain incorporated status to protect its members from legal liability and in many cases to seek government financial assistance only available to an incorporated body. Clubs and societies wishing to incorporate must meet the provisions of the relevant state act and lodge their constitution with the corresponding state government authority.\n\nCertain civil-law systems classify an association as a special form of contractual relationship.\n\nUnder the Quebec Civil Code an association is categorized as a type of statutory specific contract set forth in a constitution. An association can become incorporated with its own legal identity so that it may, e.g., open a bank account, enter into contracts (rent real estate, hire employees, take out an insurance policy), or sue or be sued.\n\nIn France, all voluntary associations are non-profit. They may count as unincorporated (\"association non-déclarée\") or incorporated (\"association déclarée\"), and are created in terms of and governed by the Waldeck-Rousseau Act 1901. This is why \"\" is subjoined to their name, except in Alsace-Moselle area which is governed by local law in this regard (the area was German in 1901) and are therefore called \"\".. If the association responding to defined criteria, like social or medical help for example, they can be declared \"public utility association\" (\"association d'utilité publique\") by French authorities. Associations act 1901 let an important large of freedom about internal operation, like direction or authorized members for example.\n\nThe German Civil Code sets out different rights and rules for an unincorporated association (\"nicht eingetragener Verein\") with legal identity (\"Vereine\", art. 21-79 BGB) versus an incorporated association (\"eingetragener Verein\") with full legal personality, which the law treats as partnerships (\"Gesellschaften\", art. 705-740 BGB). Associations can be for-profit (\"wirtschaftlicher Verein\"), non-for-profit (\"Idealverein\"), or public (\"gemeinnütziger Verein\").\n\nIn Israel, many non-profit organizations (NPOs) and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are established as registered nonprofit associations (Hebrew \"amutah,\" plural \"amutot\") (some are established as public benefit companies (Hebrew \"Chevrah LeTo’elet Hatzibur\") not to be confused with public benefit corporations). ‘‘Amutot’’ are regulated by the Associations Law, 1980. An \"amutah\" is a body corporate, though not a company. The \"amutah\" is successor to the Ottoman Society which predated the State of Israel, and was established by the now-superseded Ottoman Societies Law of 1909, based on the French law of 1901. An \"amutah\" must register with the \"Rasham Ha’amutot\" ('Registrar of Amutot'), under the purview of the \"Rashot Hata’agidim\" ('Corporations Authority') of the Ministry of Justice.\n\nThe freedom of association stands in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: \nArticle 11 of the European Convention on Human Rights also protects the right to freedom of assembly and association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34375832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34375832", "title": "Vorlage", "text": "Vorlage\n\nA Vorlage (; from the German for \"prototype\" or \"template\") is a prior version or manifestation of a text under consideration. It may refer to such a version of a text itself, a particular manuscript of the text, or a more complex manifestation of the text (e.g., a group of copies, or a group of excerpts). Thus, the original-language version of a text which a translator then works into a translation is called the \"Vorlage\" of that translation. For example, the Luther Bible is a translation of the Textus Receptus. So in this case the Textus Receptus is the \"Vorlage\" of the Luther Bible. \n\nSometimes the \"Vorlage\" of a translation may be lost to history. In some of these cases the \"Vorlage\" may be reconstructed from the translation. Such a reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may be called a \"retroversion\", and it invariably is made with some amount of uncertainty. Nevertheless, the \"Vorlage\" may still be reconstructed in some parts at such a level of confidence that the translation and its retroversion can be used as a witness for the purposes of textual criticism. This reconstructed \"Vorlage\" may stand on its own as the sole witness of the original-language text, or it may be compared and used along with other witnesses. Thus, for example, scholars use the reconstructed \"Vorlage\" of the Greek Septuagint translation of the Hebrew Bible at parts to correct the Hebrew Masoretic version when trying to determine oldest version of the Hebrew Bible that they can infer. Or, as another example, the Coptic fragments of Plato's Republic included among the Nag Hammadi library are used to help attest to the original Greek text which Plato himself wrote. For the bulk of the Gospel of Thomas, the \"Vorlage\" exists only as a retroversion of the Coptic translation, as no other witness to the original Greek text for most of the sayings recorded therein is known.\n"}
{"id": "2377307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2377307", "title": "Women in heraldry", "text": "Women in heraldry\n\nDue to the differing role of women in past society, special rules grew relating to the blazoning of arms for women. The rules for women and heraldry developed differently from place to place and there is no one single rule that applies everywhere. In general, arms of women were most likely depicted not on shields but on lonzeges or ovals. Different rules exist that depend on the woman's marital status and a married woman would also often make use of her husband's arms in addition to those from her family. In both the English and the Scottish systems of heraldry these differences remain active.\n\nHeraldry has its origins from associations with warfare and the age of chivalry. The traditional shield was also associated with war and so women did not usually display familial arms on escutcheons. Rather, they could display these on various other shapes: more commonly the lozenge, an oval, or a cartouche.\n\nThe crest–a device that sits atop the shield on an armorial achievement–likewise was not accorded to heraldic devices of women as these had associations with warfare.\n\nIn many heraldic traditions, arms generally are passed patrilineally. In other nations, in Canadian heraldry for example, women may inherit arms on an equal basis with their brothers (if any). Women in Canada may also transmit their arms to their heirs, regardless of gender.\n\nIn English, Scottish and Northern Irish heraldry, a woman may bear arms by inheritance from her father or by grant to herself. When unmarried, she displays her arms on a lozenge (a diamond shape) or on an oval or oval-like shape. Traditionally, a woman does not display her arms on a shield, as the shield originated with knights and warfare, and is thus viewed as fitting for a man, but not a woman.\nA married woman may also bear either her own arms or her husband's arms alone on a shield with the shield charged with a small lozenge to distinguish her from her husband.\n\nA widowed woman usually displays the impaled arms on a lozenge-shaped shield, unless she is a heraldic heiress (see below).\n\nIf the woman is an heraldic heiress, her arms are shown on an inescutcheon of pretence, which is a small shield in the centre of her husband's arms. When widowed, instead of showing the impaled arms on a lozenge, she continues to use her marital arms, but placed on a lozenge or oval. In England and Northern Ireland, if there is more than one surviving daughter, each transmits her father's arms on equal terms. In Scotland however, only the eldest surviving daughter transmits her father's undifferenced arms to her offspring.\n\nIn Canadian heraldry, women and men are treated equally for heraldic purpose, reflecting Canadian equality laws. It is therefore common to display the arms of women on shields, rather than on a lozenge or oval, but a woman may still choose to have her arms displayed on a traditional shape.\n\nIn many systems of heraldry, the arms of each living person must be unique. English heraldry has used armorial variants to distinguish the arms of brothers from their father's arms and from each other since the thirteenth century; this is now normally done by the system of marks or \"brisures\" set up by the early Tudor herald John Writhe. Canada adds a unique series of brisures for use by female children who inherit arms. As in other heraldic systems, these cadency marks are not always used; in any case, when the heir succeeds (in Canada, the first child, whether male or female, according to strict primogeniture), the mark of cadency is removed and the heir uses the plain coat of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "13587755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13587755", "title": "Young worker safety and health", "text": "Young worker safety and health\n\nAround the world, nearly 250 million children, about one in every six children, ages 5 through 17, are involved in child labor. Children can be found in almost any economic sector. However, at a global level, most of them work in agriculture (70%). Approximately 2.4 million adolescents aged 16 to 17 years worked in the U.S. in 2006. Official employment statistics are not available for younger adolescents who are also known to work, especially in agricultural settings.\n\nIn 2006, 30 youth under 18 died from work-related injuries in the U.S. In 2003, an estimated 54,800 work-related injuries and illnesses among youth less than 18 years of age were treated in hospital emergency departments. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health reports that only one-third of work-related injuries are seen in emergency departments, therefore it is likely that approximately 160,000 youth sustain work-related injuries and illnesses each year. The highest number of teen worker fatalities occur in agricultural work and the retail trades, according to recent data. Across Europe, 18- to 24-year-olds are at least 50% more likely to be injured in the workplace than more experienced workers.\n\nBecause of their biologic, social, and economic characteristics, young workers have unique and substantial risks for work-related injuries and illnesses. Besides retail and agriculture, other areas of high risk for work-related injuries include construction and work activities involving motor vehicles and mobile machinery. Although safety requirements and child labor laws prohibit or restrict teen employment in certain kinds of industries and occupations, young workers may yet face risks on the job because an employer or a young employee may not be aware of applicable laws and may not be aware that a hazard exists, because the young employee may lack experience, or because there is inadequate training or supervision.\n\nChild labor is the employment of children under an age determined by law or custom. This practice is considered exploitative by many countries and international organizations. Child labor was utilized to varying extents through most of history, but entered public dispute with the beginning of universal schooling, with changes in working conditions during industrialization, and with the emergence of the concepts of workers' and children's rights. Child labor is still common in some places. Even after passing child labor legislation, developing countries in particular still feature informal economies made up of child workers who are more exposed to human rights violations in the workplace.\n\nThere are roughly 250,000 children who work on U.S. farms, that do not live on the farm, and another 30 million children who visit farms annually. About every three days a child dies on a U.S. farm. In 2004, most youth work fatalities occurred in the agriculture sector. About two thirds of these fatalities could be attributed to transportation accidents. According to the \"Occupational injuries among young workers\" report, most of these transportation accidents occurred either by truck or by tractor. Tractor accidents alone counted for 1/4 of the youth worker fatalities from 1993 to 2002. For workers 13 years old and younger, agricultural fatalities accounted for 42 out of the 49 total fatalities for that age group between 1998 and 2002. There are fewer child labor restrictions on family-owned or operated farms; workers as young as 13 can legally operate tractors on farms if their family owns it or operates it.\n\nExperiences and exposures across different sectors of agriculture vary greatly. For example, children who worked on tobacco farms experienced a number of negative health effects including nausea, heat exhaustion, and burning eyes.\n\nBetween the years 1998 and 2002, construction accidents accounted for 18% of youth worker fatalities, making construction the second most deadly industry for a young worker to be employed in during that time period. A significant number of young worker fatalities in this sector resulted from work that the young worker was not legally authorized to do. For example, 16-year-old workers accounted for almost 20% of the young worker fatalities in the construction sector between 1998 and 2002, even though workers 16 and younger are legally unauthorized to enter a construction site; if they do work for the construction industry, they can only work in an office or sales department. Additionally, Hispanic and Latino young workers made up 35% of the young worker fatalities in the construction sector. Hispanics make up 14.4% of the United States' general population.\n\nThe second highest number of workplace fatalities between 1993 and 1997 among workers younger than age 18 occurred in the retail trades (e.g., restaurants and retail stores). Between 1992 and 2000, 63% of these deaths were due to assaults and violent acts, most of which were homicides. Homicide associated with robbery is the probable cause for one fourth to one half of all young worker fatalities in retail trades. Handling cash, working alone or in small numbers, and working in the late evening and early morning hours may contribute to workplace homicides [NIOSH 1996a].\n\nIn 1998, more than half of all work-related nonfatal injuries to young workers occurred in retail trades, more than 60% of which were eating and drinking establishments. Cuts in retail trades were the most common type of injury treated in emergency departments, followed by burns in eating and drinking establishments and bruises, scrapes, and scratches in other retail settings. Common hazards in restaurants include using knives to prepare food, handling hot grease from fryers, working near hot surfaces, and slipping on wet or greasy floors.\nIn addition, certain types of machinery prohibited for use by young workers under current child labor laws are commonly found in retail establishments—including food slicers, paper balers, forklifts, dough and batter mixers, and bread cutting machines. Young workers may choose to operate unfamiliar machinery to prove responsibility, independence, or maturity, or they may be instructed to do so by an employer who is unaware of child labor laws or chooses to disregard them.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) within the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) is the Federal agency with primary responsibility for setting and enforcing standards to promote safe and healthful working conditions for all workers. Employers are responsible for becoming familiar with standards applicable to their establishments and for ensuring a safe working environment.\n\nThe U.S. Public Health Service has a Healthy People 2020 objective to reduce emergency department injury rates among young workers, ages 15 through 19, to 4.9 injuries/100 full-time equivalents by 2020. The rate in 2007 was 5.3 injuries/100 full-time equivalents.\n\nThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) within the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention plays a lead role in efforts to reduce injuries and illnesses among working youth by conducting and supporting science to guide prevention efforts, disseminating findings, and working with others in collaborative outreach.\n\nThe NIOSH funds the National Children's Center for Rural and Agricultural Health and Safety.\n\nA workplace may be fully compliant with OSHA regulations and yet may place young workers at risk of injury or illness if applicable federal and state child labor laws are not followed. One study estimated that more than three-fourths of employers of young workers were unfamiliar with child labor laws. Lack of awareness of occupational safety and health laws by young workers, adults, and employers has been identified as a major obstacle to preventing injury and illness in young workers. The primary Federal law governing the employment of workers under age 18 is the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) of 1938, which is enforced by the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration within DOL. Child labor provisions of the FLSA are designed to protect the educational opportunities of minors and prohibit their employment in jobs that pose safety or health risks. The FLSA does not cover all young workers. The FLSA applies to an entire business enterprise if the enterprise has annual gross revenues of $500,000 or more. Child Labor Regulation No. 3 restricts hours and specifies allowable employment activities for workers aged 14 and 15.\n\nStates may also have their own child labor laws that are stricter than federal laws. If a state child labor law is less protective than federal law, or if no applicable state law exists, Federal child labor laws apply.\n\n\n"}
