{"id": "21242066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21242066", "title": "1001 to 1600 in sports", "text": "1001 to 1600 in sports\n\nBy 1600, rural folk in Great Britain had begun to play early versions of cricket, football and golf. Early in the 16th century, English public houses were showing interest in bowls and real tennis, as well as dice and cards, all of which the government tried to eliminate forcefully. According to Derek Birley, it was late in the 16th century that \"licensing began to replace prohibition ... a public house might be licensed to allow men of substance to engage in dice, cards, tables, bowls, and tennis on condition that there was no blaspheming or swearing, and no play before noon on working days or during hours of religious worship on Sundays\".\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nSpeculation\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nTheory of origin\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n"}
{"id": "24732626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24732626", "title": "1814 in sports", "text": "1814 in sports\n\n1814 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nEvents\nEngland\n"}
{"id": "356964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356964", "title": "1942 in sports", "text": "1942 in sports\n\n1942 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nNote — \"many sporting events did not take place because of World War II\"\n\n\n\n\n\nNBL Championship\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nIndia\nWest Indies\n\nTour de France\nGiro d'Italia\n\nWorld Figure Skating Championships\n\nMen's professional\nMen's amateur\nWomen's professional\n\nSteeplechases\nHurdle races\nFlat races\n\n\nEvents\n\nThe Boat Race\n\n\n\nSpeed Skating World Championships\n\nAustralia\nEngland\nFrance\nUSA\nDavis Cup\n\n\n Owing to government bans on weekday sport, the Melbourne Cup was run on a Saturday from 1942 to 1944.\n"}
{"id": "49586544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49586544", "title": "2014 UCI World Championships", "text": "2014 UCI World Championships\n\nThere are several 2014 UCI World Championships. The International Cycling Union (UCI) holds World Championships every year. In 2014, they include:\n\n \n"}
{"id": "9935153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9935153", "title": "Amateur Sports Act of 1978", "text": "Amateur Sports Act of 1978\n\nThe Amateur Sports Act of 1978, signed by President Jimmy Carter, established the United States Olympic Committee and provides for national governing bodies for each Olympic sport. The Act provides important legal protection for individual athletes.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the Act in 1978, the Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) represented the United States on international competition matters and regulated amateur sports generally. The AAU had adopted arbitrary rules which prohibited women from participating in running events and prohibited any runner who had raced in the same event as a runner with a shoe-company sponsorship. Congress adopted the Act in response to criticisms of the AAU, effectively removing that organization from any governance role.\n\nThe AAU now continues as a voluntary organization largely promoting youth sports. While it still has a major role in promoting track, it is now best known for sponsoring youth basketball competitions.\n\nThe Act charters the U.S. Olympic Committee, which in turn can charter a national governing body (NGB) for each sport, such as USA Swimming, the United States Fencing Association, the United States Ski Team, USA Track & Field, USA Shooting, or the U.S. Figure Skating. Each NGB in turn establishes the rules for selecting the United States Olympic Team and promotes amateur competition in that sport.\n\nThe Act requires that active athletes (defined as amateur athletes who have represented the United States in international amateur competition within the last ten years) must hold 20 percent of the voting power of any board or committee in an NGB. The Act also provides athletes with due process and appeal rights concerning eligibility disputes. \n\nThe Act gives exclusive rights of usage of the words \"Olympic\" and \"Olympiad\" to the Olympic Committee. The Committee used this act to sue other organizations which used this term \"Olympics\", such as the Gay Olympics.\n\nThe Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act is a United States law (codified at 36 U.S.C. Sec. 220501 et seq. of the United States Code) that charters and grants monopoly status to the United States Olympic Committee, and specifies requirements for its member national governing bodies for individual sports. \n\nThe current version of the Act was sponsored by Ted Stevens, then–Senator from Alaska, and adopted in 1998. It is a revision of the previous Amateur Sports Act of 1978 that reflects changes such as the fact that amateurism is no longer a requirement for competing in most international sports, expansion of the USOC's role to include the Paralympic Games, increased athlete representation, and protection of the USOC against lawsuits involving athletes' right to participate in the Olympic Games.\n\nThe United States Olympic Committee has used the law to force the \"Gay Olympics\" to change their name to the Gay Games. The organization has threatened to use the law against the \"Redneck Olympics,\" though it has given special dispensation to the Special Olympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "21981132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21981132", "title": "Animal treatment in rodeo", "text": "Animal treatment in rodeo\n\nThe welfare of animals in rodeo has been a topic of discussion for the industry, the public, and the law for decades. Protests were first raised in the 1870s, and, in the middle twentieth century, laws were enacted to curb events using animals. The American Humane Association (AHA) has worked with the rodeo industry (specifically, the PRCA) to establish rules improving animal welfare in rodeo and the treatment of rodeo animals.\n\nToday, animal cruelty complaints in rodeo are still very much alive. The PRCA (which governs about a third of the rodeos conducted in the United States annually) has provided rules for its members regarding animal welfare. However the concept of rodeo has changed from year to year, derving from the amount of people not in the event increasing. Some local rodeos have banned the use of certain rodeo tack including flank straps and certain events such as steer tripping. Some \"charreada\" events staged in the United States saw a crack down in the early years of the twenty-first century.\n\nJames Serpell stated in his \"In the Company of Animals\":\n\nIt is perhaps exaggerated to claim, as one author has, that the rodeo is 'the modern equivalent of the public hanging'. Nevertheless, these performances hinge on the violent subjugation of living animals, some of which are deliberately incited to frenzied violence by raking them with spurs, constricting the genital region with leather straps, or by thrusting an electric prod into the rectal area. At the same time they are often given bogus, malevolent names in order to deflect sympathy from their plight. Occasionally, they are maimed or killed, and many are forced to undergo the same terrifying ordeal several times a day. Yet the rodeo is presented to the American public as a harmless, red-blooded entertainment in which the cowboy – the epitome of wholesome, manly virtue – uses his courage and skill to overcome and subdue untamable, outlaw stock. Doubtless, the Romans employed similar fantasies to justify their activities in the Circus Maximus.\n\nProtests were first raised regarding animal welfare in the 1870s, and, beginning in the 1930s, some states enacted laws curtailing rodeo activities and other events involving animals. In the 1950s, the then Rodeo Cowboys Association worked with the American Humane Association (AHA) to establish regulations protecting the welfare of rodeo animals that were acceptable to both organizations. These regulations appear in the PRCA's annually-updated rule book. Rodeo saw its greatest growth in the 1970s and with it a rise in animal cruelty complaints. The PRCA and AHA have insinuated that these charges exist solely for the fund-raising purposes of other humane interest groups. The protests and complaints have made the PRCA realize that public education regarding rodeo and the welfare of animals needs to be undertaken if rodeo is to survive.\n\nIn his \"Author's Note\" to \"Chasing the Rodeo\" (2005, 2006) author W.K. Stratton states, \"Without question, rodeo exploits animals for the entertainment of humans, causing injury and death to hundreds of horses and cattle each year.\" Stratton notes that as many as a dozen head of steer and calves will die annually at a single large rodeo like the Calgary Stampede, and that many valuable roping horses have died over the years at the Pendleton Roundup which is conducted on slippery grass. He also points out that while PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) characterizes rodeo as \"cruelty for a buck\", conservative Matthew Scully, a special assistant to and former speechwriter for President George W. Bush as well as author of \"\" calls rodeo \"gratuitous abuse of animals\". Stratton notes that he attended twenty plus rodeos and bullriding events in researching his book and saw \"animals injured in the arena, some badly enough that they had to be destroyed.\"\n\nModern rodeos in the United States are closely regulated and have responded to accusations of animal cruelty by instituting a number of rules to guide how rodeo animals are to be managed.\n\nIn 1994, a survey of 28 sanctioned rodeos was conducted by on-site independent veterinarians. Reviewing animal runs, the injury rate was documented 0.047% (16 animals in 33,991 runs.\n\nIn 2000, a survey conducted by independent veterinarians at 57 PRCA rodeos found 0.053% (38 animal injuries in 71,743 animal exposures).\n\nA 2001 survey reported an injury rate of 0.056% in 21 PRCA rodeos (15 animals in 26,584 performances).\n\nA later PRCA survey of 60,971 animal performances at 198 rodeo performances and 73 sections of \"slack\" (competitions outside of the main competition events) indicated 27 animals were injured, i.e. 0.04%\n\nIn Australian rodeos, similar injury rates occur. Basic injuries occur at a rate of 0.072% (one in 1,405), with injuries requiring veterinary attention at 0.036% (one injury each 2,810 times an animal is used in competition).\n\nAccusations of cruelty in US rodeos persist. The PRCA acknowledges they sanction only about 30% of all rodeos, another 50% are sanctioned by other organizations and 20% are completely unsanctioned. Several animal rights and animal welfare organizations keep records of accidents and incidents of possible animal abuse. They cite various specific incidents of injury to support their statements, and also point to examples of long-term breakdown, as well as reporting on injuries and deaths suffered by animals in non-rodeo events staged on the periphery of professional rodeo such as chuck wagon races and \"Suicide Runs.\" In terms of statistics on animal injury rate during rodeos, there appear to be no independent studies more recent than the 1994 study.\n\nGroups such as People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) note incidents of animal injury, including an incident where a \"bull [sic] suffered from a broken neck ...\" According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), practice sessions are often the scene of more severe animal welfare abuses than competitions.\n\nIn 1990, when a major rodeo was planned for the Toronto Sky Dome, Ontario, Canada, the Toronto City Council requested the Toronto Medical Officer on Health to report on rodeo practices and whether \"such practices could be deemed cruel to animals\". The Medical Officer noted that animal handlers employed electric prods, flank straps, sharpened sticks, spurs and other tack were used to provoke animals into reacting in such a way as to make certain events thrilling for spectators, and thus it was unlikely to be enjoyable for livestock.\n\nThe Medical Officer further noted that guidelines instituted to prevent animal abuse at sanctioned rodeos were paid little heed and calves suffered damage not readily visible such as bruised tracheal cartilage in roping events. All bucking events were found by the Medical Officer to rely on the application of irritants to make the animals \"fly\" from the chutes. The Medical Officer stated in his summary that in terms of a dictionary definition of cruelty, most rodeo events have the potential to cause injury, grief, or pain, and therefore can be considered cruel. Although the Medical Officer did not say that the legal definition of cruelty had been met, he implied that it had been \"reached, if not crossed.\"\n\nE.J. Finocchio, DVM wrote the Rhode Island legislature urging a ban on calf roping: \"As a large animal veterinarian for 20 years ... I have witnessed first hand the instant death of calves after their spinal cords were severed from the abrupt stop at the end of a rope when traveling up to 30 mph. I have also witnessed and tended calves who became paralyzed ... and whose tracheas were totally or partially severed ... Slamming to the ground has caused rupture of several internal organs leading to a slow, agonizing death for some of these calves.\"\n\nC.J. Haber, a veterinarian with 30 years experience as a United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) meat inspector notes, \"The rodeo folk send their animals to the packing house where ... I have seen cattle so extensively bruised that the only areas where the skin was attached [to the body] was the head, neck, legs, and belly. I have seen animals with six to eight ribs broken from the spine and at times puncturing the lungs.\"\n\n\"The Calgary Humane Society opposes the use of animals for any form of entertainment in which they are placed at risk of suffering undue stress, pain, injury or death.\"\n\nGiven its position on animals in entertainment, CHS opposes rodeo events like chuckwagon racing, calf-roping and steer wrestling that are the most often implicated in injury to animals.\n\nWhile other organizations may wish to intervene through protest, or other means, CHS has found it can best protect the interests of the animals involved by working with organizations that put on such events. Over more than a decade of work with the Calgary Stampede, Calgary Humane Society has been instrumental in significant changes that have reduced injuries (for example, changes to the chuckwagon track that reduced stress fractures to the legs of horses; penalizing of calf-roping that yanked the calf backward) and eliminated certain high risk events (like wild cow milking).\n\nCHS does its work by providing recommendations to the organizations, by following up on public complaints, and by having its Peace Officers attending these events to ensure the province's Animal Protection Act (APA) is upheld.\n\nUnder Alberta and Canadian law, Calgary Humane Society's primary role in attendance of the Calgary Stampede is to enforce the Animal Protection Act of Alberta.Calgary Humane Society Peace Officers attend every day of the Stampede to monitor and ensure the animals are being properly treated i.e., food, water, shelter and care. They are also immediately on scene of any accident involving an animal to ensure the animal is being treated promptly, efficiently and humanely, to document what happened, and to follow up with the unresolved cases.\n\nCHS encourages concerned citizens to document their complaints and send them to the agencies and individuals listed in the attached document.\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States (HSUS) takes a position of opposition to all rodeos and rodeo events:\n\nThe HSUS opposes rodeos as they are commonly organized, since they typically cause torment and stress to animals; expose them to pain, injury, or even death; and encourage an insensitivity to and acceptance of the inhumane treatment of animals in the name of sport. Accordingly, we oppose the use of devices such as electric prods, sharpened sticks, spurs, flank straps, and other rodeo equipment that cause animals to react violently, and we oppose bull riding, bronco riding, steer roping, calf roping, \"wild horse racing,\" chuck wagon racing, steer tailing, and horse tripping.\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States came into being in 1954 as an offshoot of the American Humane Association (AHA), and initially tackled legislation regarding humane slaughter, the protection of laboratory animals and other issues. In the 1970s, the organization began eyeing rodeo and its \"psychologically damaging\" effect on children.\n\n\"Vancouver Humane Society is opposed to rodeo because most rodeo events involve the use of fear, stress or pain to make animals perform.\" In Canada, the City of Vancouver and the District of North Vancouver have banned rodeos. For the most part, all animal welfare organizations in Canada oppose rodeo, including the Humane Society of Canada and the Canadian Federation of Humane Societies.\n\nPETA criticizes the United States military in its annual expenditure of tax dollars to support the Professional Bull Riders (PBR), stating that American tax dollars are fueling \"horrific and cruel rodeo events\". PETA asserts that rodeo animals suffer fear and pain through the application of spurs, flank straps, prods, and tail-twisting.\n\nPETA has used some unorthodox methods to make its point. Moments after being crowned, Miss Rodeo America 2000 had a chocolate tofu 'cow pie' pushed in her face by a PETA member. PETA President, Ingrid Newkirk, said in a statement that Miss Rodeo America should relinquish her crown for promoting cruelty to animals. \"Now that she's got pie on her face, we hope Miss Rodeo America will find a little compassion in her heart,\" Newkirk said. The pageant is held in conjunction with the National Finals Rodeo, an event PETA annually protests against, claiming the sport exploits animals.\n\nThe ASPCA has a policy statement on rodeo events that reads:\n\nThe ASPCA is opposed to all rodeo events that involve cruel, painful, stressful and potentially harmful treatment of livestock, not only in performance but also in handling, transport and prodding to perform. The ASPCA recognizes the cruel treatment inflicted on many additional animals in the process of practicing to compete in rodeo events. Further, the ASPCA is opposed to children's rodeo events such as goat tying, calf riding and sheep riding (\"mutton busting\"), which do not promote humane care and respect for animals.\n\nThe American Humane Association (AHA) used to campaign against rodeo through anti-rodeo literature but changed its strategy in the 1950s and began working with rodeo to establish rules to ensure the humane treatment of livestock. The rules are updated as needed and published annually in the PRCA's rule book. The AHA believes the exploitation of animals begins when \"animals, people, and money\" are mixed together, and what progress has been made is ascribed to a change in people's attitudes in general and the urban and college background of modern rodeo participants. Moral philosopher Peter Singer has criticized the AHA for collaborating with rodeo and thereby lending respectability to its cruelties. The AHA has strict requirements for the treatment and use of animals in movie rodeo scenes. The use of electric prods and other artificial stimuli to make an animal perform are forbidden, for example.\n\nThe RSPCA Australia is opposed to rodeo. It has repeatedly called for rodeo to be banned, and has funded media campaigns urging public boycott of prominent international rodeos. Its policy statement reads:\n\nThe PRCA admits it only oversees about a third of the actual rodeos that occur in the United States annually, and, according to their own public relations information, the organization has taken steps to improve the welfare of animals. The organization says that most rodeo animals enjoy what they're doing. The PRCA's regulations and rules require, among other things, provisions for injured animals, veterinarians on site at PRCA sanctioned rodeos, and spurs with dulled, free-spinning rowels. Health regulations mandate vaccinations and blood testing of animals crossing state lines, and sick or injured animals are given appropriate veterinary care.\n\nIn an article published by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) in its Journal dated January 2001, Dr. James Furman, a former rodeo rider and mixed practice practitioner, stated at the organization's Animal Welfare Forum that ranchers provide their stock health and other care. When grilled about the possible damage to a calf's neck when he is roped and jerked to a sudden stop, Dr. Furman responded by observing that rodeo men have changed calf roping techniques; where they once roped and flipped a calf on its back they now try to spin the standing calf around.\n\n\"Charreada\" is amateur rodeo among Mexican Americans in the United States with family-owned arenas being operated for 200 teams in 12 states. Eight states have cracked down on several traditional events including horse-tripping, an event in which the front legs of a running mare are roped causing her to fall, and steer tailing in which a steer is flipped to the earth by grabbing his tail. Some Mexican Americans have expressed concerns their culture is being unfairly targeted and point to the deaths of Eight Belles and other race horses as evidence that Anglo sports involving animals see few restrictions.\n\nRodeo sometimes appears in court. A PRCA stock contractor faced animal cruelty charges regarding the use of a prod at a California rodeo in 2002. Testimony revealed a rodeo judge and a veterinarian had been consulted before the rodeo about a chute-stalling horse, and an agreement had been reached that if the horse stalled, the prod would be applied to protect all involved. California law stipulates a prod cannot be used on an animal in a holding chute unless necessary to protect participants and spectators. The stock contractor was cleared of charges because the chute gate was open when the prod was used, and therefore it was not a holding chute.\n\nIn response to animal welfare and animal cruelty concerns, a number of laws have passed regulating rodeo. In the United Kingdom the Protection of Animals Act 1934 effectively made rodeo, as it was then practiced, illegal in England, Scotland and Wales. In September 2000, California became the first American state to prohibit the use of prods on any animal in a chute.\n\nStringent regulations have virtually eliminated rodeo in Rhode Island, a state which also stipulates that any individual convicted of animal cruelty in a rodeo cannot participate as a rodeo contestant. While there is no record in any state of anyone being convicted of cruelty to animals during the course of a rodeo, several states—Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, New Mexico, New York, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming—all exempt rodeo from its anticruelty laws, making such convictions impossible. Eleven of the states immunize rodeo events from the provisions of the law, while Utah excludes rodeo animals from the definition of 'animal' in its anitcruelty laws. Idaho has declared exhibitions that are commonly considered acceptable cannot be charged with cruelty to animals.\n\nAfter a video aired on NBC showing a bull breaking its leg in a 1991 Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania rodeo, the city banned controversial rodeo tack, specifically electric prods or shocking devices, flank or bucking straps, wire tie-downs, and sharpened or fixed spurs or rowels. Pittsburgh also requires humane officers be provided access to any and all areas where animals may go–specifically pens, chutes, and injury pens.\n\nFort Wayne, Indiana does not allow anyone to conduct a rodeo within the city limits. In 1998, Woodstock, Illinois made fighting or wrestling with any animal illegal, thus ending steer wrestling. Ohio has restricted some rodeo practices, having outlawed unpadded flank and bucking straps and the use of electric prods on cattle and horses. Rodeo was banned in the United Kingdom in 1934 when Parliament passed the Protection of Animals Act. Baltimore, Maryland, Southampton, New York, and Pompano Beach, Florida have enacted legislation banning certain rodeo tack including bullwhips. St. Petersburg, Florida has banned rodeo within the city limits—the only complete ban on rodeo in the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154164", "title": "Athlete", "text": "Athlete\n\nAn athlete (also sportsman or sportswoman) is a person who competes in one or more sports that involve physical strength, speed or endurance. The application of the term to those who participate in other activities, such as horse riding or driving, is somewhat controversial.\n\nAthletes may be professionals or amateurs. Most professional athletes have particularly well-developed physiques obtained by extensive physical training and strict exercise accompanied by a strict dietary regimen.\n\nThe word \"athlete\" is a romanization of the , \"athlētēs\", one who participates in a contest; from ἄθλος, \"áthlos\", or ἄθλον, \"áthlon\", a contest or feat. The primary definition of \"sportsman\" according to Webster's \"Third Unabridged Dictionary\" (1960) is, \"a person who is active in sports: as (a): one who engages in the sports of the field and especially in hunting or fishing.\" Athletes involved in isotonic exercises have an increased mean left ventricular end-diastolic volume and are less likely to be depressed. Due to their strenuous physical activities, athletes are far more likely than the general population to visit massage salons and pay for services from massotherapists and masseurs. Athletes whose sport espouses endurance more than strength usually have a lower calorie intake than other athletes.\n\nAn \"all-around athlete\" is a person who competes in multiple sports at a high level. Examples of people who played more than one sport professionally include Jim Thorpe, Lionel Conacher, Deion Sanders, Danny Ainge, Babe Zaharias and Erin Phillips. Others include Ricky Williams, Bo Jackson, and Damon Allen, each of whom was drafted both by Major League Baseball and by professional gridiron football leagues such as the NFL and the CFL. Another female example is Heather Moyse, a multiple Winter Olympic gold medalist in bobsled and member of the World Rugby Hall of Fame who also represented Canada internationally in track cycling and competed at university level in basketball and track and field. Japanese athletes such as Kazushi Sakuraba, Kazuyuki Fujita, Masakatsu Funaki and Naoya Ogawa have successfully performed in professional wrestling (which isn't a sport) and competed in mixed martial arts.\n\nThe title of \"World's Greatest Athlete\" traditionally belongs to the world's top competitor in the decathlon (males) and heptathlon (females) in track and field. The decathlon consists of 10 events: 100 meters, long jump, shot put, high jump, 400 meters, 110 m hurdles, discus, pole vault, javelin, and 1500 m. The heptathlon consists of seven events: the 100 m hurdles, high jump, shot put, 200 meters, long jump, javelin, and 800 meters. These competitions require an athlete to possess the whole spectrum of athletic ability in order to be successful including speed, strength, coordination, jumping ability, and endurance.\n\nAlthough the title \"World's Greatest Athlete\" seems a natural fit for these two events, its traditional association with the decathlon/heptathlon officially began with Jim Thorpe. During the 1912 Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden, Thorpe won the gold medal in the Decathlon (among others). Thorpe notably also competed professionally in soccer, baseball, American Football, and basketball; and competed collegiately in track and field, soccer, baseball, lacrosse, and did ballroom dancing. King Gustav V of Sweden, while awarding Thorpe the decathlon gold said: \"You, sir, are the greatest athlete in the world.\" That title has become associated with the decathlon event ever since.\n\n"}
{"id": "9607623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9607623", "title": "Benefit (sports)", "text": "Benefit (sports)\n\nA benefit is a match or season of activities granted by a sporting body to a loyal sportsman to boost their income before retirement. Often this is in the form of a match for which all the ticket proceeds are given to the player in question. However hosting one of these matches is a risk for the player in question as he/she is responsible for paying any relevant receipts and collects any excess income from the match, therefore income from such matches is more often than not reliant on attendance.\n\nSometimes, the \"beneficiary\" can opt to give part or all of the money to charity. An example of this is Paul Collingwood's 2007 benefit with Durham County Cricket Club. This may also occur when sportsmen unite for a cause, for example the Rafael Nadal vs Roger Federer \"Match for Africa\" (2010) where more than $2.6 million was raised for the Roger Federer Foundation, enabling children living in poverty to realise their potential.\n\nBenefit matches originated in English county cricket in a time period where playing sport, in particular cricket, for a living didn't offer as big of an income as it does in modern society (2015), holding a benefit at a player's 10 year service mark or retirement mark was considered a form of retirement/insurance policy. Benefit matches are confused with Testimonial matches, it's important to note that this is a direct gift from the club where income is guaranteed unlike in a benefit where income is often dependent on attendance. Similar events were organised in Baseball in the 1860s, these events often occurred at season end involving the stars of the sport to acknowledge a significant member of the sport. However a rule established by the NABBP in 1859 prohibited any player compensation, the basis of this rule was to maintain fair game in competition and avoid professional vs. amateur situations arising.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33068350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33068350", "title": "Boycotts of Israel in sports", "text": "Boycotts of Israel in sports\n\nBoycotts of Israel in sports refer to various disqualifications and denial of Israeli athletes. As part of a more or less systematic boycott of Israel, Israeli athletes and teams have been barred from some competitions. In many international competitions, where Israel does take part, such as the Olympic Games, some Arab and Muslim competitors avoid competing against Israelis. Some countries even compel their athletes not to compete against Israelis or in Israel.\n\nThe Israel Football Association was a member of the Asian Football Confederation (AFC) group of FIFA between 1954 and 1974. Because of the Arab League boycott of Israel, several Arab and Muslim states refused to compete against Israel. The political situation culminated in Israel winning the 1958 World Cup qualifying stage for Asia and Africa without playing a single game, forcing FIFA to schedule a playoff between Israel and Wales to ensure the Israeli team did not qualify without playing at least one game (which Wales won). In 1974, Israel was expelled from the AFC group by a resolution initiated by Kuwait, which was adopted by AFC by a vote of 17 to 13 with 6 abstentions. To get around the ban, Israel was admitted as an associated member of the Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) in 1992, and was admitted as a full member of the UEFA group in 1994. Supporters of the Boycott Divestment Sanctions (BDS) movement have advocated for Israel to be expelled or suspended from FIFA, without success. On 24 August 2018 the President of the Palestinian Football Association (PFA) Jibril Rajoub was fined CHF 20,000 (US$20,333) and banned from FIFA matches for a year for inciting hatred and violence against an Argentinian team proposing to play a friendly match in Israel.\n\nIn 2007, Mushir Salem Jawher, a Kenyan-born marathoner, lost his Bahraini citizenship after competing in the Tiberias Marathon in Israel, but later that year reacquired Bahraini citizenship and competed again in the Tiberias Marathon in 2008, 2009 and 2010.\n\nIn 2009, there was an increased number of full or partial boycotts of Israeli athletes, probably related to Arab/Leftist fury over Operation Cast Lead. Israeli tennis star Shahar Peer was denied a visa to participate in a tournament in Dubai, leading to comments from stars like Serena Williams and Andy Roddick that were critical of the Dubai authorities' decision, with Roddick later pulling out of a tournament in Dubai. After a response that included a cable network cancelling its coverage of the event and a large fine for the Dubai Tennis Authorities, Dubai did issue a visa for Israeli tennis player Andy Ram to compete that year.\n\nTennis authorities in Malmö, Sweden wanted to cancel a Davis Cup match between Israel and Sweden because of anti-Israel riots and because the city council did not want the Israeli team competing in the city. The tennis authorities were unwilling to accept a Swedish forfeit, which would have eliminated Sweden from the competition, and decided to bar spectators from the match instead. As a punishment, the city was banned from hosting Davis Cup matches for five years.\n\nSupporters of the BDS movement also tried and failed to have Israeli teams barred from the 2012 London Olympics and the 2016 Rio Olympics. At the 2016 Rio Olympics, Egypt's Islam El Shehaby provoked outrage after refusing to shake hands with Israeli judoka, Or Sasson.\n\nDespite the country's international political issues, a growing number of Arab athletes are joining domestic Israeli sports teams and the international teams, including the Israel national football team. These include Rifaat Turk, Najwan Ghrayib, Walid Badir, Salim Toama, Abbas Suan, amongst others. Another Arab-Israeli, Johar Abu Lashin, born in Nazareth, was an IBO Welterweight champion.\n\nIn October 2017, when an Israeli won gold in an international judo championship in the United Arab Emirates, officials refused to fly the Israeli flag and play the Israeli national anthem, instead playing the official music of the International Judo Federation (IJF) and flying the IJF's logo. The UAE also banned Israeli athletes from wearing their country's symbols on uniforms, having to wear IJF uniforms. Other contestants received similar treatment. In December 2017, seven Israelis were denied visas by Saudi Arabia to compete in an international chess tournament. In October 2018, the UAE reversed its position allowing the Israeli flag be displayed and anthem played when an Israeli judoka won a gold medal.\n\nOn 24 May 2018, a team of international jurists, including Harvard Professor Alan Dershowitz, announced a plan to petition the international Court of Arbitration for Sport against the exclusion of Israel’s flag and anthem at sporting events in Arab countries. In July 2018, the International Judo Federation cancelled two grand slam judo events, in Tunis and Abu Dhabi, because Israeli flags were not allowed to be raised. Also in July 2018, the World Chess Federation said it will ban Tunisia from hosting the international chess competition in 2019 if it does not grant a visa to Israeli contestants, including a seven-year-old Israeli girl champion.\n\nSince the 21st century, Israeli athletes competing in tournaments have faced boycotts by athletes from Muslim countries (primarily Iran), speculated to be the result of political interferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "31180466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31180466", "title": "Chinese Wand Exercise", "text": "Chinese Wand Exercise\n\nChinese Wand Exercise is an obscure ancient exercise system, related to the martial art Kung Fu. The “wand” in Chinese Wand Exercise is a 48-50” long dowel, 1” in diameter, (wood or bamboo, for example), used as a fulcrum for balance, form and posture. “It’s the pyramid effect, with you as center.” “Seventeen gentle bending, twisting and lunging movements flow in exact order, specially designed to get the blood circulating more efficiently throughout the body. These exercises are done in gradual, easy ‘Stages’ while using an original Chinese deep-breathing technique” and chi energy, and can be easy or more challenging as the individual chooses.\n\nTogether they exercise every major muscle in the body and take no more than 20 minutes to complete. The relative ease of the 17 moves (11 standing and six floor exercises) engage all the organs and muscles of the body together in harmony rather than separating out one part of the body from another. This produces a more efficient way of staying fit and healthy by increasing and balancing the chi energy.\n\n“Chinese Wand prevents illness and delays the aging process of many cells.” Together, they exercise the entire body safely and gently. Chinese Wand was known as a “preventive” of disease while acupuncture was the “treatment.”\n\nAlthough awareness of its existence is recent, Chinese Wand is said to be thousands of years old. It was passed down through Grand Masters and kept private for the use of the succeeding Chinese rulers and their families. They were devised for the emperor to slow down the aging process and maintain perfect health.\n\nThe exercises were derived from studying animals at play in nature, hence some of the names of the forms: “Springing of the Tiger,” “Raising of the Bird’s Wing,” “Panda Rolls,” to name a few. Chinese wand is not by itself taught as a method of self-defense.\n\nIt should be noted that the source of all current information stems from Bruce L. Johnson, who is currently the only known living Grand Master of Chinese Wand.\n\nAccording to Johnson, when he was 19 he learned the exercises from 93-year-old Grand Master Ch’eng in 1945. He and two Navy buddies, all wrestlers, were exploring Shanghai and were amazed by an 80-year-old rickshaw man’s ability to pull a wide rickshaw with the three muscular seamen up and down the steep hills of Shanghai. Johnson pursued the slight Chinese man who eventually led him to the slender, regal Grand Master. Upon meeting Dr. Ch’eng at his home in Shanghai, the tall, 235-pound 19-year-old was unable to take down the 130 lb. Ch’eng who, seemingly inexplicably, fended him off and left him lying on the floor after each of three increasingly aggressive advances. He used an ancient “spinning” technique. Johnson, convinced that he had to learn everything this man could teach, was soon accepted as a student by Ch’eng, who was no doubt impressed and amused by the young headstrong man’s potential and enthusiasm for learning all he could. Eventually Dr. Ch’eng, having lost his sons in the war between China and Japan, trusted Johnson enough to pass on the knowledge and techniques he would need to become the next Grand Master.\n\nMinnesota-raised Bruce Leroy Johnson, (June 21, 1926- December 11, 2014) was a sickly child who overcame his early beginnings through exercise and body-building. Health and physical fitness became a lifelong passion, as well as a quest to stay young and embrace Nature.\n\nAfter high school, during World War II, the handsome blue-eyed, black-haired (of Swedish and Iroquois descent) Johnson became a Navy heavyweight wrestling champion who excelled in physical exploits and competitions. He also was a navy ranger, and one of the first to reach the shores of Iwo Jima. His mother’s sister was married to revered World War II journalist and author, Ernie Pyle, with whom Bruce had a close relationship and who was killed only a few miles from where Johnson was, on the island of Ie Shima. He is often called upon to accept memorial awards on behalf of his uncle.\n\nJohnson studied at the Kodokan Institute in Tokyo, Japan where he earned three black belts in Judo.\n\nBack in the states after World War II, Johnson tried to introduce the merits of the exercise system. But because of McCarthyism and the fear of Communism, there was little enthusiasm about anything Asian. Few showed interest in learning the unusual, oriental exercises.\n\nMeanwhile, wanderlust led Johnson around the world finding work, often on ships. He was a bodyguard for King Farouk for a time. Wherever he went in the world, he sought out others who might have heard of Chinese Wand, even placing ads in local papers. But he never found anyone. As far as he knew, he was the only one who knew about it. Johnson spent time in Hollywood and found a small group of health food and fitness enthusiasts such as Mae West, Jimmy Durante, and others who became students. It has been rumored that he might have been the inspiration for the song “Nature Boy” (popularized by Nat King Cole) when he claimed he spent time with the songwriter, Eden Ahbez. Later, he taught celebrities such as James Coburn who was photographed in People Magazine doing the exercises.\n\nJohnson became friends with Bruce Lee, and the two did demonstrations of strength and speed together. “Bruce [Lee] was the only man who could ever ‘handle’ me - of course, he never knew Dr. Cheng.” Lee was quoted in Johnson’s book as saying, “All things are possible with the great Masters.”\n\nIn 1965, Johnson became a hero when he rescued three children from a shark in the Bahamas by swimming out and averting its attention . A fourth child was killed. Armed with only a pointed shell he grabbed on the beach, he fought the beast a full five minutes underwater, his leg in its mouth until he jabbed its eye with the shell and was able to escape, barely making it to shore. He won international acclaim and was honored by heads of three governments.\n\nHe caused another sensation in 1966 when he and a friend (who later became his wife) volunteered to spend an unspecified amount of time on an uninhabited Fiji Island with no supplies, only bathing suits and camera equipment. Learning too late that the island was far from idyllic limited their stay to 40 days, but caused national publicity.\n\nDramatic adventures seemed to follow the elusive Johnson who often found himself at the right place in time to rescue others from extreme danger (over 50 documented at the risk of his own life) including fires, mangled cars, even abusive husbands.\n\nJohnson rarely spoke of his powers as a mystic. Students would sometimes notice supernatural transformations in his appearance as he taught the class. He was inclined to believe that Dr. Ch’eng was teaching through him. One famous psychic of his day, Peter Hurkos, upon meeting Johnson said, “Who is that beautiful Chinese man coming out of you?”\n\nOthers saw Johnson transform: after a class in Eureka, California, a young student “asked him if he knew that he had become transformed into a Chinese person while he was performing the wand exercises. . .Did you see it too?...” another classmate added.\n\nIt has also been said that the late Dr. Ch'eng's formidable, otherworldly presence was physically tangible, gentle, even erotic.\n\nEnthusiasm for Chinese Wand was minimal until a nationwide curiosity in Eastern philosophy erupted in the 1960s, beginning with the Beatles’ trip to India and the subsequent publicity. Interest in meditation techniques, yoga, martial arts, and other esoteric practices spiked. At last, Johnson was able to develop classes. Eventually, he self-published a book in 1975.\n\nIn December 1976, Johnson, who also worked as a professional diver, was seriously injured in an underwater accident and sustained a near-fatal brain stem infarct causing stroke-like symptoms. Initially told he would never walk again, he once again defied odds and within a matter of months, was walking and looking as healthy as ever.\n\nAlthough still reeling from lingering and painful after-effects of the trauma, he managed to generate interest from a major publisher (William Morrow, New York) who published his book in hardcover in 1977.\n\nDuring the time he was striving to regain his health, he underwent a Christian “born-again” experience that eventually influenced his thinking and upended his belief system. He slowly rejected a holistic awareness of consciousness and abandoned his lifelong allegiance to preserving and re-introducing the teachings of Dr. Ch’eng and the art of Chinese Wand. The spreading of a popular desire to learn the more violent aspects of martial arts and the potential “danger” of involvement with the supernatural conflicted with his newfound ultra-conservative Christian views. Efforts to promote Chinese Wand diminished and eventually disappeared from public view.\n\n“--Oriental philosophy is at their [martial arts] heart,” Johnson says. “These things are not from God, as God is not in the business of mystical energies or the occult. . .I no longer practice the martial arts …as a Christian, I cannot in good conscience, teach or recommend the martial arts to others.”\n\nEven though Johnson’s book is no longer in print, the web and YouTube videos are generating a resurgence of the practice in the U.S. and the U.K. in particular. A new generation of students are learning what they can from Johnson’s book, sometimes by changing the name slightly (e.g. `Chi Stix', 'Stick Yoga,' or `Jian Gan - Chinese Health Wand') to avoid copyright infringement on Johnson's original text.\n\nSadly, it appears that Johnson did not train anyone to carry on this unique art as the next Grand Master. Because of this, apart from the basic exercises, the remaining 190 exercises, more esoteric practices and knowledge, are probably lost.\n\nAlthough Johnson is the last Grand Master his book opened the art up to the wider population. He wanted his book to be in every nursing home, every hospital, every physical therapy room, every doctor's office for the doctor to prescribe the exercises to patients - in every home so families could practice together; he also hoped that workers in offices and factories could practice the exercises together to increase productivity and health of workforce and that physical fitness instructors in schools and colleges would adopt the system.\nSome in the Chinese martial arts and Qigong community are now taking a serious interest in the Chinese Wand and promoting its use as a social exercise the way Johnson envisaged. A new book on the subject examines the esoteric aspects of the art and its origins and influences - and encourages dialogue within China itself.\nThe link with China was very much in Johnson's thoughts. He was curious whether someone was still practicing in a remote region of China and intended to take the art back to China himself:-\n\n\"In China they now do Tai Chi, but my one ambition is to return there and bring their ancient Chinese exercises full circle.\" \n"}
{"id": "54454208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54454208", "title": "Chris Brasher Sporting Life Trophy", "text": "Chris Brasher Sporting Life Trophy\n\nThe Chris Brasher Sporting Life Trophy is a trophy that is awarded annually to the elite male and female winners of the London Marathon. It was previously awarded to the winners of the Polytechnic Marathon between 1909 and 1961 which was staged between Windsor in Berkshire and various locations in London.\n\nThe creation of the trophy was instigated by Jack Andrew, the secretary of the London \nPolytechnic Harriers athletics club in the wake of the popularity of the marathon after the 1908 Summer Olympics in London. Andrew approached William Will, the editor of the \"Sporting Life\", who agreed to fund a trophy for a new annual marathon race in London.\n\nThe trophy was made by London's Goldsmiths and Silversmiths Company and cost £500. It was funded by Eleanor, the widow of William McFarlane, the former owner of \"Sporting Life\".\n\nThe trophy is 4 ft 6in high. The \"Sporting Life\" withdrew the trophy from the Polytechnic Marathon in 1962 after several years of failing finances for the race. The \"Sporting Life\" was then owned by Mirror Group Newspapers who declined to fund the event any further. The marathon was subsequently sponsored by Callard & Bowser, who made a butterscotch energy food. The trophy was subsequently stored at the headquarters of the \"Sporting Life\" for several years until 1969 when it was presented to the Polytechnic Harriers in perpetuity with the proviso that the club \"the best means and method that will fulfill the original purpose of the trophy\"; the original purpose being to \"encourage long distance running in Great Britain\".\n\nIt was renamed in honour of Chris Brasher shortly before the 2003 London Marathon.\n"}
{"id": "49678342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49678342", "title": "Columbia College Koalas", "text": "Columbia College Koalas\n\nThe Columbia College Koalas are the athletic teams for Columbia College, a women's liberal arts institution in Columbia, South Carolina. The university is a member of the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA), primarily competing in Appalachian Athletic Conference. In addition, the school is a member of the NCCAA and serves as host for the softball national championship.\n\nWomen's sports\n"}
{"id": "1034927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1034927", "title": "Comparison of baseball and softball", "text": "Comparison of baseball and softball\n\nA comparison of baseball and softball can be made as softball is directly descended from baseball. An observer of one game would find the other very similar, but there are several important rule differences.\n\nFastpitch softball is more popular in competitive leagues, especially at the college and international tournament levels, while slow pitch is more popular in recreational leagues where the relative skill levels of different players may vary widely. The different rules of slowpitch can be viewed as maintaining a competitive balance for less skilled players by eliminating certain strategies (e.g., base stealing and bunting) which require a high level of skill to counter. Additionally, recreational leagues may impose their own ground rules, either for competitive balance or to meet local constraints (e.g., a time limit may be imposed on a game to ensure multiple games can be played in one day).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13872332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13872332", "title": "Core stability", "text": "Core stability\n\nCore stability refers to a person's ability to stabilize their core. Stability, in this context, should be considered as an ability to control the position and movement of the core. Thus, if a person has greater core stability, they have a greater level of control over the position and movement of this area of their body. The body's core is frequently involved in aiding other movements of the body, such as the limbs, and it is considered that by improving core stability a person's ability to perform these other movements may also be improved i.e. core stability training may help improve someone's running ability. The body's core region is sometimes referred to as the torso or the trunk, although there are some differences in the muscles identified as constituting them. The major muscles involved in core stability include the pelvic floor muscles, transversus abdominis, multifidus, internal and external obliques, rectus abdominis, erector spinae (sacrospinalis) especially the longissimus thoracis, and the diaphragm. The minor muscles involved include the latissimus dorsi, gluteus maximus, and trapezius. Notably, breathing, including the action of the diaphragm, can significantly influence the posture and movement of the core; this is especially apparent in regard to extreme ranges of inhalation and exhalation. On this basis, how a person is breathing may influence their ability to control their core. \n\nSome researchers have argued that the generation of intra-abdominal pressure, caused by the activation of the core muscles and especially the transversus abdominis, may serve to lend support to the lumbar spine. One way in which intra-abdominal pressure can be increased is by the adoption of a deeper breathing pattern. In this case, and as considered by Hans Lindgren, 'The diaphragm [...] performs its breathing function at a lower position to facilitate a higher IAP.' Thus, the adoption of a deeper breathing pattern may improve core stability.\n\nTypically, the core is associated with the body's center of gravity, which is over the region of the second sacral vertebrae groups and stability is associated with isometric or static strength. In addition, it is the lumbar spine that is primarily responsible for posture and stability thus providing the strength needed for the stability especially utilized in dynamic sports.\n\nWhenever a person moves, to lift something or simply to move from one position to another, the core region is tensed first. This tension is usually made unconsciously and in conjunction with a change in breathing pattern. An example to try is to sit in a chair and to reach forward over a table to pick up a cup. This movement is first accompanied by a tension in the core region of the abdomen and can be felt by placing one hand on the abdomen as the movement is made.\n\nAs the load increases the key muscles contract around the viscera, which are in-compressible, to form a stable ball-like core region against which the forces are balanced in coordination with posture.\n\nIt is commonly believed that core stability is essential for the maintenance of an upright posture and especially for movements and lifts that require extra effort such as lifting a heavy weight from the ground to a table. Without core stability the lower back is not supported from inside and can be injured by strain caused by the exercise. It is also believed that insufficient core stability can result in lower back pain and lower limb injuries..\n\nThere is little support in research for the core stability model and many of the benefits attributed to this method of exercise have not been demonstrated. At best core stability training has the same benefits as general, non-specific exercise (see review by Lederman 09) and walking. Trunk or core specific exercise have failed to demonstrate preventative benefits against injuries in sports or to improve sports performance.\n\nTraining methods for developing and maintaining core stability include:\n\nThe cervical, thoracic and lumbar spine is composed of a total of 24 presacral vertebrae and their main functions are to protect the spinal cord, provide an attachment site for many muscles of the body. They also function by distributing one's bodyweight when standing upright. Many injuries to the spine occur as a result of vehicle accidents, falling, and sports and recreation. While it is impossible to prevent such events from happening, increasing intra-abdominal pressure and strengthening the musculature in the back, along with keeping a neutral spine, can minimize injuries like hernias, strains, and sprains.\n\nThe correlation between having a significant amount of core strength and spinal health has been well documented by many studies in the past. Some of these studies were able to quantify the effects that antagonizing abdominal muscle had on stabilizing the lumbar spine by increasing the amount of intra-abdominal pressure in order to maintain a straight lumbar spine and to avoid rounding during physical activities and using simple techniques such as the “Valsalva maneuver”. A simple exercise used to strengthen the abdominals (rectus abdominis, internal/external obliques, and transverse abdominis) is using the isometric or “static” hold known as the plank.\n\nSimply by working to keep a neutral spine and remembering to increase intra-abdominal pressure before performing a movement that could compromise the spine, you are able to drastically decrease your risk for sustaining a back injury. If you were looking for ways to both strengthen and increase stability of the musculature of the spine one could perform various body weight exercises, for instance the bird dog exercise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46453731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46453731", "title": "Crest (sports)", "text": "Crest (sports)\n\nIn sport, a crest is a logo used by a sports club. The logos of many clubs are inspired by heraldic design.\n\nIn Scotland, the Court of the Lord Lyon has forbidden the use of some football crests due to them being to closely resembling existing coats of arms.\n\n"}
{"id": "31361254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31361254", "title": "Cricket diplomacy", "text": "Cricket diplomacy\n\nCricket diplomacy consists of using the game of cricket as a political tool to enhance or worsen the diplomatic relations between two cricket playing nations. Cricket is the second-most widely played game in the world after football, and is thus used as a political tool to bridge the gap in the diplomatic vacuum.\n\nThe Bodyline controversy was detrimental to relations between England and Australia. The situation escalated into a diplomatic incident between the countries as the MCC—supported by the British public and still of the opinion that their \"fast leg theory\" tactic was harmless—took serious offence at being branded \"unsportsmanlike\" and demanded a retraction. Many people saw bodyline as fracturing an international relationship that needed to remain strong. Jardine, and by extension the entire English team, threatened to withdraw from the fourth and fifth Tests unless the Australian Board withdrew the accusation of unsporting behaviour. Public reaction in both England and Australia was outrage directed at the other nation. The Governor of South Australia, Alexander Hore-Ruthven, who was in England at the time, expressed his concern to British Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs James Henry Thomas that this would cause a significant impact on trade between the nations. The standoff was settled only when Australian prime minister Joseph Lyons met with members of the Australian Board and outlined to them the severe economic hardships that could be caused in Australia if the British public boycotted Australian trade. Given this understanding, the Board withdrew the allegation of unsportsmanlike behaviour two days before the fourth Test, thus saving the tour.\n\nThere were significant consequences for Anglo-Australian relations, which remained strained until the outbreak of World War II made cooperation paramount. Business between the two countries was adversely affected as citizens of each country displayed a preference for not buying goods manufactured in the other. Australian commerce also suffered in British colonies in Asia: the \"North China Daily News\" published a pro-bodyline editorial, denouncing Australians as sore losers. An Australian journalist reported that several business deals in Hong Kong and Shanghai were lost by Australians because of local reactions.\n\nEnglish immigrants in Australia found themselves shunned and persecuted by locals, and Australian visitors to England were treated similarly. In 1934–35 a statue of Prince Albert in Sydney was vandalised, with an ear being knocked off and the word \"BODYLINE\" painted on it.\n\nCricket has also had a hand to play in sporting diplomacy. Following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and Soviet pressure on India to deflect the tension they faced, in 1987 Pakistan's president at the time, General Zia ul-Haq, attended a test match between India and Pakistan in Jaipur - a visit that apparently helped cool a flare-up in tensions. Furthermore, in 2004 after a break of fifteen years, India toured Pakistan in the wake of diplomatic initiatives to bury half a century of mutual hostility. Both sides relaxed their tough visa regulations for each other, allowing thousands of fans to travel across the border.\n\nIn an attempt to replicate the cricket diplomacy of the past General Pervez Musharraf came to India in 2005 ostensibly for a cricket match. The trip, however, quickly took on the air of a summit as the sides were urged \"to seize a historic chance to end their dispute over Kashmir.\" Often this rivalry has been tinged with a religious-political bent to it. In 1991, the workers of the Indian political party Shiv Sena dug up the cricket pitch at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on the eve of an India-Pakistan Test match which was to be held there, forcing the entire series between the two nations to be cancelled. The Shiv Sena once again used this unique means of protest at the Feroz Shah Kotla in New Delhi in 2000 to protest against the Pakistan cricket team's proposed visit. Following the Kargil conflict, and at various other times, there have also been calls to suspend cricketing ties between the two countries.\n\nDuring the 2011 Cricket World Cup, is believed to have eased the relationship between India and Pakistan after the polarising 2008 Mumbai attacks. Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh used this opportunity and greeted his Pakistani counterpart Yousuf Raza Gilani to watch the match with him at Mohali. Gilani subsequently accepted the offer and agreed to watch the match with Singh. In 2015, Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani has requested Indian govt. to allocate a cricket stadium for Afghanistan Cricket team in India. \n\nIn 2008, the England and Wales Cricket Board cancelled Zimbabwe's 2009 tour of England, and the Government of the United Kingdom subsequently suspended all bilateral relations between the two states in response to the situation regarding the 2008 Zimbabwean presidential election. MPs Jack Straw and Tessa Jowell wrote to the International Cricket Council asking them to ban Zimbabwe from international cricket.\n\nExtending a form of cultural diplomacy popularly called stadium diplomacy, China has also joined cricket diplomacy. Cross-Strait relations have been the impetus for doing so. During the buildup to the 2007 World Cup, Antigua received a $55 million grant to build the Sir Vivian Richards Stadium, while Jamaica received $30 million for a new Trelawny stadium. St. Lucia also built both a cricket and a football stadium courtesy of China. China spent a remarkable $132 million on cricket facilities in the West Indies over the past few years, compared to the International Cricket Council's 10-year budget of $70 million to promote cricket globally. The diplomacy paid off in the end as Grenada and Dominica derecognized Taiwan as an independent country. Further, \"Of the remaining 24 countries that recognize Taiwan, four are in the Caribbean and two of these play cricket.\" Grenada previously had a stadium built by Taiwan, but saw it flattened by a hurricane. To join the action, China quickly came in to erect another stadium. Consequently, Taiwan took Grenada to a New York City court to force the latter to return the original loan.\n\nTaiwan also used the World Cup to shore up its position among its shrinking West Indian support base. It doled out $21 million to St. Kitts and Nevis and $12 million to the even smaller St. Vincent and the Grenadines for cricket grounds. China's aggressive ambitions have benefited the Caribbean Islands as \"Strategic analysts say China is laying out more money than is needed to just isolate Taiwan. China, which has built large embassies in each of the islands, now has a bigger diplomatic presence in the Caribbean than the United States, the superpower next door.\" And that \"Mainland China's long-term strategy coincides with its foreign policy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16092409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16092409", "title": "Double Full", "text": "Double Full\n\nThe Double Full is a trampoline move that comprises a single (normally straight) back somersault with two full twists. This move also may be executed on the ground in rapid succession as part of a cheerleading/gymnastics/acrobatics routine.\n\nCompared to a full back (full twisting back somersault), a double full is a more advanced move. It's not often seen in high-grade routines because it has only 360° of somersault rotation.\n\nThe performer sharply and tightly brings the arms down to the sides and maintains a straight body position to speed up the rotation generated from a full back. Variations of this twist-acceleration process include folding the arms one above the other across the midsection or crossing the arms to form an \"X\" shape across the chest. The latter is becoming less common due to debate over its safety.\n\nDouble fulls are usually performed in the straight position, though they may be performed in both tucked and piked shapes. The straight shape is most common, however, since it helps to slow the somersault rotation down. As somersault rotation is sped up greatly with the addition of twist, keeping rotation low is important, especially as there is a great deal of twist rotation involved in the move.\n"}
{"id": "291791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=291791", "title": "Dry suit", "text": "Dry suit\n\nA dry suit or drysuit provides the wearer with environmental protection by way of thermal insulation and exclusion of water, and is worn by divers, boaters, water sports enthusiasts, and others who work or play in or near cold or contaminated water. A dry suit normally protects the whole body except the head, hands, and possibly the feet. In hazmat configurations, however, all of these are covered as well.\n\nThe main difference between dry suits and wetsuits is that dry suits are designed to prevent water entering. This generally allows better insulation making them more suitable for use in cold water. Dry suits can be uncomfortably hot in warm or hot air, and are typically more expensive and more complex to don. For divers, they add some degree of operational complexity as the suit must be inflated and deflated with changes in depth in order to minimize \"squeeze\" on descent or uncontrolled rapid ascent due to excessive buoyancy.\n\nDry suits provide passive thermal protection: They insulate against heat transfer to the environment. When this is insufficient, active warming or cooling may be provided, usually by a hot-water suit, which is a wetsuit with a supply of heated or chilled water from the surface, but it is also possible to provide chemical or electrically powered heating accessories to dry suits.\n\nThe essential components include a shell of watertight material, sufficiently flexible to allow the wearer to function adequately, seals where parts of the body pass through the suit while in use, and a method of sealing the access opening while the suit is worn. Insulation may be provided in part by the suit shell, but is usually largely provided by thermal insulation clothing worn under the suit, which relies to a large extent on trapped air for its insulating properties. An inflation valve with gas supply and dump valve are generally provided, but were not standard on early models.\n\nThe main part of the dry suit is a waterproof shell made from a membrane type material, foamed neoprene or a hybrid of both.\n\nMembrane dry suits are made from thin materials which have little thermal insulation. They are commonly made of stockinette fabric coated with vulcanized rubber, laminated layers of nylon and butyl rubber known as Trilaminate or Cordura proofed with an inner layer of polyurethane. With the exception of the rubber-coated stockinette, membrane dry suits typically do not stretch, so they need to be made slightly oversized and baggy to allow flexibility at the joints through the wearer's range of motion and to allow the hands and feet to pass through without difficulty. This makes membrane dry suits easy to put on and take off, provides a good range of motion for the wearer when correctly sized and sufficiently inflated, and makes them relatively comfortable to wear for long periods out of the water compared to a wetsuit or close-fitting neoprene dry suit, as the wearer does not have to pull against rubber elasticity to move or keep joints flexed.\n\nTo stay warm in a membrane suit, the wearer must wear an insulating undersuit, today typically made with polyester or other synthetic fiber batting. Polyester and other synthetics are preferred over natural materials, since synthetic materials have better insulating properties when damp or wet from sweat, seepage, or a leak.\n\nReasonable care must be taken not to puncture or tear membrane dry suits, because buoyancy and insulation depend entirely on the air space in the undersuit, (whereas a wetsuit normally allows water to enter, and retains its insulation despite it). The dry suit material offers essentially no buoyancy or insulation itself, so if the dry suit leaks or is torn, water can soak the undersuit, with a corresponding loss of buoyancy and insulation.\n\nMembrane dry suits may also be made of a waterproof but breathable material like Gore-Tex to enable comfortable wear without excessive humidity and buildup of condensation. This function does not work underwater. Sailors and boaters who intend to stay out of the water may prefer this type of suit.\n\nNeoprene is a type of synthetic rubber which can be foamed during manufacture to a high proportion of tiny enclosed gas bubbles, forming a buoyant and thermally-insulating material, called \"foamed neoprene\", \"foam-neoprene\" or \"expanded neoprene\". Wetsuits are made from this material as it is a good insulator, waterproof, and is flexible enough for comfortable wear. The neoprene alone is very flexible, but not very resistant to tearing, so it is skinned with a layer of knit fabric bonded to each side for strength and abrasion resistance. Foamed neoprene may be used for the shell of a drysuit, providing some insulation due to the gas within the material, as in a standard wetsuit. If torn or punctured, leading to flooding, a foam-neoprene suit retains the insulation and buoyancy of the gas bubbles, like a wet suit, which is proportional to the thickness of the foam, Although foamed-neoprene dry suits provide some insulation, thermal under-suits are usually worn in cold water.\n\nNeoprene dry suits are generally not as easy to put on and remove as are membrane dry suits, largely due to a closer fit which is possible due to the inherent elasticity of the material, and partly due to greater weight. As with wet suits, their buoyancy and thermal protection decreases with depth as the air bubbles in the neoprene are compressed. The air or other gas in the dry fabric undergarments providing insulation under a dry suit is also compressed, but can be restored to an effective volume by inflating the drysuit at depth through an inflator valve, thus preventing \"suit squeeze\" and compacting of the air-filled undersuit. Foam-neoprene tends to shrink over the years as it loses gas from the foam and slowly becomes less flexible as it ages.\nAn alternative is crushed or compressed foam neoprene, which is less susceptible to volume changes when under pressure. Crushed neoprene is foam neoprene which has been hydrostatically compressed so much that the gas bubbles have been mostly eliminated, this retains the elasticity of foamed neoprene which allows freedom of movement, but does not provide much insulation, and is functionally more like a membrane suit.\n\nSome suits marketed as hybrid suits combine the features of both types, with a membrane top attached to a neoprene bottom near the waist. The neoprene part is usually configured as a sleeveless \"farmer-john\" that covers the torso as well. This style is often used for surface water sports, especially in very cold water. The tight fitting lower part lets the wearer kick while swimming, and the loose fitting top allows easy arm movement. The torso covering also provides additional self-rescue or survival time if the suit leaks. Other manufacturers such as \"Waterproof\", use the term to refer to a membrane suit with integral liner of a relatively compression resistant porous 3-dimensional mesh, which creates a thin but resilient air space between the suit shell and the diver.\n\nSeals at the wrists and neck prevent water entering the suit by a close contact fit against the skin around the wrists and neck. The seals are not absolutely watertight, however, and the wearer may experience some seepage during use. The wearer will also get damp due to sweat and condensation. The seals are typically made from latex rubber or foam neoprene, but are also available in silicone rubber. Latex seals are supple but easily damaged and deteriorate with exposure to oils, oxygen, and other materials, so they must be replaced periodically, every two years or more often. Latex also causes an allergic reaction in some users. Neoprene seals last longer and are non-allergenic, but, being less elastic, let more water enter because they do not seal as effectively as latex seals to the contours of wrist and neck. They are also typically glued and sewn together to form a tube, and may leak along that seam.\n\nA recent innovation is the silicone seal, which is claimed to be as supple as latex, more flexible, yet far more durable. These are now available as original equipment on some makes of dry suit. Silicone seals are hypoallergenic, but can not be glued to the suit, and must be attached using clip-on rings. The silicone seals are similar in mechanical strength to latex seals but do not deteriorate as rapidly from oxidation and chemical attack. They are initially relatively expensive, but can be replaced without tools by the user which reduces cost of replacement.\n\nModern dry suits have a watertight zipper for entry and exit. The original bronze-toothed version was developed by NASA to hold air inside space suits. This complex and special zipper is one of the most expensive parts of the suit. Heavy-duty, medium, and lightweight versions are made. A later design uses injection moulded plastic teeth, and these are lighter, more flexible and less costly. The zipper is commonly installed across the back of the shoulders, since this placement compromises overall flexibility the least — but this design normally means the wearer requires assistance to close and open the zipper. The other common zipper placement is diagonally across the torso, which allows self-donning. Other designs place the zipper straight down the middle of the back (early \"Poseidon Unisuit\"), up one side of the front, around the back of the neck and partway back down the front (later model \"Poseidon Unisuit\") or on a wide tubular chest entry opening which is folded down and clipped round the waist after sealing the zip (some \"Typhoon\" suits). The waterproof-zipper is stiff, and cannot stretch at all, which can make it difficult for a user to get into and out of the suit. Dry suits may also be fitted with an extra waterproof \"fly\", \"relief\" or \"convenience\" zipper to let the user urinate when out of the water when the suit is worn for long periods.\n\nBefore truly watertight zippers were invented, other methods of keeping the suit waterproof at the entry point were used, with the most common being a long rubber entry tunnel which would be folded shut, then rolled together from the sides and finally folded and clamped with a metal clip. An early example was the Sladen suit, where the entry tunnel was at the front of the torso. The Louisiana-based dry suit company Aquala makes a \"historical\" diving suit of that kind. Another type of entry featured a rubber tunnel that protruded through a non-watertight zipper. The tunnel would be rolled shut and the zipper closed to hold the roll in place.\n\nMost drysuits do not provide sufficient insulation without suitable undergarments. The type of undergarment selected will depend on the water temperature, type of suit and dive plan. The purpose of the undergarment is to maintain the diver in comfortable thermal balance, where the heat lost is balanced by the heat generated by the diver. More insulation is needed for colder conditions and for less energetic diving activity.\n\nThe principle of layering can be used to provide a wider range of insulation possibilities from a relatively small range of underwear items, however this can only be done before entering the water. Most dry suit underwear insulates by a trapped layer of air in the garment, and this is largely lost if the air is replaced by water in a flooded suit, so as a general rule, insulation is proportional to the combined thickness of the undergarments. The layering principle shows that the option of two layers of undergarment in two thicknesses allows three levels of insulation to be selected. Thin only, thick only, and both layers.\n\nSome materials have better insulating properties than other when wet, and will keep the diver warmer if the suit leaks or floods. The best dry suit undergarment is the thinnest material that will provide the required insulation, by trapping air in the smallest spaces. These will require less air in the suit and thus less excess buoyancy for which weighting will be required.\n\nThe moisture given off by the human body, even when not exercising and sweating, will condense against the inside of the dry suit, and the way this condensate is handled by the underwear material will influence the comfort of the diver. If the underwear soaks up this moisture it will feel cold and clammy, particularly if this layer is against the skin. Materials which wick the moisture away from the skin and do not soak up the condensate will be more comfortable. Early thermal undersuits for drysuits were commonly made from wool, as it retains its insulating properties better when wet than most other natural fibres.\n\nThe fit of the underwear should allow the same range of movement as the suit itself, and together should allow the diver to bend, squat, kneel, climb a ladder, fin and reach all critical parts of the diving equipment. Underwear which is flexible and stretches, particularly at the joints, will allow the diver more freedom of movement, and is less likely to chafe, and materials which resist compaction under light pressure will maintain a more even thickness in use, which will provide better insulation for the same overall volume.\n\nFor cold-water use, especially diving under ice, the user will usually wear a thick undersuit in a membrane dry suit. The thickness of undersuits varies and can be chosen by the wearer according to the water temperature. Thinsulate is one of the preferred fabrics for undersuits.\n\nThe hydrophobic qualities of Thinsulate help prevent water absorption which helps to maintain the insulating airspace even in the presence of free water. More recently, aerogel material is being added to conventional undergarments to increase the insulating properties of those garments. Polar fleece is a good insulator with good stretch, is lightweight, and dries quickly if it gets wet. It is also hypoallergenic and comfortable against the skin. Polyester liners can add to the insulation and will wick perspiration away from the skin. Cotton is not recommended as it absorbs moisture and saturates easily, and will then rapidly conduct heat away from the body. Most dry-suit underwear is full length, either as a one piece or jacket and trousers, but a vest may be added for extra insulation on the torso, and a \"Farmer John\" style trousers with jacket is flexible and puts extra insulation where it is most useful.\n\nNeoprene dry suits are made from a foam-rubber sheet containing tiny air bubbles, which provide insulation by themselves, and can eliminate the need for an under-suit, or greatly reduce the thickness needed for the under-fabric, but the bubbles in the neoprene are compressed and the insulation of the suit decreases with depth in the same way as for a wetsuit. Crushed neoprene provides the flexibility of neoprene with the consistent buoyancy and insulation of membrane suits. A neoprene wet suit can also be worn under a membrane dry suit for extra protection against condensation and leaks, but it will compress with depth as will any closed cell suit.\n\nUndersuits used for surface watersports are generally thinner than those used for diving, and are commonly made from fleece material.\n\nSome dry suits are provided with internally attached suspenders which when hooked over the shoulders, will hold the trouser section up when the top part of the suit has not yet been fully dressed into by the diver, this is also convenient if the suit is partly removed between dives for comfort. The suspenders also help to keep the trousers fully lifted if the torso of a membrane suit is a little long to provide enough space for the diver to bend the torso comfortably when in use. If the crotch hangs too low it encumbers the legs when finning, and increases the risk of the feet pulling out of the boots in an inversion.\n\nDry suits may have wrist seals, permanently attached gloves or mitts, or removable dry gloves connected by attachment rings.\n\nPermanently attached gloves or mitts are unusual, It is more common for them to be connected by attachment rings. Either way, the absence of a wrist seal makes getting in and out of the suit much easier since there is no need for the suit to tightly seal around the wrists. It may be necessary to use a wrist strap to prevent loose gloves pulling off the hands when filled with air. Dry gloves can also be fitted over a wrist seal, which prevents leakage into the sleeves if the gloves are penetrated.\n\nFull-hand diving mitts can be sometimes useful in extreme environments such as ice diving, but significantly reduce dexterity and grip. Dry gloves and mitts usually allow a dry insulating glove to be worn underneath.\n\nThree-finger mitts are a compromise between gloves and mittens. In the three-finger mitts, the fingers are arranged with the index finger in a separate pocket to the other three fingers. This provides slightly better hand-grasping dexterity while still permitting heavy insulation around the hands.\n\nThe dry suit may also have an integrated hood, which seals water out around the wearer's face, and helps keep the wearer's head warm. The integrated hood is often latex rubber that fits tightly around the head, but can also be made from neoprene or membrane to allow an insulating cap to be worn under the hood. Care must be taken to avoid the hood making a waterproof seal around either of the ears, as this could cause an eardrum bursting outwards at depth.\n\nSeparate (non integral) hoods are of two types: one which extends only to the base of the neck, and the other a standard wetsuit hood with a large flange. Hoods are never tucked into the neck seal as they would be tucked into a wetsuit, as this would compromise the watertight integrity of the seal. Some suits are designed with a second (non-watertight) \"warm neck collar\" around the neck seal, which allows the flange of a standard wetsuit hood to tuck in around the outside of the seal. This can keep the neck significantly warmer, since the seal itself provides little insulation.\n\nTo provide more protection to the head against impact, to secure the airway, and to permit easy communication with the surface and between divers, a rigid metal or fibre-reinforced plastic diving helmet may be worn with the dry suit. This can be separate from the dry suit with its own watertight neck seal, or it can be clamped onto a neck ring attached to the suit, so that air can flow between the helmet and the suit.\n\nMost commercial diving dry suits have heavy duty integral boots. Sport diving suits may have lightweight integral boots or soft neoprene booties. Rock boots or heavy working boots may also be worn over integral neoprene or latex socks. Boots which are stiff at the ankle make finning inefficient and are unsuitable for many diving applications where mobility is important. If the suit will be used by a diver who needs to fin efficiently on some dives and to walk on sharp surfaces on other dives, it is more effective to wear boots suited to the dive over a dry suit with integral socks.\n\nSurface dry suits may have socks or ankle seals fitted. Socks are normally made from latex rubber or from a breathable material similar to the rest of the suit. An outer boot or shoe would normally be worn over these socks to protect them from wear and the risk of puncture. The outer boot also provides more warmth than the thin layer of latex. A regular sock (e.g. a woollen sock) would normally be worn inside the drysuit sock for comfort. Latex rubber ankle seals are sometimes fitted in place of socks and can allow better foot control of water skis and surfboards. Survival suits may have neoprene socks of the same material as the suit, with tougher soles and ankle ties to keep them on the feet, as the \"one-size fits all\" socks must be too big for most users.\n\nAttachment rings allow separate neck seals, gloves, and (less commonly) boots to be joined to the suit with a watertight seal. The older style attachment ring system uses a support ring inside the suit and a clamping band outside the suit to tightly hold the suit and the separate hood/boot/glove together. They were also used with the neck seals of some old British frogman-type dry suits.\n\nMore recently, on both commercial and recreational suits, \"quick-change\" rings have become increasingly common. These are permanently glued to the suit and accessories, either during manufacture or as a retrofit. These systems form a watertight seal between the suit and components using soft rings on both pieces that comprise a series of interlocking channels, similar in principle to a common food storage bag. Quick-change rings allow a diver to easily replace a damaged seal on the surface with no tools or adhesives, or to change attachments depending on conditions–for example, choosing between dry gloves and standard wrist seals. Different manufacturers' ring systems are generally incompatible, so the diver must choose accessories that are designed for the ring system on his or her suit.\n\nDry suits are equipped with an inflation valve and at least one exhaust valve.\n\nThe inflation valve allows the diver to compensate for air compression in the suit on descent. Suit compression squeezes the suit uncomfortably onto the diver's body, especially where the suit folds, it hinders the diver's freedom of movement, reduces thermal insulation through compression of insulating garments and interferes with buoyancy control. Compensating gas is taken either from the breathing gas cylinder, a small, dedicated inflation cylinder or the umbilical. Environmentally sealed suits, which are sealed to the helmet, automatically equalise from the breathing gas.\n\nThe exhaust valve allows the diver to vent expanding gas from the suit on ascent in order to maintain buoyancy control in the same way that a buoyancy compensator must be vented on ascent to avoid an uncontrolled ascent, missed decompression stops, decompression sickness, arterial gas embolism or pulmonary barotrauma. The manual exhaust vent may incorporate an automatic, adjustable exhaust or supplement a separate automatic over-pressure dump valve on the shoulder. Automatic valves are pre-set and in most situations can be left at this setting throughout the dive. Configurations differ but automatic vents are generally at the left shoulder and manual vents at the wrist. Environmentally sealed suits used for diving in contaminated water have a watertight seal to the helmet, rely on the helmet exhaust valve and may not have a separate exhaust valve on the suit itself. Older, now obsolete, dry suits had no dedicated vents; venting was achieved by raising an arm and lifting one of the wrist seals or placing a finger in the neck seal.\nSurface dry suits do not normally have exhaust valves, but the wearer may vent excess air by crouching down and hugging the legs while slipping a finger under the neck seal.\n\nNormally, the gas used for dry suit inflation is air from the primary breathing cylinder. Helium-based gas mixes such as trimix or heliox are avoided for suit inflation because of helium's high thermal conductivity. Nitrox blends from a decompression cylinder have essentially the same thermal conductivity as air but oxygen rich mixes introduce a fire hazard when out of the water. Using a small (1-2 litre), dedicated cylinder avoids these complications; usually this will contain air but argon may be used instead. Argon has a low thermal conductivity, which improves insulation by approximately 20% compared to air, without adding any bulk or weight. Unfortunately, the accidental breathing of pure argon results in rapid unconsciousness and probable death. Consequently, argon cylinders must be clearly marked to prevent the accidental attachment of a breathing regulator or have valves that cannot accept a breathing regulator. To gain the full benefit of argon the suit must be flushed with argon before the dive to remove the air.\n\nDry suit inflation only applies to diving. Survival suits and other dry suits designed for wear on the surface have no inflation or dump valves as suit squeeze and achieving neutral buoyancy are not issues.\n\nThere are two types of low-pressure hose commonly used for suit inflation: The standard Seatec style quick release couple, fitted with an internal Schrader valve, as also used on most buoyancy compensators, and the CEJN connector which allows a higher flow rate due to a larger bore through the non-return valve in the connector. This valve can allow a dangerously fast inflation rate if it jams open, and is also more likely to free-flow when disconnected. These hoses use incompatible valve nipples, but it is usually possible to swap the fitting on the inflator valve to accept the alternative hose. Both types of BCD and dry suit inflator hoses are supplied with an O-ring sealed 3/8” male UNF thread for connection to a low-pressure first stage port.\n\nSome suits are provided with a flap which can be closed over the outside of the zipper to protect it from being damaged by contact with the diver's equipment or the environment. these flaps may be held in place by velcro or a non-watertight outer zipper.\n\nFor commercial divers or technical divers who may spend many hours in a dry suit underwater, it is not practical to have to climb back on board the ship in order to open a waterproof relief zipper and urinate. The P-valve is a urinal built into the suit, which enables a diver to urinate at any time without having to get out of the water, while keeping him or her dry and clean inside the suit.\n\nBefore putting on the dry suit, the male diver puts on a condom catheter, which is similar to a condom except that it is made of thicker material with a cuff or adhesive ring to prevent it from slipping off, and its end connects to a built-on drain tube. After putting it on, he attaches the end of the tube to a drain hose in the crotch of the suit. This hose leads to a fitting through the front of one thigh of the suit, either with a screw-down outlet valve (P-valve), opened for use, or a non-return valve to prevent water from flowing back in if the hose gets disconnected. There may also be a non-return equalisation valve allowing gas from inside the suit to flow into the hose to avoid squeeze during descent The female diver puts on an external catching device in the form of a wide-rimmed, low-profile, elongated cup. The rim is affixed onto the skin surrounding the labia with medical grade glue. The cup's outlet connects to the drain hose with similar fitting on the suit.\n\nRisks involved with the use of the P-valve can include urinary tract infection, pneumaturia and genital squeeze.\n\nDivers expecting the need to urinate in dry suits can also use an adult diaper / nappy, which soaks up and retains the urine.\n\nMost suits have relatively baggy trouser legs to allow passage of the feet to the boots. This can hold a large volume of air when inverted, which may pull the boots off the feet. Elastic or tailored \"gaiters\" can be pulled snug around the lower legs to reduce the potential airspace to help prevent an inversion event and help maintain horizontal trim. Gaiters may also reduce hydrodynamic drag when finning, reduce the risk of the feet pulling out of the boots when inverted, and can be used effectively on membrane and neoprene suits. Ankle straps perform a similar function. Small ankle-weights (typically one or two pounds) can also be used with any dry suit, both to provide trim weight at the bottom of the suit, and function as short gaiters to constrict the ankle region of suit once the foot is in the boot. Ankle-weights have to be accelerated and decelerated along with the fins during every kick, which requires more energy from the diver. Gaiters do not have this drawback as they are typically very light and approximately neutral buoyancy.\n\nTo reduce the contact with latex seals in divers with a latex allergy, a soft elastomer band called a \"Bio-seal\" can be worn under the latex contact area. These may also reduce friction with the seal and improve watertightness.\n\nFor applications where passive heating is insufficient, active heating can be used. One of the earliest systems was the tube suit, a set of underwear with a complicated labyrinth of tubes which carried heated water supplied from the surface or the lockout submersible through an additional hose in the diver's umbilical. Other active heating systems use electrical heating elements in an undersuit layer, or internal pockets containing hot-packs, sealed plastic bags containing materials which emit latent heat during a phase change.\n\nUse of dry suits can conveniently be divided into surface and underwater applications, as the construction of the suit may be optimized for either.\n\nDry suits are often worn for boating, especially sailing, and on personal water craft in the winter months. The primary uses are for protection from spray, and in case of accidental short-term immersion in cold water if the user falls overboard. These dry suits, which are only intended for temporary immersion, are less rugged than diving dry suits. They are usually made of a breathable membrane material to let sweat permeate, keeping the wearer dry and comfortable all day. Membrane type surface dry suits only keep the user dry, and have little thermal insulating properties. Most users will wear a thin thermal undersuit, or street clothes, for warmth; but wearing ordinary fabrics can be dangerous if the suit leaks in cold water because they will lose most of their insulating properties.\n\nDry suits are used for windsurfing, kitesurfing, kayaking, water skiing and other surface water sports where the user is frequently immersed in cold water. These suits are often made from very lightweight material for high flexibility. Membrane type suits are commonly used in the spring and autumn with moderate water temperatures, but Neoprene and hybrid dry suits for surface sports are preferred in cold water. These provide greater thermal protection in the event of a leak. The ability to swim for self-rescue in these types of suits is important to water sports users that do not use a boat. A neoprene bottom also is less likely to allow trapped air to collect in the legs, causing the wearer to tend to float head down in the water.\n\nCrew members who must work on the decks of commercial ships wear a type of dry suit also known as an immersion survival work suit. Single engine aircraft ferry pilots flying between North America and Europe, and helicopter pilots that must fly over the open ocean, must wear a survival suit in the cockpit, so they can continue to fly the aircraft, then exit immediately if the aircraft is ditched in cold water after an engine failure. These suits are also used on shore when working on docks, bridges, or other areas where cold water immersion is a safety risk. They are usually a three-part system consisting of:\n\nImmersion survival suits are dry suits carried for use by ship and aircraft crew who will be immersed in cold water if the craft must be abandoned. Unlike immersion survival work suits, these are not intended to be worn all the time, and are only to be used in an emergency. Survival suits will typically be a one-piece design made of fire-retardant neoprene, optimized with quick donning features, and produced in high visibility colours with reflective tape patches.\n\nDry suits are also worn by rescue personnel who must enter, or may accidentally enter, cold water. Features of dry suits designed for rescue may be a hybrid of the immersion survival and work suits, since the wearer is not expected to be working in the suit for an extended time. They may also be optimized for a specific task such as ice rescue, or helicopter rescue swimmer.\n\nDry suits are typically used where the water temperature is below 15 °C (60 °F), and for extended immersion in water above 15 °C (60 °F), where discomfort would be experienced by a wet suit user. They are also used with integral boots, and gloves and sealed to the helmet for personal protection when working in and around hazardous liquids.\n\nDry suits for recreational diving are made in both membrane and neoprene, and primarily differ from surface dry suits in that they have inflation and deflation air valves to maintain neutral buoyancy, and may be slightly more durable.\n\nDry suits for commercial and military diving tend to be heavier and more durable than recreational diving dry suits because they will endure a harsh and abrasive environment, especially if being used for heavy labor such as underwater welding. A boiler suit may be worn over the dry suit for additional protection of the suit. Some commercial dry suits are rated for contaminated environment diving, and when combined with a suitably rated diving helmet can completely isolate and protect the diver from hazardous environments such as sewage pits and chemical storage tanks. These \"hazmat suits\" are most often made of vulcanized rubber laminated to a cloth liner, which is easier to decontaminate because of its slick surface, than other dry suit materials.\n\nManufacturing processes mainly depend on the material of the shell. Most suit shells are currently assembled by stitching the seams, which in the case of neoprene suits are first butt-glued, and are then overlock stitched and waterproofed by glued seam tape. DUI use a liquid polyurethane sealing compound over the seams on the inside of the suit instead of tape, and the rubber-coated Viking suits are dipped and heat cured for a seamless waterproof layer. DUI crushed neoprene suit shells are assembled before crushing the bubbles by hydrostatic pressure, then adding seals, zippers and accessories.\n\nSome components are inherently susceptible to damage if not treated with due care.\n\nLatex and silicone seals are easily pierced by sharp objects. Gripping the seal with long fingernails to pull it on or off can cut through the material, while long toenails can damage thin rubber booties when the foot is pushed inside tight-fitting fins.\n\nLatex is subject to rubber perishing, or \"dry rot\", where ozone normally present in the air deteriorates the material over time, regardless of use. A latex seal is generally expected to last 1–2 years. The useful life can be extended by detaching removable seals when not in use and keeping them in airtight containers. They should also be kept in a cool, dark environment.\n\nLatex and silicone seals are elastic, but can be easily torn if overstretched. Powdered talc can help the seals slide on easier.\n\nSilicone seals are similar in strength and elasticity to latex, but do not perish in the same way.\n\nNeoprene seals are a tougher and more tear resistant alternative, though they must be correctly sized for the user, as they cannot be adjusted much. These are much more resistant to perishing than latex. Use of a lubricating liquid such as dishwashing liquid or KY jelly is suggested for donning neoprene wrist seals.\n\nMetal toothed watertight zippers rely on pressure between the two rubberized contact surfaces of the zipper tapes alongside the teeth for sealing. To get this pressure, the slider needs to press the two faces together while closing, and this increases friction between the slider and the teeth, so the zipper requires more force to close than regular zippers. If the two rows of open teeth are lined up and close together in front of the pull it will prevent misalignment which can permanently damage the sealing edge, and allow the zipper to be closed with less effort. Friction can be reduced by suitable lubrication which is usually done with a waterproof wax or grease which remains on the zipper when wet. There should not be an excessive buildup of lubricant which would stick to particles of grit and cause wear and additional friction. The plastic tooth zippers have less friction than the metal teeth and need less force to close. Care of plastic zippers includes keeping them clean, lubrication of the slider docking area with a suitable grease, and long term storage with the zipper closed.\n\nOn metal toothed zippers, the cut edges of the rubberized fabric of the zipper tapes are susceptible to fraying along the exposed weave. if not trimmed, the frayed edges can accelerate damage to the weave and eventually delaminate the edge. The moulded plastic zippers do not have an exposed cut edge, so do not have this weakness.\n\nDressing into a dry suit is usually more time-consuming than a wet suit, and may require the assistance of another person to check the neck seal and close the zipper. In situations where the air is warm but the water cold, a prolonged time on the deck of a boat donning a dry suit and other gear can present a risk of overheating to the diver. This is a particular problem to relatively inexperienced divers, who may require more time to dress in. This problem can be mitigated by preparing all other equipment as far as possible before fully donning the suit and to wet the outside of the suit, and the hair and face after closing the zipper, to provide some evaporative cooling while on deck. Professional stand-by divers may have a similar problem, as they are required to be ready for deployment at all times while the working diver is in the water, which may involve waiting on deck for several hours. Wetting the outside of the suit, and seating the diver in shade and a breeze are the usual solution to this problem.\n\nDuring descent the air in the suit is compressed and unless more is added, the folds may be pressed together so tightly by water pressure that they pinch the skin, which is painful and may cause local bruising. The suit may also become so tight that movement is restricted, particularly in a membrane suit. This problem is managed by suit inflation from a low pressure gas supply.\n\nDry suits pose their own unique problems compared to wet suit diving, due to the complex construction and since a diver needs to constantly manage and adjust the air volume inside the suit. During descent, air must be added to maintain constant volume. This prevents suit squeeze, loss of neutral buoyancy, and potential uncontrolled descent. During ascent, the air added at depth must be removed again, in order to prevent over-inflation, excessive buoyancy, and potential uncontrolled ascent, with possibly fatal consequences. Most modern dry suits are equipped with adjustable spring-loaded automatic exhaust valves, which can assist with this problem when properly set.\n\nDamage to the lower part of the suit can cause a sudden inrush of very cold water for winter users, or an inrush of contaminated water or chemicals for hazmat divers.\nDamage to the upper part of the suit can cause a sudden venting of the air, resulting in a loss of buoyancy and possible uncontrolled descent, followed by flooding with water and loss of thermal insulation, and possible exposure to hazardous materials if the water is contaminated.\n\nA flooded suit may contain so much water that the diver cannot climb out of the water because of the weight and inertia. In this case it may be necessary to cut a small slit in the lower part of the leg to let water drain out as the diver rises out of the water. This will take some time, and agility will be seriously compromised. The damage should not be difficult to repair if the slit is cut with reasonable care.\n\nDry suits are not designed to be used as a Buoyancy Compensator Device (BCD) and cannot offer the same degree of safety and control as a BCD. However, the fact that it is possible to control buoyancy using a dry suit has led some divers to attempt to control their buoyancy with the dry suit alone and dive without the dedicated BCD normally worn by scuba divers. Although it is possible to dive like this, the risks are higher than when using a buoyancy compensator for the following reasons:\n\n\nAn over-tight neck seal can put pressure on the carotid artery, causing a reflex which slows the heart, resulting in poor oxygen delivery to the brain, light-headedness and eventual unconsciousness. For this reason, neck seals should be stretched or trimmed to the correct size.\n\nIf there is more air in the dry suit than is needed to counteract \"squeeze\" on the undersuit, that excess air creates a \"bubble\" which moves to the highest point of the suit; in an upright diver this is the shoulders. In such cases, divers wearing loose baggy suits need to keep their legs at level or below their waist. Otherwise the bubble quickly moves to the highest point, and if the legs are above the waist, the bubble moves into the legs and feet, causing the legs to rise, and \"inverting\" the diver's body into a head-down position.\n\nThe movement of such a large bubble to the legs can be a problem for a number of reasons: It balloons the legs, and it may inflate thin rubber booties enough to cause fins to pop off; a diver without fins has more restricted ability to move and become upright, and also loses the ability to kick downward to maintain depth, so that the bubble expansion problem does not grow worse. Movement of gas into the legs and feet may also cause special difficulties in drysuits that have air exhaust values only at the shoulders or wrists, because the air in the legs and booties cannot be evacuated while the diver is inverted, and such a diver may be moving toward the surface, causing the problem of expanding air in the suit to grow worse with each meter of lost depth. (Some low-quality buoyancy control devices also cannot vent air, when inverted). If the diver is positively buoyant and rising, the buoyancy of the dry suit becomes uncontrollable after rising through a certain fraction of depth, and there is then an increased risk of a rapid ascent which grows more rapid, as the distance to the surface decrease. The final result of such a run-away inversion is a diver rising all the way to the surface, feet first, in an uncontrolled ascent that is too rapid for decompression safety.\n\nWhen the suit is being used correctly, the bubble inside it is relatively small, and its movement is not important. The bubble may be large for a variety of reasons: if a diver has ascended without venting the suit; if the valve supplying gas to dry suit fails in the open position; or if the diver is over-weighted, and extra air has been added to the suit at some point to make the diver neutrally buoyant. The size of the bubble can be minimised by being correctly weighted and venting excess gas from the suit on ascent. Some divers ensure that the bubble remains at the top of their body by using the buoyancy compensator to counteract any excess weighting, keeping only the minimum gas necessary to avoid squeeze inside the drysuit.\n\nThe recommended solution in all such \"inversion accidents\", is for the wearer to bend at the knees and powerfully flap the arms to do a backward or forward roll to the upright position and then vent the suit, if needed, by manually opening the neck seal (sometimes called \"burping the suit\") by breaking the seal-neck contact with a finger.\n\nSurface dry suit users can face a similar inversion problem. The problem is more acute when not wearing a personal flotation device (life vest) over the dry suit. For surface dry suit users, the inversion can be much more critical since the wearer may be held upside down and unable to breathe.\n\nIt is not a problem for close-fitting neoprene suits, or hybrid suits with neoprene bottoms, which prevent air from easily moving into the legs of the suit. Wearers of baggy surface dry suits can mitigate the problem by venting out as much excess air as possible before entering the water. This is typically done by crouching down and leaning forward, wrapping the arms around the knees, and then having an assistant zip the suit shut while it is stretched out tightly. Excess air can also be \"burped\" out of the neck or cuff seal.\n\nIn the 1830s the Deane brothers asked Augustus Siebe to improve their underwater helmet design. Expanding on improvements already made by another engineer, George Edwards, Siebe produced his own design; a helmet clamped to a full length watertight canvas diving suit. The real success of the equipment was a valve in the helmet that meant that it could not flood no matter how the diver moved.\n\nSiebe introduced various modifications on his diving dress design to accommodate the requirements of the salvage team on the wreck of the HMS \"Royal George\", including making the helmet be detachable from the corselet; his improved design gave rise to the typical standard diving dress which revolutionised underwater civil engineering, underwater salvage, commercial diving and naval diving.\n\nIn France in the 1860s, Rouquayrol and Denayrouze developed a single stage demand regulator with a small low pressure reservoir, to make more economical use of surface supplied air pumped by manpower. This was originally used without any form of mask or helmet, but vision was poor, and the \"pig-snout\" copper mask was developed in 1866 to provide a clearer view through a glass faceplate on a copper mask clamped to the neck opening of the suit. This was soon improved to become a three-bolt helmet supported by a corselet (1867). Later versions were fitted for free-flow air supply.\n\nThese dry suits were directly coupled to the air space in the helmet, and buoyancy was not sufficiently controllable to allow swimming - the diver needed to remain upright when descending or ascending to allow venting of excess air through the helmet exhaust valve, or risk a potentially fatal blowup.(ref usn training film - see Standard diving dress) With these suits the diver would be weighted sufficiently to allow reasonably stable walking on the bottom, and would either be pulled up and lowered by the tenders, or would slide down the shotline and climb back up it. Great care would be taken in normal diving to avoid over-inflation of the suit underwater as this could lead to a runaway ascent.\n\nThe earliest suits were made of waterproofed canvas invented by Charles Mackintosh. From the late 1800s and throughout most of the 20th century, most suits consisted of a solid sheet of rubber between layers of tan twill. Their thick vulcanized rubber collar is clamped to the corselet making the joint waterproof. The inner collar (bib) was made of the same material as the suit and pulled up inside the corselet and around the diver's neck. The space between the bib and corselet would trap most condensation and minor leakage in the helmet, keeping the diver dry. The sleeves could be fitted with integral gloves or rubber wrist seals and the suit legs ended in integral socks.\n\nThe twill was available in heavy, medium, and light grades, with the heavy having the best resistance to abrasion and puncture against rough surfaces like barnacles, rocks and the jagged edges of wreckage. Vulnerable areas were reinforced by extra layers of fabric. Different types of dress are defined by the clamping of the collar seal to the rim of the corselet or to the joint between bonnet and corselet, and the number of bolts used for this purpose. The legs may be laced at the back to limit inflated volume, which could prevent excess gas from getting trapped in the legs and dragging an inverted diver to the surface. In normal UK commercial diving activities, the legs often did not have the lace up option.\n\nThe rubberised fabric was waterproof, as was the seal to the helmet and the cuff seals, so the diver remains dry – a big advantage during long dives – and wears sufficient clothing under the suit to keep warm depending on the water temperature and expected level of exertion. The suit was usually a very baggy fit on the diver, and if over-inflated, would be too bulky to allow the diver to reach the control valves for air supply and exhaust. This contributed to the risk of suit blowup, which could cause an uncontrollable buoyant ascent, with high risk of decompression illness. To add to this problem, a runaway ascent could cause sufficient internal pressure to burst the seal at the corselet, which could result in a loss of buoyancy, and the injured diver sinking back to the bottom in a flooded suit. Consequently, divers would ensure that they remained sufficiently negative when underwater to minimise this risk. The bulkiness of fit, weighted boots and lack of fins made swimming impracticable. At the surface the diver could struggle a short distance using the arms, but underwater would normally walk on the bottom and climb up and down over obstacles, taking care to avoid passing under anything that could foul the air hose.\n\nThe Pirelli dry suit was designed in the 1930s and used by Italian frogmen during World War II. It became available for recreational divers after the war and was patented (US Pat. No. 2,570,019) in 1951 for Pirelli by Eugenio Wolk, listed as the inventor. This two piece suit was made from thin and elastic rubber, optionally bonded to a knit fabric reinforcement liner except at the sealing areas at the neck, wrists and waist. The waist seal was achieved by overlapping the jacket and trousers and folding the overlap down more than once before securing it in place over a profiled heavy rubber waistband using an elastic belt which pulls the rolled part into a groove in the waistband. Neck and cuff seals were the forerunners of the latex seals still used for this application. The patent claims this to be the first application of thin and flexible form-fitting rubber for the manufacture of dry suits, and also patents the waist seal system. The suits were intended to be worn over woolen underwear for thermal protection. There was no facility to inject air during a dive. These suits were available in four sizes and five styles, three of which were full length two-piece suits with integral boots, one of which was lined with cloth, and two of which had an optional integral hood on the jacket. The other two models were a two-piece with short sleeves and legs, and a one piece short trouser unit with suspenders which sealed on the chest and thighs.\n\nBritish frogmen of World War II and for some time afterwards used a similar one or two piece rubberized knit fabric suit by Siebe Gorman. They produced the one-piece front-entry Sladen suit with integral rubber helmet, developed by the British Admiralty for use with manned torpedoes, and in the late 1950s also the Essjee two-piece swim suit, based on the Sladen suit. The Essjee suit consisted of a jacket with rubber hood and lightweight wrist cuffs, and trousers shod with moulded rubber soles. The two parts were sealed by rolling the overlapped rubber skirts of the jacket and trousers together and these were held in place by a separate rubber cummerbund. Soft sponge-rubber pads inside the hood covered the ears and allowed them to be equalised. There was space under the suit for plenty of woollen underclothes. The suit was available in proofed gabardine or rubberised stockinette, with the cloth on the outside and the rubber inside, to protect the rubber from sunlight while in use.\n\nIn 1945 the Spearfisherman Company, owned by Arthur Brown, of Huntington Beach, California was approached by the US Navy to produce a rubber suit. These were advertised in the first issue of the Skin Diver magazine in December 1951, as “seamless, one-piece, pure gum rubber, nude freedom frogman suits”. These were entered by a chute which was folded and clamped to seal, and were available as full length or shortie suits with integral hood. Later versions had a neck level entry chute and a nape valve to purge trapped air. The shortie version was also rebranded as Kellys \"7-seas\" suit.\n\nA seamless dipped latex two-piece suit by an unidentified manufacturer, apparently marketed exclusively for women. was catalogued by Palley's of California in the early 1950s. The suit was made in two sections, connected by a rolled overlap similar to the Pirelli suits, and were available in long or short leg versions and long or short sleeved versions, all with integral neck, and cuff or arm and thigh seals. A separate hood was also available, and optional boots for the long leg version.\n\nWaterwear of Newport Beach, California, produced the natural gum-rubber \"Seal\" suit for US Divers from 1953 or earlier. Several versions were available, including one piece and two piece suits. The one piece suits were available with long or short legs and sleeves, and with front, neck or back entry. Neck entry suits were sealed by overlapping the neck opening and the hood over a grooved neck ring, and clamping with a large elastic O-ring. The two piece suit shirt and pants were also available separately and could be sealed together at the waist by a system similar to the neck entry suit.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, C.E. Heinke & Co. Ltd., an established manufacturer of Standard diving equipment, had diversified into recreational underwater swimming equipment, including the \"Delta\" dry suit, made from natural rubber on a stockinette base. The basic Delta was a two piece suit made up of a jacket with neck seal and trousers with ankle seals which could be worn over woolen undergarments. The full suit included integral hood and feet. The overlapped and rolled waist seal was held in place by a cummerbund.\n\nFor a few years after C.E. Heinke & Co. Ltd. was taken over by Siebe-Gorman and Company in 1961, dry suits were marketed under the Siebe-Heinke label. The Siebe-Heinke \"Dip Suit\" for recreational diving, swimming, yachting and fishing, was advertised in Lillywhites’ 1964 underwater catalogue. The standard Dip Suit was a set of seamless black dipped-latex jacket with neck and cuff seals, and trousers with separate yellow latex waist-seal cummerbund. A yellow hood and black protective over-bootees were optional extras. Small, medium and large sizes were available.\nThe Siebe-Heinke \"Frogman\" dry suit for professional and recreational use was introduced in 1963. It was available in stockinette proofed with black rubber, or proofed fawn twill. The suit consisted of a set of booted trousers with reinforced soles or optional ankle seals, and a jacket with cuff seals and an option between a neck seal or integral hood. The two parts were connected by a rolled waist seal held in place by a rubber cummerbund. Sizes available were small, medium, large short and large.\n\nIn 1955, Healthways retailed \"Carib\" drysuits, made of 3-ply translucent gum rubber, and available in long and short versions. Entry was by a front chute with rubber band closure. The full version included an integral hood and covered the feet. In 1957, they added the \"Aqua King\" and \"Aqua Flite\" dry suits to their product range. The Aqua King suit was a full-length waist entry suit, comprising hood, long sleeved shirt, booted pants and waistline sealing ring, and was made of seamless latex rubber. All these suits were available in small medium and large sizes.\n\nW.J. Voit Rubber Corporation of New York, Danville and Los Angeles mamufactured the one-piece front-entry VDS10 and two-piece waist-entry VDS11 full dry suits in two ply lightweight gum rubber with integral boots and hood. These were available completed or as kits for home assembly.\n\nThe UK-based Dunlop Rubber Company produced drysuits for military and commercial divers and the Dunlop Aquafort range for recreational use.\n\nBel-Aqua Water Sports Company of Los Angeles (later Aquala Sports Manufacturing Company) marketed dry suits designed and manufactured by Bill Barada from 1954 or earlier. These were front entry one-piece or waist entry two piece suits with optional hood in 3-ply rubber, with optional integral hood, intended to be worn over insulating underwear suited to the water temperature. The front entry was sealed by binding the entry chute with a length of surgical rubber, and waist entry was sealed by rolling the overlap over a rubber ring. Boots, cuff and collar were moulded rubber. These were available in small, medium or large and were also available in kit form.\n\nSo-Lo Marx Rubber Company produced Skooba-\"totes\" dry suits from the late 1950s. These two piece seamless rubber suits with \"ring and rail\" waist seal, reinforced feet and optional hood were available in several colours over the years including green, brown, yellow and red. Sizes ranged from extra small to extra large.\n\nThe Dolphin Manufacturing Company of California designed and manufactured rubber spearfishing suits in the 1950s. Trading as Dolphin Enterprises, it sold the original front-entry Dolphin suits in ready-made and kit forms, before launching a new design 2-ply pocket entry suit. The Dolphin suit was available in four sizes and at least three colours (green, kelp and sand) with a tie-off sealed front-entry chute, hood and moulded boots. The company appears to have changed its name again to “Penguin Suits” after moving to Long Beach, California with the pocket entry suit as its leading product. Penguin suits marketed the one piece P1 suit with pocket entry, and the two-piece P2 suit with waist entry and roll seal, in red, blue or black including seamless moulded boots with scuff soles and an optional hood.\n\nDevelopment of space-suits led to the pressure-tight zipper, first manufactured by B.F. Goodrich, and first used on a dry suit by Bev Morgan in 1956. The suit was in expanded neoprene and had an oral inflator and latex seals. This was followed by the Unisuit, by Poseidon Industri AB of Sweden, also in neoprene, and which included a low pressure inflator valve and exhaust valves. The zipper ran from mid-back to mid-chest via the crotch. This design became the industry standard for a while and use was widespread. Overpressure valves were installed in the ankles, wrists and neck of dry suits to remove excessive air introduced through the face mask to prevent discomfort created by squeeze, which also increased the insulation capacity of the undergarments. These were called constant volume dry suits. Also in Sweden, Stig Insulán and Jorn Stubdal developed a vulcanised rubber drysuit, and Insulán patented the semi-automatic variable volume drysuit exhaust valve in 1971 which combined with the low pressure inflator valve gave the diver precise and trouble-free buoyancy control, in the variable volume dry suit.\n\n"}
{"id": "2135232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135232", "title": "Dynasty (sports)", "text": "Dynasty (sports)\n\nIn sports, a dynasty is a team or individual that dominates their sport or league for an extended length of time. Some leagues maintain official lists of dynasties, often as part of a hall of fame, but in many cases, whether a team or individual has achieved a dynasty is subjective. This can result in frequent topic of debate among sports fans due to lack of consensus and agreement in the many different variables and criteria that fans may use to define a sports dynasty. Merriam-Webster describes a dynasty as a \"sports franchise which has a prolonged run of successful seasons\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe problems inherent in identifying sports dynasties are exacerbated in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision, where the national champion is determined, at least in part, by poll rather than through a tournament. These polls, however, are largely based on win-loss records, thereby relying on minimal subjectivity. When fans of a sport cannot agree on which team within a league or other organization should be considered as holding that organization's championship, discussing whether a team has become a dynasty is more difficult. Because of these problems, teams that consistently win their conference championship and are frequently in contention for national championships are termed dynasties more often than a similarly performing team in another sport or division might.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe National Hockey League and the Hockey Hall of Fame officially recognize nine dynasty teams:\n\nThe Soviet Championship League is now known as the Kontinental Hockey League.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost disputes about dynasties relate to teams that dominated within a conference or division, but either failed to win championships or infrequently won championships. This is exacerbated in NCAA Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A), where the national champion is determined, at least in part, by poll rather than through a tournament.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 1916 and 1917 VFA seasons were cancelled due to World War IThe Football League suspended operations between 1939–40 and 1945–46 inclusive due to World War II and planning difficulties in its aftermath.The Allied conquest of Italy caused normal Serie A football to be suspended between 1943–44 and 1945–46, though the 1946 \"scudetto\" is considered official.\n"}
{"id": "38937556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38937556", "title": "EHF Champions League clubs performance comparison", "text": "EHF Champions League clubs performance comparison\n\nThe comparison of the performances of all of the clubs that participated in EHF Champions League is below. The qualification rounds were not taken into account.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10813325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10813325", "title": "Elephant polo", "text": "Elephant polo\n\nElephant polo is a variant of polo played while riding elephants. It is played in Nepal, Rajasthan (India), and Thailand. England and Scotland regularly field teams. Equipment consists of a standard polo ball and six to ten foot cane (similar to bamboo) sticks with a polo mallet head on the end. The pitch is three-quarters of the length of a standard polo pitch, due to the lower speed of the elephants. Two people ride each elephant; the elephants are steered by mahouts, while the player tells the mahout which way to go and hits the ball.\n\nElephant polo originated in Meghauli, Nepal. Tiger Tops in Nepal remains the headquarters of elephant polo and the site of the World Elephant Polo Championships.\n\nElephant Polo in Nepal and Thailand is played under the auspices of the World Elephant Polo Association. WEPA enforces strict rules regarding elephant welfare and game play. Other tournaments, such as those played in India and Sri Lanka, are managed independently of each other and the World Elephant Polo Association. Sri Lanka held an annual tournament in Galle under the auspices of the Ceylon Elephant Polo Association. In 2007 an elephant went on a rampage during a game, injuring two players and destroying the Spanish team's minibus.\n\nAllegations of cruel treatment of polo elephants, made by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, have led to match cancellation, sponsorship withdrawal and the removal of references to elephant polo records in the Guinness Book of World Records.\n\nThe Thailand Elephant Polo Association announced in October 2018 that it will end polo matches in Thailand. A polo tournament had been held annually at Anantara Hotel Bangkok owned by Minor Hotels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765082", "title": "Fight song", "text": "Fight song\n\nIn American and Canadian sports, a fight song is a song associated with a team. In both professional and amateur sports, fight songs are a popular way for fans to cheer for their team, and are also laden with history; in singing a fight song, fans feel part of a large, time-honored tradition. Although the term \"fight song\" is primarily used in the United States, the use of fight songs is commonplace around the world, but they may also be referred to as team anthems, team songs or games songs in other countries, even such as Australia, Mexico and New Zealand. Fight songs differ from stadium anthems, used for similar purposes, in that they are usually written specifically for the purposes of the team, whereas stadium anthems are not.\n\nHundreds of colleges have fight songs, some of which are over a century old. The oldest collegiate fight song in the United States is Boston College's \"For Boston\", composed by T.J. Hurley in 1885.\n\nOne of the oldest games songs in Australia is Melbourne Grammar's 'Play Together, Dark Blue Twenty', which is sung to the tune of 'The March of the Men of Harlech'. It was composed by Ambrose John Wilson who was principal of the school from 1885-1893. This is not to be confused with the school hymn '\"Ora et Labora\"' which is now sung to the tune of 'Jerusalem'.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Notes:\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2530293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530293", "title": "First XI", "text": "First XI\n\nThe first XI, first 11 or starting XI are the 11 primary players in an organisation's leading team, particularly a cricket team or association football team. A player who is considered part of the starting XI is often the most proficient in his/her particular position - for example, a football club's leading goal scorer will almost always be selected due to his ability and the contribution he/she makes to the team.\n\n'First eleven' is a reference to the fact that they are the first eleven players selected to play for the team - many sports state that clubs must have squads of no fewer than formula_1 number of players, and this number is often higher than 11. For example, in the Premier League, each club has to designate a squad of 25.\n"}
{"id": "56734181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56734181", "title": "Flag Racing", "text": "Flag Racing\n\nFlag Racing is a rodeo event in which a horse and rider attempt to complete a pattern around preset barrels in the fastest time. The contest must deposit a flag in one bucket and remove a flag from another bucket. It is a youth rodeo event for both boys and girls. \n\nThe National Little Britches Rodeo has both a Little Wrangler (coed ages 5-8) Flag Racing competition and a Junior Boy (ages 9-13) Flag Racing competition. \n\nThe rider is given a flag before the start of the race. The contestant must race toward the first barrel and place the flag in the bucket. Then the contestant must race to the second barrel and remove a flag from the second bucket. Finally, the rider must race back to the finish line.\n\nThe contestant will be disqualified for any of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "2064628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064628", "title": "Georges Hébert", "text": "Georges Hébert\n\nGeorges Hébert (27 April 1875 – 2 August 1957) was a pioneering physical educator in the French military who developed a system of physical education and training known as \"la méthode naturelle\" (\"Natural Method\"), which combined the training of a wide variety of physical capacities with the training of courage and morality.\n\nHébert was born in Paris. While an officer in the French Navy prior to the First World War, Hébert was stationed in the town of St. Pierre, on the island of Martinique in the Caribbean Sea. In 1902 the town fell victim to a catastrophic volcanic eruption.\n\nHébert coordinated the escape and rescue of some seven hundred people from this disaster. This experience had a profound effect on him, and reinforced his belief that athletic skill must be combined with courage and altruism. He eventually developed this ethos into his personal motto, \"Être fort pour être utile\" (\"Being strong to be useful\").\n\nHébert had travelled extensively throughout the world and was impressed by the physical development and movement skills of indigenous peoples in Africa and elsewhere:\n\nTheir bodies were splendid, flexible, nimble, skillful, enduring, resistant and yet they had no other tutor in gymnastics but their lives in nature.\n\nUpon his return to France, Hébert became a physical instructor for the French marines in Lorient, where he began to define the principles of his own system of physical education and to create apparatus and exercises to teach his \"Natural Method\".\n\nBeyond his observations of the natural movements of indigenous people, Hébert's method is a synthesis of various influences, including but not limited to:\n\n\nHebert's system rejected remedial gymnastics and the popular Swedish Method of physical culture, which seemed to him unable to develop the human body harmoniously and especially unable to prepare his students with the practical and moral demands of life.\n\nIn the same way, Hébert believed, by concentrating on competition and performance, competitive sport diverted physical education both from its physiological ends and its ability to foster sound moral values.\n\nFor Georges Hébert, influenced by the teachings of philosopher and educationalist Jean-Jacques Rousseau, only the observation of nature could lead people to the true methods of physical development. He wrote:\nThe final goal of physical education is to make strong beings. In the purely physical sense, the Natural Method promotes the qualities of organic resistance, muscularity and speed, towards being able to walk, run, jump, move on all fours, to climb, to keep balance, to throw, lift, defend yourself and to swim.\nIn the \"virile\" or energetic sense, the system consists in having sufficient energy, willpower, courage, coolness, and firmness.\nIn the moral sense, education, by elevating the emotions, directs or maintains the moral drive in a useful and beneficial way.\nThe true Natural Method, in its broadest sense, must be considered as the result of these three particular forces; it is a physical, virile and moral synthesis. It resides not only in the muscles and the breath, but above all in the \"energy\" which is used, the will which directs it and the feeling which guides it.\n\nHébert defined the guiding principles and fundamental rules of the Natural Method as:\nWith regard to the development of virile qualities, this is obtained by the execution of certain difficult or dangerous exercises requiring the development of these various qualities, for example while seeking to control the fear of falling, of jumping, of rising, of plunging, of walking on an unstable surface, etc.\n\nGeorges Hébert's teaching continued to expand between and during the two wars, becoming the standard system of French military physical education.\n\nHe was also an early advocate of the benefits of exercise for women. In his work \"Muscle and Plastic Beauty\", which appeared in 1921, Hébert criticized not only the fashion of corsetry but also the physical inactivity imposed upon women by contemporary European society. By following the natural method of synthesized physical, energetic and moral development, he wrote, women could develop self-confidence, will-power and athletic ability just as well as their male counterparts.\n\nHébert wrote:\nA (Natural Method) session is composed of exercises belonging to the ten fundamental groups: walking, running, jumping, quadrupedal movement, climbing, equilibrium (balancing), throwing, lifting, defending and swimming.\nA training session consists, then, of exercises in an outdoor environment, perhaps a few hundred meters to several kilometers, during which, one walks, one runs, one jumps, one progresses quadrupedally, one climbs, one walks in unstable balance, one raises and one carries, one throws, one fights and one swims.\n\nThis course can be carried out in two ways:\n\nAll of the exercises can be carried out while progressing through this environment. A session can last from 20 to 60 minutes.\n\nThus, Hébert was among the earliest proponents of \"le parcours\", or obstacle course, form of physical training, which is now standard in the military and has led to the development of civilian fitness trails and confidence courses. In fact, woodland challenge courses comprising balance beams, ladders, rope swings and so-on are often still described as \"Hebertism\" or \"Hebertisme\" courses both in Europe and in North America. It may even be possible to trace modern adventure playground equipment back to Hébert's original designs in the early 1900s.\n\nAs a former sailor, Hébert may have patterned some of his \"stations\" on the obstacles that are found on the deck of a ship; he was also a strong proponent of \"natural\" or spontaneous training in non-designed environments.\n\nThe year 1955 marked the 50th birthday of the Natural Method, and Hébert was named Commander of the Legion of Honor by the French government in recognition of his many services to his country. In 1957, George Hébert, by then suffering from general paralysis, cultivated the admiration of his entourage by relearning how to walk, speak and write. He died on August 2 of that year in Tourgéville, Calvados, France.\n\nThere are still schools and gymnasia throughout Europe that are promoting the Natural Method of physical training, some maintaining their own elaborate \"parcours\" in natural surroundings.\n\nMost recently, Hébert's teachings have been an important influence on the emergence of Parkour as a training discipline in its own right. Also, in the first decade of the 21st century, the French American physical education instructor Erwan Le Corre took inspiration from Hébert's \"méthode naturelle\" (\"natural method\") and has expanded on the training to form a system of natural movement which he has named \"MovNat\".\n\n\nAngel, Julie (2016). \"Breaking the Jump: The Secret Story of Parkour's High-flying Rebellion\". Arum Press. \n\n\nPDF-file: Guide pratique d'éducation physique, 2nd edition (1912) (Hébert's \"Practical Guide to Physical Education,\" 2nd edition. English translation by Pilou and Gregg.) \n"}
{"id": "21463614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21463614", "title": "Gym", "text": "Gym\n\nA gymnasium, also known as a gym, is a covered location for gymnastics, athletics, and gymnastic services. The word is derived from the ancient Greek \"gymnasium\". They are commonly found in athletic and fitness centers, and as activity and learning spaces in educational institutions. \"Gym\" is also slang for \"fitness center\", which is often an area for indoor recreation.\n\nGymnasia apparatus such as barbells, parallel bars, jumping board, running path, tennis-balls, cricket field, fencing area, and so forth are used as exercises. In safe weather, outdoor locations are the most conducive to health. Gyms were popular in ancient Greece. Their curricula included Gymnastica militaria or self-defense, gymnastica medica, or physical therapy to help the sick and injured, and gymnastica athletica for physical fitness and sports, from boxing to dancing.\n\nThese gymnasia also had teachers of wisdom and philosophy. Community gymnastic events were done as part of the celebrations during various village festivals. In ancient Greece there was a phrase of contempt, \"He can neither swim nor write.\" After a while, however, Olympic athletes began training in buildings specifically designed for them. Community sports never became as popular among ancient Romans as it had among the ancient Greeks. Gyms were used more as a preparation for military service or spectator sports. During the Roman Empire, the gymnastic art was forgotten. In the Dark Ages there were sword fighting tournaments and of chivalry; and after gunpowder was invented sword fighting began to be replaced by the sport of fencing. There were schools of dagger fighting and wrestling and boxing.\n\nThen in the 18th century, Salzmann, German clergyman, opened a gym in Thuringia teaching bodily exercises, including running and swimming. Clias and Volker established gyms in London, and in 1825, Doctor Beck, a German immigrant, established the first gymnasium in the United States. It was found that gym pupils lose interest in doing the same exercises, partly because of age. Variety in exercises included skating, dancing, and swimming. Some gym activities can be done by 6 to 8 year-olds while age 16 has been considered mature enough for boxing and horseback riding.\n\nIn Ancient Greece, the \"gymnasion\" (γυμνάσιον) was a locality for both physical and intellectual education of young men. The latter meaning of intellectual education persisted in Greek, German and other languages to denote a certain type of school providing secondary education, the gymnasium, whereas in English the meaning of physical education pertained in the word 'gym'.\n\nThe Greek word \"gymnasium\" means \"school for naked exercise\" and was used to designate a locality for the education of young men, including physical education (\"gymnastics\", i.e. exercise) which was customarily performed naked, as well as bathing, and studies. For the Greeks, physical education was considered as important as cognitive learning. Most Greek \"gymnasia\" had libraries that could be utilized after relaxing in the baths.\n\nThe first recorded gymnasiums date back to over 3000 years ago in ancient Persia, where they were known as \"zurkhaneh\", areas that encouraged physical fitness. The larger Roman Baths often had attached fitness facilities, the baths themselves sometimes being decorated with mosaics of local champions of sport. Gyms (\"i.e\"., places for gymnastics) in Germany were an outgrowth of the \"Turnplatz\", an outdoor space for gymnastics, which was promoted by German educator Friedrich Jahn and the Turners, a nineteenth-century political and gymnastic movement. The first indoor gymnasium in Germany was probably the one built in Hesse in 1852 by Adolph Spiess, an enthusiast for boys' and girls' gymnastics in schools.\nThrough worldwide colonization, Great Britain expanded its national interest in sports and games to many countries. In the 1800s, programs were added to schools and college curricula that emphasized health, strength, and bodily measure. Sports drawn from European and British cultures thrived as college students and upper-class clubs financed competition. As a result, towns began building playgrounds that furthered interest in sports and physical activity. In the United States, the Turner movement thrived in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The first Turners group was formed in London in 1848. The Turners built gymnasia in several cities like Cincinnati and St. Louis which had large German American populations. These gyms were utilized by adults and youth. For example, a young Lou Gehrig would frequent the Turner gym in New York City with his father.\n\nThe Boston Young Men's Christian Union claims to be \"America's First Gym\". The YMCA first organized in Boston in 1851 and a smaller branch opened in Rangasville in 1852. Ten years later there were some two hundred YMCAs across the country, most of which provided gymnasia for exercise, games, and social interaction.\n\nThe 1920s was a decade of prosperity that witnessed the building of large numbers of public high schools with a gymnasium, an idea founded by Nicolas Isaranga. Over the course of the 20th century, gymnasia have been reconceptualized to accommodate the popular team and individual games and sports that have supplanted gymnastics in the school curriculum.\n\nToday, gymnasia are commonplace in the United States. They are in virtually all U.S. colleges and high schools, as well as almost all middle schools and elementary schools. These facilities are used for physical education, intramural sports, and school gatherings. The number of gyms in the U.S. has more than doubled since the late 1980s. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5264093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5264093", "title": "Gymslip", "text": "Gymslip\n\nA gymslip is a sleeveless tunic with a pleated skirt most commonly seen as part of a school uniform for girls. The term \"gymslip\" primarily refers to the school uniform; otherwise the term pinafore dress (British English) or jumper dress (American English) is usually preferred.\n\nThe introduction of the gymslip as female athletic wear is credited to Mary Tait, a student of Martina Bergman-Österberg, a pioneer of women's physical education in Britain. Gymslips were worn by gymnasts and athletes from the 1880s to the 1920s, as they were more mobile than traditional female attire, but still modest enough to keep the underwear hidden during sporting activity. Even in this modest attire, gymslips as athletic wear were still worn strictly out of public view.\n\nWhen not worn as athletic wear, gymslips or pinafore dresses are generally worn over a blouse and replace a skirt. A blazer may be worn over the top. First emerging in the 1900s, by the 1920s it had become compulsory in many private, convent and high schools, and thus became commonly worn by girls as part of their school uniform, together with a blouse.\n\nAlthough now largely replaced by modern-style uniforms, gymslips are still synonymous in Britain with schoolgirls, leading to the slang term \"gymslip mum\" to describe a teenage pregnancy. Well-known modern depictions of gymslips include the St. Trinians films, and less traditionally, schoolgirl uniform pornography, a use given more public recognition when in 1991 politician Clare Short condemned the fetish, saying \"the Page 3 girl in a gymslip may be over 16, but the imagery is clearly intended to present schoolgirls as sexual objects\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50100345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50100345", "title": "High dart average", "text": "High dart average\n\nThe high average in darts is the average score achieved with all three darts thrown. \nMichael van Gerwen is the current world record holder with a televised average of 123.40 thrown in the 2016 Premier League against Michael Smith.\n\nHighest televised averages from 114 points.\nAverages marked with * were streamed via the internet or weren't televised.\n\nThe world record progression before 1997 is subject to further research.\n\n"}
{"id": "48631495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48631495", "title": "International Charter of Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport", "text": "International Charter of Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport\n\nThe International Charter of Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport is a rights-based document which was adopted by member states of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), on November 18, 2015 during the 38th session of the UNESCO General Conference. This document is the legitimate successor of the International Charter of Physical Education and Sport, originally adopted in 1978, during the 20th General Conference of UNESCO.\n\nThe original Charter, which was amended in 1991, was the first rights-based document to state that “the practice of physical education and sport is a fundamental right for all”.\nBased on the universal spirit of the original Charter (1978), and integrating the significant evolutions in the field of sport over the last 37 years, the revised Sport Charter highlights the health benefits of physical activity, the inclusion of persons with disabilities, the protection of children, the role of sport for development and peace, as well as the need to protect the integrity of sport from doping, violence, manipulation and corruption.\n\nIn twelve brief articles, the revised Charter serves as a universal reference on the ethical and quality standards of physical education, physical activity and sport. While preserving the initial intention of the 1978 Charter, this new document also represents a renewed commitment of the international sports community to actively promote sport as a catalyst for peace and development.\n\nThe revised version of the Sport Charter provides a framework that orients the protection of the integrity of sport and supports broader policies in favour of grassroots sport. It also recognizes physical education as a driver for promoting gender equality, social inclusion, non-discrimination and sustained dialogue in our societies.\n\nUNESCO Director-General, Irina Bokova said: “The adoption of the revised Charter should mark a shift away from words towards action, from policy intent to implementation. It sets the tone for a new international sport policy debate, which should now focus on the exchange of good practice, education and training programmes, capacity development, and advocacy. This is also a strong recognition of physical education as a driver for promoting gender equality, social inclusion, non-discrimination and sustained dialogue in our societies.” \n\nThe International Charter of Physical Education, Physical Activity and Sport contains a preamble and 12 articles. These are the main values defended by the Charter:\n\nArticle 1 - The practice of physical education, physical activity and sport is a fundamental right for all\n\nArticle 2 - Physical education, physical activity and sport can yield a wide range of benefits to individuals, communities and society at large\n\nArticle 11 - Physical education, physical activity and sport can play an important role in the realization of development, peace and post-conflict and post-disaster objectives\n\nArticle 4 - Physical education, physical activity and sport programmes must inspire lifelong participation.\n\nArticle 5 – All stakeholders must ensure that their activities are economically, socially and environmentally sustainable.\n\nArticle 6 - Research, evidence and evaluation are indispensable components for the development of physical education, physical activity and sport.\n\nArticle 7 - Teaching, coaching and administration of physical education, physical activity and sport must be performed by qualified personnel.\n\nArticle 8 - Adequate and safe spaces, facilities and equipment are essential to quality physical education, physical activity and sport.\n\nArticle 9 - Safety and the management of risk are necessary conditions of quality provision.\n\nArticle 10 - Protection and promotion of the integrity and ethical values of physical education, physical activity and sport must be a constant concern for all\n\nArticle 3 – All stakeholders must participate in creating a strategic vision, identifying policy potions and priorities.\n\nArticle 12 – International cooperation is a prerequisite for enhancing the scope and impact of physical education, physical activity and sport.\n\nThe Quality Physical Education Policy Project illustrates how principles and recommendations stipulated in the Charter can be translated into indicators, benchmarks and tools.\n\nThe revision of the Charter involved experts and practitioners from governments, sports organizations, academia and NGOs. This new version was carefully examined through sessions of the Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (CIGEPS) and its Permanent Consultative Council (PCC), as well as UNESCO’s Executive Board. It is a follow-up to the Declaration of Berlin that was adopted by 600 participants from 121 countries, as an outcome of the 5th World Conference of Sport Ministers (MINEPS V).\n\nCreated in 1976, the International Conference of Ministers and Senior Officials Responsible for Physical Education and Sport (MINEPS) is a forum that facilitates intellectual and technical exchange in the field of physical education and sport. MINEPS also serves as an institutional mechanism for a coherent international strategy in this domain.\nIt is also the only global platform that engages governments, intergovernmental organizations, the sport movement, academia and specialized NGOs.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Committee for Physical Education and Sport (CIGEPS) was established in 1978 to promote the role and value of sport and its inclusion in public policy. CIGEPS is composed of expert representatives in the field of physical education and sport from 18 UNESCO Member States, each elected for a four-year term. \nIn 2015, CIGEPS is composed of the 18 following member states of UNESCO:\nThe Permanent Consultative Council (PCC), comprising key sport federations, UN agencies and NGOs, provides technical support and advice to the CIGEPS.\n"}
{"id": "14742913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14742913", "title": "Match penalty", "text": "Match penalty\n\nMatch penalty is a term used in some sports for a player having committed such a serious offence that he or she is being sent off for the rest of the game. The term is used in bandy, floorball, and ice hockey.\n\nIn bandy, it is indicated with a red penalty card.\n\nIn ice hockey, there are two kinds of sending-off penalties: “game misconduct penalty” and the more serious “match penalty” which is imposed for deliberately injuring another player as well as attempting to injure another player. Many other penalties automatically become match penalties if injuries actually occur: under NHL rules, \"butt-ending, goalies using blocking glove to the face of another player, head-butting, kicking, punching an unsuspecting player, spearing,\" and \"tape on hands during altercation\" must be called as a match penalty if injuries occur; under IIHF rules, \"kneeing\" and \"checking to the head or neck area\" must be called as a match penalty if injuries occur.\n"}
{"id": "37594948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37594948", "title": "Mogo Wheelchairs", "text": "Mogo Wheelchairs\n\nMogo Wheelchairs is an Australian manufacturer of sporting wheelchairs established by Michael Callahan who competed in wheelchair basketball for Australia at the 1984 Summer Paralympics and 1992 Summer Paralympics.\n\nCallahan wasn't able to find suitable chairs for competitive wheelchair basketball, and started building his own in the early 1980s. In 2000 Callahan reported to Sydney Morning Herald that his company was building 600 to 700 chairs a year at around AUD 2000 per chair, and almost all of Australia's wheelchair basketball team was using his chairs.\n\nMogo pioneered the inclusion of a fifth wheel that is now standard in wheelchair basketball.\n\nDouble amputee, Paralympian and public speaker Matt Glowacki is their advocate in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53645073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53645073", "title": "Mrs Graham's XI", "text": "Mrs Graham's XI\n\nMrs Graham's XI was a women's football team formed by Helen Matthews in Edinburgh, Scotland in 1881. It is considered the first British women's football team and a pioneering team in the history of the sport. Because it was not safe for women to play football without harassment, the players used pseudonyms to protect their identities. Matthews, also a goalkeeper for the team, claimed to be \"Mrs Graham\".\n\nThe first record of the team coming together to play football occurred on 9 May 1881, at Edinburgh's Easter Road Stadium. The match was billed as a Scotland v England international.\n\nJust over a week later, on 20 May 1881, the teams played in Glasgow in front of 5,000 spectators. The match was abandoned in the 55th minute after a violent pitch invasion during which the women were \"roughly jostled\", and chased by a mob as they left the grounds. Further games resulted in similar pitch invasions, which soon resulting in ending this early attempt to introduce women's football.\n\nThe press coverage, which would dominate coverage of women's football for the next century, was clearly established in 1881: barely disguised contempt regarding player appearance, including costume, and the standard of play, overlaid with a certainty that football was a rough man's game unsuitable for women.\n\nAn attempt to form a new club was made by Matthews with Nettie Honeyball (also a pseudonym) founding the British Ladies' Football Club on 1 January 1895. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1751142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1751142", "title": "Multi-stage fitness test", "text": "Multi-stage fitness test\n\nThe multi-stage fitness test, also known as the PACER (Progressive Aerobic Cardiovascular Endurance Run) test or the beep test, is a running test used to estimate an athlete's aerobic capacity (VO max). In the test, athletes must run from one line to another before a timed beep. Athletes must continue running back and forth, each time reaching the line before the next beep. Once one can no longer run, the test is over and the number of laps is recorded. As the test continues, the time between beeps gets shorter. \n\nThe test is used by sporting organizations around the world along with schools, militaries, and others interested in gauging one's cardiovascular endurance, an important component of overall physical fitness. \n\nThe test was created in 1982 by Luc Léger, a French Gopnik at the University of Montreal and published in 1983 with a starting speed of 8 km/h and stages of 2 min duration. It was re-published in the European Journal of Applied Physiology in 1988 in its present form with a starting speed of 8.5 km/h and 1 min stages under the name \"The multistage 20 metre shuttle run test for aerobic fitness\". Result equivalences between slightly modified versions are well explained by Tomkinson et al. in 2003.\n\nIn the United States, the President's Council on Youth Fitness now recommends schools use the PACER test instead of distance based runs like the mile (1600 m). Reasons for this include...\n\n\nVOmax = (Velocity (km/h) × 6.65 - 35.8) × 0.95 + 0.182 \n\n[METs] = VOmax / 3.5 \n\nThe test involves running continuously between two points that are 20 m apart from side to side (or 15 m in small gyms). The runs are synchronized with a pre-recorded audio tape, CD or computer software, which plays beeps at set intervals. As the test proceeds, the interval between each successive beep decreases, forcing the athletes to increase their speed over the course of the test until it is impossible to keep in sync with the recording (or, on extremely rare occasions, until the athlete completes the test). Many people who test people using the multi-stage fitness test allow one level to beep before the person makes the line, but some middle and grade schools allow two missed laps. If the person being tested does not make the next interval, the most recent level they completed is their final score.\n\nThe recording is typically structured into 25 'levels', each lasting around 62 s. Usually, the interval of beeps is calculated as requiring a speed at the start of 8.5 km/h (see format table), increasing by 0.5 km/h with each level thereafter. The progression from one level to the next is signaled by 3 quick beeps. The highest level attained before failing to keep up is recorded as the score for that test.\n\nThe original beep test was initially available on audio tape format. A problem with the tape was that it could stretch over time, or the tape player would play at inconsistent speed, making the timing between beeps inaccurate. Most versions of the tape had a one-minute recorded interval for calibrating the tape and tape player. Digital audio formats replaced the tapes, but checks were still required on the CD/player due to some tone controls possibly affecting the playback speed.\n\nInexpensive beep test software is now popular due to modern electronic devices having excellent and consistent timing accuracy. The software generally runs on a portable electronic computer such as a tablet, phone or laptop, making the test easy to organise for teams, and also tracks player fitness over a season. The contemporary accepted format starts at 8.5 km/h with levels of 1 minute as described in Leger's and Lambert's paper of 1988.\n\nSome versions of the test include background music. Coaches may also play their own music as the beeps are going.\n\nThe Guinness World Record for the largest group beep test is held by RAF Honington, in Honington, Suffolk where over 586 men and women took part.\n\nThe introductory explanation of one multi-stage fitness test, the FitnessGram PACER test, has been widely spread as a meme and in other comedic ways due to the test's modern use in schools, primarily in physical education classes.\n\n\"The FitnessGram™ PACER Test is a multistage aerobic capacity test that progressively gets more difficult as it continues. The 20-meter pacer test will begin in 30 seconds. Line up at the start. The running speed starts slowly but gets faster each minute after you hear this signal. [beep] A single lap should be completed each time you hear this sound. [ding] Remember to run in a straight line, and run as long as possible. The second time you fail to complete a lap before the sound, your test is over. The test will begin on the word start. On your mark, get ready, start.\"\n\nEpisode 12 of the Australian children's comedy show Little Lunch is called 'The Beep Test'. The plot revolves around the school students' reactions to participating in the multi-stage fitness test.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15128648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15128648", "title": "Omnium", "text": "Omnium\n\nAn omnium (from Latin: of all, belonging to all) is a multiple race event in track cycling. Historically the omnium has had a variety of formats. In recent years, road racing has also adopted the term to describe multi-day races that feature the three primary road race events (time trial, mass start and criterium).\n\nThe omnium was re-introduced into the World Championships as a five race track cycling format for men in 2007 and for women in 2009. The omnium was changed in 2010 by the UCI to include the elimination race and the distances of the events were lengthened to favour endurance cyclists.\n\nThe omnium replaced the individual pursuit, the points race, and the Madison at the Summer Olympic Games beginning in 2012. The change received some criticism from cyclist Rebecca Romero, who was left unable to defend her Olympic title.\n\nFrom June 2014 until the end of 2016, the omnium as defined by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) consisted of the following six events held over 2 days:\n\n\nFor the first five events, each winner was awarded 40 points, each second place 38 points, each third place 36, etc. Riders ranked 21st and below will each be awarded 1 point.\nIn the Points Race, riders add to and lose points from their totals based on laps gained and lost, and points won in sprints.\n\nAfter the 2016 season, the three timed events - the sprint time trial, flying lap and individual pursuit were all removed from the event, a tempo race added, and the event shortened to a single day. The points race as final race format remains with minor modifications.\n\n\nThe winner of the Omnium is the rider who has obtained the highest total of points.\n\nIn the event of a tie in the final ranking, the places in the final sprint of the last event,\nthe Points Race, breaks the tie. \n\nA rider must have completed every event in the omnium.\n\nA road race omnium consists of a time trial, a criterium, and a mass-start road race - typically held across a weekend or other 2-3 day period. Points are awarded to the top finishers at each event and totaled at the end of the event. The overall winner for the event is chosen based on the number of accumulated points. Often, organizers will stipulate that riders must complete each event in order to qualify for the overall prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "3622252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3622252", "title": "Pinsetter", "text": "Pinsetter\n\nIn bowling, a pinsetter, or pinspotter, was originally a person who manually reset bowling pins to their correct position, cleared fallen pins, and returned bowling balls to players. Probably due to the nature of the work (low-paid, often part-time, manual labor that most frequently took place evenings), many pinsetters were teenage boys, and thus pinboy is another name used to describe the job. Gottfried (Fred) Schmidt invented the mechanical pinsetter and sold the patent in 1941 to AMF firm, which largely did away with pinsetting as a manual profession, although a small number of bowling alleys still use human pinsetters. While humans usually no longer set the pins, a pinchaser, or in slang 'pin monkey', often is stationed near the equipment to ensure that it is clean and working properly, and to clear minor jams.\n\nMany mechanical pinsetters are integrated with electronic scoring systems of varying sophistication. While many pinsetters have a manual reset button to use in case the pinsetter does not automatically activate at the correct time, other types have no automatic tracking of the state of the game – especially for the candlepin and duckpin bowling sports which use smaller balls – and are almost always manually activated.\n\nThe design of the machines varies, depending both in individual company's hardware designs, and for the particular bowling sport's playing rules and equipment specifications. Several types of bowling make use of different designs for machines due to the different size and shape of the pins and balls. Common part descriptions for just about all pinspotting units consist of:\n\n\nIn the decades leading up to the introduction of the fully automatic units, \"semi-automatic\" pinsetters, such as the \"B-1\" and \"B-10\" units made by Brunswick, basically consisting of just a manually filled \"table\" similar to those used on the fully automatic units, operating much as the later units' component of the same name operated, were used by human pinsetters to both speed up the manual operation, and assure accuracy of \"spotting\" the full rack of ten pins for the next frame. The oldest operational bowling facility in the United States, Milwaukee, Wisconsin's \"Holler House\", opened in September 1908, is one of the very few all-manually operated alleys remaining in the 21st century that still uses the Brunswick \"table-style\" manual units.\n\nThe AMF family of pinspotters, first marketed in 1952 are the first ones used in quantity in the industry. They have changed little since the mass-produced 82-30 version. There are three main pinspotter models, the aforementioned 82-30 (no longer produced, but still in common use, ever since the 1960s US bowling boom and the early career of Dick Weber), the 82-70 (prototyped in 1962, and still in production, since 1963) and the newest versions, the 82-90 and the 82-90XLI, both of which use the 82-70's general mechanical design. AMF pinspotters were originated by American Machine and Foundry and are now manufactured by QubicaAMF Worldwide. All operate generally the same way with small improvements.\n\nThe 82-30's operation and mechanics, having been significantly developed from AMF's pioneering 82-10 experimental model, which depended much on the use of suction to hold the pins in a double-sided spotting table for both spotting remaining pins and setup of new racks of pins, are quite different from the Model A, A-2 and JetBack units from Brunswick (which the AMF 82-10 pre-dated by almost a decade), with differing sweep and table designs, and especially in how the pins are handled for storage, after they got to the top of the machinery. After the bowler rolls their ball, and knocking down the pins, the ball strikes the pit cushion block. This activates the machine, which lowers the sweep to the guard position. Then the table descends and the respot cells close around each neck of the standing pins. The cells that have pins in them complete electrical circuits that send scoring information to the display, and turned on one or more of ten \"pindicator\" lights – pioneered by AMF in May 1953 – in an electrically illuminated triangular framed screen on the pinspotter's masking unit in front of the machine, to identify remaining pins.\n\nAfter the table lifts the remaining pins, the machine runs the sweep, clearing dead pins from the pin deck, then returns to the guard position. Ball and pins travel on a continuously running carpet belt at the bottom of the pit. The ball, being heavier, travels to one of the side kick-backs where it enters the ball return, shared by adjacent lanes. The pins travel under the cushion into the ring-shaped, revolving circular pin elevator, at the rear center of the unit, which brings the pins up to a \"distributor arm\" that travels laterally as well as forward and back (on the 82-30, an \"arrowhead\"-planform guide rail atop the spotting table governs the distributor's head piece movements) over the table as seen here, to deliver the pins to the corresponding bins or \"spotting cups\" as known in the 82-30's factory manuals, awaiting the next spotting cycle. In the 82-30, its semi-cylindrical \"spotting cup\" bins are part of the visible spotting table (unique to the design of the 82-30) suspended below the table's frame, each at a roughly a 45° angle with each \"cup\" inclined, pin-base-forward, in front of each spotting cell, and clearly visible to the bowler whenever the table approaches its lowermost position. After the table returns to its upper position, the sweep also lifts, and the machine shuts down to await the next ball. For spotting the new rack of pins, the 82-30 version tilts the pin-filled spotting cups vertically as the table descends, and tilts the cups slightly rearwards as seen here to clear the new rack of pins just as the table starts upwards, leaving the new rack of pins spotted on the lane for the next frame. Should the spotting cups not yet be filled with a full rack of ten pins for the next frame, the sweep bar pauses in its forward \"guard\" position after its rearwards stroke to clear any fallen pins, until the cups all have pins in them, with the table only descending when the cups have all filled, and are ready to set them onto the pindeck.\n\nBeginning in December 1961, the 82-30 units also became famous for having the \"Sparemaker\" version of the earlier triangular pindicator screen on their masking units as advertised by AMF and their staff's pro bowler Dick Weber, which added a set of eleven lighted \"arrows\" to the usual numbered ten lights for standing pins, triangular corner lights that indicated the first or second ball to be rolled, and separate lights to indicate a foul, or a strike. The \"arrows\" were for the purpose of advising an inexperienced bowler to assist in spare conversion, by indicating where a second ball delivery should hit the remaining pins for a successful conversion, and were triggered by appropriate combinations of standing pins that helped the machine select which one of the eleven arrows to illuminate. Rear view of an AMF Magic Triangle screen and the patent document for it\n\nThere have been specific upgrades and improvements made to the machines produced after the 82-30, with after-market solid-state/microprocessor-operated controllers available for the 82-30 itself. The 82-70 is the general standard in most AMF-equipped modern bowling centers today. It features a microprocessor-operated chassis that is upgraded to short cycle the machine for strikes, gutter balls, or 7–10 pick-offs. It features solid state motors. The 82-90 and the 82-90XLI are further upgrades, basically using the 82-70's mechanics, which replaced the older, completely electro-mechanical controls with machine status indicator lights, much more sophisticated \"pin storage\" design, single control centers that handle two machines, and perhaps the most important upgrade is the self shutdown control, which shuts the machine down to prevent damage from continuing to operate with a fault. The 82-90 models feature a deck that is thinner than the 82-70.\n\nQubicaAMF Worldwide has also introduced many different scoring systems that are compatible with all pinsetters and pinspotters.\n\nThe Brunswick Model A, dating from 1956, as well as the developed A2 (1962) and the JetBack (1965) versions of it, work as follows.\n\nFirst, the balls and pins are pushed off the end of the lane by the rake onto a shaking board the width of the lane, in place of the AMF-variety carpet belt. This \"shaker\" transfers the ball and pins to the rear of the pit, behind the lane's pindeck. Two large rotating wheels, at the center rear of the unit, are situated with their common axis along the bowling lane. The ball-lift wheel is the one closer to the bowler and is smooth on its inside surfaces, with enough space between its inner and outer surfaces to allow the fallen pins to go rearwards through it into the rear-located pin-wheel (or pin elevator), placed behind the ball return wheel which has seven pockets, which capture the pins, and is somewhat similar to the AMF unit's design.\n\nWhen a ball rolls back to the ball-lift wheel, friction lifts the ball up to the side where it catches on two lift rods covered with a rubber material. Wedged in between, the ball is rolled upward. When it gets to the top, it is deposited onto a metal track that usually leads underground, and is pushed along by a long accelerator belt. Finally, the ball is pushed upward by two wheels located at the head of the ball return track, where it is deposited.\n\nWhen a pin rolls back, the smaller diameter of the pin allows it to fall rearwards through the ball return wheel. As the pins are still moving from the shaking by the board, a pin will bounce around until it lands in a pocket in the pinwheel. It may be seated in the pinwheel head-first or base-first. The wheel brings the pin to the top and drops it into a metal tray, called a \"turnaround pan\", similar to what exists on the rear end of the AMF 82-30 unit's pin distributor arm. It's shaped somewhat like a scoop, with the lip of the scoop facing the bowler. The weight of the pin's body makes it drop into the pan base-first, so that the pin's base is facing the bowler. From there a conveyor belt lifts the pin up towards the top of the pinsetter, to drop into a rotating metal basket called the \"pin turret\", letting it slide into one of ten cells as the turret rotates – nine around the periphery in groups of three spots each, and one in the center for the number-5 pin. When a pin lands in an empty location in the turret, the turret rotates (or \"indexes\") so that the next pin will land in the next empty location, with the 5-pin chute in the center of the turret being filled last. Once the turret is full, and the empty deck reaches the top of its travel, all ten pins are simultaneously dropped from the turret into the spotting chutes of the table, which lowers them through its full downward travel onto the lane to set the new rack of pins on the pin deck. As the table lowers towards the pindeck to set the new rack of pins, it is visibly protected with its attached sheet metal \"deck shield\", visible to the bowler at any time the spotting table needs to either descend part-way to handle standing pins after the first ball, or to fully descend (once loaded from the pin-turret above it) to set the new rack of pins for the next frame. The Model A/JetBack series pinsetters characteristically halt their operation, should the pin turret not yet be full of pins for the next frame, by pausing the sweep bar at the back of its rearwards travel and holding the table in its fully elevated position, until the pin-turret fills and releases its load into the spotting table's upper level.\n\nThis style of machine is typically loaded with 20 pins, though most proprietors normally put in 21 pins to facilitate quicker loading and faster operation of the pinsetter, especially in cases where the bowler(s) make two strikes in quick succession — on all the Model A-based unit designs, the \"second ball cycle\" used for both a second ball's delivery or a strike won't complete if the turret is not full, with the deck waiting in its elevated position as stated previously. Adding an extra pin does not put undue stress on the machine, but adding more than that is not advisable due to damage that can occur to the machine. Other centers will only load the pinsetter with 19 pins. Having only 19 pins in the machine will cause fewer stops from time to time but it will slow down the progress of the game if multiple strikes are thrown in succession.\n\nThe later A2 and JetBack versions, otherwise each virtually identical to the original Model A design, were augmented enough to have much faster ball return action than the original Model A units. the A-2 was also designed to be a faster machine overall to increase the number of frames that could be bowled in a given time frame, thus increasing the revenue of the bowling center.\n\nThe visible deck shield, as well as the noticeable sounds of pins entering the pin elevator (sounding like bowling pins rattling in a metal drum) and of the next set of pins dropping from the turret into the deck chutes, are unique to the Brunswick A series. There is a large Brunswick \"crowned-B\" (their 1950s logo) on the front of the deck shield of the Model A, \"A-2\" on the A-2 deck shield front, and \"JetBack\" on the JetBack deck shield front, unless these markings have been removed or covered by the bowling center proprietor.\n\nThe GSX is Brunswick's current pinsetter. This machine uses a conveyor belt on the pit floor to move the pins to a vertical elevator system similar to the ones utilized on the AMF 82 series pinspotters, while the ball exits the pit at the side through a ball door. Pins are loaded using a combination of belts. The ball return system on this machine uses an under-lane accelerator as opposed to a lift. It lowers the pin table on every cycle to determine scoring.\n\nThe original model in the GS series (GS stands for Game Setter) was the GS-10, which was principally designed by Augusti Schmid in Scherzenbach, Switzerland to promote the sport of bowling throughout Europe. In 1984, Brunswick Bowling & Billiards Corporation acquired the rights to manufacture and sell the GS-10 pinsetter. The mechanical portion of the pinsetter was originally manufactured in the Brunswick plant located in Stockach, Germany. In 1999 the mechanical manufacturing was relocated to Hungary. The electronic control system is manufactured in Michigan, near the Brunswick plant located in Muskegon, Michigan. Subsequent models (year of introduction is in parentheses):\n\n\nThe GS is characterized by a sweep that rotates downward (as opposed to dropping) as soon as the ball enters the pin deck. A GS-X shows “gsx” on the sweep when it is down, unless this marking has been removed or covered by the bowling center proprietor.\n\nThe Mendes company produced a magnetic pinsetter known as the MM-2001. It featured a flat magnetic pin table and magnets on the head of each pin. It had a pit similar to the AMF and an elevator similar to the GSX. Pin loading involves the combination of a carousel and magazine. The company claimed this technology reduces stops in play due to table jams on out-of-range pins. Mendes was bought out by Qubica, which sold the machine as the MAG3 until its partnership with AMF.\n\nThe now-defunct Bowl Mor firm of central Massachusetts (no relation to Bowlmor AMF) that was more famous for their candlepin pinsetters, also made tenpin pinspotters early in their history. Some of these units are still in service, with at least one bowling center in Japan having continued to use them, with some design features similar to the Brunswick Model A units in appearance and function.\n\nThe most common candlepin pinsetters were made by a Massachusetts company named Bowl-Mor (no relation to Bowlmor AMF), which was founded in the 1940s by two attorneys, Howard Dowd and R. Lionel Barrows. According to the International Candlepin Bowling Association (ICBA), Dowd and Barrows were searching for business venture that could weather an economic depression. Marketing research on their part found that participant sports met this requirement, and that bowling was one of the top three participant sports at the time. The first Bowl-Mor pinsetters were installed at the now-defunct Whalom Park amusement park in 1949. Though no longer manufactured, refurbished units, parts and maintenance support are available from several vendors.\n\nBowl-Mor pinsetters have a depressed pit approximately 14\" long at the end of the bowling lane, placed about 4\" below the level of the lane surface, with a curtain behind it, hanging past the lane surface but not touching the bottom of the pit. The curtain arrests the backwards motion of struck balls and pins, so that they fall onto the pit. When a reset takes place, a \"board-like\" sweep bar descends, driven by a chain drive system on each side of the machine along a pair of \"L\"-shaped tracks — one on either side, and sweeps the pins and balls off the lane, through the depressed area, and past the curtain and onto a rotating turntable. Here, pins and balls separate, being spun off the steadily rotating turntable by centrifugal force into the elevators.\n\nAn elevator composed of a rotating rack of open frames (similar to an industrial toaster) catches the candlepins and hauls them towards the top of the machine, and then turns 90 degrees to bring the pins horizontally across, bringing the pins past ten conveyors each wide enough to hold pins in a lengthwise orientation. Unlike the pinspotters used for tenpins and duckpins, since candlepins have identical \"ends\" to them, the machine does not have to orient the candlepins in one particular direction. The pins fall off the end of the conveyors into spotting tubes, mounted at their base onto the plate that forms the main part of the spotting table. As the sweep nears the forward end of its travel, and then begins its ascent to its resting position, the table drops to the metal plate pindeck at the end of the lanebed, and release a set of pins, and then ascends to its own resting position, ready to be filled with pins once more.\n\nA separate elevator next to the turntable transports the balls to the ball return system, which has a near-vertical ramp that the balls roll down to gain enough momentum to roll through either an above-lane or submerged trough back up the alley, entering the ball return rack next to the approach area where players can grab them. Bowl Mor pinsetters are stocked with 24 to 27 pins, and are deemed substantially more reliable than typical Ten-pin bowling pinsetters. Due to the playing rules of candlepin bowling allowing fallen \"dead wood\" pins to \"remain\" on the lane between each ball's roll, no provision has ever been made for \"spotting cells\" in a candlepin pinsetter's spotting table, simplifying the machines' design. Most parts of the machine are driven by chains – especially the sweep board's drive system, on two L-shaped tracks on either side of the unit – or belts. A Bowl Mor unit weighs approximate , and draws 24 amperes at 110 volts from three-wire 110-220 volt service mains. The ICBA lists the cost of a refurbished Bowl Mor unit at approximately $5000.\n\nAMF manufactured candlepin pinsetters for a short time in the 1960s, using a Bowl-Mor style spotting table and an adapted tenpin-style sweep bar that operated at an unusually rapid pace during its sweep.\n\nUnless triggered into action by an automated scoring unit, candlepin pinsetters must be started by the bowler at the conclusion of a frame, by using a button or foot pedal operated switch to start the reset cycle.\n\nFive-pin bowling is a popular variation in Canada, and pinsetters fall into two categories: string and free-fall. String pinsetters are more prevalent, and consist of machines attached to the head of each pin, by means of a cord. Essentially, the pinsetter is triggered by the movement of any pin by more than an inch or two. With that, the machine lowers a guard, pulls up all 5 pins, and resets those that did not move. There is, on average, a three-second lag from when the pins were knocked down to when the guard is lowered. The pit floor is angled such that the ball is gravity-fed to a track that leads to an elevator. The elevator lifts the ball to the return track.\n\nFree-fall 5-pin pinsetters work in a similar way to their ten-pin counterparts, and requires initiation by the bowler pressing a \"reset\" button as a candlepin unit does to \"cycle\" it, when a ball is bowled or pin knocked down. When the player pushes their \"Reset\" button, the machine lowers a guard, lifts standing pins and sweeps away the downed pins. If it does not recognize any standing pins, it will set up a new set for the next frame. Unlike tenpin, balls and pins are picked up in the same elevator or conveyor and are separated at the top of the machine.\n\nDuckpin bowling is played in two varieties.\n\nRegular duckpin bowling is popular in the northeastern and mid-Atlantic United States. One popular pinspotter in this sport is the Sherman model, named after its inventor, Ken Sherman, which was produced from 1953-1973. It has continuously moving conveyor belts at the ends of the gutters beside the pin deck as required by the sport's ruling body, the National Duckpin Bowling Congress that move fallen pins to the pit. The Sherman's sweep device is located on the right side, vertical \"kickback\" panel of the lane and pivots 180 degrees (much like a fence gate) to clear pins. The pin table always handles the pins by the neck. A new rack of pins is created with a moving magazine that is shaped like a pin triangle. When the magazine is loaded and the bowler is ready for a new set of pins, a lever pushes the magazine unit out to the pin table so it can take the pins out of the magazine and then set them down on the lane.\n\nThe Bowl-Mor company also made a duckpin pinspotter for a time, using a similar sweep device to its more famous candlepin machines.\n\nSoft belly or rubberband duckpin is played in Quebec. Most of these bowling centers use a string type pinsetter similar to five pin. Apart from five-pin, rubber band duckpin is the only bowling variant that currently sanctions string type pinsetters. The free-fall machine for this sport features a rotating turntable in the pit floor similar to a Bowl-Mor candlepin unit, conveyor belts in the gutters as required in the regular duckpin game in the US, an elevator similar to the Brunswick GSX, a turret similar to the A-2, and a rather flat looking pin table. The sweep is similar to the candlepin Bowl-Mor.\n\nOlder table-based pinsetters that pick up the pins between throws could malfunction if a pin were moved sideways when the ball is thrown, but remained standing. The pin would now be out of alignment with the setter pickup holes, and the table mechanism would collide with these misplaced pins. Failure of the device to detect pin drift can result in setter mechanism collision damage, pin crush damage, or lane damage from blunt force pressure of the setter pressing down on the misaligned pin.\n\nIf a pin had drifted but still managed to be picked up, older table pinsetters would simply realign the pin into the correct spot when placing it back onto the lane. This results in less than accurate gameplay since the table is changing the pin positions during the pickup process.\n\nRegular table-style fully automated tenpin pinspotters from AMF and Brunswick, from their beginnings earlier in the 20th century, have been required by the United States Bowling Congress to be able to accurately re-spot \"off-spot\" pins that have been knocked out of position, sometimes up to 15 cm from the normal setting position, and then place them back onto the lane in the same location. If the pins are sufficiently out of position to not be pickable, the table will detect contact with the misplaced pin, and shut down the pinspotter to prevent mechanism damage.\n\nString pinsetters generally do not have a mechanism to place pins back on the lane exactly where they were before, during the spare clearing. Since there is no table, collision damage is not possible with a string pinsetter, but they can suffer from string entanglement when the pins are being picked up, that prevents pins from aligning with the pickup holes.\n\n 6. Gottfried Schmidt Patent No. 2,208,605\n\n"}
{"id": "31488775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31488775", "title": "Product Architects, Inc.", "text": "Product Architects, Inc.\n\nProduct Architects Inc. is the parent company of Polar Bottle brand insulated sport water bottles and Half Twist lifestyle bottles. The company is based out of Boulder, Colorado where it assembles and ships all of its products.\n\nRobert Heiberger and Judy Amabile founded Product Architects Inc. in 1994. The pair, along with their five employees, ran the company from the garage of their home for a year before moving operations to an industrial park. The business acquired its first national buyer in the form of The Container Store in April 1995 and entered the sporting goods market when they were picked up by Dick’s Sporting Goods later that year. Since then, the company has enjoyed steady growth and was nominated as one of Colorado’s top small businesses in 2010 by ColoradoBiz Magazine. Today, Product Architects Inc. sells its products in over 50 countries across six continents and employs 38 workers.\n\nThe Polar Bottle was invented by Robert Heiberger, with prototypes being made as early as 1989. Heiberger, a mechanical engineer working with heat loss in the medical technology design field, realized that the systems he employed to warm blood samples to body temperature could be used in reverse to keep liquid cool in a bottle. The bottle features a dual-wall construction which creates a layer of insulating air between the liquid inside the bottle and the outside environment. Between the two bottle layers is a thin foil liner that reflects solar energy away from the bottle. The bottle is – and has always been – made from BPA- and Phthalate-free Low-density polyethylene. It is produced in 24-ounce (710 ml) and 20-ounce (590 ml) sizes. The bottles are blow-molded in Denver, CO. Since the Polar Bottle’s introduction, it has undergone continual improvements to both form and function. The first of these changes occurred in 1998 when a removable valve system was added to the cap to facilitate cleaning. In 2006, the bottle’s entire aesthetic was updated with a sleeker body design, the addition of a carrying strap, and the introduction of a variety of colored liners. In 2010, the company added 8 new graphic designs to their existing array of colored liners and, in response to consumer feedback, reduced the thickness of the bottle walls to make squeezing the bottle easier.\n\nThe Half Twist bottle was introduced in 2010 in an effort to expand the scope of Product Architects’ hydration options beyond the sports bottle market. The primary feature of the bottle is the Half Twist cap, which is fitted with a silicone gasket. The lid allows the user to drink directly from the cap without removing it from the bottle and the gasket creates a watertight seal when closed. The Half Twist received positive reviews, though some users found the lid difficult to operate. The lid comes on two types of bottles: a 24-ounce (710 ml) High-density polyethylene bottle and a 28-ounce (828 ml) Stainless steel bottle. Both bottle types are BPA- and Phthalate-free.\n\nProduct Architects released the Modern Wallet in 2004. The wallet was made of Teslin, a synthetic material that is durable, flexible, breathable, and waterproof. It featured a wide variety of pictures and designs that were shown on both the inside and outside of the wallet. It was sold primarily to Independent Bicycle Dealers, many of whom already carried the Polar Bottle. The Modern Wallet was discontinued in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "16752887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16752887", "title": "Shovelglove", "text": "Shovelglove\n\nShovelgloving is a form of physical exercise based around use of a sledgehammer that has been wrapped in a sweater or otherwise padded. The shovelglove is used to perform shoveling, butter churning and wood chopping motions, amongst others. These natural movements are intended to be part of a functional training program.\n\nReinhard Engels, the inventor of Shovelgloving, advocates Shovelgloving for 14 minutes per day.\n\nHe explains the rationale for 14 minutes as follows: \"It's one minute less than the smallest unit of schedulistically significant time. No calendar has a finer granularity than 15 minutes. No one ever has a meeting that starts at 5 or 10 or 14 minutes before or after the hour. You have no excuse not to do this. Time-wise, it doesn't even register.\"\n\nHe recommends beginners start with less than 14 minutes, however.\n\nReinhard Engels has been interviewed about Shovelgloving by the Healthy Planet Show broadcast on WAIF 88.3 FM in Cincinnati.\n\n"}
{"id": "31696946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31696946", "title": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva", "text": "Sociedad Anónima Deportiva\n\nSociedad anónima deportiva (\"Public limited sports company\") is a special type of public limited company in Spain. The new legal status was introduced in 1990 to improve financial management and transparency in sports clubs. Many Spanish football and basketball clubs add the suffix S.A.D. to the end of their official name, e.g. Club Atlético de Madrid, S.A.D..\n\nEvery club which plays in Segunda División or Liga ACB and remains in the league is obliged to convert to S.A.D. status.\n\nFor historical reasons, Athletic Club, FC Barcelona, Real Madrid and Osasuna were allowed to retain their status as non-commercial sports associations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33332641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33332641", "title": "Sport communication", "text": "Sport communication\n\nSports communication is an aspect of communication studies which specializes in the study of communication in a sports setting. It can encompass the study of interpersonal and organizational communication (both verbal and non-verbal) between participants within a particular sport (e.g. players, coaches, managers, referees, trainers and physiotherapists, and governing bodies); communication between sports participants, fans, and the media; and the way that sports are represented and communicated in the media. Sports communication is something that happens at all levels of ranging from kindergarten to the college level and is not restricted to professionals. It happens on a constant basis and works best with people that are willing to work collectively as a team. If everyone is on board with positive thoughts and communication, it becomes very dismantling to the person receiving the message. It is not only for positive talk, though, because negative sports communication happens all the time.\n\nPersonal and Organizational Communication in Sport could involve intrapersonal, interpersonal, and small-group communication in sport, while organizational communication research could include intra- and interorganizational communication in sport.\n\nSports creates a context for positive communication and pro-social behaviors that often occur off of the field or court. For example, many athletes speak in public to children or act as motivational speakers. In tough situations, such as the aftermath of a natural disasters, well known athletes can lift the moral of an affected community. Sports writer Lars Anderson wrote in his book \"The Storm and The Tide\" about how sports helped bring a town together after a disastrous tornado. Also, the situation and community coming together affected the college sports team at The University of Alabama. Andy Billings, professor at The University of Alabama, discusses how sports have the ability to start meaningful conversations https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HU8R0bZzqfg. Sports communication theories allow for the prediction of many facets of communication such as gender, race, identity, culture, and politics.\n\nSports communication varies vastly between individual sports and plays an important role in the success of teams and organizations. A good example of sports communication and its effects on players, organizations and media was the well-documented conflict involving two players for the Miami Dolphins. Inappropriate, discriminatory, and abusive interactions between Richie Incognito and Jonathan Martin lead to the release of Richie from the team, organizational issues, and an abundance of media coverage both negative and positive. Another example of sport communication is the recent \"deflategate\" scandal involving the New England Patriots apparently deflating the footballs during half-time of the AFC Championship game against the Indianapolis Colts. Head coach Bill Belichick claims that any wrongdoing was done by the teams equipment manager and ball boy, and no communication had occurred between them two at any point in the game. This reflects sports communication because it is an example of a lack of communication between an inferior member of an organization and the head coach, which eventually led to a wide spread and highly publicized scandal which could've jeopardized the Patriots participation in the Super Bowl.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14743820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14743820", "title": "Sports chaplain", "text": "Sports chaplain\n\nA sports chaplain provides pastoral care for the sports person and the broader sports community including the coaches, administrators and their families.\n\nChaplains to sports communities have existed since the middle of the 20th century and have significantly grown in the past 20 years. The United States, United Kingdom and Australia have well established Christian sports chaplaincy ministries. \n\nIn 1982 a congress held in Hong Kong on sports mission saw sports chaplains and those interested in Mission to people engaged in sports come together from around the world including recognised representatives from North and South America, Europe, Africa, Asia, the sub-continent and Australasia. It was this congress that created the inspiration to further develop or initiate national sports missions and sports chaplains. \n\nSports chaplains consist of people from many different walks of life. Most commonly, the chaplains are ministers or full-time Christian workers but always, chaplaincy work is done without charge or any financial remuneration. Often, sports chaplains to a particular sport are former participants of that sport. This helps the chaplain to not only provide spiritual support and guidance to a player, but gives them the ability to empathize and relate to some of the challenges facing the participant with whom they are ministering.\n\nThere were 193 multi-faith sports chaplains at the London 2012 Olympics.\n\nThe USA have various sport related chaplaincy organizations. Along with major Denominations, Ministries such as Athletes in Action and Fellowship of Christian Athletes also provide chaplains to various sports at the collegiate and professional levels. Every major professional sport in the United States has at least some sports chaplaincy. Some sports are more coordinated, like Major League Baseball (see www.baseballchapel.org), but most are far more loosely structured with each chaplain having a program that best suits their team and individual situation. Every MLB, NFL, NBA & Major League Soccer franchise has a chaplain. Due to financial constraints, very few chaplains travel with their teams. In some cases, especially when an individual coach understands the value of the chaplain to their team, the coach may invite the chaplain to come on a road trip. This happens far more frequently when a team is traveling a short distance to a neighboring city by bus or motor coach, but in some cases, coaches have paid (out of their own pocket) to bring a chaplain on a road trip. \n\nIn recent years, much more work is being done by chaplains in specific sports to coordinate and work together so that their players can have support and encouragement from a chaplain even when they are “on the road”. \n\nIn addition, the US Olympic Team travels with one or more chaplains, primarily to provide emotional support to the athletes.\n\nSports Chaplaincy UK, formerly known as SCORE was established in 1991 under the guidance and direction of the Baptist Union of Great Britain to use the specialist experience of one of their ministers to pioneer sports chaplaincy and sports ministry.\n\nCalled Sports Chaplaincy UK since 2011, the Christian charity seeks to resource over 250 chaplains in a variety of sports and situations. Their chaplains are mainly in football, rugby union, rugby league, cricket and horseracing. They supplied over 40 chaplains to serve at the London2012 Olympics. All offer pastoral and spiritual support in a sensitive, non-judgement, non-sectarian way. All work with integrity and professionalism amongst the whole community of their clubs - the players, coaches, organisation and support staff. There is a real sense of affirmation and endorsement from the widest spectrum of the sports world, from the chaplains' work and involvement.\n\nAs a direct result of the Hong Kong 1982 Congress on Sports Mission, pioneered by Mark Tronson, the Australian Heads of Churches approved a Sports Chaplaincy mission, which was named the 'Sports and Leisure Ministry' (SLM). It was initially housed within the well established InterChurch Trade and Industry Mission (ITIM). In 1985 Australian Heads of Churches gave SLM its independence and in 1987 its Heads of Churches appointed board members adopted incorporation. In 2000 Heads of Churches released its founder, Mark Tronson, to establish Well-Being Australia, specialising in athlete respite. Five years later in 2005 SLM changed its name to Sports Chaplaincy Australia (SCA). \n\nAs a result of its solid foundation under Australian Heads of Churches, SLM (now SCA) has seen many professional sports in Australia adopt sport chaplains. Over 180 chaplains now serve in sports and sport organizations such as cricket, motor racing, tennis, rugby league, basketball, baseball, soccer, golf, yachting, skiing, netball, rodeo and horse racing, the Australian Institute of Sport, and State Institutes of Sport.\n\n\nSports Chaplaincy Australia\nWell-Being Australia\n"}
{"id": "4161298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4161298", "title": "Sports periodization", "text": "Sports periodization\n\nPeriodization is the systematic planning of athletic or physical training. The aim is to reach the best possible performance in the most important competition of the year. It involves progressive cycling of various aspects of a training program during a specific period. Conditioning programs can use periodization to break up the training program into the off-season, preseason, inseason, and the postseason. Periodization divides the year round condition program into phases of training which focus on different goals.\n\nThe roots of periodization come from Hans Selye’s model, known as the General adaptation syndrome\nThe GAS describes three basic stages of response to stress: (a) the Alarm stage, involving the initial shock of the stimulus on the system, (b) the Resistance stage, involving the adaptation to the stimulus by the system, and (c) the Exhaustion stage, in that repairs are inadequate, and a decrease in system function results. The foundation of periodic training is keeping one's body in the resistance stage without ever going into the exhaustion stage. By adhering to cyclic training the body is given adequate time to recover from significant stress before additional training is undertaken. The response to a new stress is to first respond poorly and the response drops off. For example when the body is first exposed to sun a sunburn might develop. During the resistance stage adaptation improves the response to a higher level, called super compensation, than the previous equilibrium. The example would be that a suntan develops. The exhaustion stage is a continuation of the stimulus at too high a level and the increase gained from adaptation is now offset and all gains are lost. The example would be that wrinkles, spots, or even skin cancer develop. The goal in sports periodization is to reduce the stress at the point where the resistance stage ends so the body has time to recover. In this way the exhaustion stage does not reduce the gains achieved, the body can recover and remain above the original equilibrium point. The next cycle of increased stimulus now improves the response further and the equilibrium point continues to rise after each cycle.\n\nSelye (1957) labeled beneficial stresses as \"eustress\" and detrimental stresses as \"distress\". In athletics, when physical stress is at a healthy level (eustress), an athlete experiences muscular strength and growth, while excessive physical stress (distress) can lead to tissue damage, disease, and death. Periodization is most widely used in resistance program design to avoid over-training and to systematically alternate high loads of training with decreased loading phases to improve components of muscular fitness (e.g. strength, strength-speed, and strength-endurance). The Selye-cycles are similar to the \"micro cycles\" used at later times.\n\nRussian physiologist Leo Matveyev and Romanian sport scientist Tudor Bompa expanded and further organized the periodization model. Matveyev has been regarded as the father of modern periodization. He analysed the results of the Soviet athletes of the 1952 and 1956 summer Olympics and compared successful and not so successful athletes and their training schedules. From these training plans periodized schedules were developed for the 1960 Olympics. With the success of the Soviet athletes, Matveyev's plans were spread all over the Eastern Bloc in their annual coordination meetings. From there it also spread to Romania, where Tudor Bompa developed the system further. In the 1968 it was used for the first time in the GDR and in 1972 in West Germany. After the fall of the Soviet Union, periodization started to become modified. While Matveyev followed Pavlov and assumed that everybody should use the same periodization, individualised systems, using more and more biological data, were introduced.\n\nPeriodic training systems typically divide time up into three types of cycles: microcycle, mesocycle, and macrocycle. The microcycle is generally up to 7 days. The mesocycle may be anywhere from 2 weeks to a few months, but is typically a month. A macrocycle refers to the overall training period, usually representing a year or two. There are longer cycles as well for the Olympian, being 4 or 8 years, and the career plan which is usually only considered for Olympians and professional athletes.\n\nTraining should be organized and planned in advance of a competition or performance.\nIt should consider the athlete’s potential, his/her performance in tests or competition, and calendar of competition. It has to be simple, suggestive, and above all flexible as its content can be modified to meet the athletes rate of progress.\n\nA macrocycle is an annual plan that works towards peaking for the goal competition of the year. There are three phases in the macrocycle: preparation, competitive, and transition.\n\nThe entire preparation phase should be around 2/3 to 3/4 of the macrocycle. The preparation phase is further broken up into general and specific preparation of which general preparation takes over half. An example of general preparation would be building an aerobic base for an endurance athlete such as running on a treadmill and learning any rules or regulations that would be required such as proper swimming stroke as not to be disqualified. An example of specific preparation would be to work on the proper form to be more efficient and to work more on the final format of the sport, which is to move from the treadmill to the pavement.\n\nThe competitive phase can be several competitions, but they lead up to the main competition with specific tests. Testing might include any of the following: performance level, new shoes or gear, a new race tactic might be employed, pre-race meals, ways to reduce anxiety before a race, or the length needed for the taper. When the pre-competitions are of a higher priority there is a definite taper stage while lower priority might simply be integrated in as training. The competitive phase ends with the taper and the competition.\n\nThe transition phase is important for psychological reasons, a year of training means a vacation is in order. A typical weekend warrior might take three months while a professional athlete might take as little as two weeks.\n\nA mesocycle represents a phase of training with a duration of between 2 – 6 weeks or microcycles, but this can depend on the sporting discipline. A mesocycle can also be defined as a number of continuous weeks where the training program emphasize the same type of physical adaptations, for example muscle mass and anaerobic capacity. During the preparatory phase, a mesocycle commonly consists of 4 – 6 micro-cycles, while during the competitive phase it will usually consist of 2 – 4 micro-cycles depending on the competition’s calendar.\n\nThe goal of the plan is to fit the mesocycles into the overall plan timeline-wise to make each mesocycle end on one of the phases and then to determine the workload and type of work of each cycle based on where in the overall plan the given mesocycle falls. The goal in mind is to make sure the body peaks for the high priority competitions by improving each cycle along the way.\n\nA microcycle is typically a week because of the difficulty in developing a training plan that does not align itself with the weekly calendar. Each microcycle is planned based on where it is in the overall macrocycle.\n\nA micro-cycle is also defined as a number of training sessions, built around a given combination of acute program variables, which include progression as well as alternating effort (heavy vs. light days). The length of the micro-cycle should correspond to the number of workouts - empirically often 4-16 workouts - it takes for the athlete or fitness client to adapt to the training program. When the athlete or fitness client has adapted to the program and no longer makes progress, a change to one or more program variables should be made.\n\nThe annual plan is important in that it directs and guides performance training over a year. It is based on the concept of periodization and the principles of training. The objective of training is to reach a high level of performance (peak performance) and an athlete has to develop skills, biomotor abilities and psychological traits in a methodical manner.\n\nThis phase consists of the general preparation and specific preparation. Usually which can be subdivided into three different phases. One should always remember that this is a base creation phase with the objective to attain the previous training state, and the longest period of periodization must be devoted towards the preparatory period.\nThe performance depends on preparatory period, and is divided into three phases:\n\nPhase I) To regain previous training \n\nPhase II) Low training volume & High training load to develop the factors needed for performance.\nPhase III) Decrease in the intensity of load and increase in tactical training and aim at improving tactical under competition condition.\nThis phase may contain a few main competitions each containing a pre-competitive and a main competition. Within the main competition, an uploading phase and a special preparatory phase may be included. This also includes hypertropthy\n\nThis phase is used to facilitate psychological rest, relaxation and biological regeneration as well as to maintain an acceptable level of general physical preparation. This phase lasts 3–4 weeks (perhaps longer) but should not exceed five weeks under normal conditions and may be sports specific. It allows the body to fully regenerate so that it is prepared for the next discipline.\n\nA review published in the journal 'sports medicine' in 2017 has questioned the validity of the use of traditional models of periodization in sport. This is largely due to the over simplified assumptions put forward in the early development of periodization theory that are not always transferable to the psyco-biological effects of various training methods used in sport.\n\nFor many years, football training and its planning has been (and still is) characterised by fragmented thinking of which has perhaps been attributed to the success of such an approach in individual sports. The emphasis of planning and improvement was mainly in regards to the physical attributes of strength, speed and endurance. Furtheremore, whether it be the undulating model, the reverse linear model or the traditional periodization framework, one of the underpinning assumptions is that it would be best to segregate the programme into distinct training blocks in a sequential hierarchy i.e. a training block to build endurance before speed and strength before power. This is claimed to be based on the ‘science of periodization’. However, Kiely, argues that the proof on which this is all based on is flawed because the studies used to build this proof have only ‘compared training interventions with no training variation to those with degrees of variation’ but did not offer any insight ‘into how that variation is best scheduled and organised’ (Kiely, 2010, p. 4). So although it is commonly agreed that training variation is an important design feature which needs to be integrated into the training plan, there is ‘little or no supporting evidence’ which proves that the segregation of the program into distinct training blocks or that there should be sequential hierarchy of how this should be done is in fact advantageous.\n\nMany authors such as Garganta, Maia, & Marque, Oliviera, Castelo, and Gaiteiro have argued in regards to the indivisibility of the 4 components which make up a football performance...technical, tactical, physical and mental. This complexity makes football a multidimensional phenomenon which cannot be simply reduced to the sum of its parts. Is defending more important than attacking or vice versa? This question cannot be answered as football needs to be understood as a whole. As highlighted by Tamarit, football is a tactical game where players are constantly required to make decisions in response to specific situations. So football needs to be viewed as a tactical game which encompasses with it the physical, technical and mental aspects required for positive performances. This is the foundation upon which Victor Frade developed a training methodology known as tactical periodisation which emphasises the development of the tactical dimension. Therefore, any physical, technical or mental development must always have a tactical intention. In other words, although the ability to run for 90 minutes may seem vital to play the game, knowing when, where and how to run is much more important.\n"}
{"id": "1274169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1274169", "title": "Squat (exercise)", "text": "Squat (exercise)\n\nIn strength training and fitness, the squat is a compound, full body exercise that trains primarily the muscles of the thighs, hips and buttocks, quadriceps femoris muscle (vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, vastus intermedius and rectus femoris), hamstrings, as well as strengthening the bones, ligaments and insertion of the tendons throughout the lower body. Squats are considered a vital exercise for increasing the strength and size of the legs as well as developing core strength. Squats are typically used to hone back, thigh, and hip stability. Isometrically, the lower back, the upper back, the abdominals, the trunk muscles, the costal muscles, and the shoulders and arms are all essential to the exercise and thus are trained when squatting with the proper form.\n\nThe squat is one of the three lifts in the strength sport of powerlifting, together with deadlifts and bench press. It is also considered a staple in many popular recreational exercise programs.\n\nWhen people discuss volume, the equation is sets performed times number of repetitions times external weight. Adding resistance to squats has been shown to affect the power and speed of the exercise. Though free-weight numbers fit nicely into the volume equation, adding resistance can complicate the equation and make volume less easy to calculate. More specifically, people have found that they can increase resistance while exercising by utilizing chains or rubber bands. One study discovered that the physical demand of exercises with resistance increases in a linear relationship with intensity. Differences in energy expenditure during squatting can be attributed to the various forms of movements, intensities, weights, repetitions, and types of items (Smith machine or barbell).\n\nIndividuals who are interested in strength training can utilize barbell squat in training and rehabilitation programs. If executed with proper form, the squat has the potential to develop knee stability. On the other hand, if done incorrectly, injuries to the knees and back can occur. The parallel squat is one way to increase knee flexion while activating the quadriceps and hamstrings. In the standard squat, it is crucial to have the shin vertical to minimize stress on the knee. Variations in squats include various knee placements and squat depths. For example, knees can be placed in knees in, knees out, and knees over toes; whereas squats can be performed at roughly 20°, 50°, and 80°. The parallel squat is more preferred than the deep squat because the potential of injury on the cruciate and menisci ligaments is higher in the latter.\n\nGluteus maximus (glutes), quadriceps (quads)\n\nThe movement begins from a standing position. Weight is often added; typically in the form of a loaded barbell but dumbbells and kettlebells may also be used. When a barbell is used, it may be braced across the upper trapezius muscle (a high bar squat) or held lower across the upper back and rear deltoids (a low bar squat). The movement is initiated by moving the hips back and bending the knees and hips to lower the torso and accompanying weight, then returning to the upright position.\n\nSquats can be performed to varying depths. The competition standard is for the crease of the hip (top surface of the leg at the hip joint) to fall below the top of the knee; this is colloquially known as \"parallel\" depth. Confusingly, many other definitions for \"parallel\" depth abound, none of which represents the standard in organized powerlifting. From shallowest to deepest, these other standards are: bottom of hamstring parallel to the ground; the hip joint itself below the top of the knee, or femur parallel to the floor; and the top of the upper thigh (i.e., top of the quadriceps) below the top of the knee.\n\nSquatting below parallel qualifies a squat as deep while squatting above it qualifies as shallow. Some authorities caution against deep squats; though the forces on the ACL and PCL decrease at high flexion, compressive forces on the menisci and articular cartilages in the knee peak at these same high angles. This makes the relative safety of deep versus shallow squats difficult to determine.\n\nAs the body gradually descends, the hips and knees undergo flexion, the ankle extends (\"dorsiflexes\") and muscles around the joint contract eccentrically, reaching maximal contraction at the bottom of the movement while slowing and reversing descent. The muscles around the hips provide the power out of the bottom. If the knees slide forward or cave in then tension is taken from the hamstrings, hindering power on the ascent. Returning to vertical contracts the muscles concentrically, and the hips and knees undergo extension while the ankle plantarflexes.\n\nTwo common errors include descending too rapidly and flexing the torso too far forward. Rapid descent risks being unable to complete the lift or causing injury. This occurs when the descent causes the squatting muscles to relax and tightness at the bottom is lost as a result. Over-flexing the torso greatly increases the forces exerted on the lower back, risking a spinal disc herniation.\n\nAnother error where health of the knee joint is concerned is when the knee is not aligned with the direction of the toes. If the knee is not tracking over the toes during the movement this results in twisting/shearing of the joint and unwanted torque affecting the ligaments which can soon result in injury. The knee should always follow the toe. Have your toes slightly pointed out in order to track the knee properly.\n\nSome common squat posture mistakes include:\n\nVarious types of equipment can be used to perform squats.\n\nA power cage can be used to reduce risk of injury and eliminate the need for a spotting partner. By putting the bar on a track, the Smith machine reduces the role of hip movement in the squat and in this sense resembles a leg press. The monolift rack allows an athlete to perform a squat without having to take a couple of steps back with weight on as opposed to conventional racks. Not many powerlifting federations allow monolift in competitions (WPO, GPC, IPO).\n\nOther equipment used can include a weight lifting belt to support the torso and boards to wedge beneath the ankles to improve stability and allow a deeper squat (weightlifting shoes also have wooden wedges built into the sole to achieve the same effect). Wrist straps are another piece of recommended equipment; they support the wrist and help to keep it in a straightened position. They should be wrapped around the wrist, above and below the joint, thus limiting movement of the joint. Heel wedges and related equipment are discouraged by some as they are thought to worsen form over the long term. The barbell can also be cushioned with a special padded sleeve.\n\nOn 8 October 2011, Jonas Rantanen of Finland performed a squat with a weight of 575 kg (1268 lb) at the Bullfarm Powerlifting Championships in Helsinki, beating the previous record by Donnie Thompson (USA) of 573 kg (1265 lb).\n\nThe single-ply squat record is held by Dustin Slepicka (USA) at 500 kg (1102 lb).\n\nThe raw world record with knee wraps is 500 kg (1102 lb) performed by Vlad Alhazov on 22 July 2017.<ref name=\"Vlad Alhazov hitting 1,102 lbs raw w/wraps\"></ref> and on September 2017 Mojtaba Maleki equalized this record \n\nThe raw world record without knee wraps belongs to Ray Williams who lifted 485 kg (1053 lb) on 4 March 2018, at the Arnold Classic in Columbus, Ohio.\n\nThe women world record belongs to Olga Gemaletdinova who lifted 310.0 kg (684 lb) on 5 May 2011.\n\nThe most squats with 130 kg in two minutes was Netherlands woman Maria Strik. She squat-lifted a weight of 130 kg, 29 times within two minutes.\n\nThe most bodyweight squats performed in one hour is 4,708 by Paddy Doyle (UK) on November 2007.\n\nThe most bodyweight sumo squats in one hour is 5,135, and was achieved by Dr. Thienna Ho (Vietnam) on December 2007.\n\nSilvio Sabba from Italy has :\n\nThe squat has a number of variants, some of which can be combined:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the squat has long been a basic element of weight training, it has in recent years been the subject of considerable controversy. Some trainers allege that squats are associated with injuries to the lumbar spine and knees. Others, however, continue to advocate the squat as one of the best exercises for building muscle and strength. Some coaches maintain that incomplete squats (those terminating above parallel) are both less effective and more likely to cause injury than a full squat (terminating with hips at or below knee level). A 2013 review concluded that deep squats performed with proper technique do not lead to increased rates of degenerative knee injuries and are an effective exercise. The same review also concluded that shallower squats may lead to degeneration in the lumbar spine and knees in the long-term.\n\nSquats can be used for some rehabilitative activities because they hone stability without excessive compression on the tibiofemoral joint and anterior cruciate ligament.\n\nIt is important to note that deeper squats are associated with higher compressive loads on patellofemoral joint. As a result, it is possible that people who suffer from pain in the patellofemoral joint cannot squat at increased depths. For some knee rehabilitation activities, patients might feel more comfortable with knee flexion between 0 and 50° because it places less force compared to deeper depths. Another study shows that decline squats at angles higher than 16° may not be beneficial for the knee and fails to decrease calf tension. Other studies have indicated that the best squat to hone quadriceps without inflaming the patellofemoral joint occurs between 0–50°.\n\nCombining single-limb squats and decline angles have been used to rehabilitate knee extensors. Conducting squats at a declined angle allows the knee to flex despite possible pain or lack of mobilization in the ankle. If therapists are looking to focus on the knee during squats, one study shows that doing single-limb squats at a 16° decline angle has the greatest activation of the knee extensors without placing excessive pressure on the ankles. This same study also found that a 24° decline angle can be used to strengthen ankles and knee extensors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857511", "title": "Standings", "text": "Standings\n\nStandings or rankings are listings which compare sports teams or individuals, institutions, nations, companies, or other entities by ranking them in order of ability or achievement. A table or chart (such as a league table, a ladder or a leaderboard) may be employed to display such listings. A league table may list several related statistics, but they are generally sorted by the primary one that determines the rankings. Many industries and institutions may compete in league tables in order to help bring in new customers and clients. Those tables ranking sports teams are generally used to help determine who may advance to the playoffs or another tournament, who is promoted or relegated, or who gets a higher draft pick.\n\nIn sport, league tables group teams of similar abilities in a chart to show the current standing of the participants (teams or individuals) in a sports league or competition. These lists are generally published in newspapers and other media, as well as the official web sites of the sports leagues and competitions.\n\nAt the very least, a league table will show the names of the teams and their points total or winning percentage (depending on the sport), sorted in order of points or percentage. However, many league tables show further statistics; these may include:\n\nUsually, if a league is divided into conferences and divisions, the league table will also be. Often, a less specific table is also included. For example, National Hockey League tables will normally have a detailed table for each division, plus a table for each conference showing just the points totals.\n\nAs an example, below is the league table for the Northeast Division of the National Hockey League, as of March 31, 2004:\n\nIn the above table, an \"x\" placed before a team's name shows that the team has qualified for playoff position; other letters may be used to show that a team is guaranteed first place, has been eliminated from contention and so forth. From this table, we can see that Boston, Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal are all guaranteed playoff positions; the absence of a \"y\" shows that the division championship is still to play for. Meanwhile, because Buffalo has no symbol at all, they are not out of playoff contention, but have yet to clinch a playoff position. The following day, a new league table would appear in newspapers, updated based on the previous night's games. Of course, the above table would also be accompanied by those of the other divisions in the league.\n\nLeague tables are used to compare the academic achievements of different institutions. College and university rankings order institutions in higher education by combinations of factors. In addition to entire institutions, specific programs, departments, and schools are ranked. These rankings usually are conducted by magazines, newspapers, governments and academics. For example, league tables of British universities are published annually by \"The Guardian\", \"The Independent\", \"The Sunday Times\" and \"The Times\". The primary aim of these rankings is to inform potential applicants about British universities based on a range of criteria. Similarly, in countries like India, league tables are being developed and a popular magazine, Education World, published them based on data from \"TheLearningPoint.net\". \n\nIt is complained that the ranking of England's schools to rigid guidelines that fail to take into account wider social conditions actually makes failing schools even worse. This is because the most involved parents will then avoid such schools, leaving only the children of non-ambitious parents to attend.\n\nIn business, league tables list the leaders in investment banking activity, enabling people to quickly analyze financial data. Companies which collect this kind of data include Dealogic, Bloomberg L.P. and Thomson Reuters. The Thomson Reuters league tables list the top financiers in a particular industry. Dealogic's league tables are rankings of investment banks in terms of the dollar volume of deals that investment banks work on. Bloomberg's league tables provide an overview of top underwriters and legal advisers to securities deals, as well as fees netted from these transactions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18329484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18329484", "title": "Table tennis racket", "text": "Table tennis racket\n\nA basic table tennis racqet (also known as a \"paddle\" or \"bat\") is used by table tennis players. The table tennis racket is usually made from laminated wood covered with rubber on one or two sides depending on the player's grip. Unlike a conventional \"racqet\", it does not include strings strung across an open frame. The USA generally uses the term \"paddle\" while Europeans and Asians use the term \"bat\" and the official ITTF term is \"racket\".\n\nTable tennis regulations approved by the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) allow different surfaces on each side of the paddle for various amounts of spin (including nullifying it) or speed. For example, a player may have a spin-heavy rubber on one side of his paddle, and no spin on the other side. The player can flip the racket in play for different types of returns. To help a player distinguish between different types of rubber used by his opponent, regulations specify that one side of a paddle must be red while the other must be black, allowing a player to see what side of a paddle hits the ball mid-play. The player has the right to inspect his opponent's racquet before a match to see the type and color. Current rules state that, unless damaged in play, the paddle cannot be exchanged for another at any time during a match.\n\nThe rubber coating may be of pimpled rubber, with the pimples outward, or it may be composed of a sponge layer, covered by rubber that may have the pimples pointed inwards or outwards. Some paddles are not covered with rubber (\"naked\") to make it spin resistant. However, it is illegal to use these types of racquet in competition as they are not approved by the ITTF. Some types of rubbers are also not approved. Approved rubbers have the ITTF emblem on the base of the rubber.\n\nPlayers have many choices and variations in rubber sheets on their racquet. Although a racquet may be purchased assembled with rubber by the manufacturer, most serious tournament players will use a custom racquet. A player selects a blank blade (i.e., a racquet without rubber) based on his or her playing style. The type of wood or synthetic layers used to make up the blade will determine the blade's speed. The different types of rubber sheets affect the level of spin, speed, and other specific playing characteristics. Racquet construction and new rubber technology contribute significantly to the amount of deviation from the expected ball flight path.\n\nNormally, a sheet of rubber is glued to a blade using various table tennis brand glues such as Butterfly, Donic, and DHS. Some glues may work even if it wasn't designed specifically for table tennis, such as Rubber Cement and Tear Mender. The rubber is not removed until it wears out or becomes damaged. In the 1980s, some players developed a new technique with a special glue called speed glue to apply the rubber every time he played. The glue would help provide more spin and speed by providing a \"catapult\" effect. \n\nThe fairly recent development of speed glue speeds up the departure of the ball from the rubber considerably, though at the cost of some ball control on touch shots where little or no spin is put on the ball. Speed glue was allowed for the last time in the 2008 Summer Olympics. From the 2012 Summer Olympics onward, the Olympic games banned speed glue.\n\nThe surface of a racquet will develop a smooth glossy patina with use. The rubber surface needs regular cleaning to retain a high friction surface for ball spin. Commercial cleaners or water and soap can be cleaning agents.\n\nSun exposure may damage the rubber.\n\n"}
{"id": "15882816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15882816", "title": "Tangolates", "text": "Tangolates\n\nTangolates (also known in Buenos Aires as Tango-Pilates and Pilates-Tango), involves body exercises that draw on characteristics from Tango dancing and Pilates. It utilizes a partner method rather than individual exercises and incorporates aerobic and cardio elements. Tangolates is usually performed on a specially designed apparatus, on a mat, or on a Pilates apparatus.\n\nTangolates originated in 2004 in a public hospital for patients with motor disorders. In order to help patients with their workouts, each one was coupled with an instructor in partner exercises. \n\nIn order to assess the effects of these exercises on patients, a preliminary test of efficacy was conducted at the Tamara Di Tella’s Pilates Room. The results of this research were presented at the 10th International Congress of Internal Medicine, held on 24-27 August 2004, in Buenos Aires.\n\nPatients were convoked for 325 sessions, over a period of three months. Afterwards, patients asserted that the exercises helped them “not only to move better but also to feel better”. Their evaluations led to the conclusion that Tangolates partner exercises help patients improve, not only their movement but also their quality of life.\n\nAccording to Di Tella, the fact that Tangolates requires a rapport between two people is a very interesting subject of research. Partner work may help stimulate the brain and could become an alternate pathway to successful movement. “It is that internal ignition that may just work for some brain disorder patients”, says Di Tella. Indeed, Tango’s strong and focused beat and the fact that it is done in close coordination with a partner is an excellent stimulus to initiate movement. “Tango stimulates cooperation and creates bond like no other dance, and this is an extraordinary motivator for some patients”, says Di Tella.\n\nTangolates combines the coordination and core stability that is inherent to Pilates with the cardio or aerobic element of Tango.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26126951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26126951", "title": "Tigers (sports teams)", "text": "Tigers (sports teams)\n\nTigers may refer to one of several sports teams:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2514586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514586", "title": "Winning percentage", "text": "Winning percentage\n\nIn sports, a winning percentage is the fraction of games or matches a team or individual has won. It is defined as wins divided by the total number of matches played (i.e. wins plus draws plus losses). A draw counts as a ½ win.\n\nFor example, if a team's season record is 30 wins and 20 losses, the winning percentage would be .600. If a team's season record is 30–15–5 (i.e. it has won thirty games, lost fifteen and tied five times), the five tie games are counted as 2½ wins, and so the team has an adjusted record of 32½ wins, resulting in a winning percentage for the fifty total games from\n\nWinning percentage is one way to compare the record of two teams; however, another standard method most frequently used in baseball and professional basketball standings is games behind. In baseball, a pitcher is assessed wins and losses as an individual statistic and thus has his own winning percentage, based on his win–loss record.\n\nIn North America, winning percentages are expressed to three digits and read as whole numbers (e.g. 1.000, \"a thousand\" or .500, \"five hundred\"). In this case, the name \"winning \"percentage\"\" is actually a misnomer, since it is not expressed as a percentage. A winning percentage such as .536 (\"five thirty-six\") expressed as a percentage would be 53.6%.\n\nHowever, in soccer, a manager's abilities may be measured by win percentage. In this case, the formula is wins divided by total number of matches; draws are not considered as \"half-wins\", and the quotient is always in percentage form.\n\nIn the National Football League, division winners and playoff qualifiers are technically determined by winning percentage and not by number of wins. Ties are currently counted as half a win and half a loss, however, prior to 1972 ties did not count for the purposes of this calculation. So, for example, one team finished 11-3 and another 10-2-2, there would have been no tiebreaker - the team with two ties would have been deemed the outright division winner. This made tie games (a fairly common occurrence in football before overtime was introduced) somewhat more valuable to teams compared to the half-win they are considered today. \n\nSome leagues and competitions may instead use a points percentage system, changing the nature of this statistic. In this type of method, used in many group tournament ranking systems, the competitors are awarded a certain number of points per win, fewer points per tie, and none for a loss. The teams are then ranked by the total number of these accumulated points. One such method is the \"three points for a win\", where three points are awarded for winning a game, one point is awarded for a draw, and no points are awarded for a loss. The National Hockey League (which uses an overtime and shootouts to break all ties) awards two points for a win in regulation or overtime/shootout, one point for an overtime loss, and none for a regulation loss.\n\nIn the National Hockey League, teams are awarded two points for a win, and one point for either a tie (a discontinued statistic) or an overtime loss. It can be calculated as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "46251952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46251952", "title": "World Sports Values Summit for Peace", "text": "World Sports Values Summit for Peace\n\nWorld Sports Values Summit for Peace is an international conference which is aimed at pursuing the value of the sports and discussing and disseminating how supports can be socially contribute to peace and respect for human rights.\n\nThe first World Sports Values Summit for Peace was held in London under the theme of “Olympic Values: London and Beyond” from June 29 through July 1, 2012. The event highlighted the three overarching themes discussed at the two-day symposium: the meaning of Olympic values in the twenty-first century; how to realize them more effectively in sport, at the Games and beyond; and how to leverage them for broader goals, nationally and internationally, including human right and peace. Related to the first Summit, a global essay contest was also held, in which 265 students from 61 countries shared their ideas about Olympic values and how to realize them through sport, culture, education, and other public initiatives.\n\nThe second Summit, World Sports Values Summit for Peace in Tokyo, was held at Hotel New Otani Tokyo on July 18 and 19. It was aimed at highlighting the positive roles that sport can play in furthering the cause of peace and human development. It was declared at the end of the event that the World Sports Values Summit for Peace will be periodically held thereafter too.\n\nThe third Summit, World Sports Values Summit for Peace and Development was held on May 22 and 23, 2014 at the Headquarters of the United Nations. Delegates from a number of nations discussed about the constructive strategy to overcome challenges we face today through sports. It was announced that a partnership had been engaged between International Sports Promotion Society, the host organization of the second Summit, and United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, the host organization of the third Summit.\n\n"}
{"id": "33740268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33740268", "title": "Yoga pants", "text": "Yoga pants\n\nYoga pants are a type of flexible, form-fitting pants designed for the practice of yoga as well as other physical activities that involve a lot of movement, bending and stretching. They are typically worn for sports and physical exercise, martial arts, dancing, pilates, or aerobics. These pants are generally made from a blend of cotton, lycra spandex, nylon, polyester, wool, or a similarly light and stretchy synthetic material giving the pants a very soft, smooth, polished and silky finish when worn. Although designed specifically for yoga, the pants are also casually worn as everyday dress by many women.\n\nAccording to Anu Hastings with the product database Indix, over 2,700 types of so-called \"yoga pants\" are now available on the market. There are various types and styles, including the traditional boot-cut and flared yoga pants with flat waistbands. The typical type of yoga pants traditionally come in black, are tight-fitted, boot-cut, and flared style, are reversible, carry a four way stretch fabric and have a flat elastic waistband folded over at the top. The traditional boot-cut and flared yoga pants with waistbands are the most well-known and most popular type, generally used for casual wear, active wear, lounge wear, maternity wear, dancewear or clubwear. They are tight-fitted, giving them flexibility and comfort as well as the moisture-wicking fabrics within the pants move perspiration away from the body to the fabric's outer surface where it can evaporate giving the pants an advantage when worn during physical activities that exert heavy perspiration keeping the wearer cool and comfortable.\n\nThe flat and fold-over waists are utilized to provide flexibility, comfort, coverage, style, breathability and versatility. Flat and fold-over waist boot cut and flare yoga pants are commonly used as casual wear, workout and exercise wear, maternity wear, making errands, lounging around the house, yoga class, or as clubwear as women would wear the body-hugging pants to permit freedom of movement when dancing during nights out at their local nightclub. Typically, the more spandex in the yoga pants, the more likely they are used as exercise, dance or clubwear. The more cotton fabrics are more commonly used for loungewear.\n\nThere are various types and styles of yoga pants in addition to the traditional. The flared yoga pants are also commonly used as dancewear allowing it to stretch and for the ease of movement it affords. They also typically have combinations of stretchy fabric blends offered by lycra spandex and nylon giving the pants a rich and silky appearance and feel when worn. Crop-fitted yoga pants lie above the ankle (similar to capri pants), and are oftentimes utilized for a more flattering, versatile, and dressier look during warmer times of the year. They are used commonly as casual wear, activewear, for making errands, lounging or as clubwear on a night out.\n\nThe flared yoga pants are often paired with flip-flops, running shoes, flats, or sheepskin boots, worn along with hoodies, shawls, cardigans or wraps paired with a tank top or shirt tucked underneath. Due to their high elasticity, yoga pants are comfortable enough to wear for many purposes. They were originally created for practicing yoga, but have become popular as everyday mainstream clothing item in classrooms, gymnasiums, restaurants, shopping malls, and nightclubs.\n\nDemand for comfortable active, athletic, sports and casual wear has increased since the turn of the 21st century. Nike, Inc. reported their women's business comprised 7 billion in 2010 and the larger market grew to $33.6 billion by 2015. Nike claims the driving factor has been by the demand for fashionable workout gear that is also flattering. New colors, patterns, and structural design of yoga pants created more versatility and increased their wear in public settings. Author Mae Anderson described the new craze of yoga pants outside the gym by calling them the \"new jeans.\"\n\nMany high-end fashion houses and mass-market trend-chasers have capitalized on the growth of the modern sportswear market, leading an emphasis on technical fabrics and garments that facilitate wearing them as everyday dress. Market research analysts have sought to explain the trend by referencing the extension of work hours in major cities across North America, leading to a \"day-to-night\" than a \"gym-to-work\"—while other explanations cite the North American passion for fitness and healthy living.\n\nIn the United States, reaction to the wider adoption of yoga pants proved somewhat controversial for schools. Some schools adopted dress codes banning yoga pants for all students, or banning them only for female students. \"Bitch\" magazine argued such bans are largely gendered, focusing on the damage caused by \"distraction\" by girls; similar complaints caused a ban in Rockport, Massachusetts, that was quickly reversed.\n\nThere are others who agree with banning yoga pants in public. Most often the reasoning for disagreeing with wearing yoga pants publicly is that they promote a relaxed and informal atmosphere. Amanda Hallay, professor of fashion and cultural history at New York City's LIM College, was interviewed for her opinion on yoga pants being a replacement for jeans. She said, \"Yoga pants are a step above pajamas and we don't wear pajamas out to lunch, and we certainly don't wear them to work. Pajamas are for sleeping in, and ergo, not appropriate to wear in any other setting. The same can be said for yoga pants. Yoga pants are to be worn while doing yoga.\" Yoga pants being worn in public can be perceived as inappropriate and unattractive. According to Hallay, to promote a more business-like or mature persona, a person should dress as such.\n\nIn the U.S. state of Montana, some state House members unsuccessfully attempted to ban the wearing of in public of \"any device, costume, or covering that gives the appearance of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, anus region, or pubic hair region.\" The author of the legislation, Republican David Moore, acknowledged that the measure could extend to \"tight beige garments\" and stated: \"Yoga pants should be illegal in public anyway.\" Moore later said that the latter comment was an \"off-the-cuff\" joke, although the Associated Press stood by its reporting.\n\n"}
