{"id": "30890892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30890892", "title": "Abu Salim prison", "text": "Abu Salim prison\n\nAbu Salim prison () is a maximum security prison in Tripoli, Libya. The prison was notorious during the rule of Muammar Gaddafi for alleged mistreatment and human rights abuses, including a massacre in 1996 in which Human Rights Watch estimated that 1,270 prisoners were killed. \n\nIn 2011, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nAmnesty International has called for an independent inquiry into deaths that occurred there on 29 June 1996, an incident which some have referred to as the Abu Salim prison massacre. Human Rights Watch believes that 1,270 prisoners were killed. HRW also calls the prison a \"site of egregious human rights violations.\" Human Rights Watch also stated in a report that they were unable to independently verify the allegations of a massacre. The claims cited by Human Rights Watch are based on the testimony of a single former inmate, Hussein Al Shafa’i, who stated that he did not witness a prisoner being killed: \"I could not see the dead prisoners who were shot...\" The figure of over 1200 killed was arrived at by Al Shafa’i allegedly calculating the number of meals he prepared when he was working in the prison's kitchen. Al Shafa'i stated \"I was asked by the prison guards to wash the watches that were taken from the bodies of the dead prisoners...\"\n\nLibyan Government rejected the allegations about a massacre in Abu Salim. In May 2005, the Internal Security Agency head of the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya told Human Rights Watch that the prisoners captured some guards and stole weapons from the prison cache. The prisoners and guards died as security personnel tried to restore order, and the government opened an investigation on the order of the Minister of Justice. The Libyan official stated that more than 400 prisoners escaped Abu Salim in four separate break-outs prior to and after the incident: in July 1995, December 1995, June 1996 and July 2001. Among the escapees were men who then fought with Islamist militant groups in Afghanistan, Iran, and Iraq.\n\nJournalist Lindsey Hilsum explored the topic in her 2012 book \"Sandstorm\". She met with a number of families who claimed their family members had been at the prison. She describes the massacre number as an uncertain estimate for several reasons; the main problem being the government's long term silence about the whereabouts of prisoners and their condition. She also describes eyewitness accounts of a mass shooting.\n\nThe families of the disappeared and killed formed a loose association and held numerous protests in Benghazi. Lawyer Fathi Terbil helped represent them. He was arrested several times for his trouble. Saif al-Islam Gaddafi (son of the dictator) tried to resolve the issue via his Gaddafi International Foundation for Charity Associations circa 2007.\n\nThe Libyan government said in 2009, then controlled by the same people as at the time of the event, that the killings took place amid confrontation between the government and rebels from the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group, and that some 200 guards were killed too. In January 2011, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya confirmed that it was carrying out an investigation into the incident along with international investigators. Statements made in an interview with the BBC by the captured Mansour Dhao, a prominent figure in the Gaddafi regime, provides further evidence for the massacre.\n\nWhen the Arab Spring occurred in Tunisia and Egypt, lawyer Fathi Terbil was amongst the first arrested by Libyan authorities trying to stave off a revolution. The Abu Salim families gathered to protest his imprisonment, and this gathering eventually contributed to the revolution in Libya. Abdullah Senussi, Gaddafi's intelligence chief suspected by many to have been involved in the 1996 massacre, reportedly tried to ask Terbil to make the protests stop.\n\nOn 25 September 2011, soon after the previous government had been overthrown, the governing National Transitional Council (NTC) said that a mass grave had been discovered outside the prison. Khalid al-Sherif, a military spokesman for the NTC, said that the grave was located based on information from captured former regime officials. He stated: \"We have discovered the truth about what the Libyan people have been waiting for many years, and it is the bodies and remains of the Abu Salim massacre.\" Ibrahim Abu Shim, a member of the committee looking for mass graves, said that investigators believed 1,270 people were buried in the grave but the NTC needed help from the international community to find and identify the remains as they lacked the sophisticated equipment needed for DNA testing. However, when the NTC invited investigators from CNN and other organizations it found only what appeared to be animal bones at that site and announced further investigations.\n\nBefore the civil war, the lawyer Abdul Hafiz Ghoga took the legal representation for the families of people killed in the massacre and negotiated with Gaddafi about compensations. During the uprise Ghoga became speaker of the National Transitional Council, in April 2011 vice president, and held this position until January 2012.\n\n\nOn 24 January 2010, the Libyan authorities blocked access to YouTube after it featured videos of demonstrations in the Libyan city of Benghazi by families of detainees who were killed in Abu Salim prison in 1996, and videos of family members of Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi at parties.\n\nDuring the Libyan Civil War the prison was captured by the rebels on 24 August and all prisoners were set free. Among those confirmed to have been freed was volunteer rebel fighter Matthew VanDyke from Baltimore, Maryland, USA, a member of a rebel unit captured by the Libyan Army in Brega in March. An international campaign to free VanDyke had described him as a \"writer and journalist,\" but it was later revealed that he was a rebel fighter and prisoner of war.\n"}
{"id": "24462937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24462937", "title": "Accident", "text": "Accident\n\nAn accident, also known as an unintentional injury, is an undesirable, incidental, and an unplanned event that could have been prevented had circumstances leading up to the accident been recognized, and acted upon, prior to its occurrence. Most scientists who study unintentional injury avoid using the term \"accident\" and focus on factors that increase risk of severe injury and that reduce injury incidence and severity.\n\nPhysical examples of accidents include unintended motor vehicle collisions or falls, being injured by touching something sharp, hot, moving objects, contacting electricity or ingesting poison. Non-physical examples are unintentionally revealing a secret or otherwise saying something incorrectly, accidental deletion of data, forgetting an appointment etc.\n\n\n\nPoisons, vehicle collisions and falls are the most common causes of fatal injuries. According to a 2005 survey of injuries sustained at home, which used data from the National Vital Statistics System of the United States National Center for Health Statistics, falls, poisoning, and fire/burn injuries are the most common causes of death.\n\nThe United States also collects statistically valid injury data (sampled from 100 hospitals) through the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System administered by the Consumer Product Safety Commission. This program was revised in 2000 to include all injuries rather than just injuries involving products. Data on emergency department visits is also collected through the National Health Interview Survey. In The U.S. the Bureau of Labor Statistics has available on their website extensive statistics on workplace accidents.\n\nMany models to characterize and analyze accidents have been proposed, which can by classified by type. Notable types and models include:\n\nIshikawa diagrams are sometimes used to illustrate root-cause analysis and five whys discussions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174883", "title": "Catastrophism", "text": "Catastrophism\n\nCatastrophism was the theory that the Earth had largely been shaped by sudden, short-lived, violent events, possibly worldwide in scope. This was in contrast to uniformitarianism (sometimes described as gradualism), in which slow incremental changes, such as erosion, created all the Earth's geological features. Uniformitarianism held that the present was the key to the past, and that all geological processes (such as erosion) throughout the past were like those that can be observed now. Since the early disputes, a more inclusive and integrated view of geologic events has developed, in which the scientific consensus accepts that there were some catastrophic events in the geologic past, but these were explicable as extreme examples of natural processes which can occur.\n\nCatastrophism held that geological epochs had ended with violent and sudden natural catastrophes such as great floods and the rapid formation of major mountain chains. Plants and animals living in the parts of the world where such events occurred were made extinct, being replaced abruptly by the new forms whose fossils defined the geological strata. Some catastrophists attempted to relate at least one such change to the Biblical account of Noah's flood.\n\nThe concept was first popularised by the early 19th-century French scientist Georges Cuvier, who proposed that new life forms had moved in from other areas after local floods, and avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings.\n\nIn the early development of geology, efforts were made in a predominantly Christian western society to reconcile biblical narratives of Creation and the universal flood with new concepts about the processes which had formed the Earth. The discovery of other ancient flood myths was taken as explaining why the flood story was \"stated in scientific methods with surprising frequency among the Greeks\", an example being Plutarch's account of the Ogygian flood.\n\nThe leading scientific proponent of catastrophism in the early nineteenth century was the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier. His motivation was to explain the patterns of extinction and faunal succession that he and others were observing in the fossil record. While he did speculate that the catastrophe responsible for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia might have been the result of the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea, he did not make any reference to Noah's flood. Nor did he ever make any reference to divine creation as the mechanism by which repopulation occurred following the extinction event. In fact Cuvier, influenced by the ideas of the Enlightenment and the intellectual climate of the French revolution, avoided religious or metaphysical speculation in his scientific writings. Cuvier also believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several of these revolutions, which he viewed as recurring natural events, amid long intervals of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nBy contrast in Britain, where natural theology was influential during the early nineteenth century, a group of geologists including William Buckland and Robert Jameson interpreted Cuvier's work differently. Cuvier had written an introduction to a collection of his papers on fossil quadrupeds, discussing his ideas on catastrophic extinction. Jameson translated Cuvier's introduction into English, publishing it under the title \"Theory of the Earth\". He added extensive editorial notes to the translation, explicitly linking the latest of Cuvier's revolutions with the biblical flood. The resulting essay was extremely influential in the English-speaking world. Buckland spent much of his early career trying to demonstrate the reality of the biblical flood using geological evidence. He frequently cited Cuvier's work, even though Cuvier had proposed an inundation of limited geographic extent and extended duration, whereas Buckland, to be consistent with the biblical account, was advocating a universal flood of short duration. Eventually, Buckland abandoned flood geology in favor of the glaciation theory advocated by Louis Agassiz, following a visit to the Alps where Agassiz demonstrated the effects of glaciation at first hand. As a result of the influence of Jameson, Buckland, and other advocates of natural theology, the nineteenth century debate over catastrophism took on much stronger religious overtones in Britain than elsewhere in Europe.\n\nUniformitarian explanations for the formation of sedimentary rock and an understanding of the immense stretch of geological time, or as the concept came to be known deep time, were found in the writing of James Hutton, sometimes known as the father of geology, in the late 18th century. The geologist Charles Lyell built upon Hutton's ideas during the first half of 19th century and amassed observations in support of the uniformitarian idea that the Earth's features had been shaped by same geological processes that could be observed in the present acting gradually over an immense period of time. Lyell presented his ideas in the influential three volume work, \"Principles of Geology\", published in the 1830s, which challenged theories about geological cataclysms proposed by proponents of catastrophism like Cuvier and Buckland.\n\nFrom around 1850 to 1980, most geologists endorsed uniformitarianism (\"The present is the key to the past\") and gradualism (\"geologic change occurs slowly over long periods of time\") and rejected the idea that cataclysmic events such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, or floods of vastly greater power than those observed at the present time, played any significant role in the formation of the Earth's surface. Instead they believed that the earth had been shaped by the long term action of forces such as volcanism, earthquakes, erosion, and sedimentation, that could still be observed in action today. In part, the geologists' rejection was fostered by their impression that the catastrophists of the early nineteenth century believed that God was directly involved in determining the history of Earth. Some of the theories about Catastrophism in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries were connected with religion and catastrophic origins were sometimes considered miraculous rather than natural events.\n\nThe rise in uniformitarianism made the introduction of a new catastrophe theory very difficult. In 1923 J Harlen Bretz published a paper on the channeled scablands formed by glacial Lake Missoula in Washington State, USA. Bretz encountered resistance to his theories from the geology establishment of the day, kicking off an acrimonious 40 year debate. Finally in 1979 Bretz received the Penrose Medal; the Geological Society of America's highest award.\n\nIn the 1950s, Immanuel Velikovsky propounded catastrophism in several popular books. He speculated that the planet Venus is a former \"comet\" which was ejected from Jupiter and subsequently 3,500 years ago made two catastrophic close passes by Earth, 52 years apart, and later interacted with Mars, which then had a series of near collisions with Earth which ended in 687 BCE, before settling into its current orbit. Velikovsky used this to explain the biblical plagues of Egypt, the biblical reference to the \"Sun standing still\" for a day (Joshua 10:12 & 13, explained by changes in Earth's rotation), and the sinking of Atlantis. Scientists vigorously rejected Velikovsky's conjectures.\n\nNeocatastrophism is the explanation of sudden extinctions in the palaeontological record by high magnitude, low frequency events (such as asteroid impacts, super-volcanic eruptions, supernova gamma ray bursts, etc.), as opposed to the more prevalent geomorphological thought which emphasises low magnitude, high frequency events.\n\nOver the past 25 years, a scientifically based catastrophism has gained wide acceptance with regard to certain events in the distant past. One impetus for this change came from the publication of a historic paper by Walter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. This paper suggested that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The impact wiped out about 70% of all species, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–T boundary). In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nSince then, the debate about the extinction of the dinosaurs and other mass extinction events has centered on whether the extinction mechanism was the asteroid impact, widespread volcanism (which occurred about the same time), or some other mechanism or combination. Most of the mechanisms suggested are catastrophic in nature.\n\nThe observation of the Shoemaker-Levy 9 cometary collision with Jupiter illustrated that catastrophic events occur as natural events.\n\nOne of the key differences between catastrophism and uniformitarianism is that uniformitarianism requires the assumption of vast timelines, whereas catastrophism does not. Today most geologists combine catastrophist and uniformitarianist standpoints, taking the view that Earth's history is a slow, gradual story punctuated by occasional natural catastrophic events that have affected Earth and its inhabitants.\n\nModern theories also suggest that Earth's anomalously large moon was formed catastrophically. In a paper published in \"Icarus\" in 1975, William K. Hartmann and Donald R. Davis proposed that a catastrophic near-miss by a large planetesimal early in Earth's formation approximately 4.5 billion years ago blew out rocky debris, remelted Earth and formed the Moon, thus explaining the Moon's lesser density and lack of an iron core. The impact theory does have some faults; some computer simulations show the formation of a ring or multiple moons post impact, and elements are not quite the same between the earth and moon.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20261829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20261829", "title": "Chronology of the Great Famine", "text": "Chronology of the Great Famine\n\nThe Chronology of the Great Famine ( or \"An Drochshaol\", litt: \"The Bad Life\") documents a period of Irish history between 1845 and 1852 during which time the population of Ireland was reduced by 20 to 25 percent. The proximate cause was famine resulting from a potato disease commonly known as late blight. Although blight ravaged potato crops throughout Europe during the 1840s, the impact and human cost in Irelandwhere a third of the population was entirely dependent on the potato for foodwas exacerbated by a host of political, social and economic factors which remain the subject of historical debate.\n\nAn important and controversial point of debate, that is notable amongst Irish people, was that Irish food supplies were sufficient until it was taken away by the British the feed the British, and the landlords kept economic benefits to themselves. Some commentators and writers controversially compared this explanation to \"genocide\".\n\nAt the beginning of August, Sir Robert Peel, the British Prime Minister, received news of a potato disease in the South of England. This was the first recorded evidence that the 'blight' which had ravaged the potato crop in North America in 1843-1844 had crossed the Atlantic. Cecil Woodham-Smith would write that a failure in England would be serious, but for Ireland, it would be a disaster.\n\nFollowing earlier reports of incidences of the blight in England, on 13 September 1845 potato blight was first reported in Ireland. The crops at Dublin were suddenly perishing, it was reported in the \"Gardeners' Chronicle\", asking \"where will Ireland be in the event of a universal potato rot?\" The British Government were nevertheless optimistic through the next few weeks.\n\n\nThe principle of the Corn Laws had been to keep the price of home-grown grain up. Duties on imported grain assured English farmers a minimum and profitable price. The burden of a higher price for bread was carried by the labouring classes, in particular factory workers and operatives. It was claimed that if the Corn Laws were repealed all those connected with the land would be ruined and the established social organisation of the country destroyed.\n\nAccording to Cecil Woodham-Smith, the rising wrath of Tories and landlords ensured \"all interest in Ireland was submerged.\" She writes that the Tory Mayor of Liverpool refused to call a meeting for the relief of Irish distress. She continues that the Mansion House Committee in Dublin was accused of 'deluding the public with a false alarm', and the blight itself 'was represented as the invention of agitators on the other side of the water'. The entanglement of the Irish famine with the repeal of the Corn Laws, she says, was a key misfortune for Ireland. The potato failure was eclipsed by the domestic issue of Corn Law repeal. The Irish famine, she writes, \"slipped into the background.\"\n\n\nThe first deaths from hunger took place in early 1846. In March Peel set up a programme of public works in Ireland but was forced to resign as Prime Minister on 29 June. The new Whig administration under Lord Russell, influenced by their laissez-faire belief that the market would provide the food needed then halted government food and relief works, leaving many hundreds of thousands of people without any work, money or food. Grain continued to be exported from the country. Private initiatives such as The Central Relief Committee of the Society of Friends (Quakers) attempted to fill the gap caused by the end of government relief and eventually the government reinstated the relief works, although bureaucracy slowed the release of food supplies. The blight almost totally destroyed the 1846 crop and the Famine worsened considerably. By December a third of a million destitute people were employed in public works.\n\nThere were average crop yields in the 1847 harvest, but due to lack of seed potatoes to plant, the crop was low. Crowds began to throng the public works during the last months of 1846 and the start of 1847, which promoted exactly the social conditions for the spread of 'famine fever.' In late January and February, legislation called the Temporary Relief Act went through the British parliament; it became popularly known as the Soup Kitchen Act and occasionally as Burgoyne's Act. This system of relief was designed to deliver cheap food directly and gratuitously to the destitute masses. This system of relief would be terminated in September. The government also announced an additional change in the system of relief. After August 1847, the permanent Poor Law was to be extended and was to become responsible for providing relief and as a result, all relief would be financed by the local Poor Law rates. This put impossible loads on local poor rates, particularly in the rural west and south. With the mass emigration of the famine era, the horrors of the 'coffin ships' and 1847 have ever since been associated in the popular mind, according to James S. Donnelly.\n\nIn December 1847 The Crime and Outrage Bill (Ireland) 1847 was enacted due to growing Irish nationalist agitation that was causing the British government concern about a possible violent rebellion against British rule in Ireland.\n\nThe bill gave the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland the power to organise the island into districts and bring police forces into them at the districts' expense. It limited who could own guns, and required all of the men in the district between the ages of 16 and 60 to assist in apprehending suspected murderers when landlords were killed, or else be guilty of a misdemeanour themselves.\n\nThe blight returned in 1848 and outbreaks of cholera were reported. Evictions became common among the Irish who could not keep up with the demands of their British landlords. Famine victims on outdoor relief peaked in July at almost 840,000 people. On 29 July an uprising against the government was led by William Smith O'Brien. After a skirmish at \"Widow McCormack's house\" in the village of Ballingarry, County Tipperary the leaders of the rebellion fled to America or were sentenced to transportation.\n\nThe potato crop failed again in 1849 and famine was accompanied by cholera outbreaks. This deadly cholera epidemic killed one of Ireland's greatest poets: James Clarence Mangan.\n\nThe Famine ended.\n\nBy 1851 census figures showed that the population of Ireland had fallen to 6,575,000 – a drop of 1,600,000 in ten years. Cormac Ó Gráda and Joel Mokyr have described the 1851 census as a famous but flawed source. They contend that the combination of institutional and individuals figures gives \"an incomplete and biased count\" of fatalities during the famine. The famine left in its wake up to a million dead and another million emigrated. The famine caused a sense of lasting bitterness by the Irish towards the British government, whom many blamed — then and now — for the starvation of so many people. The fall-out of the famine continued for decades afterwards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18958074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18958074", "title": "Closure (business)", "text": "Closure (business)\n\nClosure is the term used to refer to the actions necessary when it is no longer necessary or possible for a business or other organization to continue to operate. Closure may be the result of a bankruptcy, where the organization lacks sufficient funds to continue operations, as a result of the proprietor of the business dying, as a result of a business being purchased by another organization (or a competitor) and shut down as superfluous, or because it is the non-surviving entity in a corporate merger. A closure may occur because the purpose for which the organization was created is no longer necessary.\n\nWhile a closure is typically of a business or a non-profit organization, any entity which is created by human beings can be subject to a closure, from a single church to a whole religion, up to and including an entire country if, for some reason, it ceases to exist.\n\nClosures are of two types, voluntary or involuntary. Voluntary closures of organizations are much rarer than involuntary ones, as, in the absence of some change making operations impossible or unnecessary, most operations will continue until something happens that causes a change requiring this situation.\n\nThe most common form of voluntary closure would be when those involved in an organization such as a social club, a band, or other non-profit organization decide to cease operating. Once the organization has paid any outstanding debts and completed any pending operations, closure may simply mean that the organization ceases to exist.\n\nIf an organization has debts that cannot be paid, it may be necessary to perform a liquidation of its assets. If there is anything left after the assets are converted to cash, in the case of a for-profit organization, the remainder is distributed to the stockholders; in the case of a non-profit, by law any remaining assets must be distributed to another non-profit.\n\nIf an organization has more debts than assets, it may have to declare bankruptcy. If the organization is viable, it may reorganizes itself as a result of the bankruptcy and continue operations. If it is not viable for the business to continue operating, then a closure occurs through a bankruptcy liquidation: its assets are liquidated, the creditors are paid from whatever assets could be liquidated, and the business ceases operations.\n\nPossibly the largest \"closure\" in history (but more closely analogous to a demerger) was the split of the Soviet Union into its constituent countries. In comparison, the end of East Germany can be considered a merger rather than a closure as West Germany assumed all of the assets and liabilities of East Germany. The end of the Soviet Union was the equivalent of a closure through a bankruptcy liquidation, because while Russia assumed most of the assets and responsibilities of the former Soviet Union, it did not assume all of them. There have been issues over who is responsible for unpaid parking tickets accumulated by motor vehicles operated on behalf of diplomatic missions operated by the former Soviet Union in other countries, as Russia claims it is not responsible for them.\n\nSeveral major business closures include the bankruptcy of the Penn Central railroad, the Enron scandals, and MCI Worldcom's bankruptcy and eventual merger into Verizon.\n"}
{"id": "311400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311400", "title": "Common year", "text": "Common year\n\nA common year is a calendar year with 365 days. More generally, a common year is one without intercalation. The Gregorian calendar, (like the earlier Julian calendar), employs both common years and leap years to keep the calendar aligned with the tropical year, which does not contain an exact number of days.\n\nThe common year of 365 days has 52 weeks and one day, hence a common year always begins and ends on the same day of the week (for example, January 1 and December 31 fell on a Sunday in 2017) and the year following a common year will start on the subsequent day of the week. In common years, February has four weeks, so March will begin on the same day of the week. November will also begin on this day.\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, 303 of every 400 years are common years. By comparison, in the Julian calendar, 300 out of every 400 years are common years, and in the Revised Julian calendar (used by Greece) 682 out of every 900 years are common years.\n\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "25177307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25177307", "title": "Diminished value", "text": "Diminished value\n\nDiminished value, Diminution in Value, or commonly referred to as \"DV\" are the terms generally used to describe the economic loss in a property's value as a result of having been damaged. Diminished Value (DV) is often associated with vehicles that have been damaged, however, it is applicable to other property of value including collectibles such as jewelry, artwork, etc. For the purposes herein, reference will involve the loss in value of a damaged automobile where the term is often applied.\n\nUnlike \"depreciation\", which is an anticipated and predictable loss in value over time, ‘Inherent Diminished Value’ is a loss in value due to a specific, sudden and unexpected negative occurrence. Diminished value of an automobile following an accident may occur in one of three ways (or a combination thereof):\n\n(1) repair-related diminished value;\n\n(2) Immediate diminished value; and\n\n(3) inherent diminished value.\n\nRepair-related diminished value is the loss of value due to the inability to perfectly repair the vehicle, so it is worth less after repairs than it was before the wreck. Immediate Diminished Value – The difference in resale value of a vehicle immediately before damage has occurred and immediately after damage has occurred (prior to repair). As courts are rarely the chosen venue for recovery of property damage, the standard of \"Immediate Diminished Value\" is rarely employed in resolving Property Damage claims. This also refers to a loss of value caused by the insurer's direct involvement in the claim adjustment in which the insurer exerts control over the repairs and repairs are incomplete, insufficiently performed, or otherwise restore the vehicle to less than the standard condition.\n\nInherent Diminished Value - Assumes optimal repair quality has been achieved and is defined as the amount by which the resale value of a repaired vehicle has been reduced simply because the subject vehicle now has a significant damage history. This is the most widely recognized and accepted form of Diminished Value. It is also the basis upon which any supplemental form of Diminished Value would be added. A common \"Supplemental\" form of Diminished Value is \"Repair Related Diminished Value\".\n\nUsually, a frame or structurally damaged vehicle cannot be re-sold as a \"certified pre-owned vehicle.\"\n\nThe true measure of a damaged vehicle's inherent loss in value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. The standard rule as to establishing a value on late model vehicles would be: 20-25% behind book (Black Book, KBB, NADA) and utilize actual sales results, and not on advertised prices.\n\nWhile some may claim Diminished Value (DV) is subjective and based upon perception or speculation, the old adage \"perception becomes reality' applies and as such Diminution in Value is real simply because, for the most part, no reasonable and prudent person is willing to pay the same price for a vehicle with a history of damage as they would for one never having been damaged. Retailers often offer discounts for scratches and dents on appliances, electronics and dented canned goods; it is, therefore, reasonable that the value of a damaged motor vehicle will suffer a lessening in value.\n\nAdditional factors may be taken into consideration in evaluating the loss in value of a damaged and repaired vehicle and may include, but not be limited to: the vehicle itself (i.e. rare collectible, originality, market desirability etc.), the vehicle’s pre-loss condition, severity of the sustained damages (i.e. frame damage, flood, fire etc.), the subject vehicle’s history (i.e. one owner, prior damage/repair, death of occupants etc.), quality and thoroughness of the performed repairs, (i.e. quality of parts, materials, workmanship, etc.) and additional value considerations including, but not limited to values associated with pre-owned certification programs.etc.\n\nAuto insurance companies may not readily recognize or offer to pay for diminished value. Each state may have differing opinions of DV. Example; The state of Georgia allows the insured party (the first-party Policyholder) to make a claim for their remaining economic loss for DV from their own insurance company while the neighboring state of Florida does not. Most states, however, allow the victim of another's negligence (third-party) to make a DV claim from the at-fault party.\n\nThe length of time to collect Diminished Value will vary depending upon each state's statute of limitations for first party (contractual) claims and third-party (restatement of tort) claims.\n\nA diminished value appraisal evaluates the difference in value of a motor vehicle after a collision repair. Reports are usually compiled by an Auto Appraisal Expert experienced in the field of DV and who may provide expert testimony for Appraisals, Arbitration, Mediation or Litigation in a court of law. This Assessment report is used when filing or disputing a diminished value claim against another party and/or an insurance company. The report measures a damaged vehicle’s inherent loss in value. The diminished value can be measured as the difference in the value of the vehicle before the loss to that after the loss, prior to or after repair. In most cases even if the repair was done expertly, the value of the automobile will still be considerably less after a loss. When consumers find that a vehicle has been in an accident, most consumers will never pay the same price for a repaired vehicle as compared to one with no loss history.\n\nSome reports include an assessment of the damage done to a motor vehicle, the quality of the performed repair, the market value of the vehicle before and after the accident. There are no set rules for measuring diminished value, and since every vehicle loses value differently, a one size fits all formula would be fundamentally inaccurate.\n\nRecognition of concept of diminished value varies from country to country \n\nSome states' statutes acknowledge diminished value and provide the ability for consumers to collect first party claims of DV from their own insurance companies under their own policies. Most states allow the consumer to collect third party claims from the at-fault driver's insurance company. Some states recognize liability for third party claims but not first party claims.\n\nIn Georgia, vehicle owners can collect DV against their own policy.\n\nDiminished value is part of the Florida Standard Civil Jury Instructions. Diminished value case law in Florida is based primarily on two cases.\n\nThe ability to receive diminished value financial compensation from an at-fault driver for their negligence was decided by the Florida Supreme Court in the Siegle vs. Progressive Consumer's Insurance Company case. After Siegle insurance companies are able to exclude responsibility for the payment of diminished value to the vehicle that they insure through the language in the policy.\nThe Florida Third District Court of Appeal, upheld that the correct measure of damages is the cost of repair plus any reduction in the value of the vehicle. The Court also directed that proving the reduction in value is the burden of the Plaintiff bringing the claim.\n\nDiminished value is provided in Louisiana Revised Statute 9:2800.17. The vehicle owner must prove by a preponderance of evidence that the fair market value would be less than its value before the vehicle was damaged.\n\nOn July 15, 2014, a policyholder in Washington state filed a proposed class action lawsuit in the Superior Court of Pierce County seeking diminished value insurance benefits under their automobile insurance policies. The insurance company filed a notice to remove the lawsuit to federal district court on August 20, 2014. The case is titled \"Johnston v. United Services Automobile Ass'n\".\n\nThe ability to recover damages for accelerated depreciation varies from Province to Province.\n\nIn British Columbia, law recognizes this loss as a recoverable damage and quantify the claim based on the diminished value at the time the collision occurs.\n\nThe Rules addressing the admissibility of depreciation reports in court vary by jurisdiction. For example, in British Columbia, Canada, the BC Supreme Court requires such reports to comply with Rule 11.\n\n"}
{"id": "1986491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986491", "title": "Disaster area", "text": "Disaster area\n\nA disaster area is a region or a locale, heavily damaged by either natural, technological or social hazards. Disaster areas affect the population living in the community by dramatic increase in expense, loss of energy, food and services; and finally increase the risk of disease for citizens. An area that has been struck with a natural, technological or sociological hazard that opens the affected area for national or international aid.\n\nA natural hazard is a negative process of phenomena created naturally (tornadoes, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, earthquakes) that will affect people or the environment.\n\nTornadoes are narrow aggressively rotating mixtures of air that come from the base of a thunderstorm, being the most violent of storms. Tornadoes are usually hard to see unless they form a condensations funnel made from:- dust, water droplets and debris. Tornadoes take place in several parts of the world, such as Australia, Europe, Africa but mostly occur in the United States, Argentina, and Bangladesh.\n\nHurricanes, cyclones, tropical storms and typhoons can be referred to as the same. They combine low pressure and strong winds that rotate counter clockwise in the northern hemisphere and clockwise in the southern hemisphere. Tropical cyclones have a low pressure center, rain and strong winds. They usually initiate over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricanes can be predicted several days before they hit and can be very destructive and destroy homes and some other buildings. Cyclones, although they are the same type of storm, are harder to predict before a few days like hurricanes thus giving people only a few hours of notice to evacuate their homes. In this case there are far more deaths from flooding and high tides. A recent (2012) example of a hurricane is Hurricane Sandy, which was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States, leaving millions without power and a few homeless.\n\nFloods take place when water overflows or submerges land that is usually parched. The most common way is when rivers or streams overflow their banks. A floodplain is produced when water from a rivers spreads through the land from excessive rain, rapid ice melting, unfortunately placed beaver dam, and ruptured dam. There are two types of floods: general and flash floods. General floods are predicted well in advance and usually cause the destruction of housing, people and crops. Flash floods come without warning and are sudden and extreme: A large volume of water flows rapidly and people have to make quick movements if they do not want to be caught in the flood. They have to find high safe ground where the water will not reach them.\n\nWhen two blocks of the earth suddenly slip past each other in the fault of the earth, it is called an earthquake. Energy released in many forms moves in all directions and causes the ground to shake. Sometimes earthquakes may have foreshocks, which are smaller earthquakes that occur in the same region which is followed by a larger earthquake. The larger earthquake, called the mainshock, always has aftershocks that follow it. Aftershocks can continue of hours, weeks, months and sometimes even years depending on how big the mainshock was. Earthquakes usually occur on active faults which define major tectonic plates on the Earth. 90% of the world’s earthquakes occur along plate boundaries. Earthquakes can cause much damage, mainly from the ground shaking and leaving cracks in the ground. Sometimes it can also cause buildings to collapse and cause deaths.\n\nThere are several technical hazards one should be aware of as they pose a threat humans and their values. These hazards are measured in terms of the risk they pose to the community using them. Technical hazards are classified by a source, specifically speaking; they can fall under automotive emissions, medical radiation, explosions and air pollution (environmental) hazards. The quality of the hazard determines the safety precautions that are taken. For example, hazards can be a risk to an individual or a risk to the population. If the population is at risk with the hazard, there will be more priorities for the management of the hazardous material. These hazardous materials can cause illness or even death to an individual if they are not address accordingly, so it is crucial for them to inform the public about these technical hazards.\n\nThere are several thoughts that come to mind when one thinks of the word “nuclear”, whether it be basic chemistry or highly complex explosives; nuclear accidents, nuclear incidences or nuclear terrorism are definitely a threat to the community or the world in that matter. But what is nuclear terrorism exactly? A \"nuclear accident, incident, or act of terrorism is an unpredictable, unusual and unwanted event involving radiation and/or radioactive materials.\" To specifically distinguish between the three, nuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. Nuclear incidents on the other hand are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” \n\nNuclear accidents are not deliberate and viewed as acts of nature. There are several examples of these nuclear accidents taken place around the world. To start off, a prime example of a nuclear accident would be Palo mares B-52 Accident. On January 17, 1966, a U.S. Air Force B-52 bomber collided with a mid-tanker airplane that was being refueled at 31000 feet. When the two airplanes collided, the tanker airplane exploded completely killing all crew members, while the B-52 bomber split in half killing a small proportion of the crew. When the airplane split in half, four bombs dropped from the sky. Two of them detonated, causing 2 kilometers of land to be contaminated by radioactive plutonium. The fourth explosive was recovered when it was discovered that it landed on the sea. The soil on the contaminated area had to be removed and placed in barrels, to reduce the amount of pollution having been caused by the nuclear explosive.\n\nNuclear incidents are causes that include deliberate actions but these are “generally non-malicious and non-violent; may be due to poor judgement [or] wrong information.” A Secondary example would be the Johnston Atoll Incident that occurred on July 25, 1962. They decided to conduct the experiment at Christmas Island on Johnson Atoll, where they set off 36 nuclear explosions. One of the missile launches went wrong as it malfunctioned when trying to launch. The leaders decided to detonate the missile before it launched. When it detonated, the entire island was covered with radioactive plutonium. The witnesses claimed that 85% of the people suffered from radioactive contamination that created cancer and other radioactive related diseases. Plus those who were present at the site of the explosion suffered from infertility, and other body deformations.\n\nSociological hazards that create a disaster area are riots, terrorism, and war.\n\nA riot is defined as a noisy, violent public disturbance caused by a group or a crowd (three or more people) usually protesting against another group or government policy in the streets. The UK London riot in August 2011, for example, was started due to the shooting of Mark Duggan by the London police. The rioters came together destroying neighborhoods and streets violently damaging property to protest the police's actions that happened a few days prior. Riots increase expenses to repair costly damages putting the city in distress.\n\nTerrorism is defined as acts of violence and threats by a group against people or property with the intention of intimidating or coercing societies or governments, often for ideological or political reasons. Terrorism occurs with an unexpected attack on non-combatants to create fear and panic having a detrimental consequence. Terrorist attacks create a massive, costly impact on the society. Not only is there large amount of property damage that may not be able to be repaired, there is also a large impact on citizens. People lose loved ones and suffer from their own health being impacted. The 9/11 terrorist attack on the twin towers in New York City marks one of the largest attacks on the United States. The Twin Towers were completely destroyed, damaging the surrounding buildings as well as causing the loss of many lives. People suffered from health problems from inhaling the sediments from the crumbling towers. The financial and social impact is still present thirteen years later in today's society. It is concluded that New York City still suffers from a post-disaster decline in financial services. New York City is a Disaster area due to the sociological hazard of terrorism.\n\nWar defined as a period where conflict is carried out as an act of hostility by armed forces between two or more nations or within a nation. Afghanistan, for example would be a sociological hazard causing disaster areas because it is considered a war zone. There has been an ongoing battle between United States and the Taliban in Afghanistan resulting in a war zone. Constant bombing and shooting marks up Afghanistan destructing property, land and causing threats to the civilians living in the area. Thousands have died and international aid for the cost of the war is implemented through tax payers. There is lack of resources due to the war area cutting off access to areas because of violence and danger.\n\nAn example of a technological disaster was the Fukushima disaster which was caused by a “massive 8.9-magnitude earthquake [that] hit northeast Japan”. This earthquake caused a nuclear explosion at a power plant; five reactors were damaged, causing the plant to go into an emergency state. All this occurred because there was a technological error in the system that cut down the regular and emergency power, causing the five reactors to destabilize and explode. This significant nuclear event had a big impact on the public health, as the area suffered nuclear contamination. The contamination caused all the crops such as milk, water or vegetables unsafe to eat. Hence all food grown in that area was banned from being sold. People in the “surroundings were moved to safe shelters,” and 3 people were affected by the radiation alone. Luckily, the “Japanese government [handled] the situation in the most efficient and amazing way that anyone can imagine.”\n\nA recent example of a disaster area caused by a natural hazard is Hurricane Sandy which hit October 27, 2012. It was the most devastating storm in decades hitting the United States. The storm killed about 50 people and many were also hit by falling trees. The hardest-hit state was New York, leaving millions without power and a few homeless. \n\nA disaster area caused by a sociological hazard would be the terrorist attack on September 11th, 2001, in New York City. Two airplanes struck the Twin Towers, causing them to crumble, killing many people in the process. The unexpected attack harmed many people and had a detrimental impact on New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8611599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8611599", "title": "False ending", "text": "False ending\n\nA false ending has two contexts: in literature, film and video games it is a narrative device where the plot seems to be heading to its conclusion, but in reality, there's still more to the story; in a musical composition, however, it is a complete stop of the work or song for one or more seconds before continuing.\n\nThe presence of a false ending can be anticipated through a number of ways: the medium itself might betray that it isn't the true ending (i.e. it's only halfway into a book or a song, a film's listed running time hasn't fully elapsed, only half the world has been explored in a video game, etc.), making only stories with indeterminate running length or a multi-story structure able to pull this off effectively; another indicator is the feeling that too much of the story is incomplete when the false ending comes, making it feel like there has to be more.\n\nIn \"L.A. Confidential\" , it seems like the criminal case that the movie revolves around is completely closed with no loose ends until one of the witnesses admits that she lied about important details to give more importance towards the trial of the people who raped her, exposing a cover-up conspiracy. In \"\", the director keeps using editing techniques that are indicative of endings in scenes that could be used as such, but continues until the movie finally ends. \"Spider-Man 3\" has two false endings. Another example is in \"The Simpsons Movie\", where, at a very climatic stage in the film, the screen fades away and says \"To be continued\", which is then followed by the word \"Immediately.\"\n\nSome movies come to a formal ending, followed by the rolling of the credits, which is almost universally used to indicate that the film has ended, only to have the actors reappear in one or more mid-credits scenes. In comedy films, these sequences may be bloopers or outtakes. In other types of films, the mid-credit scenes may continue the narrative set out in the movie. The Marvel Cinematic Universe movies have become notorious for this, in some cases featuring a mid-credits scene and an end-credits scene in the same movie.\n\nIn the police comedy \"Hot Fuzz\" (2007), two police officers realize that a cult is controlling their town. After the two officers defeat the head of the Neighbourhood Watch Alliance and his members, who have been causing problems in the town, the pair are celebrating their success at the police station, and the movie appears to be wrapping up. Then a surviving member of the Neighbourhood Watch Alliance enters the station and shoots an old musket, which triggers an old-fashioned mine.\n\nSome examples in video games include \"Final Fantasy VI\" and \"Wild ARMs\". Both involve confrontations with the major antagonists at what seems like their final lairs, but instead a crisis occurs and the story continues. A third is in \"\", upon sinking the \"Druna Skass\" a second time (Which can only happen if the player plays though the game again, as the game resets itself to the beginning if you sink it once), the player is greeted by another supership, that looks just like the \"Druna Skass\". Yet another example is the survival horror game \"Obscure II\", in which the player must wait until the credits roll to their conclusion before gameplay resumes.\n\nRole-playing video games are notorious for having such plot devices. It usually involves the game's main antagonist being defeated, only for a previously mentioned character to be revealed as the \"real\" villain. One example is \"\", in which the main character is apparently about to have a boss fight with the former villain Zant, but Zant reveals he has been working for another Villain.\nAnother example is \"\" where after you defeat Medusa, credits roll but are quickly interrupted by Hades, the villain for the rest of the game.\n\nIn video games, it is difficult to use the false ending device effectively. Nevertheless, in the hands of a skilled designer, there are several methods that allow it to be done. In several video games, such as those with multiple playable characters and story lines, the game may appear to end after defeating a difficult boss, or clearing what appears to be the \"Final\" level, complete with credits, an outro, and a return to the start screen. These endings are different from bad endings, as everything may appear to be resolved. However, fulfilling conditions such as clearing all the storylines, reloading the save file, or reaching the \"ending\" in a New Game+ mode may give the player the option to continue on to the real ending.\n\nAn example of this is \"Sonic Adventure\", and its sequel \"Sonic Adventure 2\". In the former, while there are six stories to play, only the main character's, Sonic's is the most complete. The other characters' stories are simply side-stories. However, if \"all\" of the stories are completed, a final story appears that wraps up the game and acts as the \"true\" ending. In the latter, there are two stories to play, one for the heroes, and one for the villains. Of note is the plot device is hidden in a false Chaos Emerald being used that would destroy the space colony in which the villain Doctor Eggman is using as a base. It is at first implied that Eggman took the false Emerald, but in reality, when the last story is played, again, after the two normal stories are completed, a true conclusion is offered.\n\nAnother example could be the survival horror game \"Resident Evil 2\", where, depending on your choice, you get to play with one of the two characters and get a certain ending for one of them to later discover, when you finish playing the second path with the second character, you fight the real final boss and the \"true\" ending (That may vary depending of which character you have chosen first) is shown. The main difference between both of the \"true\" endings are that places and times are exchanged, as well as the final dialogue from the game.\n\n\"The Consequence\", the second Kidman DLC for 2014's \"The Evil Within\", features a secret false ending in a similar manner to those shown in the \"Resident Evil\" franchise. At one point, Juli Kidman encounters the brain of the game's main antagonist, Ruben Victoriano, sealed inside a glass container hooked up to the STEM system in Beacon Hospital. Should the player choose to shoot the container and break it, the game cuts to black, then begins the credits sequence, cutting short on a postcard depicting Juli, Joseph and Sebastian on a postcard, before promptly returning to the game as Kidman exclaims \"What the fuck?!\", indicating the whole sequence was a hallucination.\n\nFalse endings are a known device in classical music. Josef Haydn was fond of them, for example inducing applause at the wrong place in the finales of his String Quartet, Op. 33 No. 2 (nicknamed \"The Joke\") and Symphony No. 90. The first movement of Prokoviev's Classical Symphony contains false endings.\nIn music, a number of rock and pop songs use false endings in which the music is arranged so that the song appears to be coming to its ending (e.g., reaching a final cadence on the chord of the home key and then stopping), but then the music recommences. Examples include The Rascals' \"Good Lovin'\"; The Four Tops' \"Bernadette\", \"White Room\" by Cream; \"The Peace!\" by Morning Musume; \"Thank You\" by Led Zeppelin; \"Rain\" by The Beatles; \"Monday, Monday\" by The Mamas & the Papas; and \"But You Know I Love You\" by The First Edition. Another notable example of a musical false ending is \"(Everything I Do) I Do It for You\" by Bryan Adams - because the original song was six and a half minutes long, the false ending became the end of the single/video edit of the song (the album version had a fadeout ending).\n\nIn addition, several other songs have also had false endings, such as \"Angels\" by Amy Grant, a #1 Christian hit in 1984. Another example is \"Keep On Dancing\", a 1965 Top 10 hit for the group The Gentrys from Memphis, Tennessee. In both songs, there is a pause of two seconds before the music starts all over again. Also, \"When I Grow Up (To Be a Man)\" by The Beach Boys, has a sudden stop and resumes 1 second later as the band counts numbers of years of age until the song fades, counting from 19 to 30. The Alice in Chains track \"Rain When I Die\" has a fade-out false ending lasting about 20 seconds, then the music comes back, and then it fades once more, thus providing the real ending. \"Weather with You\" by Crowded House appears to be ending and then another small instrumental is followed by a final chorus.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216583", "title": "Farewell speech", "text": "Farewell speech\n\nA farewell speech or farewell address is a speech given by an individual leaving a position or place. They are often used by public figures such as politicians as a to the preceding career, or as statements delivered by persons relating to reasons for their leaving. The term is often used as a euphemism for \"retirement speech\", though it is broader in that it may include geographical or even biological conclusion. In the Classics, a term for a dignified and poetic farewell speech is \"apobaterion\" (ἀποβατήριον), standing opposed to the \"epibaterion\", the corresponding speech made upon arrival.\n\nMany U.S. presidential speeches have been given the moniker \"farewell address\" since George Washington's address in 1796. Some notable examples:\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "53352269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53352269", "title": "Global Running Day", "text": "Global Running Day\n\nGlobal Running Day is a day that celebrates the sport of running. It is held annually on the first Wednesday of June. Participants of all ages and abilities pledge to take part in some type of running activity by submitting their names through the Global Running Day website. Global Running Day 2018 is scheduled for June 6.\n\nGlobal Running Day was formerly known as National Running Day and began in the United States. The first event was in 2009.\n\nThe inaugural Global Running Day was held on June 1, 2016. More than 2.5 million people from 177 countries pledged to run more than 9.2 million miles. New York City Mayor, Bill de Blasio, declared June 1, 2016 to be Global Running Day in the City of New York. 2014 Boston Marathon winner Meb Keflezighi led a group run from the Boston Run Base, and the Atlanta Track Club organized a “run around the clock” event, where at least one person from the Atlanta metro area would be running every hour of Global Running Day.\n\nThe Million Kid Run is the youth division of Global Running Day and aims to have one million kids around the world participate in Global Running Day. Its focus is on making fitness fun, and inspiring kids to embrace running as a way to remain healthy and fit. In 2016, 672,030 youths took part.\n\nMore than 100 organizations support Global Running Day and the Million Kid Run, including the Abbott World Marathon Majors, Atlanta Track Club, Boston Athletic Association, Competitor Group, Houston Marathon Foundation, International Association of Athletics Federations, Athletics for a Better World program, New York Road Runners, Running USA, USA Track & Field, and more\n"}
{"id": "44724007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44724007", "title": "Great Escape Tour", "text": "Great Escape Tour\n\nThe Great Escape Tour was the scheduled second headlining concert tour by Australian recording artist Iggy Azalea in support of her debut album, \"The New Classic\" (2014), its reissue, \"Reclassified\" (2014) and then-upcoming second studio album. The tour was scheduled to visit twenty-one cities across North America over the span of two months, beginning on 18 September 2015 in San Diego, California and concluding on 27 October 2015 in Glendale, Arizona. It was announced on 29 May 2015 that the entire tour was cancelled, with a new tour to be announced with her then-upcoming, later cancelled album in 2016. It was the first of Azalea's tours to be cancelled, with her 2018 Bad Girls Tour also later cancelled.\n\nOn 10 December 2014, when reflecting on the year she has had and the struggles she faced in the years before, Azalea announced plans of an arena tour and a second studio album via her Twitter account. The same day, Azalea revealed the title of the tour and the concept behind it, which is Azalea picturing herself as \"a musical escape artist for people.\" Azalea also revealed that the name of the tour goes along with the title of her upcoming second studio album, which will also be promoted on the tour.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, the North American leg of the tour was officially announced. Presented by AEG, the first leg of tour, which was set to commence on 14 April 2015 in Fresno, California, and was scheduled to visit twenty-four cities across North America during the spring of 2015 before ending on 24 May 2015 in Austin, Texas. Also revealed in the North American leg announcement was that Nick Jonas and Tinashe would be the special guests supporting Azalea on the first leg of the tour promoting their latest individual efforts, \"Nick Jonas\" (2014) and \"Aquarius\" (2014). Azalea's disc jockey, DJ Wizz Kidd, would also support Azalea throughout the tour.\n\nBeginning on 15 December 2014, pre-sale tickets were available to all American Express cardholders through 18 December 2014. The public on-sale followed immediately after with tickets becoming available on 19 December 2014. Platinum and VIP Packages also became available for purchase on AEG's website, in which the packages included premium seating and exclusive autographed merchandise.\n\nIn an interview with \"GQ\", Azalea began to reveal details about the tour's stage, visuals, and concept. When speaking about her main focus of the tour, Azalea stated \"I want everything to be right—everything, from the tour book to what someone wears. Even the right faces for the dancers, and their attitude. Everything is equally important.\" While discussing stage layout, Azalea revealed that she's \"trying to work on the initial stage design\" and that she's \"making a stage that [she can] engage with many people in an arena that big.\" She also noted that she was working with Jamie King, who has also worked with Madonna on her Confessions Tour (2006), which Azalea has stated is a major influence for the tour. Other influences for the tour that she's mentioned include the films \"Xanadu\" (1980) and \"Fantasia\" (1940). In regards to the visuals, Azalea has stated that the tour will include \"color blocking—loud, just obnoxious-type visual things\", that she also characterized as \"Trippy, cool, [and] colorful.\" Azalea also commented on the nature of the show by saying \"The traditional hip-hop arena show is more focused on a DJ. I don't think it has as many props and spectacles as perhaps a pop show, which is also what I would say my show is visually like.\" Overall, Azalea has stated her desire for the show is \"not to be too wacky\" and to be \"a great experience [in which fans feel] really immersed in the whole thing.\"\n\n\"The whole point was to make no compromises, but nothing's changed in terms of my creative vision,\" Azalea told the Associated Press on 18 March 2014, backstage at a show for Samsung Galaxy during SXSW. \"It's very kind of like Patrick Nagel, powerful 80s androgynous women vibe.\" Azalea admitted not wanting to wait until September to launch the tour, \"but because the arenas are so far in advanced booked, it was kind of their next slot.\" She also mentioned taking advantage of the free time to finish recording her second album, \"I didn't anticipate having any time to completely finish it, but now that I have kind of the time, I'd love to have an album at the end of 2015.\"\n\nOn 29 March 2015, Azalea told \"Billboard\" at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, the tour was now under the creative guidance of a new production designer, Baz Halpin, who'd been seasoning the show with a post-apocalyptic vibe, \"It's going to be maybe a bit like Blade Runner, full of dark and '80s ridiculous fare but not in a cliché way,\" also revealing she had parted ways with former tour producer AEG Live over creative differences earlier that month. \"It's been great working with a new person who really understands my vision,\" Azalea said of Halpin, who had also fashioned the set for her performance of \"Trouble\" with Jennifer Hudson both at the iHeartRadio Awards and Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards on the previous day. \"It's taken some of the workload off me that he's able to understand what I'm trying to achieve instead of battling it, or it being lost in translation,\" Azalea continued. \"Some things just work. With Baz, I really don't have to say it; he's thinking what I'm thinking, and it's great. I'm super-excited about the tour,\" she said.\n\nOn 10 March 2015, it was announced the tour was being rescheduled \"due to tour production delays\", according to a statement from Def Jam Recordings. After reports surfaced that the tour was to be cancelled due to lack of promotion and conflict between her and management, Def Jam announced the decision \"to accommodate for creative team availability and tour productions, it was determined that the tour will not be ready this spring.\" They continued, \"It's important to Iggy that she delivers the show she envisaged to share with her fans and that requires more time in development.\" The spring tour was rescheduled to the fall, kicking off on September 18 in San Diego, California. A rep for Azalea also added that \"there's no truth to the rumor that there's any conflict between her and her management.\" The press release issued by AEG Live also noted tickets for dates on the tour would be valid for the new dates in the fall, with the exception of the Baltimore, Las Vegas and Sacramento shows being canceled altogether, also indicating that the opening acts for the spring tour, Nick Jonas and Tinashe, would be replaced. Shortly after the announcement, a message was also posted from Azalea's official Twitter account: \"The tour getting pushed back only means that it'll be way more amazing than it would've been in April. Good things take time.\"\n\nOn 29 May 2015, it was announced that the entire tour had been cancelled, with ticket holders receiving an email that stated \"The Iggy Azalea Great Escape Tour scheduled for this fall has been cancelled and refunds are available at point of purchase. There will be a new tour planned around Iggy's new record to be released in 2016 and we apologize for any inconvenience.\" Azalea stated, \"I'm sad and sorry to let my fans down,\" confirming plans to \"be back on the road when the next album is done.\" She later issued a statement clarifying the cancellation saying she \"had a different creative change of heart,\" in addition to being unable to find new opening acts available for the new dates she thought that would be a good fit for the tour and announcing she would also be taking a break to figure out the progression she wanted for her sound and visuals.\n\nThe tour promoter, AEG Live's senior VP Debra Rathwell, stated they never put its full marketing support behind the tour, explaining, \"As we were not able to fill the support slots on the tour in the fall, due to so many artists already having commitments and working this summer, we had not advertised or promoted the new shows since last winter.\" She added, \"The dates were selling well and were going to do fine,” standing by Azalea’s creative decision to take a break and not exploring a move to smaller venues by clarifying, \"there was no reason to do so. AEG LIVE is committed to her and will be working with her on her new tour.\" Azalea’s booking agency, CAA, also issued a statement, \"The lines of communication between Iggy, myself, and her [Turn First] managers Sarah [Stennett] and Nadia [Khan] have always been open. Iggy is an incredibly talented and creative artist with a clear vision, which she continuously shares with myself and her management team.\"\n\nAfter the tickets for the tour became available to the public for purchase on 19 December 2014, \"Forbes\" reported positive news for ticket sales on the primary and secondary markets. On 7 January 2015, a list compiled by TiqIQ revealed that tickets for Azalea's tour were ranked fourteenth for most expensive concert tickets of the year as of that month. On the secondary market, the average ticket price for Azalea's tour totals in about $167, therefore making the tickets some of the most expensive tickets available on the secondary market. Ticket prices for the tour managed to top artists such as the Foo Fighters, but paled in comparison to artists such as Fleetwood Mac, Maroon 5, and Taylor Swift.\n"}
{"id": "47960417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47960417", "title": "Hoaxes in Singapore", "text": "Hoaxes in Singapore\n\nThe first hoax reported in Singapore was in 1805, when the Bukit Timah Monkey Man was reported for the first time. Depending on the subject and type of the hoax, it's been reported to Singapore Police Force, there maybe an investigation by the Criminal Investigation Department and subsequently a possible a stern warning or prosecution by the ACG .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1861353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1861353", "title": "Humbug", "text": "Humbug\n\nA humbug is a person or object that behaves in a deceptive or dishonest way, often as a hoax or in jest. The term was first described in 1751 as student slang, and recorded in 1840 as a \"nautical phrase\". It is now also often used as an exclamation to mean nonsense or gibberish.\n\nWhen referring to a person, a humbug means a fraud or impostor, implying an element of unjustified publicity and spectacle. In modern usage, the word is most associated with the character Ebenezer Scrooge, created by Charles Dickens in his novella \"A Christmas Carol\". His famous reference to Christmas, \"Bah! Humbug!\", declaring Christmas to be a fraud, is commonly used in stage and television versions and also appeared frequently in the original book. The word is also prominently used in \"The Wizard of Oz\", in which the Scarecrow refers to the Wizard as a humbug, and the Wizard agrees.\n\nAnother use of the word was by John Collins Warren, a Harvard Medical School professor who worked at Massachusetts General Hospital. Dr. Warren performed the first public operation with the use of ether anesthesia, administered by William Thomas Green Morton, a dentist. To the stunned audience at the Massachusetts General Hospital, Warren declared, \"Gentlemen, this is no humbug.\"\n\nThe oldest known written uses of the word are in the book \"The Student\" (1750–1751), ii. 41, where it is called \"a word very much in vogue with the people of taste and fashion\", and in Ferdinando Killigrew's \"The Universal Jester\", subtitled \"a choice collection of many conceits ... bon-mots and humbugs\" from 1754; as mentioned in \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" from 1911, which further refers to the \"New English Dictionary\".\n\nThere are many theories as to the origin of the term, none of which has been proven:\n\nThe word has been used outside of anglophone countries for well over a century. For instance, in Germany it has been known since the 1830s, in Sweden since at least 1862, in France since at least 1875, in Hungary, and in Finland.\n"}
{"id": "360984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360984", "title": "Jessica McClure", "text": "Jessica McClure\n\nJessica McClure Morales (born March 26, 1986) became famous on October 14, 1987, at the age of 18 months after she fell into a well in her aunt's backyard in Midland, Texas. Between that day and October 16, rescuers worked for 56 hours to free her from the well casing below the ground. The story gained worldwide attention (leading to some criticism as a media circus), and later became the subject of a 1989 ABC television movie \"\".\n\nMcClure's rescue proved to be a much more difficult ordeal than was first anticipated. Within hours of beginning the emergency procedure, the Midland Fire and Police Departments devised a plan that involved drilling another shaft parallel to the well and then drilling a tunnel at a right angle across to it. Enlisting the help of a variety of local (often out-of-work) oil-drillers, the Midland officials had hoped to free McClure in minutes. However, the first workers to arrive on the scene found their tools barely adequate to penetrate the hard rock around the well. It took about six hours to drill the shaft and longer to drill the tunnel, because the jackhammers used were designed for drilling downward, rather than sideways. A mining engineer eventually arrived to help supervise and coordinate the rescue effort. TV viewers watched as paramedics and rescuers, drilling experts and contractors worked tirelessly to save the baby's life. Meanwhile, they were reassured when they heard Jessica singing “Winnie the Pooh” from deep in the well. As long as she was still singing, they knew she was still alive. Forty-five hours after McClure fell into the well, the shaft and tunnel were finally completed.\n\nThe relatively new technology of waterjet cutting, used to cut through the hard rock surrounding the well, was a vital part of the rescue.\n\nRon Short, a muscular roofing contractor who was born without collar bones because of cleidocranial dysostosis and so could collapse his shoulders to work in cramped corners, arrived at the site and offered to go down the shaft. They considered his offer, but did not use it. One report said that he helped to clear tunneling debris away.\n\nMidland Fire Department paramedic Robert O'Donnell was ultimately able to inch his way into the tunnel and wrestle McClure free from the confines of the well, handing her to fellow paramedic Steve Forbes, who carried her up to safety.\n\nCNN was on the scene with around-the-clock coverage of the rescue effort. This massive media saturation of the ordeal prompted then-President Ronald Reagan to state that \"everybody in America became godmothers and godfathers of Jessica while this was going on.\"\n\nFrom the beginning and throughout the incident, the switchboard of local media outlet KMID-TV was flooded with telephone calls from news organizations and private individuals around the world, seeking the latest information on rescue efforts. In some cases, they shared their own insight into this and similar incidents.\n\nIn 1988, McClure and her parents appeared on \"Live with Regis and Kathie Lee\" to talk about the incident.\n\nThe photograph of McClure being rescued fetched the 1988 Pulitzer Prize for Spot News Photography to Scott Shaw of the \"Odessa American\".\n\nABC made a television movie of the story in 1989, \"\", starring Patty Duke and Beau Bridges. It featured many participants in the actual rescue and its coverage as extras.\n\nOn May 30, 2007, \"USA Today\" ranked McClure number 22 on its list of \"25 lives of indelible impact.\"\n\nFollowing McClure's rescue on October 16, 1987, surgeons had to amputate a toe due to gangrene from loss of circulation while she was in the well. She also has a scar on her forehead where her head rubbed against the well casing. She had 15 surgeries over the years and has no first-hand memory of the event. Her parents divorced a few years after the rescue.\n\nParamedic Robert O'Donnell, battling posttraumatic stress disorder as a result of the arduous rescue effort and struggling to cope with the abrupt decline of the fame and recognition that had been lavished on him following his heroic act, committed suicide in 1995.\n\nMcClure graduated from Greenwood High School, in a small community near Midland, in May 2004. On January 28, 2006, nineteen-year-old McClure married Daniel Morales at Church of Christ in Notrees, Texas, about 40 miles from Midland. They met at a day care center where she worked with his sister. They have two children, a boy born 2007 and a girl born 2009.\n\nWhen McClure turned 25 on March 26, 2011, she received a trust fund of donations worth up to $800,000. Her father said she had discussed setting up a trust fund for the college education of her children. It had earlier helped in the purchase of her present home, which is less than from the site of the incident.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163678", "title": "Kalimantaan", "text": "Kalimantaan\n\nKalimantaan is a novel by C. S. Godshalk offering a fictionalized account of the exploits of James Brooke in Sarawak in Borneo.\n\nThe novel uses of a variety of writing forms, including diary entries, letters, and straight narrative to tell its story. The author intentionally makes it difficult to determine what \"really\" happens in the story from dreams and fantasies of the characters.\n\nIn 1839, an English adventurer arrived on the northwest coast of Borneo, commissioned to deliver a letter of gratitude to the Sultan of Brunei for having safely returned the crew of a British merchantman, lost on his coast. It was a region full of headhunters, pirate tribes, and slave traders. Most Europeans with the temerity to enter the region had never been heard from again. This particular adventurer, however, seems to know how to play one power against another and manages to keep his balance in the midst of chaos. After performing a service for the Sultan (resolving a local tribal conflict through the use of his schooner's guns and leading an organized assault on a small native river fort), he is named governor of Sarawak, subject to the Sultan of Brunei. Within a few years, he has become the Rajah of Sarawak, an independent state, and established a dynasty that will last one hundred years.\n\nGodshalk has changed names and details while evoking a sense of the time, place, and atmosphere of the real events. The real adventurer was James Brooke; Ms. Godshalk's is named Gideon Barr. James Brooke's schooner was named the \"Royalist\"; Gideon Barr's is the \"Carolina\" (named after his mother). James Brooke was succeeded by his nephew, Charles Johnson, who took the last name Brooke. Gideon Barr is succeeded by his nephew Richard Hogg (Ms. Godshalk does not deal with the change of last name since her story focuses on Gideon's life and ends with his death).\n\nAlthough many of the events described actually took place, one cannot simply change the names and read the novel as history. James Brooke's mother died in 1844, two years after he became Rajah. Gideon's mother dies in Borneo much earlier while he is in grade school in England, providing him an emotional link to Borneo James Brooke did not have. James Brooke never married a European, although there is evidence that he was married to a Malay woman. Gideon Barr marries an Englishwoman to provide himself an \"air of permanence\" as Rajah and we see much of the later portion of the story through Amelia Barr's eyes. Amelia Barr is fictional, but largely based on Margaret Brooke, wife of the second Rajah, and her book \"My Life in Sarawak\". Gideon also maintains a Malayan mistress who provides a note of tragedy in the way her presence poisons Gideon and Amelia's relationship.\n\nOn the other hand, the 30,000 pounds that Brooke/Barr inherited at his father's death which enabled him to acquire his schooner, the massacre of the sons of the Sultan of Brunei, the Chinese insurrection of 1857, and the commission of inquiry in Singapore all took place as described. The inquiry in Singapore was concerned with the battle of Labuan in which Brooke/Barr led British warships in a pre-emptive strike against a pirate fleet, breaking the power of the Bugis for the next twenty years. Brooke/Barr's enemies attempted to use this against him by claiming he had used British naval power to slaughter innocent natives.\n\nGodshalk uses Malay words extensively in the book. While she provides a brief Malay glossary as an appendix, it does not cover all the words she uses. Enjoyment of \"Kalimantaan\" will be enhanced if one knows the following Malay words which are not in the glossary provided by the author:\n\n\"Kampilan\", actually a Filipino word, designates a long native sword.\n\n"}
{"id": "27825029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27825029", "title": "Kelley Moore", "text": "Kelley Moore\n\nKelley Lee Moore (born March 5, 1969) is an American television personality, event planner and author. She hosts the program \"Moore to Life\" (Canceled) \"So Much Moore\"\n\n(Canceled) and appeared on the local KING-TV program \"New Day Northwest\". Her other appearances have include HGTV, Ellen, The Today Show, The View, Rachael Ray, and Tyra Banks. She wrote the book, \"Cube Chic: Take Your Office Space from Drab to Fab\" and was the Entertaining Columnist for \"Seattle Magazine\".\n\nMoore began writing stories about the Northwest for \"Seattle Magazine\" and \"Northwest Home\" in 2003. Since then, she has appeared on King 5 News and KONG TV, with design, style, and entertaining tips. Her television show, \"Moore to Life\", debuted in 2009 on Seattle’s affiliate King 5 TV. And, in the fall of 2009, she appeared as one of three designers on HGTV’s, \"Halloween Block Party\".\n\nMoore has written one book, \"Cube Chic: Take Your Office Space from Drab to Fab\", and is currently working on her second, \"Design from the Inside Out\", due to release in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "34984208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34984208", "title": "Kony 2012", "text": "Kony 2012\n\nKony 2012 is a short documentary film produced by Invisible Children, Inc. (authors of \"Invisible Children\"). It was released on March 5, 2012. The film's purpose was to promote the charity's \"Stop Kony\" movement to make Ugandan cult and militia leader, indicted war criminal and the International Criminal Court fugitive Joseph Kony globally known in order to have him arrested by the end of 2012, when the campaign expired. \nThe film spread virally and the campaign was initially supported by various celebrities. , the film has received over 101 million views and nearly 1.4 million \"likes\" on the video-sharing website YouTube, and over 18.6 million views and over 21.5 thousand \"likes\" on Vimeo, with other views on a central \"Kony 2012\" website operated by Invisible Children. The intense exposure of the video caused the \"Kony 2012\" website to crash shortly after it began gaining widespread popularity. A poll suggested that more than half of young adult Americans heard about \"Kony 2012\" in the days following the video's release. It was included among the top international events of 2012 by PBS and called the most viral video ever by \"TIME\".\n\nThe campaign resulted in a resolution by the United States Senate and contributed to the decision to send troops by the African Union. The film also called for an April 20 world wide canvassing campaign, called \"Cover the Night\". On April 5, 2012, Invisible Children released a follow-up video, titled \"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\", which failed to repeat the success of the original.\n\nThe film documents the Invisible Children's plans and efforts to capture Joseph Kony. It describes Kony's actions with his rebel militia group Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), including forced recruitment of child soldiers, and the regions (northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of the Congo and South Sudan) in which they have been active. One of the main people featured in the film is a young Ugandan named Jacob Avaye, whose brother was killed by the LRA. In response, director and founder of Invisible Children, Jason Russell, promises Jacob that he will help \"stop Kony\".\n\nThe film advocates the restoration of social order and curtailing compelled and coerced youth military service. The video also has clips of Jason Russell's young son reacting to the information about Kony. Near the end of the film, a 2011 announcement from U.S. President Barack Obama is shown authorizing the deployment of 100 Special Forces military advisers to provide \"information, advice, and assistance to partner nation forces\" of Central African countries to \"remove Joseph Kony from the battlefield\". The video concludes by urging viewers to join its publicity campaign by putting up posters and helping out in their communities.\n\nThe Invisible Children charity has focused on obtaining the support of a select group of individuals in order to \"help bring awareness to the abuse and killing of children in the East and Central African countries at the hands of Kony and his leadership.\" This list included 20 \"celebrity culture makers\", such as George Clooney, Angelina Jolie, Oprah Winfrey (who significantly helped to spread the video), Taylor Swift and Ryan Seacrest. The list also featured 12 \"policy makers\" that have \"the power to keep U.S. government officials in Africa\" in order to work toward the capture of Kony. This list includes former U.S. President George W. Bush and his Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, and former Secretary of State John Kerry.\n\nA number of celebrities endorsed the awareness campaign against Kony, including Justin Bieber, Bill Gates, Christina Milian, Nicki Minaj, Kim Kardashian, Rihanna and Ellen Page.\n\nAs part of the campaign, American supporters were asked to put up posters in their hometowns in an action named \"Cover the Night\", which took place on April 20, 2012. Invisible Children website offers posters and T-shirts in an attempt to gain wider recognition. They also created action kits to help spread awareness that include campaign buttons, posters, bracelets and stickers.\n\nThe \"Cover the Night\" event took place worldwide on April 20, 2012, and was to be conducted by supporters who were encouraged to perform some sort of charity work that morning in their local community. Then, that evening, they were to post flyers and posters throughout their city for the Kony 2012 campaign. The turnout for the event worldwide was much smaller than initially expected, with no organized spots officially announced and much fewer people attending than had pledged to attend. A tweet from Invisible Children stated, \"There is no official meet-up as we are asking people to act locally with friends+family in their neighborhoods.\" One gathering in Vancouver had only 17 people; another in Brisbane had fewer than 50 attendees. In Kelowna, British Columbia, several signs and posters were put up, including two large banners that were \"placed on both sides of the pedestrian overpass\". In Canberra, several Facebook groups resulted in a few gatherings of two or three people each; Pierre Johannessen, a \"law firm partner who runs a charity for disadvantaged children\", distributed around 3,000 posters to the groups to be put up throughout the city. In Phoenix, 200 posters were put up by \"college students and other people in their teens and 20s\", along with a number of chalk and stencil messages. \n\nThe film sparked a heated controversy regarding its merits, with very differing opinions being expressed by various NGO workers, government and international officials, journalists, and other groups and individuals.\n\nAfter the video was released, various social media outlets went into a frenzy and exploded the Kony 2012 movement into the world-wide news. The video, directed by Jason Russell, began to generate a tremendous amount of social media attention. After being the quickest video to reach 100 million views within 6 days, Kony 2012 took over social media with hashtags like #Kony2012. The social media impact was so relevant that, on March 6 and 7, more people were talking about Kony 2012 through Facebook posts than the newly released Apple iPhone. Along with Facebook, nearly 66% of Twitter conversations during March 5 – March 12 were about the Anti-Kony movement. Social media outlets, such as Facebook, were responsible for informing 27% of young adults of the Kony 2012 video, compared to 10% who learned about it through other traditional platforms. Overall, Kony 2012 made a significant impact throughout social media platforms. During that short period of time, it became YouTube's number one video of reaching a certain number of views within a short period of time, along with over 5 million related tweets occurring over just a week.\n\nIn under a week, the video created by Invisible Children, Kony 2012 had been viewed over 100 million times. \"Time\" magazine credits Invisible Children's strong base of followers on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. Unlike other videos that accidentally \"go viral\", Kony 2012 was created to elicit emotional responses and encourage viewers to share the footage and spread the hashtag. This attracted the attention of celebrities like Oprah Winfrey, Rihanna, Bill Gates, Ryan Seacrest, Justin Bieber, and Kim Kardashian-West. Despite the video's popularity, not all interactions were positive. But the more criticism the video drew, the more people watched it and shared it so that they could be a part of the conversation. Their Public Relations team was not ready for the over night fame and failed to control the narrative of the fall out.\n\nForbes gives a breakdown of 12 reasons why the video went so viral. They cite that the video invoked positive feelings, grabbed viewers attention, made it personal, referenced mainstream media, pulled on the heartstrings, conveyed immediacy, made it simple, made it real, gave it a scale, used celebrities, created events, and made it easy to get involved. These 12 basic tactics affected viewers so much so that the Kony 2012 campaign sold out of merchandise when their two interns could not keep up with the hundreds of thousands of action kits supporters could buy. Jason Russel told Business Insider, \"We sourced every single red T-shirt in the entire US. There were no more to buy.\" The google trends for searches like \"Joseph Kony\" and \"Kony 2012\" all show flatlines until the video was released where the spike reaches all the way to 100%. Before Invisible Children released the video, Joseph Kony and the LRA were mostly unknown to America and the rest of the world.\n\nLuis Moreno Ocampo, who was featured in the film and was, at the time, the chief Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court (ICC), voiced his support of the film and the campaign that had \"mobilised the world\", and said that the criticism was \"stupid\". The Special Representative and head of the newly created United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA), Abou Moussa, said that international interest in Kony was \"useful, very important\". The White House released a statement of support through Press Secretary Jay Carney, who stated in a news conference, \"We congratulate the hundreds of thousands of Americans who have mobilized to this unique crisis of conscience\" and said that the raised awareness from the video is \"consistent with the bipartisan legislation passed by our congress in 2010.\" Cameron Hudson, policy director at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and former Africa director in the National Security Council, also praised Invisible Children for reaching \"tens of millions of people who probably never previously heard of Joseph Kony.\" Anthony Lake, the executive director of UNICEF, was cited as saying that a similar viral video would have made a difference during the Rwandan Genocide in 1994, also suggesting that \"this kind of public attention would also have helped save more lives in Darfur and in Congo's warring east.\"\n\nHuman Rights Watch (HRW)'s Africa division senior researcher Anneke Van Woudenberg wrote in a statement: \"We've spent years investigating the horrors perpetrated by the LRA in central Africa—Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic (CAR), and South Sudan. We gathered evidence at massacre sites—wooden clubs covered in dried blood, rubber strips from bicycle tires used to tie up the victims, and freshly dug graves—and spoke to hundreds of boys and girls forced to fight for his army or held captive as sex slaves. And we're elated that #stopKony is a trending topic on Twitter—if anyone deserves global notoriety it's Kony.\" She added: \"Arresting Kony and other senior LRA leaders would reaffirm that those who commit mass atrocities will face justice. It will also help end the scourge of one of the most brutal rebel groups in Africa.\" HRW's LRA researcher Ida Sawyer reaffirmed, \"we definitely support the message of the film and we think it's great that they're bringing so much attention to the film with Kony's crimes and the phenomena of the LRA.\" Amnesty International, which had documented what it described as the LRA's \"horrific impact on the lives of thousands of civilians in Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, South Sudan and Uganda\" and for years had been calling for the LRA leaders to be arrested, welcomed the massive public response to the Kony 2012 campaign. Erwin van der Borght, the organization's Africa director, wrote in a statement: \"Joseph Kony and other LRA leaders have evaded arrest for far too long and this campaign is a salient reminder of the continuing crimes by LRA members and the need to arrest and surrender their leaders to the ICC so they can face trial,\" but added: \"Anyone joining the Kony 2012 campaign should insist that efforts to arrest Joseph Kony must respect human rights\", especially because \"many of LRA members were themselves victims of human rights violations including forcible recruitment\", and ensure the protection of civilians.\n\nOpinions on the film were mixed in Gulu, one of former centers of rebel activities in northern Uganda, during a showing of the film, with several of the leaders expressing support and criticism. One of the attendees, State Minister for Foreign Affairs Henry Oryem Okello, said that the criticisms directed at the film and Invisible Children were \"unfounded\", going on to state, \"Invisible Children has done visible things in Acholi[land], for example offering scholarships to thousands of children and anyone against them is our enemy.\" Betty Bigombe, a Ugandan cabinet minister and former peace negotiator, said, \"I do not know whether it makes any difference as far as taking [Kony] out is concerned. However, what is important is bringing this to the attention of policymakers. I hope that something innovative will come out of it.\" Norbert Mao, Ugandan politician and president of the opposition Democratic Party, stated his support for the film, explaining that while it does have some problems, such as implying Ugandans did not try to fight back against the LRA and not explaining how many of the issues in the film were also exacerbated by the Ugandan government itself, the film is still a \"positive development\" for the issue, adding that while Invisible Children may not be \"the foremost analysts of the complicated political, historical and security dynamics\" in the situation, \"they have the most beautiful trait on earth – compassion.\"\n\nJournalist Nicholas D. Kristof thanked Invisible Children for making the film and addressed its criticism, stating that rather than being \"white man's burden\", when \"a warlord continues to kill and torture across a swath of Congo and Central African Republic ... it's a human burden.\" He also said that complexity had long been \"a leading excuse for inaction during atrocities\" and that Kony remains a threat in Uganda's neighbour countries, so the simplicity of the film \"has left the American public more informed\" than it would be otherwise, and that if he \"were a Congolese villager\", he would \"welcome these uncertain efforts over the sneering scorn of do-nothing armchair cynics.\" Foreign correspondent Roger Cohen called it \"simplifying grossly and distorting adeptly to make a valid point: that no effort should be spared to arrest Kony.\" British film critic Peter Bradshaw wrote that \"Kony 2012\", despite its flaws, \"lands an almighty punch. This is a principled campaign ad, and a very, very effective one.\" Former war correspondent Gotham Chopra said that he understands \"the instinctive backlash (really it's irritation)\" towards the film and the campaign, but \"there is enormous value in the fact that millions of people are talking today about genocide in Africa that were mostly unaware of it yesterday.\" Jane Bussmann, author of a 2009 book about Kony and the President of Uganda Yoweri Museveni, compared the campaign favorably to the \"culture of charity-as-industry\" as \"at least Kony2012 linked suffering to perpetrators, and urged the young American audience it's aimed at to contact a politician.\" Matthew Green, author of a 2008 book about Kony and the LRA conflict, \"The Wizard of the Nile\", wrote that IC had \"achieved more with their 30-minute video than battalions of diplomats, NGO workers and journalists have since the conflict began 26 years ago.\"\n\nJacob Acaye, the former child soldier featured in the film, supported the video and defended its makers. In response to Ugandans saying that the film was out-of-date, Jacob stated that, \"It is not too late, because all this fighting and suffering is still going on elsewhere. Until now, the war that was going on has been a silent war. People did not really know about it. Now what was happening in Gulu is still going on elsewhere in the Central African Republic and in Congo. What about the people who are suffering over there? They are going through what we were going through.\" It was noted by \"Los Angeles Times\" journalists Lindsay Branham and Jocelyn Kelly that a number of people living in the areas where the LRA is currently active have previously called for attention and advocacy to be directed at the issue. Julien Marneffe, a worker for Catholic Relief Services in Goma said \"it's been an undeniable success – and one all humanitarian organizations working in this area can be happy about,\" but added to \"be careful not to oversimplify the issue\" and worried that the interest might be short lived when \"another crisis or another video will be the next online trend, and I fear that most people will forget about the problems of the LRA.\"\n\nSince the video's release, Invisible Children has come under criticism for oversimplification of events in the region and has been accused of engaging in \"slacktivism\", in which one donates or takes actions that have little to no effect beyond making one feel like one contributed. While the campaign promotes global activism, it has been criticized for providing a black-and-white picture rather than encouraging the viewers to learn about the situation. Mikaela Luttrell-Rowland from Clark University's Strassler Center for Holocaust and Genocide Studies stated that it was \"irresponsible to prize feel good, simplistic messages over complex history and to treat consumerist-consciousness raising as interchangeable with education.\" Africa researcher Alex de Waal accused the film of \"peddling dangerous and patronizing falsehoods,\" criticized the campaign as \"naive\" for \"elevating Kony to a global celebrity, the embodiment of evil,\" that might only help him as a terrorist and cult leader, and called for instead \"demystifying Kony—reducing him to a common criminal and a failed provincial politician.\"\n\nOne point of criticism is that the film gives a misleading impression of the whereabouts and magnitude of Kony's remaining LRA forces. As of early 2012, Kony's followers were thought to number only in the hundreds, and Kony himself was believed to be in the Central African Republic rather than Uganda—a fact that receives only a passing mention in the video. This problem raised questions about the plausibility of Ugandan army intervention, which the video advocates. Since Kony and most of the LRA forces are currently not in Uganda, the Ugandan army would need to coordinate with the governments and militaries of the other countries where the LRA is active.\n\nDinaw Mengestu, an Ethiopian American writer and Africa researcher, wrote that the real world Kony is \"not a click away\", and a simple solution of raising popular awareness, \"a beautiful equation that can only work so long as we believe that nothing in the world happens unless we know about it ... only works in the myopic reality of the film, a reality that deliberately eschews depth and complexity.\" \nAmanda Weisbaum of the charity War Child said that \"just getting rid of one person does not solve the problem\" and the film's focus should have been rather on helping ex-child soldiers. Anne Goddard, president and CEO of ChildFund International, wrote that \"by narrowing the focus on Kony, by defining success so singularly, it gives people a greater sense that the issue [of globally widespread conscription of young children] can be resolved. And that hope feeds on itself in a way that becomes infectious.\" United Nations Under-Secretary-General Radhika Coomaraswamy called for the Kony2012 campaign to divert its donation funds from supporting military action to capture Kony to rehabilitation and reintegration programmes for former child soldiers. Victor Ochen, founder and director of Ugandan rehabilitation NGO Ayinet, said that campaign \"to promote [Kony] or make him famous\" is \"offensive\", in part because of the Cover the Night event's date (an anniversary of the Atiak massacre by the LRA in Uganda in 1995 and the date of birth of Adolf Hitler), adding \"How do you think Americans would have reacted if people in another country wore Osama bin Laden T-shirts?\"\n\nAfter the film's release, there was criticism in Uganda of its failure to state more clearly that Kony and his forces fled northern Uganda in 2006 and were dispersed across the jungles of three neighbouring countries. Fred Opolot, spokesman for the Ugandan government, said, \"It is totally misleading to suggest that the war is still in Uganda.\" Arthur Larok, ActionAid's director in Uganda, said, \"It doesn't sound like a fair representation of Uganda. We have challenges within the country, but certainly the perception of a country at war is not accurate at all.\" Dr Beatrice Mpora, director of a community health organization in Gulu, commented, \"There has not been a single soul from the LRA here since 2006. Now we have peace, people are back in their homes, they are planting their fields, they are starting their businesses. That is what people should help us with.\" Prime Minister of Uganda Amama Mbabazi launched an online response on YouTube, in which he seeks to correct the \"false impression\" that Uganda is still at war, and invites everyone to visit the country, assuring that people would find it \"a very different place to that portrayed by Invisible Children\". Meanwhile, dozens of members of Ugandan diaspora in United States protested outside the Invisible Children offices in San Diego, also criticizing the video but saying Kony represents \"only three percent of all the problems\" in their home country and lambasting the Ugandan government for its inadequate response to Kony's terror and other issues.\n\nA March 2012 mass showing of the film in Lira, the site of one of Kony's worst atrocities in Uganda, was met with jeering and thrown objects at the screen and at the group African Youth Initiative Network, which screened the film and provided translations. The screening prompted angry calls to local radio stations by Ugandans upset that the film was so focused on the filmmakers and Kony while neglecting the conflict's victims, prompting complaints that the film was \"more about whites than Ugandans.\" Others objected to being reminded of the horrors Kony brought to Uganda. Despite the negative response, the organization still planned on showing the film in other towns, hoping to avoid this response by providing context for the film. Some Ugandan commentators have also criticized the video for its aim of making Kony \"famous\", even believing it means to \"celebrate\" him, and for its advocacy of foreign military intervention to stop him.\n\nMahmood Mamdani, director of the Institute of Social Research at Makerere University, Kampala, argued that the LRA is \"a Ugandan problem calling for a Ugandan political solution\" and against \"mobilisation of millions [to] be subverted into yet another weapon in the hands of those who want to further militarise the region.\" Ugandan journalist Rosebell Kagumire said that \"the war is much more complex than one man called Joseph Kony.\" A more recent showing of \"Kony 2012\" at Pece War Memorial Stadium in Gulu, Uganda sparked a riot in which dozens of people were injured. The archbishop of Gulu, Rt Rev. John Baptist Odama, was reported as saying that the video \"has ill motives and geared towards igniting anger in the population to cause violence.\" Margaret Aciro, whose picture appears in the video showing her face mutilated by the LRA, said she \"became sad\" after seeing it being \"used to profit.\"\n\nFather Ernest Sugule, national coordinator of the Congolese non-governmental organization SAIPD in Dungu, DRC, claimed that the few people there \"who have succeeded in watching [\"Kony 2012\"] are very critical on the film,\" as is he himself. Charlie Beckett, a media communications expert at the London School of Economics (LSE), said Invisible Children, \"haven't got the capacity for is to take that beyond another action. What are they going to do with all this energy and interest? It's going to dissipate. ... I think this will crash and die, I don't think they will catch Kony. People will say they bought the bracelet and stuck posters on lamppost but that could have negative effects when it doesn't actually lead anywhere.\"\n\nThe fame of director Jason Russell's 30-minute documentary was short-lived. After becoming the fastest video in history to have reached 100 million views, the popularity of the video dwindled – in 5 years it had added less than 1/50 of its views it had garnered in its first 144 hours. For Occupy Wall Street, the climb toward the most popular peak of the movement lasted 3 months – from August 2011 to October 2011. There is much speculation on how the movement died off. Rick Cohen suggests that the video \"sucked the energy out of the organizing\" – people already knew what Kony 2012 was so there was no need to create awareness about it. Cohen also makes reference to a \"counter-narrative\" that arose in Uganda. Ugandans criticized the movement for releasing false information – claiming that the LRA had not had a presence in Uganda since 2006. A parody of the Invisible Children, Inc., the \"Visible Children\", criticized the non-profit organization for misusing donations and overpaying their employees. The Visible Children also criticized the Kony 2012 movement for making Joseph Kony \"famous\", citing Ugandan opinions that even more supporters rallied behind Kony for publicity. Delinquent acts of graffiti from the movement's followers and lewd acts by creator Jason Russell led to further criticism of the movement. Finally, the movement's nature as a meme transformed it to be unattractive platform for some to donate.\n\nA statement purported to be released by Kony's Lord's Resistance Army rebels and signed by the group's spokesman and negotiator Justine Nyeko (\"The Leader, LRA Peace Team\") condemned the film as \"a cheap and banal panic act of mass trickery to make the unsuspecting peoples of the world complicit in the US rogue and murderous activities in Central Africa.\" The statement was obtained by Ugandan journalist Frank Nyakairu, received from Nairobi, Kenya-based LRA representatives. It was also reported that the LRA abduction rate sharply increased in the weeks since the film was released, although it was impossible to confirm the link between the rise in LRA attacks and Kony's global notoriety.\n\nOn March 8, 2012, Invisible Children released an official response addressing the criticisms directed at \"Kony 2012\". As an explanation for the simplicity of the movie, they stated that \"in [their] quest to garner wide public support of nuanced policy, [they] sought to explain the conflict in an easily understandable format.\" Jedidiah Jenkins, the director of idea development for Invisible Children, responded to the new criticisms by saying that they were \"myopic\" and that the video itself was a \"tipping point\" that \"got young people to care about an issue on the other side of the planet that doesn't affect them.\" In response to concerns about working with the Ugandan government, Invisible Children explained that they \"do not defend any of the human rights abuses perpetrated by the Ugandan government or the Ugandan army\". They added that the reason why they are working with the Ugandan army even though Kony is no longer in Uganda is that the army is \"more organized and better equipped than that of any of the other affected countries (DRC, South Sudan, CAR) to track down Joseph Kony\" and that they want all of the governments in the region to work together to arrest Kony. Jenkins stated, \"There is a huge problem with political corruption in Africa. If we had the purity to say we will not partner with anyone corrupt, we couldn't partner with anyone.\"\n\nA video titled \"Thank you, KONY 2012 Supporters\" was released on March 12, 2012 to address the criticisms directed at the film and to be \"fully transparent\", according to Invisible Children CEO Ben Keesey. The film begins with Keesey discussing the three things that the charity focuses on, which are to \"create films with compelling narratives, promote international advocacy and run on-the-ground initiatives.\" He also points out that \"overhead and travel costs are essential to those efforts\", as a part of the group's management expenses, along with going toward \"thousands of free screenings of the group's films worldwide, as well as toward bringing survivors of the Lord's Resistance Army ... to speak at these events.\" Keesey explains the way the charity's annual expenditures are made, with \"80.5 percent to 85.7 percent of total annual spending from fiscal 2007 to 2011\" going toward program expenses'—money that directly benefits their cause\", and finished by urging interested parties to make inquires to the group via Twitter, using the account @invisible and hashtag #AskICAnything. Two further short videos featured LRA survivors expressing support for the film and the organization.\n\nThe website Kickstriker, a parody of Kickstarter, contains a fake appeal to crowdsource the \"hiring private military contractors from Academi (formerly Blackwater), who will be immediately deployed to central Africa\" with a mission to capture or kill Kony. In response, Invisible Children sent the Kickstriker team a cease and desist warning to take down the parody page, accusing them of \"causing public confusion through your use of Invisible Children's copyrighted and trademarked property\" and threatening a legal action. According to Wired.com, the legal threats \"[had] Kickstriker's founders rolling their eyes.\"\n\n\"Kony 2012: Part II – Beyond Famous\" is a 20-minute video follow-up to \"Kony 2012\". The film was announced early on April 2, 2012, to be released within the week. It was initially announced to be released on April 3, but was delayed for two days due to editing problems.\n\n\"Beyond Famous\" aims to address criticisms of the original film and to present more information about Kony's LRA rebellion, including its impact on the countries other than Uganda, as well as about Invisible Children's work and the Kony 2012 campaign. Executive Director and CEO of Invisible Children, Inc. Ben Keesey, who narrates the film, said the sequel was made in two weeks. In a statement announcing the video, Keesey said that Invisible Children wants people \"to dig deeper into this conflict and actively engage in the solutions.\" Jason Russell, who was hospitalized on March 15 due to \"a temporary psychotic breakdown believed to have been brought on by the pressure of the success—and criticism—of the first film\", is not featured in \"Part II\".\n\nIn a pre-release comment, popular culture expert Robert Thompson said: \"The fact is, the story has developed in so many odd ways with all the controversy, and the sequel can't really promise the bang of that first video—which is informing people of something they did not know before. Now we're getting into the details, which is never that thrilling.\" The LRA researcher Craig Valters of the LSE's department of International Development said that the second video \"overwhelmingly\" failed to answer criticisms raised by the first film. On the other hand, Mike Pflanz, East Africa correspondent for \"The Daily Telegraph\", said that the sequel was \"a more solid, moving and, finally, accurate presentation of the ongoing battle to capture Joseph Kony\" and that, in comparison to the original video, the \"new video is couched in nuance and deploys dialogue more commonly heard in a United Nations workshop – displacement, rehabilitation, post-conflict – than in a YouTube smash.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", the sequel \"does not seem to have captured the public's imagination in quite the same way as Invisible Children's earlier video did, failing to significantly trend on social media websites.\" By April 16, 2012, it had received 1.7 million views in 11 days, less than 2% of what the first video had in its first five days. Matt Fiorentino, director of marketing at video measurement firm Visible Measures, considered the first campaign a never-seen-before anomaly, and despite being dwarfed by its predecessor, the number of views \"Beyond Famous\" received was \"pretty good\" when compared to a regular social campaign. \"The Guardian\" nevertheless described \"Beyond Famous\" as \"one of the top 25 non-profit campaigns ever.\"\n\nOn March 21, 2012, a resolution \"condemning Joseph Kony and his ruthless guerrilla group for a 26-year campaign of terror\" was put forward by Senators Jim Inhofe and Chris Coons. The resolution stated that it would back \"the effort of Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Central African Republic and the newest country, South Sudan, to stop Kony and his Lord's Resistance Army\", along with an official statement of support \"for the U.S. effort to help regional forces pursue commanders of the militia group.\" Overall, the resolution received support from 34 senators, both Republicans and Democrats.\n\nSupport among senators for the resolution came about after the release of the \"Kony 2012\" video and its subsequent popularity. One of the resolution leaders, Senator Chris Coons, became aware of the situation after his daughters asked him what he was doing to stop Kony and Senator Roy Blunt was informed \"at a Missouri caucus in St. Louis when a constituent quizzed him about Kony\". One of the co-sponsors of the resolution, Senator Lindsey Graham, stated that, \"When you get 100 million Americans looking at something, you will get our attention. This YouTube sensation is gonna help the Congress be more aggressive and will do more to lead to his demise than all other action combined.\"\n\nOn March 23, 2012, the African Union (AU) announced its intentions to send an international brigade of 5,000 military troops \"from Uganda, South Sudan, Central African Republic and Congo, countries where Kony's reign of terror has been felt over the years ... to join the hunt for rebel leader Joseph Kony\" and to \"neutralize\" him. According to the statement, the mission commenced on March 24, 2012, and the search \"will last until Kony is caught\", after which the task force will be disbanded. The effort is Ugandan-led and backed by the U.S. with the 100 advisers already there, who are offering advice, intelligence and training, along with equipment. The brigade has established its headquarters in Yambio in South Sudan, close to the border with the DRC, and is commanded by a Ugandan officer; a Congolese officer has oversight of intelligence operations.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) spokeswoman Melissa Fleming said the agency welcomed the \"unprecedented\" initiative to \"end the atrocities in the region\" and urged all involved to respect human rights and minimize risk to civilians. AU counter-terrorism envoy Francisco Madeira said, \"We need to stop Kony.\" The ICC chief prosecutor Luis Moreno Ocampo voiced confidence that the video will \"produce the arrest of Joseph Kony this year,\" adding: \"That is the impact of the campaign.\" However, Patrick Wegner, an academic at the Max Planck Research School on Successful Dispute Resolution in International Law, claimed it was \"plain wrong\" to suggest the AU action was prompted solely by Kony 2012, saying that \"the idea is a lot older than the Kony 2012 video\" as the plans for forming an anti-LRA regional military force have been first reported in international news media in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "48494190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48494190", "title": "Kurram incident", "text": "Kurram incident\n\nOn 30 September 2010, U.S. helicopters entered Pakistani airspace after ground troops determined that a mortar attack by militants in Pakistan was imminent, according to the Coalition. Pakistani Frontier Corps troops manning the Mandata Kadaho border post fired warning shots, and the helicopters responded by firing two missiles that destroyed the post. Three soldiers were killed and another three wounded. Pakistan responded by closing a key NATO supply route for eleven days.\n"}
{"id": "34258585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34258585", "title": "Let's Do It! World", "text": "Let's Do It! World\n\nLet's Do It! World is a global civic movement that started from Estonia, asking people worldwide to join a series of local, national and regional clean-up events. Among other projects, it is the founder of World Cleanup Day.\n\nThe Let's Do It! movement was first conceived in Estonia in year 2008, where a country clean-up action called Let's do it! (in Estonian: \"Teeme Ära!\") cleaned up 10,000 tons of illegal waste by more than 50,000 volunteers in one day. Following Estonia's lead many countries also started their own country clean-up events. In 2011 a new initiative called Let's do it! World was started with the aim of promoting massive clean-ups from 24 March 2012 till 15 September 2012. After a successful World Cleanup 2012 project the next bigger goal is to have World Cleanup Day in 2018.\n\nToday, the movement has grown into a network of 113 countries. All together, 14 million participants have been engaged in movement's activities.\n\nLet's Do It! World is an accredited member of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP).\n\nSince 2017, the movement uses W sign aka Three Fingers Up as a symbol. \n\nOn the 3rd of May 2008 over 50,000 people came out of their homes to clean up Estonia, the rest followed the process via all the media channels. That's 4% out of a population of 1,3 million - which would equal 15,3 million in the USA or 57 million in India. The idea spread from Estonia to the whole Europe and beyond. Next spring, in 2009, Latvia and Lithuania cleaned their countries with more than 250,000 people participating and have done it henceforth for three years, engaging more people each year. On 20 March 2010 Portugal cleaned their country with 200,000 people. Slovenia followed shortly, breaking all records with 270,000 people (which is 13% of the overall population of the country) taking part in the action. In the beginning of June the same year, Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine was cleaned. By the end of 2011 more than 2.5 million people have participated in Let’s Do It! cleanup actions in 16 countries – Estonia, India, Slovenia, Serbia, Finland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Bulgaria, Moldova, Ukraine, Cambodia, Russia, Hungary and Brazil.\n\nIn 2012, starting from 24 March until 25 September, a series of cleanups happened around the globe, on all continents, bringing together millions of volunteers in 96 countries. The action was initiated on 24 March 2012 by volunteers in Slovenia and Portugal.\n\nTo bring together doers and initiators and share existing experience – Let's Do It! teams were organizing workshops and regional gatherings, introducing the World Cleanup 2012 around the world. Each group or organisation was leading the cleanup action in their country.\nAfter a successful World Cleanup 2012 project, the network set more ambitious goals. During the Let's Do It! Clean World Conference held in Prishtina, Kosovo on the 6th-9th of February 2014, it was agreed, that the aim of the global movement is to clean up the whole World from illegally dumped solid waste and to then keep the planet clean. To reach the essential transformation in the global society, the leaders of country cleanups set the ambitious goal to involve 380 million people by 2018. According to Let's Do It! World, this is around 5% of the world’s population and is estimated to be the amount to create a lasting change.\n\nThe most massive cleanup actions (data: October 2014) within the movement have happened in Slovenia, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Kosovo and in Albania.\n\nIn 2012, 289,000 Slovenians came out of the homes and cleaned up the entire country in just one day. This is 14% of the country's population.\n\nIn 2013, 375,000 cleaned up the country in Bulgaria in a one-day country cleanup action (13,9% of country's population).\n\nIn 2012, 210,000 people (10% of country's population) cleaned up Latvia from illegal waste in just one day.\n\nIn 2013, a massive civic cleanup action also took place in Kosovo, bringing together 132,000 people (7% of the population) and in the same year, Albania also had a massive cleanup action, uniting 147,000 people (5,25%) to clean up the country in just one day.\n\nIn 2015, 250,000 people (8,6% of country's population) cleaned up Lithuania from illegal waste in one day.\n\nIn 2015, over 500,000 people participated in Let's Do It! actions in Ukraine cleaning up illegal dump-sites around the country. \n\nAround 15 millions people in 158 countries took part on the World Clean Up Day, the 15th of September 2018.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5971019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5971019", "title": "List of Cuba–United States aircraft hijackings", "text": "List of Cuba–United States aircraft hijackings\n\nAircraft hijacking incidents between the United States and Cuba were at their height between 1968 and 1972. These incidents have variously been attributed to terrorism, extortion, flight for political asylum, mental illness, and transportation between the two countries as a result of the ongoing antagonistic Cuba-United States relations and the Communist government restrictions against Cubans attempting to leave Cuba. Subsequent measures by both governments contributed to a gradual reduction of reported incidents towards the mid-1970s. Governmental measures included an amendment to Cuban law which made hijacking a crime in 1970, the introduction of metal detectors in U.S. airports in 1973, and a joint agreement between the U.S. and Cuba signed in Sweden to return or prosecute hijackers.\n\nBelow is a non-comprehensive list of hijacking incidents of aircraft between Cuba and the United States.\nBefore the Cuban Revolution:\n\nAfter the Cuban Revolution:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23900299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900299", "title": "List of Renaissance fairs", "text": "List of Renaissance fairs\n\nThis is a list of Renaissance fairs worldwide.\n\nIncluded below are the fairs in the United States which are either notably long running or which regularly have had at least a two-week or better run. Generally, renaissance fairs are open weekends-only during the periods indicated. States are listed first and dates are codified to facilitate searching by state and by date.\n\nMost Canadian events are only one weekend in duration. Those notable and older than 10 years are listed here.\n\nMost Australian events are only one or two days in duration. Notable Renaissance and Medieval events (older than 10 years) are listed here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3981713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3981713", "title": "List of free-software events", "text": "List of free-software events\n\nThe following is a list of computer conferences and other events focused on the development and usage of free and open-source software (FOSS).\n\nSome events with \"Linux\" in their name are in fact general-purpose free-software events, often because they began as Linux-only events before broadening their focus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10108021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10108021", "title": "List of health-related charity fundraisers", "text": "List of health-related charity fundraisers\n\nThis list of health related charity fundraisers includes events designed to raise funds to fight disease and improve health.\n\nNote that all runs allow jogging and walking.\n"}
{"id": "2650647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2650647", "title": "List of mass evacuations", "text": "List of mass evacuations\n\nThis list of mass evacuations includes emergency evacuations of a large number of people in a short period of time. An emergency evacuation is the movement of persons from a dangerous place due to the threat or occurrence of a disastrous event whether from natural or man made causes or as the result of war.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40106633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40106633", "title": "List of prison escapes", "text": "List of prison escapes\n\nThe following is a list of historically famous prison escapes, and of multiple prison escapes:\n\nThere have been many infamous escapes throughout history:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24912020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24912020", "title": "List of royal weddings", "text": "List of royal weddings\n\nA royal wedding is a marriage ceremony involving members of a royal family. Weddings involving senior members of the royal family are often seen as important occasions of state and attract significant national and international attention. The following is a list of notable royal weddings:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1681795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1681795", "title": "Local news", "text": "Local news\n\nIn journalism, local news refers to coverage of events, by the news, in a local context that would not be an interest of another locality, or otherwise be of national or international scope. Local news, in contrast to national or international news, caters to the news of their regional and local communities; they focus on more localized issues and events. Some key features of local newsrooms includes regional politics, business, and human interest stories. Local news readership has been declining in recent years, according to a recent study.\n\nOpt-outs of local television news are frequent before, during, or after national evening news television programming. Often times, television networks can also commission or make provisions for their local stations to produce a longer standalone local news programmes. In some cases, local television markets/viewing areas within a country may even have a dedicated 24-hour local news channel. Local news stations have also started covering less and less local politics in favor of stories that they believe will garner more clicks or attention. A study has also shown that there has also been less investigative journalism within local news stations in recent years.\n\nLocal news largely covers the following:\n\nNational and international news, however, tend to cover a wider range of content, including news concerning specialized institutions of wide-ranging international power or influence, such as:\n\nIn the United States, local news is provided on local commercial broadcasting channels (some of which are television network affiliates). They can either be standalone newscasts that run for at least a half-hour or short segments that air attached to national morning newscasts approximately 25 and 55 minutes past the hour. As not all stations are owned and operated by a television network, the graphics, branding, and studio designs of a station's newscasts often differ from the network they are affiliated with although in recent years, affiliates have made some form of on-air reference to their corresponding networks in the branding of their newscasts. In addition, the local news departments of stations also superimpose their on-screen digital clocks, thermometers, and (occasionally) local news tickers on graphics provided by networks during morning network newscasts. Some cable channels are dedicated to local news coverage. Examples of this include NY1 in New York and NewsChannel 8 in the Washington DC market.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, most local news is provided on a local network station with similar branding and studio design to that of the national network news. Examples of this include the nationally networked BBC News and its regional news services such as BBC North West Tonight (on BBC North West) and BBC Newsline (on BBC Northern Ireland); the nationally networked ITV News and its regional stations including ITV Granada and UTV. The long version of BBC and ITV's local news shows often air during the 18:00 hour on weekday evenings. STV, which simulcasts most of the ITV network's programmes in Scotland, is not owned and operated by ITV but has its own branded newscast that broadcasts Scottish-centred news at the same time as ITV's regional news services.\n\nIn France, most local news is aired on France Televisions' France 3. Additionally BFM TV also has a local news channel for the Ile-de-France region called BFM Paris.\n\nNorway's public broadcaster, NRK1, airs a local news programme called NRK Distriktsnyheter (name of viewing area) every weekday evening at 18:45 Central European Time, just before the main national newscast Dagsrevyen. A replay of all local newscasts across the country is shown on NRK2 the following morning (Tuesday to Saturday).\n\nIn Sweden, SVT's regional news is simply called SVT Nyheter (name of viewing area) which shares the same branding as the network's main newscast, Rapport. Unlike SVT's counterparts in the US and UK, during morning programmes, the local news opt-out airs in the middle of each half-hour. Since June 2007, the morning regional cut-ins no longer feature an in-studio presenters but instead show compiled short reports from various correspondents across the region. When SVT World was still airing, the simulcast of the morning programme featured a different regional opt-out during each half-hour. A 13-minute standalone local newscast airs at 18:30 Central European Time each weekday evening after Sportnytt (SVT's sport news) on SVT1. Additionally, a short local news segment is incorporated into SVT's other evening newscast Aktuellt which airs on SVT2. In that case, this local news segment shares the same branding and graphics as Aktuellt. There are no local SVT newscasts on Saturdays.\n\nA lot of newspapers specialise in covering the cities they are based in. Although paper copies of local newspapers are usually sold and circulated exclusively in the local areas they operate (with entities such as libraries or relatives wanting a copy of the paper where a family member is mentioned being mailed copies of outside of circulation areas), companies may make digital copies of their newspapers available to interested readers directly on their website or through services such as PressReader often with a paid subscription.\n\nIn the United States, although newspapers such as \"The New York Times\" and \"The Washington Post\" have a 'national' focus on their front pages, they still have dedicated sections for news in the areas they are based in. Weather sections also highlight conditions in the local area and the sport sections feature local teams alongside national sport stories. Their local editions also feature local classified ads.\n\nIn the age of digital media, local news readership has started to fall. This can be attributed to the younger generation's disinterest in traditional news sources and the inability of news stations to fully integrate their business models and practices into the age of digital journalism. While national and international news industries began using Twitter as a way to break news and interact with their audiences, local news mediums have fallen behind, trending towards using Twitter as a secondary source for spreading information rather than a primary tool for audience engagement.\n\nSince Internet sites reach a larger audience, more local news agencies have started their own websites to compete in the digital age. Websites are a great way for local news stations to produce more interactive content, which engages the audiences and increases readership.\n\nAside from the Internet, Twitter specifically has become a great way to engage the younger generation in news, gain more readership, and spread information. National news sources have started using Twitter to quickly notify the public of breaking news and to interact with their readers, but local news have failed to integrate Twitter and other forms of social media into their journalism practices as successfully. While local TV news stations have actually been a bit more effective with using social media, local newspapers have overall fallen behind. By engaging the audience and spreading important information, social media has been considered a solid method for strengthening the core standards of journalism. As a result, social media like Twitter has become a vital tool for news agencies to incorporate into their everyday practices.\n\nAs a result of the transition to digital content, local news agencies have had to change their business models. Although they previously gained revenue from subscriptions, more agencies have started making money from online advertising, but this only accounts for a small portion of revenue. This loss in revenue has been linked to a decline in local journalistic integrity, because with less profit, the need to make money through clickbait articles has become a necessity.\n\n"}
{"id": "48494006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48494006", "title": "Lowara Madi incident", "text": "Lowara Madi incident\n\nOn 21 September 2008 at 10 pm local time, in the Ghulam Khan district of North Waziristan Pakistani soldiers fired on two American helicopter gunships that entered Pakistani airspace with 12.7 mm heavy machine guns. The helicopters stopped and hovered for a while, before returning over the border to Afghanistan without retaliation. It is unknown if any of the helicopters sustained any damage in this first incident.\n\nThirty minutes later, two gunships attempted to cross the border again at the same place. Pakistani regular and Frontier Corps troops fired warning shots into the air and away from the helicopters, causing the helicopters to turn back without attacking any targets in Pakistan.\n"}
{"id": "54318764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54318764", "title": "Lynne Patton", "text": "Lynne Patton\n\nLynne Martine Patton (born 1973 or 1974) is an American event planner, who was designated in June 2017 by President Donald Trump to head Region II of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees New York and New Jersey. \n\nShe previously worked as an event planner for the Trump family, including planning the wedding of Eric Trump, and helping to run the Eric Trump Foundation. She was a speaker at the 2016 Republican National Convention.\n\nPatton grew up in New Haven, Connecticut. Her father is epidemiologist Curtis L. Patton, who was a professor (now emeritus) at Yale University.\n\nPatton graduated from the University of Miami with a B.A. in English literature. She attended the Quinnipiac University School of Law; school officials have stated that she was a student for only two semesters, and did not graduate. On her LinkedIn page, Patton also claims affiliation with Yale University, which she did not attend.\n\nAn Eric Trump Foundation staff biography of Patton states that she was involved in casting the 2012 and 2014 seasons of \"The Celebrity Apprentice\".\n\nPatton was one of 16 unpaid directors at the Eric Trump Foundation, though her position did not appear in the Foundation's 2014 tax filings. Her HUD financial disclosures stated that she had been a vice president and a board member at the Eric Trump Foundation from January 2009 to January 2017, and she speaks of being with the Trump family since 2009.\n\nIn May 2016, during Donald Trump's 2016 Presidential campaign, Patton narrated a YouTube video called \"The Trump Family I Know – A Black Female Trump Executive Speaks Out,\" in which she defended Trump against accusations that he was racist. She spoke at the 2016 Republican National Convention; the official convention program listed her position as \"Vice President of The Eric Trump Foundation and Senior Assistant to Eric Trump, Ivanka Trump, and Donald Trump, Jr.\" In her convention speech, she acknowledged historical racism, but said that Donald Trump knows that black lives, LGBTQ lives, veterans' lives, and police lives matter. Later in the campaign, Patton joined other campaign spokeswomen on the Trump-Pence Women's Empowerment Tour.\n\nShe is a director of National Diversity Coalition for Trump.\n\nBeginning in January 2017, Patton served as a White House liaison and Director of Public Liaison for the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Since the Trump Organization co-owns some properties that receive federal rental subsidies from HUD, her position raised questions of conflict of interest.\n\nBeginning in July 5, 2017, Patton is to head Region II. She has no reported experience with housing policy. Congressional Representatives Grace Meng and Nydia Velázquez, both Democrats from New York, publicly urged the administration to reconsider the appointment.\n\nIn January 2018, Patton called April Ryan, the White House correspondent and Washington bureau chief for American Urban Radio Networks, \"Miss Piggy\". Patton later apologized.\n\nIn September 2018, Patton mocked sexual allegations against Supreme Court justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh. That same month, she also falsely claimed that CNN host Anderson Cooper had faked a live shot.\n\nPatton says she has struggled with substance abuse and addiction, and publicly praised the Trump family for standing by her through tough times.\n"}
{"id": "38861905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38861905", "title": "Metal Open Air", "text": "Metal Open Air\n\nMetal Open Air (also known simply as MOA) was an unsuccessful 2012 heavy metal festival. It took place between 20–22 April, at the Parque Independência, 25 km southeast from downtown São Luís, Maranhão, northeastern Brazil. Due to problems with the payment of artists and the accommodation and security of the audience, the festival was ultimately cancelled on its last day.\n\nOriginally, it was supposed to be a Brazilian version of the famous German Wacken Open Air. However, the promoters failed to obtain official permission to use the name, so they decided to switch it for Metal Open Air. From that moment on, several bands, including Shaman, Megadeth, Symphony X and Anthrax, started to confirm their performances, though a few have cancelled, including Shadowside, Krisiun, and Volbeat, mostly for logistical reasons.\n\nBy February/March 2012, the official announced line-up was as follows (act names in bold are headliners; El Diablo is an entertainment group that prepared rock night parties after every headliner performance):\n\nThe headliners of the second day, the Rock and Roll All Stars, were a supergroup composed of Gene Simmons, Joe Elliott, Matt Sorum, Duff McKagan , Gilby Clarke, Glenn Hughes, Ed Roland, Sebastian Bach, Steve Stevens, Mike Inez, Billy Duffy and Charlie Sheen, who was to be the festival's master of ceremonies.\n\nShortly before and even during the festival, several bands cancelled their performances. British thrash band Venom, for example, had their visas sent to Africa instead of Brazil by mistake, thus making it impossible for them to take part of MOA and two other South American festivals. Hansi Kürsch, vocalist for German power metal quartet Blind Guardian, stated:\n\nAquiles Priester, from Hangar, also cancelled his band's participation, stating:\n\nTerra Prima's members didn't receive their air tickets to São Luís nor the confirmation of their accommodations in the city.\n\nSymphony X, one of the few bands that managed to take on the stage and perform, posted a note some days later, thanking their fans for the show and criticizing the event's structure:\n\nDave Mustaine, from Megadeth, also thanked his fans and regretted the festival's organization:\n\nRicardo Confessori, drummer for Shaman, publicly contested Anthrax guitarist Scott Ian for canceling the band's performance at the festival, accusing him of not giving a good excuse for the fans, to which Ian replied that the problem was \"the whole terrible organization. We never want to cancel but they made it impossible.\"\n\nIn the end, a total of 30 of the 47 invited bands cancelled their performances due to the severe logistical, structural and financial problems regarding the festival. As for the fans, some had to camp inside stables, with almost no electricity, lack of places to buy food, beverage and hygiene products and only one public toilet.\n\nSoon after MOA was cancelled, both companies responsible for the festival (Negri Concerts and Lamparina Filmes e Produções) accused each other of breaking contractual rules.\n"}
{"id": "30860671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860671", "title": "Museum of Hoaxes", "text": "Museum of Hoaxes\n\nThe Museum of Hoaxes is a website created by Alex Boese in 1997 in San Diego, California as a resource for reporting and discussing hoaxes and urban legends, both past and present.\n\nIn 2004, PC Magazine included the site as one of the \"Top 100 Sites You Didn't Know You Couldn't Live Without,\" and Sci Fi Weekly named it \"site of the week\" for the week beginning 7 February 2007.\n\nBoese has published two books on hoaxes: \"Museum of Hoaxes\" (E.P. Dutton, 2002, ) and \"Hippo Eats Dwarf: A Field Guide to Hoaxes and Other B.S.\" (Harvest Books, 2006, ). A third book by Boese, \"Elephants on Acid\" (Harvest Books, 2007, ), focuses on unusual scientific experiments. His latest book is \"Electrified Sheep\", published by Boxtree 2011, is also about strange scientific experiments.\n\n"}
{"id": "14208196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14208196", "title": "News bureau", "text": "News bureau\n\nA news bureau is an office for gathering or distributing news. Similar terms are used for specialized bureaux, often to indicate geographic location or scope of coverage: a ‘Tokyo bureau’ refers to a given news operation's office in Tokyo; 'foreign bureau' is a generic term for a news office set up in a country other than the primary operations center; a ‘Washington bureau’ is an office, typically located in Washington, D.C., that covers news related to national politics in the United States. The person in charge of a news bureau is often called the bureau chief.\n\nThe term is distinct from a news desk, which refers to the editorial function of assigning reporters and other staff, and otherwise coordinating, news stories, and sometimes the physical desk where that occurs, but without regard to the geographic location or overall operation of the news organization. For example, a foreign bureau is located in a foreign country and refers to all creative and administrative operations that take place there, whereas a foreign desk describes only editorial functions and may be located anywhere, possibly as an organizational unit within the news organization's home office.\n\nA news bureau is traditionally operated out of an office by a single news outlet such as a radio, television, or newspaper news program. A single news company such as CNN or NPR may use a single bureau and office staff for all of its programs, and even those of subsidiary or other affiliated companies. For convenience, to save money and space, and to ensure the availability of necessary services (such as video feeds and studios), different companies may share an office space or co-locate at a single office building. News agencies may also operate news bureaux, and major public relations sources (such as governments, large companies, or advocacy groups) may operate news bureaux of their own to create, rather than simply report, news stories.\n\nTraditional news media, particularly television news and newspapers, have cut the number and size of news bureaux in recent decades for several reasons. They face declining profitability due to increasing competition from Internet news sources, and therefore have less money to spend on news-gathering.\n\nNewspapers rely increasingly on cooperative arrangements with counterparts elsewhere, and often will accept stories from their sister organizations rather than investigating stories themselves. Similarly, smaller newspapers may formally affiliate to sponsor cooperative bureaux that operate as press pools to serve more than one news organization (and sometimes a large number of organizations) from a single office. When news sources combine operations following a merger or other business consolidation, the surviving company often combines or eliminates redundant bureaux. Growing multiculturalism has facilitated this process: rather than demanding a reporter from their own country or locale who has been sent on assignment, news audiences have come to tolerate or even expect to see stories in remote locations covered by people who live locally; this empowers the audience to make their own judgments about any apparent cultural difference between themselves and the news subjects, rather than leaving the function of cultural interpretation entirely up to the reporter.\n\nThe often-criticized practice of parachute journalism allows News media to cover stories remotely using journalists who are generalists rather than more specialized field experts. Rather than leaving journalists in place waiting for breaking news to occur, smaller staff can be assigned as needed to wherever there are breaking stories, either by commuting to the physical location or by synthesizing reports from remote sources. An even more controversial practice, sometimes described as a reaction to declining resources rather than a legitimate cost-saving measure, is to rely on and reprint information from press releases written by public relations professionals working for people or companies that are the subject of an article, or have an interest in an article, without spending the resources to verify or conduct independent research on the matter. Another practice that limits news bureaux is embedded reporting, whereby war correspondents travel under the care of military units rather than at their own direction. The ability to quickly and safely travel throughout a war zone, and to obtain interviews with soldiers and coverage of important conflicts, appeals to news media, but at the cost of journalistic independence and, according to some, objectivity.\n\nThe interaction between professional journalists, witnesses, and news subjects has evolved considerably. Whereas news subjects and bystanders were once treated simply as witnesses to be interviewed for a news story, media have now accepted them as part of the news process. There are many antecedents to Citizen journalism. For example, meteorologists would count on amateurs to gather weather data to report, or interview willing subjects unrelated to a news story for \"man on the street\" interviews. As early as the 1930s the Soviet Union encouraged millions of amateur People's correspondents to expose corruption and otherwise report on news. Beginning in the 1970s, media, unable to respond quickly enough to obtain compelling coverage of natural disasters and weather phenomena such as tornadoes would count on hobbyists for photographs and film footage. With improvements in technology and as video cameras and video-equipped cell phones became widely available, they set up formal programs to gather material from nonprofessionals. For example, in August, 2006, CNN launched \"CNN Exchange\", by which the public is encouraged to submit \"I-Reports\" comprising photographs, videos, or news accounts. More recently newspapers have incorporated blogs, once seen as a threat to conventional news practice, either by creating blogs of their own (and deputizing local or field-specific bloggers as a second, lower-paid tier among their recognized staff of independent contractors) or by covering blogs as news sources.\n\nIn 2006 Reuters opened its first virtual news Bureau, staffing real-life reporters in a virtual office in Second Life. CNN followed suit in October 2007, but took a citizen journalism approach, allowing residents of Second Life to submit their own reportage. Although the news audience of Second World is relatively small, and declining, media consider it a training ground for themselves and participants, applicable to future virtual news projects.\n\n"}
{"id": "14786686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14786686", "title": "Online newsroom", "text": "Online newsroom\n\nAn online newsroom (also known as a pressroom, mediaroom, press center or media center) is a website, web page or site section that contains distributable information about a corporation or organization. The online newsroom was initially created for corporate communicators and public relations firms to target traditional media outlets, fundamentally newspapers, magazines, radio stations and television stations. Multiple public relations audience interests are now supported, including media relations, investor and analyst relations, community relations, and consumer social media relations.\n\nMost online newsrooms provide press releases and kits, photographs, logos, audio, video, executive biographies, contact information, events, company history and awards and honors. Sometimes, they also contain industry news feeds.\n\nIncreasingly companies are aggregating their presence on various social media sites into their online newsrooms. Some newsrooms may accommodate interactive forums for product evangelists, disgruntled consumers and organizational spokespeople to engage in ongoing online conversation about the company or organization and its products, services or philosophy.\n\nThe first known online newsroom was developed in 1995 by the American Institute of Physics for the Acoustical Society of America. The first known social media newsroom product was developed in 1998 by \"TEKgroup International\", Inc. for Ford Motor Company. Since this time, other companies have either developed or partnered with technical companies to offer a standalone, branded online newsroom solutions. Additionally, some companies offer an online newsroom component as a component of a larger software package that integrates the online newsroom with a media contact database and media monitoring services.\n\n"}
{"id": "20731129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731129", "title": "Personal watercraft-related accidents", "text": "Personal watercraft-related accidents\n\nThe number of personal watercraft-related accidents has increased with the popularity of personal watercraft (PWC) (also commonly known as jet skis) since their introduction during the late 1960s. The use of the term \"jet ski\" for all types of PWCs is a misnomer; Jet Ski is a registered trademark in the United States for a line of PWCs manufactured by Kawasaki). With the increased use of personal watercraft since their inception, the hazards accompanying their use have also increased. According to U.S. government reports, most accidents are associated with rental operators, underage operators, under-trained and undereducated boaters and a variety of factors associated with recreational-boating accidents (excessive speed, inattention, reckless operation, alcohol consumption and violations of the \"Rules of the Road\"). Due to their affordability, ease of use, and relatively low transportation and maintenance costs, personal watercraft have significantly increased the number of water-based enthusiasts in the U.S. This rise in participation has created conflicts between the various boating segments in the U.S. and a need for additional boater education. Recreational-boating accidents are the second-largest transportation-related cause of injury in the U.S. (after automobile accidents).\n\nPersonal watercraft are vessels designed for recreational use on the water, carrying between one and four passengers. The U.S. Coast Guard defines PWC as \"craft less than 13 feet in length designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting, standing or kneeling on the craft rather than within the confines of a hull\". The original PWCs were manufactured during the mid-1950s in the United Kingdom and Europe. Ten years later Bombardier Recreational Products (BRP) began manufacturing PWC's in the USA under the name Sea-Doo. BRP left the PWC business shortly thereafter, and in 1973 Kawasaki introduced a \"stand-up\" watercraft designed for a single operator (with a tray for standing or kneeling, in place of a seat). By the late 1980s \"sit-down\" models had appeared on the market, allowing the rider to be seated (similar to a snowmobile or motorcycle seat). These sit-down models were made by Kawasaki (1986), Yamaha (1987) and BRP (1988). Polaris and Arctic were two American companies which entered the market during the early 1990s.\n\nPWC have an inboard engine with a screw-shaped impeller to create thrust and propulsion for steering. They are small, fast, and easy to maneuver; PWCs do not use external propellers, making them safer for swimmers and wildlife. The user-friendly properties of PWCs have contributed to the increase in popularity amongst less-experienced watercraft users. To increase safety, a number of U.S. consumer groups suggested that all boats should utilize the jet-drive mechanism (also called a pump-jet) employed by PWC manufacturers since this would reduce the risk of propeller injuries.\n\nAll boating accidents in the United States either occur on state- or federally-patrolled waters. Whether state or federal, reports must be filed for a predefined level of damage and are compiled by the United States Coast Guard (which uses the reported data for its annual BAR—Boating Accident Report—Statistical Reports). As automotive law-enforcement officers outnumber boating law-enforcement officers in the U.S., federal government reports for watercraft are comparatively fewer. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) conducted general investigation of the recreational-boating accident-reporting system in 1998 and compiled its findings in a published report. The NTSB's investigation emerged with data seen as representative of overall recreational boating; an example follows from the report's conclusion:\n\nInattention (attributed to 307 operators), inexperience (attributed to 296 operators), and inappropriate speed for the operating conditions (attributed to 246 operators) were the most frequently cited causes that contributed to the PWC accidents. One or more of these three causes were associated with 70 percent of the 814 accidents. A fourth cause, improper lookout (153), was associated with about one-fifth of the accidents.\n\nAccording to the aforementioned interpretation of the NTSB report: \n\nA study performed by the Red Cross in 1991 concluded that during the research period, PWC accidents were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population. This was later supported by a Coast Guard study presented to the State of Vermont in 1996. Both studies presented findings that the comparative accident rates for personal water craft were not disproportionate to their use by the boating population; the reports emphasized the high level of attention and publicity that PWC accidents receive.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, several states (including California and Florida, two jurisdictions which, according to the NTSB report, accounted for over 50 percent of all personal-water-craft accidents in the U.S.) changed their laws regarding the use of personal water craft. These amendments included the introduction of limits for wake-jumping, the prescribed use of a PWC within of another vessel, \"spraying\" activities, mandated operation of PWCs within of the shoreline, and age restrictions for operators (the operator age was raised from 12 to 16 years for all affected states, with Florida also introducing a mandatory boating-safety course for those under age 18). According to the State of California, these laws have directly contributed to an over-50-percent reduction in accidents.\n\nA notable fatality occurred on July 1, 2012 in Little Sabine Bay (near Pensacola Beach), Florida; retired astronaut Alan Poindexter was killed when the PWC he was riding was rammed by one operated by one of his sons.\n\nThe leading cause of PWC accidents among riders in 2007 was reckless or careless driving. According to the National Transportation Safety Board in the U.S., this accounted for 26.3 percent of all PWCs involved in accidents in 2007. Reckless driving has been defined in the Personal Watercraft Act of 2005 in the U.S. as follows:\nReckless driving is defined differently by state. For example, in Florida reckless driving on a PWC is defined as \"maneuvering a personal watercraft by weaving through congested vessel traffic, jumping the wake of another vessel unreasonably close or when visibility around the vessel is obstructed, or swerving at the last possible moment to avoid collision is classified as reckless operation of a vessel\".\nIn U.S. law, the penalties for operating a vessel in a negligent or reckless manner are defined as following:\n(a) A person operating a vessel in a negligent manner or interfering with the safe operation of a vessel, so as to endanger the life, limb, or property of a person is liable to the United States Government for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 in the case of a recreational vessel, or $25,000 in the case of any other vessel.\n(b) A person operating a vessel in a grossly negligent manner that endangers the life, limb, or property of a person commits a class A misdemeanor.\nBecause of the increasing popularity of water sports (particularly PWC), the number of vessels in use has increased in the last several decades. According to the U.S. Coast Guard, the number of registered vessels was 8,557,857 in 1980 and 12,875,568 in 2007. This has resulted in more-crowded waterways and increased hazards. Because of the increased congestion caused by the number of vessels, a heightened need for attention and caution is required by operators. In 2007, 17.2 percent of all PWC-related accidents were caused by driver inattention.\n\nAs the market has grown for PWC manufacturers, vessel power has also increased. Modern PWC engines have more than 250 horsepower and can reach speeds of over . Excessive speed accounted for nearly 15 percent of all PWC-related accidents in 2007, according to the U.S. Coast Guard.\n\nThe steering characteristics of jet boats (including personal watercraft) when they are \"off throttle\" seem to differ from conventional steering. All recreational planing boats steer with thrust. Jet boats (including PWCs) generate that thrust with a moveable nozzle connected to a jet pump; propeller boats generate thrust through a downward-placed, exposed propeller. The fact that the propeller is placed downward in the water and is exposed means that even when it is not generating thrust that some amount of steering effect is possible. Jet boats have no downward projection, and achieve no additional steering effect from the device. If the operator of a jet boat releases the throttle, steering effectiveness decreases roughly in proportion to thrust reduction. The NTSB related an example of an off-throttle steering accident in the personal watercraft safety study of 1998: \nThe Florida Marine Patrol accident description states, \"[Operator] was\nattempting to make a turn south through a cut in the mangroves . . . . He was not real familiar with operating a jet ski with a passenger. When he attempted to make a left turn he let off the throttle which caused the PWC to lose steering capabilities. The forward momentum of the PWC took [operator] and passenger into the mangrove shoreline.\n[Operator] received a puncture wound to the left side of his neck . . . .\"\nAccording to the NTSB, 24 percent of reported PWC accidents list steering problems or loss of control as contributing factors; in Florida, it is the second-leading cause of PWC-related accidents. PWC manufacturers have been working to develop a system to prevent off-throttle steering. Modifications have been made to solve this problem in newer PWC models.\n\nBecause of the ease of operating a PWC, little training and experience is required to perform basic maneuvers of a PWC. The NTSB reported in 1998 that 32 percent of operators involved in accidents reported that they had operated a vessel between zero and ten times prior to the accident; 86 never, 75 once and 225 between 2 and 10 times. Of the 712 operators who were asked about training, 84 percent said they had received no training and the other 16 percent participated in some boating training. Regulations concerning training courses and age limits for operators vary by state and by country. In the U.S. the minimum operator age ranges from 12–18 years; young operators may require adult supervision on the vessel and training in accordance with local laws.\n\nOne particularly serious type of personal watercraft injury occurs when a female rider falls off the back of the craft and into the path of the craft's high-pressure water jet.The jet thrust is powerful enough to push water into the rider's orifices, which can result in severe internal injuries to the rider's vagina, rectum or anus, and possibly death.\n\nFor example, in 2014, the California Court of Appeal for the Fourth Appellate District, Division One upheld in full a San Diego County jury verdict against Bombardier Recreational Products and two other defendants in favor of two plaintiffs injured simultaneously in a single 2007 fall from a PWC, which included awards, respectively, of $3.385 million and $1.063 million in compensatory damages (with liability divided in equal portions among the three defendants). The appellate court also affirmed awards of $1.5 million in punitive damages against BRP alone for each plaintiff (adding up to $3 million in punitive damages) which were based on the jury's express finding that BRP's conduct manifested a \"reckless or callous disregard for the rights of others\".\n\nHowever, on the other hand, there are also examples where the owner, operator, and/or user of the personal watercraft have been found entirely at fault by a jury without any fault whatsoever on the manufacturer. For example, in 2010 in a case venued in the federal court of the Middle District of Florida, a jury found the 2006 Sea-Doo safe and not defective as to design, warnings, manufacture, and that BRP was not negligent in the design of its product. BRP maintained the Sea-Doo was reasonably safe, state-of-the-art, compliant with industry standards as well as the U.S. Coast Guard's standards, and was not the cause of plaintiff's injuries and/or accident. The plaintiff testified she did not have any conversation with anyone concerning the use of protective gear, such as wet suit bottoms or equivalent protective clothing and was not provided any safety information before riding. During the trial, the operator admitted he saw, but chose not to read, the onboard warning label. He also admitted that he did not read the safety recommendations in the operator’s guide nor watch the safety video. Counsel for BRP in the Thomas case, Scott Sarason, commented on the case that, “Statistically speaking, the probability of the type of incident involved in this case is extremely rare. Owners, operators and passengers of personal watercrafts must think safety first. It’s important for people to realize that these watercraft are classified as boats. That’s why the watercraft industry has been working diligently with authorities like the U.S. Coast Guard to introduce programs like ‘Know Before You Go’ in an effort to prevent accidents and injuries.” The Thomas case is just one example, of a handful, where such a rare accident is caused by extraneous persons or factors (including, but not limited to, the presence of alcohol, operator inexperience/inattention, careless or reckless operation, violation of state/local boating laws, failure on the part of the operator and/or owner to convey necessary safety information provided by the manufacturer, etc.). \n"}
{"id": "27852663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27852663", "title": "Sustainable event management", "text": "Sustainable event management\n\nSustainable event management (also known as event greening) is the process used to produce an event with particular concern for environmental, economic and social issues. Sustainability in event management incorporates socially and environmentally responsible decision making into the planning, organisation and implementation of, and participation in, an event. It involves including sustainable development principles and practices in all levels of event organisation, and aims to ensure that an event is hosted responsibly. It represents the total package of interventions at an event, and needs to be done in an integrated manner. Event greening should start at the inception of the project, and should involve all the key role players, such as clients, organisers, venues, sub-contractors and suppliers.\n\nThe first time that environmental concerns were raised by the public was at the 1992 Albertville Winter Olympics in France, which led to the first ‘green Games’ in Lillehammer, Norway, in 1994. The Lillehammer Olympic Organizing Committee received the UNEP Global 500 Award for setting environmental standards which were absent from previous Olympic games.\n\nThe Centennial Olympic Congress, Congress of Unity, held in Paris in 1994, recognised the importance of the environment and sustainable development, which led to the inclusion of a paragraph in Rule 2 of the Olympic Charter. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has acknowledged its particular responsibility in terms of promoting sustainable development, and regards the environment as the third dimension of Olympism, alongside sport and culture. This led to its decision in 1995 to create an IOC Sport and Environment Commission. \n\nEnvironmental Guidelines for the Summer Olympics were developed to guide Olympic hosts to ensure that facilities are constructed in a more environmentally friendly manner. The Guidelines were successfully used in the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games. As a result, the organizers of the Sydney Games were honoured with the Global 500 Award in 2001 for organizing the greenest games ever. Since then, other major sports events have also considered their environmental impact. \n\nA major aspect of UNEP’s work is with the IOC. A cooperative agreement was signed in 1994 with IOC and an Agenda 21 for Sport and Environment developed. Since 2002, UNEP has participated in a task force of the UN Secretary-General on the use of sport for the implementation of the United Nations Development Goals. UNEP also supports the IOC in organizing world conferences and regional seminars on sport and the environment.\n\nDuring the 2006 FIFA World CupTM in Germany, Green Goal was launched, which was also implemented in South Africa for the 2010 FIFA World CupTM. The Host City Cape Town Green Goal programme had been awarded the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Sport and Environment Award. Nominated by FIFA, the award recognised the efforts of the Host City Cape Town to mitigate negative environmental impacts of the FIFA World Cup and to maximise a positive environmental and social legacy.\n\nEvent greening is however not only limited to sports events, and other examples include the World Summit on Sustainable Development (WSSD), Johannesburg 2002, and UNFCCC 15th Conference of the Parties (COP15) held in Copenhagen in 2010.\n\nMonitoring and evaluation is an essential component of event greening, and should be used to make continuous improvement. A detailed plan needs to be in place to ensure that information is gathered on all aspects of the event – before, during, and also after the event. This ensures that information is available to understand the effects of greening interventions (e.g. to what extent was water used, and how did water-saving measures reduce water use), as well as the potential improvements to future event-greening initiatives.\n\nWith large events it is best to ensure an independent report, which complies with international standards, such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI Event Organizers Supplement provides organizations in the sector with a tailored version of GRI’s Reporting Guidelines. It includes the original Guidelines, which set out the Reporting Principles, Disclosures on Management Approach and Performance Indicators for economic, environmental and social issues. The Event Organizers Supplement’s capture the issues that matter most for event organizers to be reported on:\n\nThe British Standard (BS 8901) has been developed specifically for the events industry with a purpose of helping the industry to operate in a more sustainable manner. The standard defines the requirements for a sustainability event management system to ensure an enduring and balanced approach to economic activity, environmental responsibility and social progress relating to events.\n\nIt requires organizations to identify and understand the effects that their activities have on the environment, on society and on the economy both within the organization and the wider economy; and put measures in place to minimize the negative effects. These standards will however be replaced by the International Standard (ISO 20121) for Sustainability Management Systems.\n\n"}
{"id": "48875904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48875904", "title": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)", "text": "The Sound of Music Live (2015)\n\nThe Sound of Music Live is a television special that was originally broadcast by ITV on 20 December 2015. The special was an adaptation of Rodgers and Hammerstein's Broadway musical \"The Sound of Music\", starring Kara Tointon as Maria von Trapp, performed and televised live from 3 Mills Studios in London. \n\nOn 9 November 2018, the production was broadcast in the United States as part of PBS's performing arts anthology series \"Great Performances\".\n\nIn October 2015, ITV announced that it would transmit a live adaptation of the musical \"The Sound of Music\" as part of its holiday programming lineup, in what would be the first time that such a programme had been attempted in the United Kingdom. \"The Sound of Music Live\" was part of ITV's continuing efforts to broadcast more live \"event\" programs, which are designed to attract critical masses of viewers by encouraging them to watch via the original broadcast, rather than via catch-up services and digital video recorders. The desire for increased ITV viewership came especially in the wake of declining ratings for its reality music competition \"The X Factor\", whose series 12 finale had the second-smallest viewership in the programme's history. ITV had similarly broadcast live episodes of its series \"Coronation Street\" in 2000 and 2010 in honour of its 40th and 50th anniversary respectively, and in 2015 for ITV's 60th anniversary.\n\nThis was not the first time that \"The Sound of Music\" had been adapted in such a manner. In 2013, U.S. network NBC broadcast its own live television adaptation of \"The Sound of Music\" starring country singer Carrie Underwood; similarly to ITV's version, it was an adaptation of the original musical, and not based on the film version. Although it received mixed reviews, it was seen by over 18 million viewers. As follow-ups, NBC produced similar adaptations of \"Peter Pan\" and \"The Wiz\" in 2014 and 2015 respectively. Creative director Coky Giedroyc stated that ITV's iteration would be a \"whole different animal\" in comparison to NBC's, explaining that she wanted to \"keep it true to the original\", and maintain a focus on the political aspects of the story. The production was conducted on soundstages at 3 Mills Studios in London, with the sets alone having a budget of nearly £750,000.\n\nKara Tointon played Maria, and Julian Ovenden played Captain Georg von Trapp. The supporting cast included veterans of British television and theatre, including Alexander Armstrong as Max Detweiler, Katherine Kelly as Baroness Elsa Schraeder, Maria Friedman as Mother Abess, Evelyn Hoskins as Liesl von Trapp, Jon Tarcy as Rolf Gruber, Mel Giedroyc as the housekeeper, Frau Schmidt, and Paul Copley as the butler, Franz.\n\n\"The Sound of Music Live\" received mixed reviews. Mark Shenton of \"The Stage\" said it was a failed experiment, with \"uninspired and sometimes insipid\" choreography and direction, although he praised the cast's performances. Claire Allfree of \"The Daily Telegraph\" said it lacked both the intimacy of live theatre and the scope of the big screen, but nevertheless judged it \"more a success than it was a failure,\" saying that former \"EastEnders\" star Tointon \"brought a refreshing earthiness and grit to Maria that made the passionate, unconventional novice feel thoroughly modern and accessible.\" \"The Mirror\" said that Tointon was \"showered with praise\" for her performance.\n\nThe programme was watched by over 3.82 million viewers according to overnight ratings figures, being beaten by the series eleven finale of \"The Apprentice\" (5.31 million) and its lead-in, the BBC Sports Personality of the Year presentation (5.78 million).\n\n"}
{"id": "38174573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38174573", "title": "Travis London", "text": "Travis London\n\nTravis London (born July 16, 1988) is an American celebrity chef, television host, writer, and event planner. He was born in Los Angeles and is of both Mexican and African American descent.\n\nAt 16, London began throwing parties for his friends, which eventually landed him on \"Page Six\" as a \"party-going L.A. hipster\". By the time he received formal training at the French Culinary Institute, he had scored a food column in OK! Magazine and had prepared dishes for his celebrity friends Justin Timberlake, Mary-Kate Olsen, and former love interest Rihanna\"\n\nTravis is the founder of Healthy Chic Eats, and regularly appears on the \"Today Show\", \"Fox and Friends\" and the \"Suzanne Somers Show\".\n\nTravis has been profiled and quoted extensively in many periodicals, including \"OK! Magazine\", \"Us Weekly\", \"The New York Daily News\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Sun Post Weekly\", \"Uptown Magazine\", \"Vibe\", \"Shape\", \"Latina\", \"Cosmopolitan\", \"Venue\", and the \"Miami Herald\".\n\nTravis is a weekly contributor to \"OK! Magazine\" and in 2012 was brand ambassador for X Rated Fusion Liqueur.\n\nGrowing up with a Georgia-bred African-American grandfather and Mexican maternal grandmother, Travis learned how to raise chickens, cook collard greens, and master homemade tamales. London credits his approach to eating healthy as being influenced by growing up with his mother being overweight. He has stated that at 13 he discovered healthy meals for his mother while watching Suzanne Somers on the Home Shopping Network.\n\nThe media has noted several relationships with celebrities such as Rihanna and Mary-Kate Olsen\n\n"}
{"id": "31341292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31341292", "title": "When Technology Fails", "text": "When Technology Fails\n\nWhen Technology Fails, edited by Neil Schlager, is a collection of 103 case studies about significant technological disasters, accidents, and failures of the 20th century. It was published in 1994 by Gale Research, Inc. It was one of the top referenced books in the New York Public Library in 1995. The book was updated and re-released in 2005.\n\nThe book consists of 1,000- to 1,500-word entries, arranged by subject, that discuss the background, timeline, and impact of each event. Each entry is written by journalists, engineers, and researchers, and provides a cursory overview, rather than in-depth technological analysis. Entries are supplemented by bibliographies, black-and-white photographs, charts, and other print media.\n\n\n"}
