{"id": "28703342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28703342", "title": "Ahmad Aali", "text": "Ahmad Aali\n\nAhmad Aali (, (born 1935 in Tabriz) is an Iranian photographer and artist.\n\n\n\n\nInterviews, critics, published articles and essays about photography\n\nBefore 1979 (before Iranian Revolution)\nMore than 18 published materials in:\nKhoushe, Keyhan international, Journal de Teheran, Tehran Journal, Bamshad Magazine, Etela’at newspaper, Tamasha Magazine, Tasvir Magazine, Ayandegan Magazine, Donya-ye Jadid Magazine, Omid-e Iran Magazine.\n\nAfter 1979 (after Iranian Revolution)\nMore than 18 published materials in:\nAks Magazine, Kelk Magazine, Hamshahri newspaper, Mehr Magazine, Salam newspaper, Eghtesad newspaper, Akhabr newspoaper, Rooz-e Haftom weekley magazine, Zaman Monthley magazine, visual art’s magazine, Me’yar magazine, Iran newspaper, Tandis Magazine, Etemad Magazine, Herfeh Honarmand magazine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100329", "title": "Amrita", "text": "Amrita\n\nAmrita (, IAST: \"amṛta\"), Amrit or Amata (also called Sudha, Amiy, Ami) is a word that literally means \"immortality\" and is often referred to in texts as nectar. \"Amṛta\" is etymologically related to the Greek \"ambrosia\" and carries the same meaning. Its first occurrence is in the Rigveda, where it is considered one of several synonyms for \"soma\", the drink of the devas.\n\nAmrit has varying significance in different Indian religions. The word \"Amrit\" is also a common first name for Sikhs and North Indian Hindus, while its feminine form is \"Amritā\". The traditional masculine name is \"Amritha\" with the feminine name being \"Amrithi\".\n\nThe amṛta is repeatedly referred to as the drink of the devas, which grants them immortality. Despite this, the nectar does not actually offer true immortality: instead, by partaking it, the devas were able to attain a higher level of knowledge and power, which they had lost due to the curse of Sage Durvasa.\n\nThe amṛta features in the samudra manthana legend, which describes how the devas, because of a curse from the sage Durvasa, begin to lose their immortality. Assisted by their rivals, the asuras, the devas begin to churn the ocean, releasing (among other extraordinary objects and beings) the amṛta.\n\nAmṛta is sometimes said to miraculously form on, or flow from, statues of Hindu gods. The substance is consumed by worshippers and is alleged to be sweet-tasting and not at all similar to honey or sugar water.\n\nAmṛta was the last of the fourteen treasures that emerged from the churning of the ocean and contained in a pot borne by Dhanvantari, the physician of the devas.\n\nAmrit () is the name of the holy water used in the baptism ceremony or Amrit Sanchar in Sikhism. This ceremony is observed to initiate the Sikhs into the Khalsa and requires drinking amrit. This is created by mixing a number of soluble ingredients, including sugar, and is then rolled with a khanda with the accompaniment of scriptural recitation of five sacred verses.\n\nMetaphorically, God's name is also referred to as a nectar:\n<poem>ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਸਬਦੁ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਹਰਿ ਬਾਣੀ ॥ \nअम्रित सबदु अम्रित हरि बाणी ॥ \nAmrit sabad amrit har baṇi.\nThe Shabda is Amrit; the Lord's \"bani\" is Amrit. \nਸਤਿਗੁਰਿ ਸੇਵਿਐ ਰਿਦੈ ਸਮਾਣੀ ॥ \nसतिगुरि सेविऐ रिदै समाणी ॥ \nSatgur seviai ridai samāṇi.\nServing the True Guru, it permeates the heart. \nਨਾਨਕ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤ ਨਾਮੁ ਸਦਾ ਸੁਖਦਾਤਾ ਪੀ ਅੰਮ੍ਰਿਤੁ ਸਭ ਭੁਖ ਲਹਿ ਜਾਵਣਿਆ\nNānak amrit nām sadā sukhdāta pi amrit sabh bhukh lėh jāvaṇia.\nO Nanak, the Ambrosial Naam is forever the Giver of peace; drinking in this Amrit, all hunger is satisfied.</poem>\n\nAccording to Thanissaro Bhikkhu, \"the deathless\" refers to the deathless dimension of the mind which is dwelled in permanently after nibbana.\n\nIn the Amata Sutta, the Buddha advises monks to stay with the four Satipatthana: \"Monks, remain with your minds well-established in these four establishings of mindfulness. Don't let the deathless be lost to you.\"\n\nIn the questions for Nagasena, King Milinda asks for evidence that the Buddha once lived, wherein Nagasena describes evidence of the Dhamma in a simile:\n\nAmritha () also plays a significant role in Vajrayana Buddhism as a sacramental drink which is consumed at the beginning of all important rituals such as the abhisheka, ganachakra, and homa. In the Tibetan tradition, \"dütsi\" is made during drubchens - lengthy ceremonies involving many high lamas. It usually takes the form of small, dark-brown grains that are taken with water, or dissolved in very weak solutions of alcohol and is said to improve physical and spiritual well-being.\n\nThe foundational text of traditional Tibetan medicine, the Four Tantras, is also known by the name \"The Heart of Amrita\" ().\n\n\"The Immaculate Crystal Garland\" () describes the origin of amrita in a version of the samudra manthana legend retold in Buddhist terms. In this Vajrayana version, the monster Rahu steals the amrita and is blasted by Vajrapani's thunderbolt. As Rahu has already drunk the amrita he cannot die, but his blood, dripping onto the surface of this earth, causes all kinds of medicinal plants to grow. At the behest of all the Buddhas, Vajrapani reassembles Rahu who eventually becomes a protector of Buddhism according to the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\n\"Inner Offering\" (, ) is the most symbolic Amrita offering assembly, and the \"Inner Offering Nectar Pill\" (, ) is a precious and secret medicine of Tibetan Buddhism, which are only used internally for higher ranking monks in Nyingma school. Its ingredients including Five Amrita and Five Meat, which represents five buddha, and five elements respectively. According to \"Tantras of Chakravarti\", and \"Tantras of Vajravārāhī\", a ceremony needs to be hold for melting and blessing the Inner Offering Nectar. Five Nectar needs to be arranged in four directions: yellow excrement in the east, green bone marrow in the north, white semen in the west and red blood in the south, blue urine is placed in the center. Four Nectar should come from wise monks and the ova should be collected from the first menstruation of a blessed woman. The Five Meats are arranged similiarly, meat of black bull in the southeast, the meat of the blue dog in the southwest, the meast of the white elephant in the northwest, the meat of the green horse in the northeast, and the meat of a red human corpse in the center. After the ceremony, these ingredients will transform into an \"one taste\" (\"ekarasa\") elixir, which bestows bliss, vitality, immortality and wisdom. Actual practitioner will take a 'synthesized essence' of the Nectar Pill and combined it with black tea or alcohol, but mostly the \"Nectar Pill\" are derived from plants.\n\nChinese Buddhism describes Amrita () as blessed water, food, or other consumable objects often produced through merits of chanting mantras.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9820592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820592", "title": "Anticipatory grief", "text": "Anticipatory grief\n\nAnticipatory grief refers to a feeling of grief occurring before an impending loss. Typically, the impending loss is the death of someone close due to illness. This can be experienced by dying individuals themselves and can also be felt due to non-death-related losses like a scheduled mastectomy, pending divorce, company downsizing or war.\n\nThe five stages namely, denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance proposed by Elisabeth Kübler-Ross in her model of grief describe the process by which people undergo after a loss. Anxiety, dread, guilt, helplessness, hopelessness, and feelings of being overwhelmed are also common. However, it is important to note that anticipatory grief is not simply normal grief begun earlier.\n\nFeatures identified specifically with anticipatory grief include heightened concern for the dying person, rehearsal of the death and attempts to adjust to the consequences of the death. The period can allow people to resolve issues with the dying person and to say goodbye. It may provide some sense of orientation and access to the grieving process. For some, it prompts conscious closure before the end/loss.\n\nGrief happening prior to a loss presents a compounding issue of isolation because of a lack of social acceptance. Anticipatory grief doesn't usually take the place of post-loss grief: there is not a fixed amount of grief to be experienced, so grief experienced before the loss does not necessarily reduce grief after the death. However, there may be little grieving after the loss due to anticipatory grief.\n\nHow often anticipatory grief occurs is a subject of some controversy. For example, a study of widows found that they stayed with their husbands until the death and could only mourn once the death had occurred. Researchers suggest that to start to grieve as though the loss has already happened can leave the bereaved feeling guilt for partially abandoning the patient.\n\nMany family members can find themselves in a caregiving role during their loved one's process of death. During the progression of the illness, the security and protectiveness of the caregiver also increases. Bouchal, Rallison and Sinclair discuss that, \"the strong need to offer protection was part of the anticipatory mourning experience of striving to be with in the present\".\n\nIn the process of anticipatory grief, family members also begin to prepare and reflect on how their lives will be once their loved one passes. There are many ways in which to perform reflection. These ways include: \"...reading, journaling, thinking, and reflecting about how life might be like without their partner.\" The journal also expands on the premise that the preparation process is not an individual process. Those who are affected by the impending death often look towards one another for support as well as others who are involved in care such as nurses and social workers.\n\nA direct correlation exists between anticipatory grieving and the caregiver's quality of life. In a quantitative study conducted by Al-Gamal and Long, the effect of a pediatric cancer diagnosis on parents had a negative impact on the majority of study participants. More specifically, parents reported experiencing increasing stress and a decrease in physical and mental health – all of which affect the process of anticipatory grief.\n\nUltimately, anticipatory grieving is an extremely dynamic process that differs between individuals. The outcomes of the grieving process depend on the preparation of death and the anticipatory grief process.\n\n"}
{"id": "2197297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2197297", "title": "Death education", "text": "Death education\n\nDeath education is education about death that focuses on the human and emotional aspects of death. Though it may include teaching on the biological aspects of death, teaching about coping with grief is a primary focus. Death education is formally known as thanatology. Thanatology stems from the Greek word \"thanatos\", meaning death, and \"ology\" meaning a science or organized body of knowledge. A specialist in this field is referred to as a thanatologist. \nDeath education refers to the experiences and activities of death that one deals with. Death education also deals with being able to grasp the different processes of dying, talk about the main topics of attitudes and meanings toward death, and the after effects on how to learn to care for people that are affected by the death. The main focus in death education is teaching people how to cope with grief. Many people feel death education is a taboo and instead of talking about death and grieving, they hide it away and never bring it up to others. With the right education of death, the less of a taboo it will be.\n\nHistorically death education in American society has been seen as a taboo topic, not worthy of scholarly research or for educational purposes. In the 1960s pioneering professionals like that of Herman Feifel (1959), Elisabeth Kübler-Ross (1969), and Cicely Saunders (1967) encouraged behavioral scientists, clinicians, and humanists to pay attention and to study death-related topics. This initiated the death-awareness movement and began the widespread study of death-related behavior, developing new programs of care for the dying and bereaved, as well as new research on death-related attitudes.\n\n\"Death is no enemy of life; it restores our sense of the value of living. Illness restores the sense of proportion that is lost when we take life for granted. To learn about value and proportion we need to honor illness, and ultimately to honor death.\" Death education honors death by educating about death, dying, and bereavement to enrich personal lives, inform and guide individuals in their transactions with society, prepare individuals for their public roles as citizens, help prepare and support individuals in their professional and vocational roles, and lastly to enhance the ability of individuals to communicate effectively about death-related matters.\n\nOne of the major organizations that educates people on death is Hospice. Hospice offers support for the caregiver, and Hospice also offers information on what to expect before death and what the family can expect after death. One of the major subjects that hospice addresses within death are the myths that come along with death. Hospice will also walk caretakers through the signs and symptoms to look for that signify death.\nHospice is an important type of care that helps spread and explain death education to the people. When people have a loved one that is not able to get anymore help from medication or doctors, it would be a good recommendation for them to go to hospice. They would be able to receive great support and comfort during the end of their life journey. Not only does hospice give care to the terminally ill, they also give grief suggestions to family members and close friends. \"With proper care, proper support, and love, we can share the miracle that is life\". The end of a person's life should be centered on being alive instead of being dead.\n\nStudents of a death education course need to clearly understand the complex knowledge of the subject, learn the five key areas of knowledge, and to learn the physical, psycho-social, behavioral, and cognitive aspects of death. The five key areas are: understanding the dying process, decision making for end of life, loss, grief, and bereavement, assessment and intervention, and traumatic death. Death education should be taught in perspective and one's emotional response should be proportionate to the occasion. In addition death education can be taught formally or informally. Formally planned death education is associated with learning in organized educational settings including: schools, colleges, graduate education, professional workshops, and volunteer training programs.\n\nin her book, In Death and Dying (1969), Elisabeth Kubler-Ross proposed the five stages of the dying process. Though her work has often been referred to as the \"five stages of grief,\" the original work was based on her clinical observations of the psychosocial responses of terminally ill patients to their impending death. Much scholarly debate has surrounded the legitimacy of her five \"stages\"—denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. Experienced psychosocial clinicians have largely rejected the accuracy of the model because it addresses only emotional states, sets up false expectations of the process, and have not been empirically verified as a descriptive model.\n\nThe first stage is denial and isolation. When you first hear about a loved one who has a deathly illness your first instinct is to deny the reality of the situation. This is known as a defense mechanism because we block out the words by not fully processing them and also hide from the facts.\nThe second stage is anger. Once the blocking out subsides the reality of the situation becomes overwhelming and the pain from the news emerges.\nThe third stage is bargaining. This stage you will feel more vulnerable and helpless. In order to gain control again you'll start thinking of ways that would have made it better like:\n• \"If only we had sought medical attention sooner…\"\n• \"If only we got a second opinion from another doctor…\"\n• \"If only we had tried to be a better person toward them…\"\n\nAll of these are defense lines to try and protect us from the reality of pain in a lost one.\nThe fourth stage is depression. In this stage there can be two different types of depression that you deal with. The first type of depression can be a more quiet and private feeling. The second type of depression is the kind where sadness and regret overtake your body and become the predominate factors in your life.\nThe fifth and final stage is acceptance. This stage does not always reach everyone but for the people who actually get it should consider this stage as a gift. It does not mean that you will not be sad anymore but it does mean that there is going to be some kind of peace that you are able to reach with the loved one that died.\n\nEven though people are still conservative towards the idea of death and dying, with help and the education of death, people will come to know death as a natural part of life that everyone will someday have to go through. Instead of being timid and scared of death, people will become comfortable towards the topic and be able to prepare for what will come in the future. Death education is not just for medical professionals and those dealing with the terminally ill but rather death education is beneficial to everyone for it reveals the importance of quality in living and the human search for meaning. \"Dying was what human life moved toward and therefore dying was what a human being constantly prepared for.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5914541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5914541", "title": "Evolution of ageing", "text": "Evolution of ageing\n\nEnquiry into the evolution of ageing aims to explain why survival, reproductive success, and functioning of almost all living organisms decline at old age. Leading hypotheses suggest that a combination of limited resources, and an increasing risk of death by environmental causes determine an \"optimal\" level of self-maintenance, i.e. the repair of molecular and cellular level damage that accumulates over time. Allocation of limited resources into such damage repair is traded-off with investment into reproduction, which determines the individual's Darwinian fitness. In consequence, traits that improve an individual's performance in early life are favored by selection, even if the same traits have negative effects late in life, when the individual has already passed on their genes to the next generation.\n\nAugust Weismann was responsible for interpreting and formalizing the mechanisms of Darwinian evolution in a modern theoretical framework. In 1889, he theorized that ageing was part of life's program because the old need to remove themselves from the theatre to make room for the next generation, sustaining the turnover that is necessary for evolution. This theory again has much intuitive appeal, but it suffers from having a teleological or goal-driven explanation. In other words, a \"purpose\" for ageing has been identified, but not a \"mechanism\" by which that purpose could be achieved. Ageing may have this advantage for the long-term health of the community; but that doesn't explain how individuals would acquire the genes that make them get old and die, or why individuals that had ageing genes would be more successful than other individuals lacking such genes. (In fact, there is every reason to think that the opposite is true: ageing \"decreases\" individual fitness.) Weismann later abandoned his theory.\n\nTheories suggesting that deterioration and death due to ageing are a purposeful result of an organism's evolved design (such as Weismann's \"programmed death\" theory) are referred to as theories of programmed ageing or adaptive ageing. The idea that the ageing characteristic was selected (an adaptation) because of its deleterious effect was largely discounted for much of the 20th century, but a theoretical model suggests that altruistic ageing could evolve if there is little migration among populations.\n\nThe first modern theory of mammal ageing was formulated by Peter Medawar in 1952. It formed from discussions in the previous decade with J. B. S. Haldane and the selection shadow concept. Their idea was that ageing was a matter of neglect. Nature is a highly competitive place, and almost all animals in nature die before they attain old age. Therefore, there is not much reason why the body should remain fit for the long haul – not much selection pressure for traits that would maintain viability past the time when most animals would be dead anyway, killed by predators, disease, or accident.\n\nMedawar's theory is referred to as \"Mutation Accumulation\". The mechanism of action involves random, detrimental \"germline\" mutations of a kind that happen to show their effect only late in life. Unlike most detrimental mutations, these would not be efficiently weeded out by natural selection. On the grand scale, senescence would just be the summation of deleterious genes that only present in older individuals. Hence they would 'accumulate' and, perhaps, cause all the decline and damage that we associate with ageing.\n\nModern genetics science has disclosed a possible problem with the mutation accumulation concept in that it is now known that genes are typically expressed in specific tissues at specific times (see regulation of gene expression). Expression is controlled by some genetic \"program\" that activates different genes at different times in the normal growth, development, and day-to-day life of the organism. Defects in genes cause problems (genetic diseases) when they are not properly expressed when required. A problem late in life suggests that the genetic program called for expression of a gene only in late life and the mutational defect prevented proper expression. This implies existence of a program that called for different gene expression at that point in life. Why, given Medawar's concept, would there exist genes only needed in late life or a program that called for different expression only in late life? The \"maintenance mechanism\" theory (discussed below) avoids this problem.\n\nMedawar's concept suggested that the evolution process was affected by the age at which an organism was capable of reproducing. Characteristics that adversely affected an organism prior to that age would severely limit the organism's ability to propagate its characteristics and thus would be highly \"selected against\" by natural selection. Characteristics that caused the same adverse effects that only appeared well after that age would have relatively little effect on the organism's ability to propagate and therefore might be allowed by natural selection. This concept fits well with the observed multiplicity of mammal life spans (and differing ages of sexual maturity) and is important to all of the subsequent theories of ageing discussed below.\n\nYoung cohorts, not depleted in numbers yet by extrinsic mortality, contribute far more to the next generation than the few remaining older cohorts, so the force of selection against late-acting deleterious mutations, which affect only these few older individuals, is very weak. The mutations may not be selected against, therefore, and may spread over evolutionary time into the population.\n\nThe major testable prediction made by this model is that species that have high extrinsic mortality in nature will age more quickly and have shorter intrinsic lifespans. This is borne out among mammals, the best-studied in terms of life history. There is a correlation among mammals between body size and lifespan, such that larger species live longer than smaller species under controlled/optimum conditions, but there are notable exceptions. For instance, many bats and rodents are of similar size, yet bats live much longer. For instance, the little brown bat, half the size of a mouse, can live 30 years in the wild. A mouse will only live 2–3 years even under optimum conditions. The explanation is that bats have fewer predators, and therefore low extrinsic mortality. More individuals survive to later ages, so the force of selection against late-acting deleterious mutations is stronger. Fewer late-acting deleterious mutations equates to lower mortality and therefore a longer lifespan. Birds are also warm-blooded and are similar in size to many small mammals, yet often live 5–10 times as long. They have less predation pressure than ground-dwelling mammals. Seabirds, which, in general, have the fewest predators of all birds, live longest.\n\nWhen examining the body-size vs. lifespan relationship, one also observes that predatory mammals tend to live longer than prey mammals in a controlled environment, such as a zoo or nature reserve. The explanation for the long lifespans of primates (such as humans, monkeys, and apes) relative to body size is that their intelligence, and often their sociality, help them avoid becoming prey. High position in the food chain, intelligence and cooperativeness all reduce extrinsic mortality in species.\n\nMedawar's theory was further developed by George C. Williams in 1957, who noted that senescence may be causing many deaths, even if animals are not 'dying of old age.' In the earliest stages of senescence, an animal may lose a bit of its speed, and then predators will seize it first, while younger animals flee successfully. Or its immune system may decline, and it becomes the first to die of a new infection. Nature is such a competitive place, said Williams, (turning Medawar's argument back at him), that even a little bit of senescence can be fatal; hence natural selection does indeed care; ageing isn't cost-free.\n\nWilliams's objection has turned out to be valid: Modern studies of demography in natural environments demonstrate that senescence does indeed make a substantial contribution to the death rate in nature. These observations cast doubt on Medawar's theory. Another problem with Medawar's theory became apparent in the late 1990s, when genomic analysis became widely available. It turns out that the genes that cause ageing are not random mutations; rather, these genes form tight-knit families that have been around as long as eukaryotic life. Baker's yeast, worms, fruit flies, and mice all share some of the same ageing genes.\n\nWilliams (1957) proposed his own theory, called antagonistic \"pleiotropy\". Pleiotropy means one gene that has two or more effects on the phenotype. In antagonistic pleiotropy, one of these effects is beneficial and another is detrimental. In essence, this refers to genes that offer benefits early in life, but exact a cost later on. If evolution is a race to have the most offspring the fastest, then enhanced early fertility could be selected even if it came with a price tag that included decline and death later on. Because ageing was a side effect of necessary functions, Williams considered any alteration of the ageing process to be \"impossible.\"\n\nAntagonistic pleiotropy is a prevailing theory today, but this is largely by default, and not because the theory has been well verified. In fact, experimental biologists have looked for the genes that cause ageing, and since about 1990 the technology has been available to find them efficiently. Of the many ageing genes that have been reported, some seem to enhance fertility early in life, or to carry other benefits. But there are other ageing genes for which no such corresponding benefit has been identified. This is not what Williams predicted. This may be thought of as partial validation of the theory, but logically it cuts to the core premise: that genetic trade-offs are the root cause of ageing.\n\nAnother difficulty with antagonistic pleiotropy and other theories that suppose that ageing is an adverse side effect of some beneficial function is that the linkage between adverse and beneficial effects would need to be \"rigid\" in the sense that the evolution process would not be able to evolve a way to accomplish the benefit without incurring the adverse effect even over a very long time span. Such a rigid relationship has not been experimentally demonstrated and, in general, evolution is able to independently and individually adjust myriad organism characteristics.\n\nIn breeding experiments, Michael R. Rose selected fruit flies for long lifespan. Based on antagonistic pleiotropy, Rose expected that this would surely reduce their fertility. His team found that they were able to breed flies that lived more than twice as long as the flies they started with, but to their surprise, the long-lived, inbred flies actually laid more eggs than the short-lived flies. This was another setback for pleiotropy theory, though Rose maintains it may be an experimental artefact.\n\nA third mainstream theory of ageing, the ''Disposable soma\" theory, proposed in 1977 by Thomas Kirkwood, presumes that the body must budget the amount of energy available to it. The body uses food energy for metabolism, for reproduction, and for repair and maintenance. With a finite supply of food, the body must compromise, and do none of these things quite as well as it would like. It is the compromise in allocating energy to the repair function that causes the body gradually to deteriorate with age. A caveat to the disposable soma theory suggests that time, rather than energy, is a limiting resource that may be critical to an organism. The concept is that each organism must reproduce in an optimal period in order to ensure the greatest chance of success for the offspring. This optimal period is dictated by the ecological niche of the organism but in essence, it limits the time that any given organism can devote to growth and development prior to bearing offspring. Thus, developmental rate and gestational rate are subject to evolutionary pressure. The need to accelerate gestation limits the time allocated to damage repair at the cellular level, resulting in an accumulation of damage and a decreased lifespan relative to organisms with longer gestation. This concept stems from a comparative analysis of genomic stability in mammalian cells.\n\nThere are arguments against the disposable soma theory. The theory clearly predicts that a shortage of food should make the compromise more severe all around; but in many experiments, ongoing since 1930, it has been demonstrated that animals live longer when fed substantially less than controls. This is the caloric restriction (CR) effect, and it cannot be easily reconciled with the Disposable Soma theory. Though by decreasing energy expenditure the damage generated (by free radicals, for instance) is expected to be reduced and the total energy budget might indeed be reduced, but the investment in repair function might still be relatively the same. But dietary restriction has not been shown to increase lifetime reproductive success (fitness), because when food availability is lower, reproductive output is also lower. So CR does thus not completely dismiss disposable soma theory.\n\nWith respect to such limitations Kriete proposed consideration of systems-level properties like robustness to characterize ageing as a robustness tradeoff. According to this concept living systems evolve into a state of highly optimized tolerance promoting traits beneficial for survival and fitness at the cost of fragilities driving the ageing phenotype. The view is compatible with aspects of the antagonistic pleiotropy and the disposable soma theory, but offers additional mechanisms rooted in complex systems theory.\n\nA raised criticism for all three mainstream theories based on classical evolutionary process concepts is the potential existence of 'deliberate' metabolic mechanisms that work to promote death.\n\nOne is \"apoptosis\", or programmed cell death. Apoptosis is responsible for killing infected cells, cancerous cells, and cells that are simply in the wrong place during development. There are clear benefits to apoptosis, so the existence of apoptosis isn't a problem for evolutionary theory. The problem is that apoptosis seems to ramp up late in life and kill healthy cells, causing weakness and degeneration . And, paradoxically, apoptosis has been observed as a kind of 'altruistic suicide' in colonies of yeast under stress. This seems to be a direct hint that senescence arose because it conferred a direct evolutionary advantage, rather than some kind of side effect of genes that have other evolutionary advantages (pleiotropy).\n\nA second 'deliberate' mechanism is called \"replicative senescence\" or cellular senescence. Metaphorically, a cell may be said to 'count' (with its \"telomeres\") the number of times that it has divided, and after a set number of replications, it languishes and dies. It has been proposed that this mechanism evolved to suppress cancer. Many invertebrates experience replicative senescence, though they never die of cancer. Even one-celled organisms count replications, and will die if they don't replenish their telomeres with conjugation (sex).\n\nMore strictly, cells cannot 'count' the number of times they have divided . Telomeres are not a counting mechanism , though they may be used to indicate the number of times a particular chromosome has been replicated. Cellular processes for genetic material replication occur in both directions along DNA, 5' to 3' and on the other strand, 3' to 5'. As the 3' or 5' end is impossible for DNA polymerase to grab at the 1 base pair mark, a handful of basepairs (10-15) are cut off each replication. Over time, this cutting short of the DNA results in no telomeres, and the cell is unable to replicate that chromosome without cutting into genes.\n\nThe dilemma is that classical evolutionary theory says that what is maintained in a lineage is that which ensures the viability of an organism and its offspring. Ageing can only cut off an individual's capacity to reproduce. So, according to classical theory, ageing could \"only\" evolve as a side effect, or epiphenomenon of selection. The disposable soma theory and antagonistic pleiotropy theory are examples in which a compensating individual benefit, compatible with classical evolution theory (See neo-Darwinism) is proposed. Nevertheless, there is accumulated evidence that ageing looks like an adaptation in its own right, selected for its own sake.\n\nSemelparous organisms and others that die suddenly following reproduction (e.g. salmon, octopus, marsupial mouse (brown antechinus), etc.) also represent instances of organisms who incorporate a lifespan-limiting feature. Sudden death is more obviously an instance of programmed death or a purposeful adaptation than gradual ageing. Biological elements clearly associated with evolved mechanisms such as hormone signalling have been identified in the death mechanisms of organisms such as the octopus.\n\nAt the time most of the non-programmed ageing theories were developed, there was very little scientific disagreement with classical theories (i.e. Neo-Darwinism) regarding the process of evolution. However, in addition to suicidal behaviour of semelparous species (not handled by the classical ageing theories) other apparently individually adverse organism characteristics such as altruism and sexual reproduction were observed. In response to these \"other\" conflicts, adjustments to classical theory were proposed:\n\nGroup selection is often criticized to be too slow to happen in real biology. However, Jiang-Nan Yang recently showed with an individual-based model that the evolution of altruistic ageing occurs under fairly general conditions by kin/group selection. Group selection can be based on population viscosity (limited offspring dispersal, first proposed by Hamilton (1964) for kin selection) that is widely present in natural populations. This population structure builds a continuum between individual selection, kin selection, kin group selection and group selection without a clear boundary for each level. Although early theoretical models by D.S. Wilson et al. (1992) and Taylor (1992) showed that pure population viscosity cannot lead to cooperation/altruism because of the exact cancelling out of the benefit of kin cooperation and the cost of kin competition, this exact cancelling out also suggests that any additional benefit of local cooperation would be sufficient for the evolution of cooperation. Mitteldorf and D.S. Wilson (2000) later showed that if the population is allowed to fluctuate, then local populations can temporarily store the benefit of local cooperation and promote the evolution of altruism. By assuming individual differences in adaptations, Yang (2013) further showed that the benefit of local altruism can be stored in the form of offspring quality and thus promote the evolution of altruistic ageing even if the population does not fluctuate, this is because local competition among the young will result in an increased average local inherited fitness of survived progenies after the elimination of the less adapted by natural selection, since the young do not have strong age-associated abilities and have to depend more on inherited abilities to compete. In Yang (2013)'s model, altruistic ageing is stabilized by higher-level selection instead of just kin selection.\n\nMitteldorf proposed a group benefit of a limited lifespan involving regulation of population dynamics. Populations in nature are subject to boom and bust cycles. Often overpopulation can be punished by famine or by epidemic. Either one could wipe out an entire population. Senescence is a means by which a species can 'take control' of its own death rate, and level out the boom-bust cycles. This story may be more plausible than the Weismann hypothesis as a mechanistic explanation, because it addresses the question of how group selection can be rapid enough to compete with individual selection.\n\nLibertini also suggests benefits for adaptive ageing.\n\nInversely, within a \"Negative Senescence Theory\" R.D. Lee (similarly J.W. Vaupel) considered positive group effects performing a selection force directed to survival beyond the age of fertility. Often also postreproductive individuals make intergenerational transfers: bottlenose dolphins and pilot whales guard their grandchildren; there is cooperative breeding in some mammals, many insects and about 200 species of birds; sex differences in the survival of anthropoid primates tend to correlate with the care to offspring; or an Efe infant is often attended by more than 10 people. Lee developed a formal theory integrating selection due to transfers (at all ages) with selection due to fertility.\n\nGoldsmith proposed that in addition to increasing the generation rate, and thereby evolution rate, a limited lifespan improves the evolution process by limiting the ability of older individuals to dominate the gene pool. Further, the evolution of characteristics such as intelligence and immunity may specially require a limited lifespan because otherwise acquired characteristics such as experience or exposure to pathogens would tend to override the selection of the beneficial inheritable characteristic. An older and more experienced, but less intelligent animal would have a fitness advantage over a younger, more intelligent animal except for the effects of ageing.\n\nSkulachev has suggested that programmed ageing assists the evolution process by providing a gradually increasing challenge or obstacle to survival and reproduction, and therefore enhancing the selection of beneficial characteristics. In this sense, ageing would act in a manner similar to that of mating rituals that take the form of contests or trials that must be overcome in order to mate (another individually adverse observation). This suggests an advantage of gradual ageing over sudden death as a means of lifespan regulation.\n\nWeissmann's 1889 ageing theory was essentially an evolvability theory. Ageing or otherwise purposely limited lifespan helps evolution by freeing resources for younger, and therefore, presumably better-adapted individuals.\n\nYang (2013)'s model is also based on mechanisms of evolvability. Ageing accelerates the accumulation of novel adaptive genes in local populations. However, Yang changed the terminology of \"evolvability\" into \"genetic creativity\" throughout his paper to facilitate the understanding of how ageing can have a shorter-term benefit than the word \"evolvability\" would imply.\n\nLenart and Vašku (2016) have also invoked evolvability as the main mechanism driving evolution of aging. However, they proposed that even though the actual rate of aging can be an adaptation the aging itself is inevitable. In other words, evolution can change speed of aging but some aging no matter how slow will always occur.\n\nIf organisms purposely limit their lifespans via ageing or semelparous behaviour, the associated evolved mechanisms could be very complex, just as mechanisms that provide for mentation, vision, digestion, or other biological function are typically very complex. Such a mechanism could involve hormones, signalling, sensing of external conditions, and other complex functions typical of evolved mechanisms. Such complex mechanisms could explain all of the observations of ageing and semelparous behaviours as described below.\n\nIt is typical for a given biological function to be controlled by a single mechanism that is capable of sensing the germane conditions and then executing the necessary function . The mechanism signals all the systems and tissues that need to respond to that function by means of organism-wide signals (hormones). If ageing is indeed a biological function, we would expect all or most manifestations of ageing to be similarly controlled by a common mechanism. Various observations (listed below) indeed suggest the existence of a common control mechanism.\n\nIt is also typical for biological functions to be modulated by or synchronized to external events or conditions. The circadian rhythm and synchronization of mating behaviour to planetary cues are examples. In the case of ageing seen as a biological function, the caloric restriction effect may well be an example of the ageing function being modulated in order to optimize organism lifespan in response to external conditions. Temporary extension of lifespan under famine conditions would aid in group survival because extending lifespan, combined with less-frequent reproduction, would reduce the resources required to maintain a given population.\n\nTheories to the effect that ageing results by default (mutation accumulation) or is an adverse side effect of some other function are logically much more limited and suffer when compared to empirical evidence of complex mechanisms. The choice of ageing theory therefore is logically essentially determined by one's position regarding evolutionary processes, and some theorists reject programmed ageing based entirely on evolutionary process considerations.\n\nIt is generally accepted that deteriorative processes (wear, other molecular damage) exist and that living organisms have mechanisms to counter deterioration. Wounds heal; dead cells are replaced; claws regrow.\n\nA non-programmed theory of mammal ageing that fits with classical evolution theory and Medawar's concept is that different mammal species possess different capabilities for maintenance and repair. Longer-lived species possess many mechanisms for offsetting damage due to causes such as oxidation, telomere shortening, and other deteriorative processes that are each more effective than those of shorter-lived species. Shorter-lived species, having earlier ages of sexual maturity, had less need for longevity and thus did not evolve or retain the more-effective repair mechanisms. Damage therefore accumulates more rapidly, resulting in earlier manifestations and shorter lifespan. Since there are a wide variety of ageing manifestations that appear to have very different causes, it is likely that there are many different maintenance and repair functions.\n\nA corresponding programmed maintenance theory based on evolvability suggests that the repair mechanisms are in turn controlled by a common control mechanism capable of sensing conditions, such as caloric restriction, and also capable of producing the specific lifespan needed by the particular species. In this view, the differences between short- and long-lived species are in the control mechanisms, as opposed to each individual maintenance mechanism.\n\nThe DNA damage theory of aging is a prominent explanation for aging at the molecular level. This theory postulates that DNA damage is ubiquitous in the biological world and is the primary cause of aging. Consistent with this theory, genetic elements that regulate repair of DNA damage in somatic cells were proposed to have pleiotropic effects that are beneficial during early development but allow deleterious consequences later in life. As an example, studies of mammalian brain and muscle have shown that DNA repair capability is relatively high during early development when cells are dividing mitotically, but declines substantially as cells enter the post-mitotic state. The reduction in DNA repair capability presumably reflects an evolutionary adaptation for diverting resources from cell duplication and repair to more essential neuronal and muscular functions. The effect of reducing expression of DNA repair capability is to allow increased accumulation of DNA damage. This then impairs gene transcription and causes the progressive loss of cellular and tissue functions that define aging.\n\n\nContrary to the theory of programmed death by ageing, individuals from a single species usually live much longer in a protected (laboratory, domestic, civilized) environment than in their wild (natural) environment, reaching ages that would be otherwise practically impossible. Also, in the majority of species, there doesn't exist any critical age after which death rates change dramatically, as intended by the programmed death by ageing, but the age-dependence of death rates is very smooth and monotonic. However, as mentioned above, V.P. Skulachev explained that a process of gradual ageing has the advantage of facilitating selection for useful traits by allowing old individuals with a useful trait to live longer. It is also easy to imagine that animals with gradual ageing will live longer in a protected environment.\n\nThe death rates at extreme old ages start to slow down, which is the opposite of what would be expected if death by ageing was programmed. From an individual-selection point of view, having genes that would not result in a programmed death by ageing would displace genes that cause programmed death by ageing, as individuals would produce more offspring in their longer lifespan and they could increase the survival of their offspring by providing longer parental support.\n\nTheories of ageing affect efforts to understand and find treatments for age-related conditions (see biogerontology):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47921", "title": "Free will", "text": "Free will\n\nFree will is the ability to choose between different possible courses of action unimpeded.\n\nFree will is closely linked to the concepts of responsibility, praise, guilt, sin, and other judgements which apply only to actions that are freely chosen. It is also connected with the concepts of advice, persuasion, deliberation, and prohibition. Traditionally, only actions that are freely willed are seen as deserving credit or blame. There are numerous different concerns about threats to the possibility of free will, varying by how exactly it is conceived, which is a matter of some debate.\n\nSome conceive free will to be the capacity to make choices in which the outcome has not been determined by past events. Determinism suggests that only one course of events is possible, which is inconsistent with the existence of free will thus conceived. This problem has been identified in ancient Greek philosophy and remains a major focus of philosophical debate. This view that conceives free will to be incompatible with determinism is called \"incompatibilism\" and encompasses both metaphysical libertarianism, the claim that determinism is false and thus free will is at least possible, and hard determinism, the claim that determinism is true and thus free will is not possible. It also encompasses hard incompatibilism, which holds not only determinism but also its negation to be incompatible with free will and thus free will to be impossible whatever the case may be regarding determinism.\n\nIn contrast, \"compatibilists\" hold that free will \"is\" compatible with determinism. Some compatibilists even hold that determinism is \"necessary\" for free will, arguing that choice involves preference for one course of action over another, requiring a sense of \"how\" choices will turn out. Compatibilists thus consider the debate between libertarians and hard determinists over free will vs determinism a false dilemma. Different compatibilists offer very different definitions of what \"free will\" even means and consequently find different types of constraints to be relevant to the issue. Classical compatibilists considered free will nothing more than freedom of action, considering one free of will simply if, \"had\" one counterfactually wanted to do otherwise, one \"could\" have done otherwise without physical impediment. Contemporary compatibilists instead identify free will as a psychological capacity, such as to direct one's behavior in a way responsive to reason, and there are still further different conceptions of free will, each with their own concerns, sharing only the common feature of not finding the possibility of determinism a threat to the possibility of free will.\n\nThe underlying questions are whether we have control over our actions, and if so, what sort of control, and to what extent. These questions predate the early Greek stoics (for example, Chrysippus), and some modern philosophers lament the lack of progress over all these centuries.\n\nOn one hand, humans have a strong sense of freedom, which leads us to believe that we have free will. On the other hand, an intuitive feeling of free will could be mistaken.\n\nIt is difficult to reconcile the intuitive evidence that conscious decisions are causally effective with the view that the physical world can be explained to operate perfectly by physical law. The conflict between intuitively felt freedom and natural law arises when either causal closure or physical determinism (nomological determinism) is asserted. With causal closure, no physical event has a cause outside the physical domain, and with physical determinism, the future is determined entirely by preceding events (cause and effect).\n\nThe puzzle of reconciling 'free will' with a deterministic universe is known as the \"problem of free will\" or sometimes referred to as the \"dilemma of determinism\". This dilemma leads to a moral dilemma as well: the question of how to assign responsibility for actions if they are caused entirely by past events.\n\nCompatibilists maintain that mental reality is not of itself causally effective. Classical compatibilists have addressed the dilemma of free will by arguing that free will holds as long as we are not externally constrained or coerced. Modern compatibilists make a distinction between freedom of will and freedom of \"action\", that is, separating freedom of choice from the freedom to enact it. Given that humans all experience a sense of free will, some modern compatibilists think it is necessary to accommodate this intuition. Compatibilists often associate freedom of will with the ability to make rational decisions.\n\nA different approach to the dilemma is that of incompatibilists, namely, that if the world is deterministic, then our feeling that we are free to choose an action is simply an illusion. Metaphysical libertarianism is the form of incompatibilism which posits that determinism is false and free will is possible (at least some people have free will). This view is associated with non-materialist constructions, including both traditional dualism, as well as models supporting more minimal criteria; such as the ability to consciously veto an action or competing desire. Yet even with physical indeterminism, arguments have been made against libertarianism in that it is difficult to assign \"Origination\" (responsibility for \"free\" indeterministic choices).\n\nFree will here is predominately treated with respect to physical determinism in the strict sense of nomological determinism, although other forms of determinism are also relevant to free will. For example, logical and theological determinism challenge metaphysical libertarianism with ideas of destiny and fate, and biological, cultural and psychological determinism feed the development of compatibilist models. Separate classes of compatibilism and incompatibilism may even be formed to represent these.\n\nBelow are the classic arguments bearing upon the dilemma and its underpinnings.\n\nIncompatibilism is the position that free will and determinism are logically incompatible, and that the major question regarding whether or not people have free will is thus whether or not their actions are determined. \"Hard determinists\", such as d'Holbach, are those incompatibilists who accept determinism and reject free will. In contrast, \"metaphysical libertarians\", such as Thomas Reid, Peter van Inwagen, and Robert Kane, are those incompatibilists who accept free will and deny determinism, holding the view that some form of indeterminism is true. Another view is that of hard incompatibilists, which state that free will is incompatible with both determinism and indeterminism.\n\nTraditional arguments for incompatibilism are based on an \"intuition pump\": if a person is like other mechanical things that are determined in their behavior such as a wind-up toy, a billiard ball, a puppet, or a robot, then people must not have free will. This argument has been rejected by compatibilists such as Daniel Dennett on the grounds that, even if humans have something in common with these things, it remains possible and plausible that we are different from such objects in important ways.\n\nAnother argument for incompatibilism is that of the \"causal chain\". Incompatibilism is key to the idealist theory of free will. Most incompatibilists reject the idea that freedom of action consists simply in \"voluntary\" behavior. They insist, rather, that free will means that man must be the \"ultimate\" or \"originating\" cause of his actions. He must be \"causa sui\", in the traditional phrase. Being responsible for one's choices is the first cause of those choices, where first cause means that there is no antecedent cause of that cause. The argument, then, is that if man has free will, then man is the ultimate cause of his actions. If determinism is true, then all of man's choices are caused by events and facts outside his control. So, if everything man does is caused by events and facts outside his control, then he cannot be the ultimate cause of his actions. Therefore, he cannot have free will. This argument has also been challenged by various compatibilist philosophers.\n\nA third argument for incompatibilism was formulated by Carl Ginet in the 1960s and has received much attention in the modern literature. The simplified argument runs along these lines: if determinism is true, then we have no control over the events of the past that determined our present state and no control over the laws of nature. Since we can have no control over these matters, we also can have no control over the \"consequences\" of them. Since our present choices and acts, under determinism, are the necessary consequences of the past and the laws of nature, then we have no control over them and, hence, no free will. This is called the \"consequence argument\". Peter van Inwagen remarks that C.D. Broad had a version of the consequence argument as early as the 1930s.\n\nThe difficulty of this argument for some compatibilists lies in the fact that it entails the impossibility that one could have chosen other than one has. For example, if Jane is a compatibilist and she has just sat down on the sofa, then she is committed to the claim that she could have remained standing, if she had so desired. But it follows from the consequence argument that, if Jane had remained standing, she would have either generated a contradiction, violated the laws of nature or changed the past. Hence, compatibilists are committed to the existence of \"incredible abilities\", according to Ginet and van Inwagen. One response to this argument is that it equivocates on the notions of abilities and necessities, or that the free will evoked to make any given choice is really an illusion and the choice had been made all along, oblivious to its \"decider\". David Lewis suggests that compatibilists are only committed to the ability to do something otherwise if \"different circumstances\" had actually obtained in the past.\n\nUsing \"T\", \"F\" for \"true\" and \"false\" and \"?\" for undecided, there are exactly nine positions regarding determinism/free will that consist of any two of these three possibilities:\n\n\"Incompatibilism\" may occupy any of the nine positions except (5), (8) or (3), which last corresponds to \"soft determinism\". Position (1) is \"hard determinism\", and position (2) is \"libertarianism\". The position (1) of hard determinism adds to the table the contention that \"D\" implies \"FW\" is untrue, and the position (2) of libertarianism adds the contention that \"FW\" implies \"D\" is untrue. Position (9) may be called \"hard incompatibilism\" if one interprets \"?\" as meaning both concepts are of dubious value. \"Compatibilism\" itself may occupy any of the nine positions, that is, there is no logical contradiction between determinism and free will, and either or both may be true or false in principle. However, the most common meaning attached to \"compatibilism\" is that some form of determinism is true and yet we have some form of free will, position (3).\nAlex Rosenberg makes an extrapolation of physical determinism as inferred on the macroscopic scale by the behaviour of a set of dominoes to neural activity in the brain where; \"If the brain is nothing but a complex physical object whose states are as much governed by physical laws as any other physical object, then what goes on in our heads is as fixed and determined by prior events as what goes on when one domino topples another in a long row of them.\" Physical determinism is currently disputed by prominent interpretations of quantum mechanics, and while not necessarily representative of intrinsic indeterminism in nature, fundamental limits of precision in measurement are inherent in the uncertainty principle. The relevance of such prospective indeterminate activity to free will is, however, contested, even when chaos theory is introduced to magnify the effects of such microscopic events.\n\nBelow these positions are examined in more detail.\n\nDeterminism can be divided into causal, logical and theological determinism. Corresponding to each of these different meanings, there arises a different problem for free will. Hard determinism is the claim that determinism is true, and that it is incompatible with free will, so free will does not exist. Although hard determinism generally refers to nomological determinism (see causal determinism below), it can include all forms of determinism that necessitate the future in its entirety. Relevant forms of determinism include:\n\nOther forms of determinism are more relevant to compatibilism, such as biological determinism, the idea that all behaviors, beliefs, and desires are fixed by our genetic endowment and our biochemical makeup, the latter of which is affected by both genes and environment, cultural determinism and psychological determinism. Combinations and syntheses of determinist theses, such as bio-environmental determinism, are even more common.\n\nSuggestions have been made that hard determinism need not maintain strict determinism, where something near to, like that informally known as adequate determinism, is perhaps more relevant. Despite this, hard determinism has grown less popular in present times, given scientific suggestions that determinism is false – yet the intention of their position is sustained by hard incompatibilism.\n\nMetaphysical libertarianism is one philosophical view point under that of incompatibilism. Libertarianism holds onto a concept of free will that requires that the agent be able to take more than one possible course of action under a given set of circumstances.\n\nAccounts of libertarianism subdivide into non-physical theories and physical or naturalistic theories. Non-physical theories hold that the events in the brain that lead to the performance of actions do not have an entirely physical explanation, which requires that the world is not closed under physics. This includes interactionist dualism, which claims that some non-physical mind, will, or soul overrides physical causality. Physical determinism implies there is only one possible future and is therefore not compatible with libertarian free will. As consequent of incompatibilism, metaphysical libertarian explanations that do not involve dispensing with physicalism require physical indeterminism, such as probabilistic subatomic particle behavior – theory unknown to many of the early writers on free will. Incompatibilist theories can be categorised based on the type of indeterminism they require; uncaused events, non-deterministically caused events, and agent/substance-caused events.\n\nNon-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will do not require a free action to be caused by either an agent or a physical event. They either rely upon a world that is not causally closed, or physical indeterminism. Non-causal accounts often claim that each intentional action requires a choice or volition – a willing, trying, or endeavoring on behalf of the agent (such as the cognitive component of lifting one's arm). Such intentional actions are interpreted as free actions. It has been suggested, however, that such acting cannot be said to exercise control over anything in particular. According to non-causal accounts, the causation by the agent cannot be analysed in terms of causation by mental states or events, including desire, belief, intention of something in particular, but rather is considered a matter of spontaneity and creativity. The exercise of intent in such intentional actions is not that which determines their freedom – intentional actions are rather self-generating. The \"actish feel\" of some intentional actions do not \"constitute that event's activeness, or the agent's exercise of active control\", rather they \"might be brought about by direct stimulation of someone's brain, in the absence of any relevant desire or intention on the part of that person\". Another question raised by such non-causal theory, is how an agent acts upon reason, if the said intentional actions are spontaneous.\n\nSome non-causal explanations involve invoking panpsychism, the theory that a quality of mind is associated with all particles, and pervades the entire universe, in both animate and inanimate entities.\n\nEvent-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will typically rely upon physicalist models of mind (like those of the compatibilist), yet they presuppose physical indeterminism, in which certain indeterministic events are said to be caused by the agent. A number of event-causal accounts of free will have been created, referenced here as \"deliberative indeterminism\", \"centred accounts\", and \"efforts of will theory\". The first two accounts do not require free will to be a fundamental constituent of the universe. Ordinary randomness is appealed to as supplying the \"elbow room\" that libertarians believe necessary. A first common objection to event-causal accounts is that the indeterminism could be destructive and could therefore diminish control by the agent rather than provide it (related to the problem of origination). A second common objection to these models is that it is questionable whether such indeterminism could add any value to deliberation over that which is already present in a deterministic world.\n\n\"Deliberative indeterminism\" asserts that the indeterminism is confined to an earlier stage in the decision process. This is intended to provide an indeterminate set of possibilities to choose from, while not risking the introduction of \"luck\" (random decision making). The selection process is deterministic, although it may be based on earlier preferences established by the same process. Deliberative indeterminism has been referenced by Daniel Dennett and John Martin Fischer. An obvious objection to such a view is that an agent cannot be assigned ownership over their decisions (or preferences used to make those decisions) to any greater degree than that of a compatibilist model.\n\n\"Centred accounts\" propose that for any given decision between two possibilities, the strength of reason will be considered for each option, yet there is still a probability the weaker candidate will be chosen. An obvious objection to such a view is that decisions are explicitly left up to chance, and origination or responsibility cannot be assigned for any given decision.\n\n\"Efforts of will theory\" is related to the role of will power in decision making. It suggests that the indeterminacy of agent volition processes could map to the indeterminacy of certain physical events – and the outcomes of these events could therefore be considered caused by the agent. Models of volition have been constructed in which it is seen as a particular kind of complex, high-level process with an element of physical indeterminism. An example of this approach is that of Robert Kane, where he hypothesizes that \"in each case, the indeterminism is functioning as a hindrance or obstacle to her realizing one of her purposes – a hindrance or obstacle in the form of resistance within her will which must be overcome by effort.\" According to Robert Kane such \"ultimate responsibility\" is a required condition for free will. An important factor in such a theory is that the agent cannot be reduced to physical neuronal events, but rather mental processes are said to provide an equally valid account of the determination of outcome as their physical processes (see non-reductive physicalism).\n\nAlthough at the time quantum mechanics (and physical indeterminism) was only in the initial stages of acceptance, in his book \"Miracles: A preliminary study\" C.S. Lewis stated the logical possibility that if the physical world were proved indeterministic this would provide an entry point to describe an action of a non-physical entity on physical reality. Indeterministic physical models (particularly those involving quantum indeterminacy) introduce random occurrences at an atomic or subatomic level. These events might affect brain activity, and could seemingly allow incompatibilist free will if the apparent indeterminacy of some mental processes (for instance, subjective perceptions of control in conscious volition) map to the underlying indeterminacy of the physical construct. This relationship, however, requires a causative role over probabilities that is questionable, and it is far from established that brain activity responsible for human action can be affected by such events. Secondarily, these incompatibilist models are dependent upon the relationship between action and conscious volition, as studied in the neuroscience of free will. It is evident that observation may disturb the outcome of the observation itself, rendering limited our ability to identify causality. Niels Bohr, one of the main architects of quantum theory, suggested, however, that no connection could be made between indeterminism of nature and freedom of will.\n\nAgent/substance-causal accounts of incompatibilist free will rely upon substance dualism in their description of mind. The agent is assumed power to intervene in the physical world.\nAgent (substance)-causal accounts have been suggested by both George Berkeley and Thomas Reid. It is required that what the agent causes is not causally determined by prior events. It is also required that the agent's causing of that event is not causally determined by prior events. A number of problems have been identified with this view. Firstly, it is difficult to establish the reason for any given choice by the agent, which suggests they may be random or determined by \"luck\" (without an underlying basis for the free will decision). Secondly, it has been questioned whether physical events can be caused by an external substance or mind – a common problem associated with interactionalist dualism.\n\nHard incompatibilism is the idea that free will cannot exist, whether the world is deterministic or not. Derk Pereboom has defended hard incompatibilism, identifying a variety of positions where free will is irrelevant to indeterminism/determinism, among them the following:\nPereboom calls positions 3 and 4 \"soft determinism\", position 1 a form of \"hard determinism\", position 6 a form of \"classical libertarianism\", and any position that includes having F as \"compatibilism\".\n\nJohn Locke denied that the phrase \"free will\" made any sense (compare with theological noncognitivism, a similar stance on the existence of God). He also took the view that the truth of determinism was irrelevant. He believed that the defining feature of voluntary behavior was that individuals have the ability to \"postpone\" a decision long enough to reflect or deliberate upon the consequences of a choice: \"... the will in truth, signifies nothing but a power, or ability, to prefer or choose\".\n\nThe contemporary philosopher Galen Strawson agrees with Locke that the truth or falsity of determinism is irrelevant to the\nproblem. He argues that the notion of free will leads to an infinite regress and is therefore senseless.\nAccording to Strawson, if one is responsible for what one does in a given situation, then one must be responsible for the way one is in certain mental respects. But it is impossible for one to be responsible for the way one is in any respect. This is because to be responsible in some situation \"S\", one must have been responsible for the way one was at \"S\". To be responsible for the way one was at \"S\", one must have been responsible for the way one was at \"S\", and so on. At some point in the chain, there must have been an act of origination of a new causal chain. But this is impossible. Man cannot create himself or his mental states \"ex nihilo\". This argument entails that free will itself is absurd, but not that it is incompatible with determinism. Strawson calls his own view \"pessimism\" but it can be classified as hard incompatibilism.\n\nCausal determinism is the concept that events within a given paradigm are bound by causality in such a way that any state (of an object or event) is completely determined by prior states. Causal determinism proposes that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. Causal determinists believe that there is nothing uncaused or self-caused. The most common form of causal determinism is nomological determinism (or scientific determinism), the notion that the past and the present dictate the future entirely and necessarily by rigid natural laws, that every occurrence results inevitably from prior events. Quantum mechanics poses a serious challenge to this view.\n\nFundamental debate continues over whether the physical universe is likely to be deterministic. Although the scientific method cannot be used to rule out indeterminism with respect to violations of causal closure, it can be used to identify indeterminism in natural law. Interpretations of quantum mechanics at present are both deterministic and indeterministic, and are being constrained by ongoing experimentation.\n\nDestiny or fate is a predetermined course of events. It may be conceived as a predetermined future, whether in general or of an individual. It is a concept based on the belief that there is a fixed natural order to the cosmos.\n\nAlthough often used interchangeably, the words \"fate\" and \"destiny\" have distinct connotations.\n\nFate generally implies there is a set course that cannot be deviated from, and over which one has no control. Fate is related to determinism, but makes no specific claim of physical determinism. Even with physical indeterminism an event could still be fated externally (see for instance theological determinism). Destiny likewise is related to determinism, but makes no specific claim of physical determinism. Even with physical indeterminism an event could still be destined to occur.\n\nDestiny implies there is a set course that cannot be deviated from, but does not of itself make any claim with respect to the setting of that course (i.e., it does not necessarily conflict with incompatibilist free will). Free will if existent could be the mechanism by which that destined outcome is chosen (determined to represent destiny).\n\nDiscussion regarding destiny does not necessitate the existence of supernatural powers. Logical determinism or determinateness is the notion that all propositions, whether about the past, present, or future, are either true or false. This creates a unique problem for free will given that propositions about the future already have a truth value in the present (that is it is already determined as either true or false), and is referred to as the problem of future contingents.\n\nOmniscience is the capacity to know everything that there is to know (included in which are all future events), and is a property often attributed to a creator deity. Omniscience implies the existence of destiny. Some authors have claimed that free will cannot coexist with omniscience. One argument asserts that an omniscient creator not only implies destiny but a form of high level predeterminism such as hard theological determinism or predestination – that they have independently fixed all events and outcomes in the universe in advance. In such a case, even if an individual could have influence over their lower level physical system, their choices in regard to this cannot be their own, as is the case with libertarian free will. Omniscience features as an incompatible-properties argument for the existence of God, known as the argument from free will, and is closely related to other such arguments, for example the incompatibility of omnipotence with a good creator deity (i.e. if a deity knew what they were going to choose, then they are responsible for letting them choose it).\n\nPredeterminism is the idea that all events are determined in advance. Predeterminism is the philosophy that all events of history, past, present and future, have been decided or are known (by God, fate, or some other force), including human actions. Predeterminism is frequently taken to mean that human actions cannot interfere with (or have no bearing on) the outcomes of a pre-determined course of events, and that one's destiny was established externally (for example, exclusively by a creator deity). The concept of predeterminism is often argued by invoking causal determinism, implying that there is an unbroken chain of prior occurrences stretching back to the origin of the universe. In the case of predeterminism, this chain of events has been pre-established, and human actions cannot interfere with the outcomes of this pre-established chain. Predeterminism can be used to mean such pre-established causal determinism, in which case it is categorised as a specific type of determinism. It can also be used interchangeably with causal determinism – in the context of its capacity to determine future events. Despite this, predeterminism is often considered as independent of causal determinism. The term predeterminism is also frequently used in the context of biology and heredity, in which case it represents a form of biological determinism.\n\nThe term predeterminism suggests not just a determining of all events, but the prior and deliberately conscious determining of all events (therefore done, presumably, by a conscious being). While determinism usually refers to a naturalistically explainable causality of events, predeterminism seems by definition to suggest a person or a \"someone\" who is controlling or planning the causality of events before they occur and who then perhaps resides beyond the natural, causal universe. Predestination asserts that a supremely powerful being has indeed fixed all events and outcomes in the universe in advance, and is a famous doctrine of the Calvinists in Christian theology. Predestination is often considered a form of hard theological determinism.\n\nPredeterminism has therefore been compared to fatalism. Fatalism is the idea that everything is fated to happen, so that humans have no control over their future.\n\nTheological determinism is a form of determinism stating that all events that happen are pre-ordained, or predestined to happen, by a monotheistic deity, or that they are destined to occur given its omniscience. Two forms of theological determinism exist, here referenced as strong and weak theological determinism.\n\nThere exist slight variations on the above categorisation. Some claim that theological determinism requires predestination of all events and outcomes by the divinity (that is, they do not classify the weaker version as 'theological determinism' unless libertarian free will is assumed to be denied as a consequence), or that the weaker version does not constitute 'theological determinism' at all. Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God. With respect to free will and the classification of theological compatibilism/incompatibilism below, \"theological determinism is the thesis that God exists and has infallible knowledge of all true propositions including propositions about our future actions,\" more minimal criteria designed to encapsulate all forms of theological determinism.\nThere are various implications for metaphysical libertarian free will as consequent of theological determinism and its philosophical interpretation.\n\nThe basic argument for theological fatalism in the case of weak theological determinism is as follows:\n\nThis argument is very often accepted as a basis for theological incompatibilism: denying either libertarian free will or divine foreknowledge (omniscience) and therefore theological determinism. On the other hand, theological compatibilism must attempt to find problems with it. The formal version of the argument rests on a number of premises, many of which have received some degree of contention. Theological compatibilist responses have included:\n\nIn the definition of compatibilism and incompatibilism, the literature often fails to distinguish between physical determinism and higher level forms of determinism (predeterminism, theological determinism, etc.) As such, hard determinism with respect to theological determinism (or \"Hard Theological Determinism\" above) might be classified as hard incompatibilism with respect to physical determinism (if no claim was made regarding the internal causality or determinism of the universe), or even compatibilism (if freedom from the constraint of determinism was not considered necessary for free will), if not hard determinism itself. By the same principle, metaphysical libertarianism (a form of incompatibilism with respect to physical determinism) might be classified as compatibilism with respect to theological determinism (if it was assumed such free will events were pre-ordained and therefore were destined to occur, but of which whose outcomes were not \"predestined\" or determined by God). If hard theological determinism is accepted (if it was assumed instead that such outcomes were predestined by God), then metaphysical libertarianism is not, however, possible, and would require reclassification (as hard incompatibilism for example, given that the universe is still assumed to be indeterministic – although the classification of hard determinism is technically valid also).\n\nThe idea of \"free will\" is one aspect of the mind-body problem, that is, consideration of the relation between mind (for example, consciousness, memory, and judgment) and body (for example, the human brain and nervous system). Philosophical models of mind are divided into physical and non-physical expositions.\n\nCartesian dualism holds that the mind is a nonphysical substance, the seat of consciousness and intelligence, and is not identical with physical states of the brain or body. It is suggested that although the two worlds do interact, each retains some measure of autonomy. Under cartesian dualism external mind is responsible for bodily action, although unconscious brain activity is often caused by external events (for example, the instantaneous reaction to being burned). Cartesian dualism implies that the physical world is not deterministic – and in which external mind controls (at least some) physical events, providing an interpretation of incompatibilist free will. Stemming from Cartesian dualism, a formulation sometimes called \"interactionalist dualism\" suggests a two-way interaction, that some physical events cause some mental acts and some mental acts cause some physical events. One modern vision of the possible separation of mind and body is the \"three-world\" formulation of Popper. Cartesian dualism and Popper's three worlds are two forms of what is called epistemological pluralism, that is the notion that different epistemological methodologies are necessary to attain a full description of the world. Other forms of epistemological pluralist dualism include psychophysical parallelism and epiphenomenalism. Epistemological pluralism is one view in which the mind-body problem is \"not\" reducible to the concepts of the natural sciences.\n\nA contrasting approach is called physicalism. Physicalism is a philosophical theory holding that everything that exists is no more extensive than its physical properties; that is, that there are no non-physical substances (for example physically independent minds). Physicalism can be reductive or non-reductive. Reductive physicalism is grounded in the idea that everything in the world can actually be reduced analytically to its fundamental physical, or material, basis. Alternatively, non-reductive physicalism asserts that mental properties form a separate ontological class to physical properties: that mental states (such as qualia) are not ontologically reducible to physical states. Although one might suppose that mental states and neurological states are different in kind, that does not rule out the possibility that mental states are correlated with neurological states. In one such construction, anomalous monism, mental events \"supervene\" on physical events, describing the emergence of mental properties correlated with physical properties – implying causal reducibility. Non-reductive physicalism is therefore often categorised as property dualism rather than monism, yet other types of property dualism do not adhere to the causal reducibility of mental states (see epiphenomenalism).\n\nIncompatibilism requires a distinction between the mental and the physical, being a commentary on the incompatibility of (determined) physical reality and one's presumably distinct experience of will. Secondarily, metaphysical libertarian free will must assert influence on physical reality, and where mind is responsible for such influence (as opposed to ordinary system randomness), it must be distinct from body to accomplish this. Both substance and property dualism offer such a distinction, and those particular models thereof that are not causally inert with respect to the physical world provide a basis for illustrating incompatibilist free will (i.e. interactionalist dualism and non-reductive physicalism).\n\nIt has been noted that the laws of physics have yet to resolve the hard problem of consciousness: \"Solving the hard problem of consciousness involves determining how physiological processes such as ions flowing across the nerve membrane \"cause\" us to have experiences.\" According to some, \"Intricately related to the hard problem of consciousness, the hard problem of free will represents \"the\" core problem of conscious free will: Does conscious volition impact the material world?\" Others however argue that \"consciousness plays a far smaller role in human life than Western culture has tended to believe.\"\n\nCompatibilists maintain that determinism is compatible with free will. They believe freedom can be present or absent in a situation for reasons that have nothing to do with metaphysics. For instance, courts of law make judgments about whether individuals are acting under their own free will under certain circumstances without bringing in metaphysics. Similarly, political liberty is a non-metaphysical concept. Likewise, some compatibilists define free will as freedom to act according to one's determined motives without hindrance from other individuals. So for example Aristotle in his \"Nicomachean Ethics\", and the Stoic Chrysippus.\nIn contrast, the incompatibilist positions are concerned with a sort of \"metaphysically free will\", which compatibilists claim has never been coherently defined. Compatibilists argue that determinism does not matter; though they disagree among themselves about what, in turn, \"does\" matter. To be a compatibilist, one need not endorse any particular conception of free will, but only deny that determinism is at odds with free will.\n\nAlthough there are various impediments to exercising one's choices, free will does not imply freedom of action. Freedom of choice (freedom to select one's will) is logically separate from freedom to \"implement\" that choice (freedom to enact one's will), although not all writers observe this distinction. Nonetheless, some philosophers have defined free will as the absence of various impediments. Some \"modern compatibilists\", such as Harry Frankfurt and Daniel Dennett, argue free will is simply freely choosing to do what constraints allow one to do. In other words, a coerced agent's choices can still be free if such coercion coincides with the agent's personal intentions and desires.\n\nMost \"classical compatibilists\", such as Thomas Hobbes, claim that a person is acting on the person's own will only when it is the desire of that person to do the act, and also possible for the person to be able to do otherwise, \"if the person had decided to\". Hobbes sometimes attributes such compatibilist freedom to each individual and not to some abstract notion of \"will\", asserting, for example, that \"no liberty can be inferred to the will, desire, or inclination, but the liberty of the man; which consisteth in this, that he finds no stop, in doing what he has the will, desire, or inclination to doe.\" In articulating this crucial proviso, David Hume writes, \"this hypothetical liberty is universally allowed to belong to every one who is not a prisoner and in chains.\" Similarly, Voltaire, in his \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", claimed that \"Liberty then is only and can be only the power to do what one will.\" He asked, \"would you have everything at the pleasure of a million blind caprices?\" For him, free will or liberty is \"only the power of acting, what is this power? It is the effect of the constitution and present state of our organs.\"\n\nCompatibilism often regards the agent free as virtue of their reason. Some explanations of free will focus on the internal causality of the mind with respect to higher-order brain processing – the interaction between conscious and unconscious brain activity. Likewise, some modern compatibilists in psychology have tried to revive traditionally accepted struggles of free will with the formation of character. Compatibilist free will has also been attributed to our natural sense of agency, where one must believe they are an agent in order to function and develop a theory of mind.\n\nThe notion of levels of decision is presented in a different manner by Frankfurt. Frankfurt argues for a version of compatibilism called the \"hierarchical mesh\". The idea is that an individual can have conflicting desires at a first-order level and also have a desire about the various first-order desires (a second-order desire) to the effect that one of the desires prevails over the others. A person's will is identified with their effective first-order desire, that is, the one they act on, and this will is free if it was the desire the person wanted to act upon, that is, the person's second-order desire was effective. So, for example, there are \"wanton addicts\", \"unwilling addicts\" and \"willing addicts\". All three groups may have the conflicting first-order desires to want to take the drug they are addicted to and to not want to take it.\n\nThe first group, \"wanton addicts\", have no second-order desire not to take the drug. The second group, \"unwilling addicts\", have a second-order desire not to take the drug, while the third group, \"willing addicts\", have a second-order desire to take it. According to Frankfurt, the members of the first group are devoid of will and therefore are no longer persons. The members of the second group freely desire not to take the drug, but their will is overcome by the addiction. Finally, the members of the third group willingly take the drug they are addicted to. Frankfurt's theory can ramify to any number of levels. Critics of the theory point out that there is no certainty that conflicts will not arise even at the higher-order levels of desire and preference. Others argue that Frankfurt offers no adequate explanation of how the various levels in the hierarchy mesh together.\n\nIn \"Elbow Room\", Dennett presents an argument for a compatibilist theory of free will, which he further elaborated in the book \"Freedom Evolves\". The basic reasoning is that, if one excludes God, an infinitely powerful demon, and other such possibilities, then because of chaos and epistemic limits on the precision of our knowledge of the current state of the world, the future is ill-defined for all finite beings. The only well-defined things are \"expectations\". The ability to do \"otherwise\" only makes sense when dealing with these expectations, and not with some unknown and unknowable future.\n\nAccording to Dennett, because individuals have the ability to act differently from what anyone expects, free will can exist. Incompatibilists claim the problem with this idea is that we may be mere \"automata responding in predictable ways to stimuli in our environment\". Therefore, all of our actions are controlled by forces outside ourselves, or by random chance. More sophisticated analyses of compatibilist free will have been offered, as have other critiques.\n\nIn the philosophy of decision theory, a fundamental question is: From the standpoint of statistical outcomes, to what extent do the choices of a conscious being have the ability to influence the future? Newcomb's paradox and other philosophical problems pose questions about free will and predictable outcomes of choices.\n\nCompatibilist models of free will often consider deterministic relationships as discoverable in the physical world (including the brain). Cognitive naturalism is a physicalist approach to studying human cognition and consciousness in which the mind is simply part of nature, perhaps merely a feature of many very complex self-programming feedback systems (for example, neural networks and cognitive robots), and so must be studied by the methods of empirical science, such as the behavioral and cognitive sciences (\"i.e.\" neuroscience and cognitive psychology). Cognitive naturalism stresses the role of neurological sciences. Overall brain health, substance dependence, depression, and various personality disorders clearly influence mental activity, and their impact upon volition is also important. For example, an addict may experience a conscious desire to escape addiction, but be unable to do so. The \"will\" is disconnected from the freedom to act. This situation is related to an abnormal production and distribution of dopamine in the brain. The neuroscience of free will places restrictions on both compatibilist and incompatibilist free will conceptions.\n\nCompatibilist models adhere to models of mind in which mental activity (such as deliberation) can be reduced to physical activity without any change in physical outcome. Although compatibilism is generally aligned to (or is at least compatible with) physicalism, some compatibilist models describe the natural occurrences of deterministic deliberation in the brain in terms of the first person perspective of the conscious agent performing the deliberation. Such an approach has been considered a form of identity dualism. A description of \"how conscious experience might affect brains\" has been provided in which \"the experience of conscious free will is the first-person perspective of the neural correlates of choosing.\"\n\nRecently Claudio Costa developed a neocompatibilist theory based on the causal theory of action that is complementary to classical compatibilism. According to him, physical, psychological and rational restrictions can interfer at different levels of the causal chain that would naturally lead to action. Corrrespondingly, there can be physical restrictions to the body, psychological restrictions to the decision, and rational restrictions to the formation of reasons (desires plus beliefs) that should lead to what we would call a reasonable action. The last two are usually called \"restrictions of free will\". The restriction at the level of reasons is particularly important, since it can be motivated by external reasons that are insufficiently conscious to the agent. One example was the collective suicide led by Jim Jones. The suicidal agents were not conscious that their free will have been manipulated by external, even if ungrounded, reasons.\n\nSome philosophers' views are difficult to categorize as either compatibilist or incompatibilist, hard determinist or libertarian. For example, Ted Honderich holds the view that \"determinism is true, compatibilism and incompatibilism are both false\" and the real problem lies elsewhere. Honderich maintains that determinism is true because quantum phenomena are not events or things that can be located in space and time, but are abstract entities. Further, even if they were micro-level events, they do not seem to have any relevance to how the world is at the macroscopic level. He maintains that incompatibilism is false because, even if indeterminism is true, incompatibilists have not provided, and cannot provide, an adequate account of origination. He rejects compatibilism because it, like incompatibilism, assumes a single, fundamental notion of freedom. There are really two notions of freedom: voluntary action and origination. Both notions are required to explain freedom of will and responsibility. Both determinism and indeterminism are threats to such freedom. To abandon these notions of freedom would be to abandon moral responsibility. On the one side, we have our intuitions; on the other, the scientific facts. The \"new\" problem is how to resolve this conflict.\n\nDavid Hume discussed the possibility that the entire debate about free will is nothing more than a merely \"verbal\" issue. He suggested that it might be accounted for by \"a false sensation or seeming experience\" (a \"velleity\"), which is associated with many of our actions when we perform them. On reflection, we realize that they were necessary and determined all along.\nArthur Schopenhauer put the puzzle of free will and moral responsibility in these terms:\nEveryone believes himself, \"a priori\", perfectly free – even in his individual actions, and thinks that at every moment he can commence another manner of life. ... But \"a posteriori\", through experience, he finds to his astonishment that he is not free, but subjected to necessity, that in spite of all his resolutions and reflections he does not change his conduct, and that from the beginning of his life to the end of it, he must carry out the very character which he himself condemns...\nIn his essay \"On the Freedom of the Will\", Schopenhauer stated, \"You can do what you will, but in any given moment of your life you can \"will\" only one definite thing and absolutely nothing other than that one thing.\" According to Schopenhauer, phenomena do not have free will. However, will [urging, craving, striving, wanting, and desiring] as noumenon is free.\n\nRudolf Steiner, who collaborated in a complete edition of Arthur Schopenhauer's work, wrote \"The Philosophy of Freedom\", which focuses on the problem of free will. Steiner (1861–1925) initially divides this into the two aspects of freedom: \"freedom of thought\" and \"freedom of action\". The controllable and uncontrollable aspects of decision making thereby are made logically separable, as pointed out in the introduction. This separation of \"will\" from \"action\" has a very long history, going back at least as far as Stoicism and the teachings of Chrysippus (279–206 BCE), who separated external \"antecedent\" causes from the internal disposition receiving this cause.\n\nSteiner then argues that inner freedom is achieved when we integrate our sensory impressions, which reflect the outer appearance of the world, with our thoughts, which lend coherence to these impressions and thereby disclose to us an understandable world. Acknowledging the many influences on our choices, he nevertheless point out that they do not preclude freedom unless we fail to recognise them. Steiner argues that outer freedom is attained by permeating our deeds with \"moral imagination.” “Moral” in this case refers to action that is willed, while “imagination” refers to the mental capacity to envision conditions that do not already hold. Both of these functions are necessarily conditions for freedom. Steiner aims to show that these two aspects of inner and outer freedom are integral to one another, and that true freedom is only achieved when they are united.\n\nWilliam James' views were ambivalent. While he believed in free will on \"ethical grounds\", he did not believe that there was evidence for it on scientific grounds, nor did his own introspections support it. Ultimately he believed that the problem of free will was a metaphysical issue and, therefore, could not be settled by science. Moreover, he did not accept incompatibilism as formulated below; he did not believe that the indeterminism of human actions was a prerequisite of moral responsibility. In his work \"Pragmatism\", he wrote that \"instinct and utility between them can safely be trusted to carry on the social business of punishment and praise\" regardless of metaphysical theories. He did believe that indeterminism is important as a \"doctrine of relief\" – it allows for the view that, although the world may be in many respects a bad place, it may, through individuals' actions, become a better one. Determinism, he argued, undermines meliorism – the idea that progress is a real concept leading to improvement in the world.\n\nIn 1739, David Hume in his \"A Treatise of Human Nature\" approached free will via the notion of causality. It was his position that causality was a mental construct used to explain the repeated association of events, and that one must examine more closely the relation between things \"regularly succeeding\" one another (descriptions of regularity in nature) and things that \"result\" in other things (things that cause or necessitate other things). According to Hume, 'causation' is on weak grounds: \"Once we realise that 'A must bring about B' is tantamount merely to 'Due to their constant conjunction, we are psychologically certain that B will follow A,' then we are left with a very weak notion of necessity.\"\n\nThis empiricist view was often denied by trying to prove the so-called apriority of causal law (i.e. that it precedes all experience and is rooted in the construction of the perceivable world):\n\nIn the 1780s Immanuel Kant suggested at a minimum our decision processes with moral implications lie outside the reach of everyday causality, and lie outside the rules governing material objects. \"There is a sharp difference between moral judgments and judgments of fact... Moral judgments ... must be \"a priori\" judgments.\"\n\nFreeman introduces what he calls \"circular causality\" to \"allow for the contribution of self-organizing dynamics\", the \"formation of macroscopic population dynamics that shapes the patterns of activity of the contributing individuals\", applicable to \"interactions between neurons and neural masses ... and between the behaving animal and its environment\". In this view, mind and neurological functions are tightly coupled in a situation where feedback between collective actions (mind) and individual subsystems (for example, neurons and their synapses) jointly decide upon the behaviour of both.\n\nThirteenth century philosopher Thomas Aquinas viewed humans as pre-programmed (by virtue of being human) to seek certain goals, but able to choose between routes to achieve these goals (our Aristotelian telos). His view has been associated with both compatibilism and libertarianism.\n\nIn facing choices, he argued that humans are governed by \"intellect\", \"will\", and \"passions\". The will is \"the primary mover of all the powers of the soul ... and it is also the efficient cause of motion in the body.\" Choice falls into five stages: (i) intellectual consideration of whether an objective is desirable, (ii) intellectual consideration of means of attaining the objective, (iii) will arrives at an intent to pursue the objective, (iv) will and intellect jointly decide upon choice of means (v) will elects execution. Free will enters as follows: Free will is an \"appetitive power\", that is, not a cognitive power of intellect (the term \"appetite\" from Aquinas's definition \"includes all forms of internal inclination\"). He states that judgment \"concludes and terminates counsel. Now counsel is terminated, first, by the judgment of reason; secondly, by the acceptation of the appetite [that is, the free-will].\"\n\nA compatibilist interpretation of Aquinas's view is defended thus: \"Free-will is the cause of its own movement, because by his free-will man moves himself to act. But it does not of necessity belong to liberty that what is free should be the first cause of itself, as neither for one thing to be cause of another need it be the first cause. God, therefore, is the first cause, Who moves causes both natural and voluntary. And just as by moving natural causes He does not prevent their acts being natural, so by moving voluntary causes He does not deprive their actions of being voluntary: but rather is He the cause of this very thing in them; for He operates in each thing according to its own nature.\"\n\nHistorically, most of the philosophical effort invested in resolving the dilemma has taken the form of close examination of definitions and ambiguities in the concepts designated by \"free\", \"freedom\", \"will\", \"choice\" and so forth. Defining 'free will' often revolves around the meaning of phrases like \"ability to do otherwise\" or \"alternative possibilities\". This emphasis upon words has led some philosophers to claim the problem is merely verbal and thus a pseudo-problem. In response, others point out the complexity of decision making and the importance of nuances in the terminology.\n\nThe problem of free will has been identified in ancient Greek philosophical literature. The notion of compatibilist free will has been attributed to both Aristotle (fourth century BCE) and Epictetus (1st century CE); \"it was the fact that nothing hindered us from doing or choosing something that made us have control over them\". According to Susanne Bobzien, the notion of incompatibilist free will is perhaps first identified in the works of Alexander of Aphrodisias (third century CE); \"what makes us have control over things is the fact that we are causally undetermined in our decision and thus can freely decide between doing/choosing or not doing/choosing them\".\n\nThe term \"free will\" (\"liberum arbitrium\") was introduced by Christian philosophy (4th century CE). It has traditionally meant (until the Enlightenment proposed its own meanings) lack of necessity in human will, so that \"the will is free\" meant \"the will does not have to be such as it is\". This requirement was universally embraced by both incompatibilists and compatibilists.\n\nScience has contributed to the free will problem in at least three ways. First, physics has addressed the question whether nature is deterministic, which is viewed as crucial by incompatibilists (compatibilists, however, view it as irrelevant). Second, although free will can be defined in various ways, all of them involve aspects of the way people make decisions and initiate actions, which have been studied extensively by neuroscientists. Some of the experimental observations are widely viewed as implying that free will does not exist or is an illusion (but many philosophers see this as a misunderstanding). Third, psychologists have studied the beliefs that the majority of ordinary people hold about free will and its role in assigning moral responsibility.\n\nEarly scientific thought often portrayed the universe as deterministic – for example in the thought of Democritus or the Cārvākans – and some thinkers claimed that the simple process of gathering sufficient information would allow them to predict future events with perfect accuracy. Modern science, on the other hand, is a mixture of deterministic and stochastic theories. Quantum mechanics predicts events only in terms of probabilities, casting doubt on whether the universe is deterministic at all, although evolution of the universal state vector is completely deterministic. Current physical theories cannot resolve the question of whether determinism is true of the world, being very far from a potential Theory of Everything, and open to many different interpretations.\n\nAssuming that an indeterministic interpretation of quantum mechanics is correct, one may still object that such indeterminism is for all practical purposes confined to microscopic phenomena. This is not always the case: many macroscopic phenomena are based on quantum effects. For instance, some hardware random number generators work by amplifying quantum effects into practically usable signals. A more significant question is whether the indeterminism of quantum mechanics allows for the traditional idea of free will (based on a perception of free will). If a person's action is, however, only a result of complete quantum randomness, and mental processes as experienced have no influence on the probabilistic outcomes (such as volition), According to many interpretations, non-determinism enables free will to exist, while others assert the opposite (because the action was not controllable by the physical being who claims to possess the free will).\n\nLike physicists, biologists have frequently addressed questions related to free will. One of the most heated debates in biology is that of \"nature versus nurture\", concerning the relative importance of genetics and biology as compared to culture and environment in human behavior. The view of many researchers is that many human behaviors can be explained in terms of humans' brains, genes, and evolutionary histories. This point of view raises the fear that such attribution makes it impossible to hold others responsible for their actions. Steven Pinker's view is that fear of determinism in the context of \"genetics\" and \"evolution\" is a mistake, that it is \"a confusion of \"explanation\" with \"exculpation\"\". Responsibility does not require that behavior be uncaused, as long as behavior responds to praise and blame. Moreover, it is not certain that environmental determination is any less threatening to free will than genetic determination.\n\nIt has become possible to study the living brain, and researchers can now watch the brain's decision-making process at work. A seminal experiment in this field was conducted by Benjamin Libet in the 1980s, in which he asked each subject to choose a random moment to flick their wrist while he measured the associated activity in their brain; in particular, the build-up of electrical signal called the readiness potential (after German Bereitschaftspotential, which was discovered by Kornhuber & Deecke in 1965.) Although it was well known that the readiness potential reliably preceded the physical action, Libet asked whether it could be recorded before the conscious intention to move. To determine when subjects felt the intention to move, he asked them to watch the second hand of a clock. After making a movement, the volunteer reported the time on the clock when they first felt the conscious intention to move; this became known as Libet's W time.\n\nLibet found that the \"unconscious\" brain activity of the readiness potential leading up to subjects' movements began approximately half a second before the subject was aware of a conscious intention to move.\n\nThese studies of the timing between actions and the conscious decision bear upon the role of the brain in understanding free will. A subject's declaration of intention to move a finger appears \"after\" the brain has begun to implement the action, suggesting to some that unconsciously the brain has made the decision \"before\" the conscious mental act to do so. Some believe the implication is that free will was not involved in the decision and is an illusion. The first of these experiments reported the brain registered activity related to the move about 0.2 s before movement onset. However, these authors also found that awareness of action was \"anticipatory\" to activity in the muscle underlying the movement; the entire process resulting in action involves more steps than just the \"onset\" of brain activity. The bearing of these results upon notions of free will appears complex.\n\nSome argue that placing the question of free will in the context of motor control is too narrow. The objection is that the time scales involved in motor control are very short, and motor control involves a great deal of unconscious action, with much physical movement entirely unconscious. On that basis \"... free will cannot be squeezed into time frames of 150–350 ms; free will is a longer term phenomenon\" and free will is a higher level activity that \"cannot be captured in a description of neural activity or of muscle activation...\" The bearing of timing experiments upon free will is still under discussion.\n\nMore studies have since been conducted, including some that try to:\n\nBenjamin Libet's results are quoted in favor of epiphenomenalism, but he believes subjects still have a \"conscious veto\", since the readiness potential does not invariably lead to an action. In \"Freedom Evolves\", Daniel Dennett argues that a no-free-will conclusion is based on dubious assumptions about the location of consciousness, as well as questioning the accuracy and interpretation of Libet's results. Kornhuber & Deecke underlined that absence of conscious will during the early Bereitschaftspotential (termed BP1) is not a proof of the non-existence of free will, as also unconscious agendas may be free and non-deterministic. According to their suggestion, man has relative freedom, i.e. freedom in degrees, that can be in- or decreased through deliberate choices that involve both conscious and unconscious (panencephalic) processes.\n\nOthers have argued that data such as the Bereitschaftspotential undermine epiphenomenalism for the same reason, that such experiments rely on a subject reporting the point in time at which a conscious experience occurs, thus relying on the subject to be able to consciously perform an action. That ability would seem to be at odds with early epiphenomenalism, which according to Huxley is the broad claim that consciousness is \"completely without any power… as the steam-whistle which accompanies the work of a locomotive engine is without influence upon its machinery\".\n\nAdrian G. Guggisberg and Annaïs Mottaz have also challenged those findings.\n\nA study by Aaron Schurger and colleagues published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS) challenged assumptions about the causal nature of the readiness potential itself (and the \"pre-movement buildup\" of neural activity in general), casting doubt on conclusions drawn from studies such as Libet's and Fried's.\n\nIt has been shown that in several brain-related conditions, individuals cannot entirely control their own actions, though the existence of such conditions does not directly refute the existence of free will. Neuroscientific studies are valuable tools in developing models of how humans experience free will.\n\nFor example, people with Tourette syndrome and related tic disorders make involuntary movements and utterances (called tics) despite the fact that they would prefer not to do so when it is socially inappropriate. Tics are described as semi-voluntary or \"unvoluntary\", because they are not strictly \"involuntary\": they may be experienced as a \"voluntary\" response to an unwanted, premonitory urge. Tics are experienced as irresistible and must eventually be expressed. People with Tourette syndrome are sometimes able to suppress their tics for limited periods, but doing so often results in an explosion of tics afterward. The control exerted (from seconds to hours at a time) may merely postpone and exacerbate the ultimate expression of the tic.\n\nIn alien hand syndrome, the afflicted individual's limb will produce unintentional movements without the will of the person. The affected limb effectively demonstrates 'a will of its own.' The sense of agency does not emerge in conjunction with the overt appearance of the purposeful act even though the sense of ownership in relationship to the body part is maintained. This phenomenon corresponds with an impairment in the premotor mechanism manifested temporally by the appearance of the readiness potential (see section on the Neuroscience of Free Will above) recordable on the scalp several hundred milliseconds before the overt appearance of a spontaneous willed movement. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging with specialized multivariate analyses to study the temporal dimension in the activation of the cortical network associated with voluntary movement in human subjects, an anterior-to-posterior sequential activation process beginning in the supplementary motor area on the medial surface of the frontal lobe and progressing to the primary motor cortex and then to parietal cortex has been observed. The sense of agency thus appears to normally emerge in conjunction with this orderly sequential network activation incorporating premotor association cortices together with primary motor cortex. In particular, the supplementary motor complex on the medial surface of the frontal lobe appears to activate prior to primary motor cortex presumably in associated with a preparatory pre-movement process. In a recent study using functional magnetic resonance imaging, alien movements were characterized by a relatively isolated activation of the primary motor cortex contralateral to the alien hand, while voluntary movements of the same body part included the natural activation of motor association cortex associated with the premotor process. The clinical definition requires \"feeling that one limb is foreign or has a \"will of its own,\" together with observable involuntary motor activity\" (emphasis in original). This syndrome is often a result of damage to the corpus callosum, either when it is severed to treat intractable epilepsy or due to a stroke. The standard neurological explanation is that the felt will reported by the speaking left hemisphere does not correspond with the actions performed by the non-speaking right hemisphere, thus suggesting that the two hemispheres may have independent senses of will.\n\nIn addition, one of the most important (\"first rank\") diagnostic symptoms of schizophrenia is the patient's delusion of being controlled by an external force. People with schizophrenia will sometimes report that, although they are acting in the world, they do not recall initiating the particular actions they performed. This is sometimes likened to being a robot controlled by someone else. Although the neural mechanisms of schizophrenia are not yet clear, one influential hypothesis is that there is a breakdown in brain systems that compare motor commands with the feedback received from the body (known as proprioception), leading to attendant hallucinations and delusions of control.\n\nExperimental psychology's contributions to the free will debate have come primarily through social psychologist Daniel Wegner's work on conscious will. In his book, \"The Illusion of Conscious Will\" Wegner summarizes what he believes is empirical evidence supporting the view that human perception of conscious control is an illusion. Wegner summarizes some empirical evidence that may suggest that the perception of conscious control is open to modification (or even manipulation). Wegner observes that one event is inferred to have caused a second event when two requirements are met:\nFor example, if a person hears an explosion and sees a tree fall down that person is likely to infer that the explosion caused the tree to fall over. However, if the explosion occurs after the tree falls down (that is, the first requirement is not met), or rather than an explosion, the person hears the ring of a telephone (that is, the second requirement is not met), then that person is not likely to infer that either noise caused the tree to fall down.\n\nWegner has applied this principle to the inferences people make about their own conscious will. People typically experience a thought that is consistent with a behavior, and then they observe themselves performing this behavior. As a result, people infer that their thoughts must have caused the observed behavior. However, Wegner has been able to manipulate people's thoughts and behaviors so as to conform to or violate the two requirements for causal inference. Through such work, Wegner has been able to show that people often experience conscious will over behaviors that they have not, in fact, caused – and conversely, that people can be led to experience a lack of will over behaviors they did cause. For instance, priming subjects with information about an effect increases the probability that a person falsely believes is the cause. The implication for such work is that the perception of conscious will (which he says might be more accurately labelled as 'the emotion of authorship') is not tethered to the execution of actual behaviors, but is inferred from various cues through an intricate mental process, \"authorship processing\". Although many interpret this work as a blow against the argument for free will, both psychologists and philosophers have criticized Wegner's theories.\n\nEmily Pronin has argued that the subjective experience of free will is supported by the introspection illusion. This is the tendency for people to trust the reliability of their own introspections while distrusting the introspections of other people. The theory implies that people will more readily attribute free will to themselves rather than others. This prediction has been confirmed by three of Pronin and Kugler's experiments. When college students were asked about personal decisions in their own and their roommate's lives, they regarded their own choices as less predictable. Staff at a restaurant described their co-workers' lives as more determined (having fewer future possibilities) than their own lives. When weighing up the influence of different factors on behavior, students gave desires and intentions the strongest weight for their own behavior, but rated personality traits as most predictive of other people.\n\nPsychologists have shown that reducing a person's belief in free will makes them less helpful and more aggressive. This may occur because the subject loses a sense of self-efficacy.\n\nCaveats have, however, been identified in studying a subject's awareness of mental events, in that the process of introspection itself may alter the experience.\n\nJ.B. Miles contradicts the idea that free will has prosocial benefits, recognizing that many distinguished minds have already brought up the negative effects that such a belief would ensure. The explanation for the commonality of this mix-up is a lack of knowledge regarding the free will debate in psychological research. Miles analyzed the methods of popular studies and concluded that such research purported to be examining associations between behavior and disbelief in free will are actually examining the associations between behavior and belief in fatalism. While evidence of the negative effects of a belief in fatalism is legitimate, the research fails to study the effects of belief on free will which they claim to discuss. This occurrence is due to an incorrect understanding and implication that fatalism accompanies determinism. Fatalism is distinguished by the idea that decisions lack effect on the future because everything is determined. Conversely, determinism is the belief that everything operates under cause and effect; every action determines a reaction. Determinism, therefore emphasizes the importance and responsibility one has in decision making as every choice will have an accompanying effect. Seeing this flaw throughout commonly cited research, Miles presents countering research which includes “evidence that the myth of free choice encourages immoral, unjust, prejudiced, and anti-intellectual behaviour.” Miles suggests that while both extremes of fatalism and belief in free will result in negative social outcomes, determinism serves to encourage intentional, prosocial decision making. Ultimately, the point of this research is to encourage accurate knowledge of the free will debate when conducting and evaluating such studies in experimental psychology.\n\nRegardless of the validity of, or benefit of, belief in free will, it may be beneficial to understand where the idea comes from. One contribution is randomness. While it is established that randomness is not the only factor in the perception of the free will, it has been shown that randomness can be mistaken as free will due to its indeterminacy. This misconception applies both when considering oneself and others. Another contribution is choice. It has been demonstrated that people's belief in free will increases if presented with a simple level of choice. The specificity of the amount of choice is important, as too little or too great a degree of choice may negatively influence belief. It is also likely that the associative relationship between level of choice and perception of free will is influentially bidirectional. It is also possible that one's desire for control, or other basic motivational patterns, act as a third variable.\n\nIn recent years, free will belief in individuals has been analysed with respect to traits in social behaviour. In general the concept of free will researched to date in this context has been that of the incompatibilist, or more specifically, the libertarian, that is freedom from determinism.\n\nWhether people naturally adhere to an incompatibilist model of free will has been questioned in the research. Eddy Nahmias has found that incompatibilism is not intuitive – it was not adhered to, in that determinism does not negate belief in moral responsibility (based on an empirical study of people's responses to moral dilemmas under a deterministic model of reality). Edward Cokely has found that incompatibilism is intuitive – it was naturally adhered to, in that determinism does indeed negate belief in moral responsibility in general. Joshua Knobe and Shaun Nichols have proposed that incompatibilism may or may not be intuitive, and that it is dependent to some large degree upon the circumstances; whether or not the crime incites an emotional response – for example if it involves harming another human being. They found that belief in free will is a cultural universal, and that the majority of participants said that (a) our universe is indeterministic and (b) moral responsibility is not compatible with determinism.\n\nStudies indicate that peoples' belief in free will is inconsistent. Emily Pronin and Matthew Kugler found that people believe they have more free will than others.\n\nStudies also reveal a correlation between the likelihood of accepting a deterministic model of mind and personality type. For example, Adam Feltz and Edward Cokely found that people of an extrovert personality type are more likely to dissociate belief in determinism from belief in moral responsibility.\n\nRoy Baumeister and colleagues reviewed literature on the psychological effects of a belief (or disbelief) in free will. The first part of their analysis (which the only relevant part to this section) was not meant to discover the types of free will that actually exist. The researchers instead sought to identify what people believe, how many people believed it, and the effects of those beliefs. Baumeister found that most people tend to believe in a sort of \"naive compatibilistic free will\".\n\nThe researchers also found that people consider acts more \"free\" when they involve a person opposing external forces, planning, or making random actions. Notably, the last behaviour, \"random\" actions, may not be possible; when participants attempt to perform tasks in a random manner (such as generating random numbers), their behaviour betrays many patterns.\n\nA recent 2009 survey has shown that compatibilism is quite a popular stance among those who specialize in philosophy (59%). Belief in libertarianism amounted to 14%, while a lack of belief in free will equaled 12%. More than a half of surveyed people were US Americans.\n\n79 percent of evolutionary biologists said that they believe in free-will according to a survey conducted in 2007, only 14 percent chose no free will, and 7 percent did not answer the question.\n\nBaumeister and colleagues found that provoking disbelief in free will seems to cause various negative effects. The authors concluded, in their paper, that it is belief in determinism that causes those negative effects. This may not be a very justified conclusion, however. First of all, free will can at least refer to either libertarian (indeterministic) free will or compatibilistic (deterministic) free will. Having participants read articles that simply \"disprove free will\" is unlikely to increase their understanding of determinism, or the compatibilistic free will that it still permits.\n\nIn other words, \"provoking disbelief in free will\" probably causes a belief in fatalism. As discussed earlier in this article, compatibilistic free will is illustrated by statements like \"my choices have causes, and an effect – so I affect my future\", whereas fatalism is more like \"my choices have causes, but no effect – I am powerless\". Fatalism, then, may be what threatens people's sense of self-efficacy. Lay people should not confuse fatalism with determinism, and yet even professional philosophers occasionally confuse the two. It is thus likely that the negative consequences below can be accounted for by participants developing a belief in \"fatalism\" when experiments attack belief in \"free will\". To test the effects of belief in determinism, future studies would need to provide articles that do not simply \"attack free will\", but instead focus on explaining determinism and compatibilism. Some studies have been conducted indicating that people react strongly to the way in which mental determinism is described, when reconciling it with moral responsibility. Eddy Nahmias has noted that when people's actions are framed with respect to their beliefs and desires (rather than their neurological underpinnings), they are more likely to dissociate determinism from moral responsibility.\n\nVarious social behavioural traits have been correlated with the belief in deterministic models of mind, some of which involved the experimental subjection of individuals to libertarian and deterministic perspectives.\n\nAfter researchers provoked volunteers to disbelieve in free will, participants lied, cheated, and stole more. Kathleen Vohs has found that those whose belief in free will had been eroded were more likely to cheat. In a study conducted by Roy Baumeister, after participants read an article arguing against free will, they were more likely to lie about their performance on a test where they would be rewarded with cash. Provoking a rejection of free will has also been associated with increased aggression and less helpful behaviour as well as mindless conformity. Disbelief in free will can even cause people to feel less guilt about transgressions against others.\n\nBaumeister and colleagues also note that volunteers disbelieving in free will are less capable of counterfactual thinking. This is worrying because counterfactual thinking (\"If I had done something different...\") is an important part of learning from one's choices, including those that harmed others. Again, this cannot be taken to mean that belief in determinism is to blame; these are the results we would expect from increasing people's belief in fatalism.\n\nAlong similar lines, Tyler Stillman has found that belief in free will predicts better job performance.\n\nThe six orthodox (astika) schools of thought in Hindu philosophy do not agree with each other entirely on the question of free will. For the Samkhya, for instance, matter is without any freedom, and soul lacks any ability to control the unfolding of matter. The only real freedom (\"kaivalya\") consists in realizing the ultimate separateness of matter and self. For the Yoga school, only Ishvara is truly free, and its freedom is also distinct from all feelings, thoughts, actions, or wills, and is thus not at all a freedom of will. The metaphysics of the Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools strongly suggest a belief in determinism, but do not seem to make explicit claims about determinism or free will.\n\nA quotation from Swami Vivekananda, a Vedantist, offers a good example of the worry about free will in the Hindu tradition.\n\nHowever, the preceding quote has often been misinterpreted as Vivekananda implying that everything is predetermined. What Vivekananda actually meant by lack of free will was that the will was not \"free\" because it was heavily influenced by the law of cause and effect – \"The will is not free, it is a phenomenon bound by cause and effect, but there is something behind the will which is free.\" Vivekananda never said things were absolutely determined and placed emphasis on the power of conscious choice to alter one's past karma: \"It is the coward and the fool who says this is his fate. But it is the strong man who stands up and says I will make my own fate.\"\n\nBuddhism accepts both freedom and determinism (or something similar to it), but in spite of its focus towards the human agency, rejects the western concept of a total agent from external sources. According to the Buddha, \"There is free action, there is retribution, but I see no agent that passes out from one set of momentary elements into another one, except the [connection] of those elements.\" Buddhists believe in neither absolute free will, nor determinism. It preaches a middle doctrine, named \"pratitya-samutpada\" in Sanskrit, often translated as \"inter-dependent arising\". This theory is also called \"Conditioned Genesis\" or \"Dependent Origination\". It teaches that every volition is a conditioned action as a result of ignorance. In part, it states that free will is inherently conditioned and not \"free\" to begin with. It is also part of the theory of karma in Buddhism. The concept of karma in Buddhism is different from the notion of karma in Hinduism. In Buddhism, the idea of karma is much less deterministic. The Buddhist notion of karma is primarily focused on the cause and effect of moral actions in this life, while in Hinduism the concept of karma is more often connected with determining one's destiny in future lives.\n\nIn Buddhism it is taught that the idea of absolute freedom of choice (that is that any human being could be completely free to make any choice) is unwise, because it denies the reality of one's physical needs and circumstances. Equally incorrect is the idea that humans have no choice in life or that their lives are pre-determined. To deny freedom would be to deny the efforts of Buddhists to make moral progress (through our capacity to freely choose compassionate action). \"Pubbekatahetuvada\", the belief that all happiness and suffering arise from previous actions, is considered a wrong view according to Buddhist doctrines. Because Buddhists also reject agenthood, the traditional compatibilist strategies are closed to them as well. Instead, the Buddhist philosophical strategy is to examine the metaphysics of causality. Ancient India had many heated arguments about the nature of causality with Jains, Nyayists, Samkhyists, Cārvākans, and Buddhists all taking slightly different lines. In many ways, the Buddhist position is closer to a theory of \"conditionality\" than a theory of \"causality\", especially as it is expounded by Nagarjuna in the \"Mūlamadhyamakakārikā\".\n\nThe notions of free will and predestination are heavily debated among Christians. Free will in the Christian sense is the ability to choose between good or evil. Among Catholics, there are those holding to Thomism, adopted from what Thomas Aquinas put forth in the \"Summa Theologica.\" There are also some holding to Molinism which was put forth by Jesuit priest Luis de Molina. Among Protestants there is Arminianism, held primarily by Methodist and some Baptist, and formulated by Dutch theologian Jacobus Arminius; and there is also Calvinism held by most in the Reformed tradition which was formulated by the French Reformed theologian, John Calvin. John Calvin was heavily influenced by Augustine of Hippo views on predestination put forth in his work \"On the Predestination of the Saints.\" Martin Luther seems to hold views on predestination similar to Calvinism in his \"On the Bondage of the Will,\" thus rejecting free will. In condemnation of Calvin and Luther views, the Council of Trent declared that \"the free will of man, moved and excited by God, can by its consent co-operate with God, Who excites and invites its action; and that it can thereby dispose and prepare itself to obtain the grace of justification. The will can resist grace if it chooses. It is not like a lifeless thing, which remains purely passive. Weakened and diminished by Adam's fall, free will is yet not destroyed in the race (Sess. VI, cap. i and v).\"\n\nPaul the Apostle discusses Predestination in some of his Epistles.\n\n\"\"For whom He foreknew, He also predestined to become conformed to the image of His Son, that He might be the first-born among many brethren; and whom He predestined, these He also called; and whom He called, these He also justified; and whom He justified, these He also glorified.\"” —Romans 8:29–30\n\n“\"He predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the kind intention of His will.\"” —Ephesians 1:5\n\nThe exact meaning of these verses has been debated by Christian theologians throughout history.\n\nMaimonides reasoned that human beings have free will (at least in the context of choosing to do good or evil). Without free will, the demands of the prophets would have been meaningless, there would be no need for the Torah, and justice could not be administered. In Maimonides's view, human free will is granted by God as part of the universe's design.\n\nIn Islam the theological issue is not usually how to reconcile free will with God's foreknowledge, but with God's \"jabr\", or divine commanding power. al-Ash'ari developed an \"acquisition\" or \"dual-agency\" form of compatibilism, in which human free will and divine \"jabr\" were both asserted, and which became a cornerstone of the dominant Ash'ari position. In Shia Islam, Ash'aris understanding of a higher balance toward predestination is challenged by most theologians. Free will, according to Islamic doctrine is the main factor for man's accountability in his/her actions throughout life. Actions taken by people exercising free will are counted on the Day of Judgement because they are their own; however, the free will happens with the permission of God.\n\nThe philosopher Søren Kierkegaard claimed that divine omnipotence cannot be separated from divine goodness. As a truly omnipotent and good being, God could create beings with true freedom over God. Furthermore, God would voluntarily do so because \"the greatest good ... which can be done for a being, greater than anything else that one can do for it, is to be truly free.\" Alvin Plantinga's \"free will defense\" is a contemporary expansion of this theme, adding how God, free will, and evil are consistent.\n\nSome philosophers follow William of Ockham in holding that necessity and possibility are defined with respect to a given point in time and a given matrix of empirical circumstances, and so something that is merely possible from the perspective of one observer may be necessary from the perspective of an omniscient. Some philosophers follow Philo of Alexandria, a philosopher known for his homocentrism, in holding that free will is a feature of a human's soul, and thus that non-human animals lack free will.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1522987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1522987", "title": "Gonochorism", "text": "Gonochorism\n\nIn biology, gonochorism (\"Greek\" offspring + disperse) or unisexualism or gonochory describes the state of having just one of at least two distinct sexes in any one individual organism. The term is most often used with animals, in which the individual organisms are often gonochorous. Gonochory is less common in plants. For example, in flowering plants, individual flowers may be hermaphroditic (i.e. with both stamens and ovaries) or gonochorous (unisexual), having either no stamens (i.e. no male parts) or no ovaries (i.e. no female parts). Among flowering plant species that have unisexual flowers, some also produce hermaphrodite flowers, and the three types occur in different arrangements on separate plants; species can be monoecious, dioecious, trioecious, polygamomonoecious, polygamodioecious, andromonoecious, or gynomonoecious.\n\nSex is most often genetically determined, but may be determined by other mechanisms. For example, alligators use temperature-dependent sex determination during egg incubation. Examples of gonochoric or dioecious pollination include hollies and kiwifruit. In these plants the male plant that supplies the pollen is referred to as the pollenizer.\n\nGonochorism stands in contrast to other reproductive strategies such as asexual reproduction and hermaphroditism. The sex of an individual may also change during its lifetime – this sequential hermaphroditism can for example be found in parrotfish and cockles.\n\n"}
{"id": "367639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367639", "title": "Intra-species recognition", "text": "Intra-species recognition\n\nIntra-species recognition is the recognition by a member of a species of a conspecific (another member of the same species). In many species, such recognition is necessary for procreation.\n\nDifferent species may employ different methods, but all of them are based on one or more senses (after all, this is how the organism gathers information about the environment). The recognition may happen by chemical signature (smell), by having a distinctive shape or color (sight), by emitting certain sounds (hearing), or even by behaviour patterns. Often a combination of these is used.\n\nAmong human beings, the sense of sight is usually in charge of recognizing other members of the same species, with maybe the subconscious help of smell. In particular, the human brain has a disproportionate amount of processing power dedicated to finely analyze the features of a human face. This is why we are able to distinguish basically all six billions of human beings from each other (barring look-alikes), and a human being from a similar species like some anthropomorphic ape, with only a quick glance.\n\nIntra-species recognition systems are often subtle. For example, ornithologists have great difficulty in distinguishing the chiffchaff from the willow warbler by eye, and there is no evidence that the birds themselves can do so other than by the different songs of the male. Sometimes, intra-species recognition is fallible: in many species of frog, the males are not uncommonly seen copulating with females of the wrong species or even with inanimate objects.\n\n\"Heliconius charithonia\" displays intra-species recognition by roosting with conspecifics. They do this with the help of UV rhodopsins in the eye that help them distinguish between ultraviolet yellow pigments and regular yellow pigments. They have also been known to emit chemical cues in order to recognize members of their own species.\n\n"}
{"id": "55912131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55912131", "title": "John Aalberg (skier)", "text": "John Aalberg (skier)\n\nJohn Aalberg (born 14 October 1960) is a Norwegian-born American skier. He competed in cross-country skiing events at the 1992 and 1994 Winter Olympics.\n"}
{"id": "50530504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50530504", "title": "Kathryn Aalto", "text": "Kathryn Aalto\n\nKathryn Aalto is an American landscape designer, historian, educator and New York Times Bestselling author based in Exeter, England.\n\nKathryn Aalto grew up between San Francisco and the Sierras in California's San Joaquin Valley where she developed a lifelong interest in landscape history, design and literature of place. She was educated at the University of California at Berkeley, Western Washington University, the London College of Garden Design and the University of Bristol, from which she received a Bachelor’s in English, a Master’s in English, a Diploma in Garden Design and a Master’s in Garden History.\n\nKathryn Aalto is best known for her book, \"The Natural World of Winnie-the-Pooh: A Walk Through the Forest that Inspired the Hundred Acre Wood,\" published in 2015 by Timber Press, which became a New York Times Bestseller in February 2016. It was featured on NPR's \"All Things Considered\" on October 26, 2015 and selected as a People magazine Best Pick in Nonfiction in November 2015. Extensive coverage of the book included an article and review in The Washington Post, articles in The Boston Globe and The Oregonian, as well as radio interviews on NPR, WAMC and MPR. She is also the author of Nature and Human Intervention for Italian garden designer Luciano Guibbilei.\n\n\nAs an educator, she has taught American Literature of Nature and Place, Critical Thinking and Composition and other writing courses at Western Washington University, Everett Community College and Exeter College where she is an adjunct lecturer. A dynamic public speaker, Kathryn Aalto lectures widely, both in the United States and England, on landscape history and creative careers to libraries, schools, historical societies, botanical gardens, universities and civic clubs. Past venues have included Harvard Universities Arnold Arboretum, The New York Public Library, the Northwest Flower and Garden Show and the Virginia Festival of the Book. She also gives inspirational talks on interdisciplinary careers, creativity and writing.\n\nKathryn Aalto resides in Exeter, England. She has lived in Escalon, Berkeley, Seattle, Monroe and Exeter, England\n\n"}
{"id": "7383487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7383487", "title": "Oospore", "text": "Oospore\n\nAn oospore is a thick-walled sexual spore that develops from a fertilized oosphere in some algae, fungi, and Oomycetes. They are believed to have evolved either through the fusion of two species or the chemically-induced stimulation of mycelia, leading to oospore formation.\n\nIn Oomycetes, oospores can also result from asexual reproduction, by apomixis. These are found in Fungi as the sexual spores; these help in the sexual reproduction of Fungi.\n"}
{"id": "23803009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23803009", "title": "Opportunistic breeder", "text": "Opportunistic breeder\n\nFlexible or opportunistic breeders mate whenever the conditions of their environment become favorable. Their ability and motivation to mate are primarily independent of day-length (photoperiod) and instead rely on cues from short-term changes in local conditions like rainfall, food abundance and temperature. Another factor is the presence of suitable breeding sites, which may only form with heavy rain or other environmental changes.\n\nThus, they are distinct from seasonal breeders that rely on changes in day length to induce entry into estrus and to cue mating, and continuous breeders like humans that can mate year-round. Other categories of breeders that perhaps can be subdivided under the heading \"opportunistic\" have been used to describe many species, such as many that are anurans like frogs. These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.\n\nMany opportunistic breeders are non-mammals. Those that are mammals tend to be small rodents.\n\nSince changes in season can coincide with favorable changes in environment, the distinction between seasonal breeder and opportunistic can be muddled. In equatorial climes, the change in seasons is not always perceptible and thus, changes in day length not remarkable. Thus, the tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus) previously categorized as a seasonal breeder is now suspected to be an opportunistic breeder.\n\nAdditionally, opportunists can have qualities of seasonal breeders. The red crossbill exhibits a preference (not a requirement) for long-day seasonality, but requires other factors, especially food abundance and social interactions, in order to breed. Conversely, food availability by itself incompletely promotes reproductive development.\n\nOpportunistic breeders are typically capable of breeding at any time or becoming fertile within a short period of time. An example is the golden spiny mouse where changes in dietary salt in its desert habitat due to rainfall appear to cue reproductive function. Increased levels of salinity in drying vegetation cause females to experience a reproductive hiatus.\n\nWhile reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.\n\n\n\nFrogs and toads including:\n\n"}
{"id": "32398910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32398910", "title": "Paratomy", "text": "Paratomy\n\nParatomy is a form of asexual reproduction in animals where the organism splits in a plane perpendicular to the antero-posterior axis and the split is preceded by the \"pregeneration\" of the anterior structures in the posterior portion.The developing organisms have their body axis aligned i.e. they develop in a head to tail fashion.\n\nBudding can be considered to be similar to paratomy except that the body axes need not be aligned: the new head may grow toward the side or even point backward (e.g. \"Convolutriloba retrogemma\" an acoel flat worm). In animals that undergo fast paratomy a chain of zooids packed in a head to tail formation may develop. Many oligochete annelids, acoelous turbellarians, echinoderm larvae and coelenterates reproduce by this method.\n\n\nThis paper has a detailed description of the changes during paratomy.\n"}
{"id": "25869076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25869076", "title": "Philosophy of life", "text": "Philosophy of life\n\nThere are at least two senses in which the term philosophy is used: a formal and an informal sense. In the formal sense, philosophy is an academic study of the fields of aesthetics, ethics, epistemology, logic, metaphysics, as well as social and political philosophy. One's \"philosophy of life\" is philosophy in the informal sense, as a personal philosophy, whose focus is resolving the existential questions about the human condition. \n\n\"Philosophy of life\" also refers to a specific conception of philosophizing as a way of life, endorsed by the German \"Lebensphilosophie\" movement whose main representative is Wilhelm Dilthey and several other Continental philosophers such as Henri Bergson and Pierre Hadot.\n\nThe human situation appears to be a struggle between what \"is\" (existence) and what \"ought\" (essence) to be.\n\nThere are at least three prevailing theories on how to respond to the existential question.\n\n\n\n\nThere are two basic forms of existentialism:\n\nReligious existentialism is best exemplified by St. Augustine, Blaise Pascal, Paul Tillich, and the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard. Religious existentialism holds that there are two levels of reality, essence, which is the ground of being, and existence. Religion is the ultimate concern in this view.\n\nAtheistic existentialism is best exemplified by Friedrich Nietzsche, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre. It holds that there is one level of reality, existence. In this view, each person constructs his own unique and temporary essence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55251911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55251911", "title": "Post-mortem privacy", "text": "Post-mortem privacy\n\nPost-mortem privacy refers to a person's ability to control the dissemination of personal information after death. No federal laws specifically extend post-mortem privacy protection. At the state level, privacy laws pertaining to the deceased vary significantly, but in general do not extend any clear rights of privacy beyond property rights. The relative lack of acknowledgment of post-mortem privacy rights has sparked major controversy in recent years with rapid technological advancements that have resulted in exponential growth in the amount of personal information that is stored and instantly shared online.\n\nUnder common law, the right to privacy is considered a personal right, meaning it applies only to the living and, consequently, does not recognize the privacy interests of the deceased. Because of this, defamation and privacy torts that are used to prevent unjust damage to individuals' reputations cannot be extended post-mortem. For example, a family cannot file suit for invasion of privacy on behalf of a deceased relative as a personal right; it can only be exerted by the person whose rights are being infringed upon. In addition, the deceased do not qualify for privacy protections held in constitutional and statutory rights, such as those noted in the Fourth and Fourteenth Amendments. Judicial justification for the termination of privacy rights at death is centered on two main points: firstly, the deceased can no longer be active agents, and secondly, the deceased are incapable of being harmed by invasion of privacy or defamation. The only clear extension of postmortem privacy rights under federal law are those pertaining to property. Via Will, private property and some personal information can be passed on to heirs in accordance with the decedent's wishes.\n\nMost post-mortem privacy protection occurs on the state level. Thus, legislation and the degree of protection varies widely from state to state.\n\n\"Jesse James, Jr. v. Screen Gems Inc.\" established that rights of privacy do not survive death. The widow of Jesse James, Jr. filed suit against Screen Gems on behalf of her late husband, claiming the use of his name in a documentary was an invasion of his privacy. The court decided her claim was insufficient because it only applied to her husband.\n\nMedical confidentiality is upheld through both state and federal law. Because state legislation varies considerably, Congress passed explicit medical privacy regulations in 2000 under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). However, the act only briefly mentions postmortem privacy rights, stating that all protection ceases two years after death. Moreover, no legal mandate exists regarding patients' wishes after death. During life, informed consent is the basis for managing patient medical history. However, since informed consent is no longer possible post-mortem, confidential medical information is at risk of being exploited in a number of ways. First, highly sensitive information, such as genetic information, potential health factors, or diseases, can be easily disseminated in a way the patient may not have wanted. In addition, legal consent for research on a patient's biological material no longer applies to deceased individuals, allowing such research to be conducted on deceased patients without requiring permission.\n\nThe dissemination of autopsy records has become a significant issue in recent years. State legislation dictating the dissemination of autopsy records can be characterized into three groups: those prioritizing confidentiality, those prioritizing complete transparency, and a middle ground that limits some aspects of disclosure for privacy protection. The inconsistencies surrounding this legislation also have the potential to expose very personal medical information that can also affect the living relatives of a patient. For example, certain genetic diseases that the patient's family does not want known to the public could be exposed, which can lead to raising health insurance premiums and employment difficulties.\n\nHenrietta Lacks was an African American woman whose cells were removed without consent while receiving cancer treatment. Her cells became the source of the foundational HeLa cell line in the scientific world today. Lacks and her family were neither informed nor asked for consent to the use of her cells for this research. It was not until the 1980s when Lacks's medical records were made public, exposing the rest of her family's medical information as well as the fact that her family was never informed of this. The major issue surrounding the Lacks case is twofold. Firstly, at no point was consent sought for the extraction and research on Lacks's cells. Secondly, her family never received compensation for the commercial use of the HeLa cell line.\n\nUnder the Due Process Clause, family members generally maintain the right to control dissemination of photos of deceased relatives. Privacy rights in this context only extend to the privacy of the living relatives of the decedent, not the actual deceased. Most court rulings regarding autopsy and death scene photos have looked to the precedent set by the federal Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), which determines under which circumstances the release of such images is appropriate and not invasive of any living person's privacy.\n\nWhile most families wish to conceal the images of their deceased loved ones, Mamie Till Bradley, mother of Emmett Till, decided to make the photos of her brutally murdered son public in spite of officials' attempts to ignore the event. The photos exposed the horrendous realities of racial injustice in America during the time and became a rallying call for many influential civil rights figures, including Martin Luther King Jr. and Muhammad Ali. Moreover, the images forced all Americans to confront the deep-rooted racism in America despite many white Americans’ attempts to remain ignorant to the despicable happenings, especially in the South.\n\nIn \"New York Times Company v. NASA\", the D.C. District Court denied the \"New York Times\" request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) for access to audio recordings of the astronauts involved in the \"Challenger\" explosion moments before the event. The major argument of the case came down to weighing public interest and the decedents' families, and the court ruled in favor of protecting the decedents' families, claiming that exposing the tapes could cause relatives of the astronauts trauma.\n\n\"National Archives and Records Administration v. Favish\" similarly found that under FOIA, the privacy rights of a decedents' relatives are both acknowledged and prioritized when disseminating autopsy/death scene photos of the deceased. This decision was made in regards to the death scene photos of Vincent Foster, a deputy counsel to Bill Clinton.\n\n\"Marsh v. County of San Diego\" determined that a prosecutor who photocopied and then released an autopsy photo of a deceased child after his retirement could not be sued under the Doctrine of Qualified Immunity. A major point in the case was whether or not Brenda Marsh had the legal right to control the dissemination of her son's autopsy photos, and though the court determined that she did, it ruled on a technicality that at the time of the events, the law had not yet been \"clearly established.\" \n\nThe past decade has seen an unprecedented amount of data being stored in online accounts. Because of the relative newness of this phenomenon, no legal mandate exists for how a person's digital assets are to be handled after death. Terms of Service Agreements between the user and the service provider remain the closest variant to this available. In order to maintain their users' privacy protection, many of these agreements make it very difficult for third parties to access such online accounts once the user has died. Yahoo!, for example, states in its terms of service agreement that the account will be permanently deleted upon the user's death. Google requires a lengthy process that involves getting a court order to obtain content from a deceased user's account. There is also an option to allow someone to manage the account, make it inactive, or delete it altogether once the user has died. Facebook has allowed for the memorialization of deceased users' accounts, which aims to maintain the privacy of the user while allowing friends and family to still interact with the account. Requesting information from the account is a long and difficult process. Recently, the company updated its policy to allow for \"legacy contact,\" wherein the user can appoint someone to take over their account once they die. The new policy also offers the option for the account to be permanently deleted upon death.\n\nThe rigid policies of service providers has become increasingly problematic as online transactions and data storage have become more popular, and personal representatives have consequently found an increasing need to access online accounts in order to carry out estate transfers and Will orders. States began proposing legislation to address this problem in the early 2000s, and legislation favoring access to decedents' accounts became overwhelmingly supported. Delaware's Access to Digital Assets Act is an example of such legislation already passed at the state level, which grants family members of deceased individuals full access to online accounts and profiles. However, stringent terms of service agreements by service providers still make access to accounts very difficult in most cases. Thus, two major contemporary legislative proposals have come forth to address the issue. In July 2014, the Uniform Law Commission (ULC) proposed the Uniform Fiduciary Access to Digital Assets Act (UFADAA) to provide fiduciaries easy access to the digital accounts of their deceased clients. Twenty-six states proposed legislation based on the UFADAA; however, such legislation failed in all but one state. In response to this, NetChoice, a major rival to ULC, proposed the Privacy Expectation Afterlife Choices Act (PEAC), which included much more stringent guidelines for giving fiduciaries access to digital accounts and was overall considered to be much more privacy-centric. Only four states had proposed PEAC legislation in 2014, and only Virginia actually implemented it in 2015. Shortly after passing the UFADAA, the ULC passed a revised version (RUFADAA). This new legislative proposal incorporated more privacy centered aspects that aligned more with those of PEAC, which even gained it the support of NetChoice. Moreover, thirty-one states proposed legislation in accordance with the RUFADAA. However, critics of the new legislation contest that its transformation still not does give much consideration to a decedent's post-mortem privacy of the information kept in their account.\n\nThe right of publicity was created as an extension of the right of privacy. It was developed with the intent to provided unique privacy rights to celebrities or anyone whose persona or name had commercial value. Because these people are constantly in the public eye, general rights of privacy are oftentimes not applicable, thus publicity rights accommodate this situation. The right of publicity essentially grants a person the right to control the portrayal of themselves in the public eye, specifically in regard to commercial use. Copyright laws, aimed at protecting the ownership rights of original works, contain a significant amount of overlap with publicity rights. Much like post-mortem privacy rights, no blatant federal rights of publicity have been established, leaving recognition up to individual states. Whether states have laws regarding post-mortem publicity is dependent upon whether the state classifies the right as a privacy right or a property right. If classified as a personal right, states will not recognize post-mortem rights of publicity due to the stipulation that personal rights only apply to the living. If classified as a property right, then the upkeep and transfer of publicity rights follow a similar tract as that of property. Most states acknowledge a specific duration for post-mortem publicity rights, which generally range between forty and one hundred years. Because post-mortem publicity rights vary from state to state, court precedent has determined that when establishing a person's post-mortem publicity rights, the legislation of the state in which the decedent lived must be adhered to.\n\n\"Haelan Laboratories, Inc. v. Topps Chewing Gum, Inc.\" established the right of publicity, granting individuals control of the commercial use of their identity.\n\n\"Shaw Family Archives Ltd. v. CMG Worldwide, Inc.\" determined that Marilyn Monroe's estate did not own her post-mortem right of publicity because neither state of her residency, New York nor California, recognized post-mortem rights of publicity.\n\nIn \"Experience Hendrix v. HendrixLicensing.com,\" Al Hendrix, despite being his son's sole heir, was denied the acquisition of Jimi Hendrix's publicity rights due to the fact that New York, at the time, did not acknowledge post-mortem publicity rights\". \"\n\nThe use of deceased celebrities' likenesses has sparked controversy, mainly regarding the potential for their image to be used in a way that is inconsistent with that celebrity's desire. This can occur through the use of a celebrity's image for advertising a product, service, or any other recreation of celebrity likeness for commercial, or noncommercial, use in a way that the celebrity would otherwise not agree to during their lifetime. This then raises questions about a potential violation of that celebrity's privacy because of the use of an individual's image without their consent. This can be seen in the 2012 Coachella concert, which featured a digital recreation of Tupac Shakur. The virtual clone performed on stage, rapping a song never recorded by Tupac during his life. The use of such digital cloning and other similar recreations of celebrities could become a serious privacy concern in that those being reproduced have no control over how they are being represented. Discretion regarding the use of such digital personas is entirely up to whomever owns the right to that celebrity's image, which inevitably opens up the possibility that the decedent's interest is not being prioritized.\n"}
{"id": "22063516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063516", "title": "Supramolecular chirality", "text": "Supramolecular chirality\n\nIn chemistry, the term supramolecular chirality is used to describe supramolecular assemblies that are non-superposable on their mirror images.\n\nChirality in supramolecular chemistry implies the non-symmetric arrangement of molecular components in a non-covalent assembly. Chirality may arise in a supramolecular system if one of its component is chiral or if achiral components arrange in a non symmetrical way to produce a supermolecule that is chiral.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "335213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335213", "title": "Tamagotchi", "text": "Tamagotchi\n\nThe is a handheld digital pet, created in Japan by of WiZ and Aki Maita of Bandai. It was released by Bandai on November 23, 1996 in Japan and May 1997 in the rest of the world, quickly becoming one of the biggest toy fads of the 1990s and early 2000s. Up until 2010, over 76 million Tamagotchis had been sold worldwide. As of 2017, over 82million units have been sold. Most Tamagotchi are housed in a small egg-shaped computer with an interface usually consisting of three buttons, although the number of buttons may vary.\n\nAccording to Bandai, the name is a portmanteau combining the two Japanese words , which means \"egg\", and the end of \"watch\". Consequently, the name is sometimes romanized as \"Tamagotch\" without the \"i\" in Japan. Most Tamagotchi characters' names end in in Japanese, with few exceptions.\n\nTamagotchi was invented by Aki Maita for which she won the 1997 Ig Nobel Prize for economics. Tamagotchi is a keychain-sized virtual pet simulation game. The characters are colorful and simplistically designed creatures based on animals, objects, or people. Beginning with the 2004 Tamagotchi Plus/Connection, a second wave of Tamagotchi toys emerged, featuring a different graphic design by JINCO and gameplay which elaborated upon the first generations. However, the story behind the games remained the same: Tamagotchis are a small alien species that deposited an egg on Earth to see what life was like, and it is up to the player to raise the egg into an adult creature. The creature goes through several stages of growth, and will develop differently depending on the care the player provides, with better care resulting in an adult creature that is smarter, happier, and requires less attention. Gameplay can vary widely between models, and some models, such as TamagoChu, require little to no care from the player.\n\nUpon activating the toy, an egg appears on the screen. After setting the Tamagotchi unit's clock, the egg will wiggle for several minutes, and then hatch into a small pet. In later versions, inputting the player's name and birthday is also required when setting the clock, and at birth, the player can name the pet and learn of its family group and/or gender. The player can care for the pet as much or as little as they choose, and the outcome depends on the player's actions. The first Tamagotchis could only be paused by going to set the clock, effectively stopping the passage of time in the game, but in later models a pause function was included.\n\nPets have a Hunger meter, Happy meter, Bracelet meter and Discipline meter to determine how healthy and well behaved the pet is. There is also an age and weight check function for the current age and weight of the pet. Filling up the Hunger meter can be achieved by feeding the pet a meal (usually a loaf of bread) or a snack (usually a piece of candy). Filling up the Happy meter can be achieved by playing mini games with the pet or by feeding it a snack (there are no limits to this, but there are limits to how many meals can be fed). Mini games vary between versions, but mainly involve guessing which way the pet will turn (left or right) within 5 tries. The Discipline meter can be filled by pressing the \"scold\" option when a pet calls for attention but refuses to play or be fed a meal. The pet will leave droppings around the screen from time to time, and can become sick if they are not cleaned up. Before the pet goes to the bathroom, it will make a face and stink lines will appear around it. If the player activates the toilet icon during this animation, but before the pet has gone to the bathroom, the pet will use a toilet instead. When done repeatedly, the pet can be potty trained.\n\nIf the pet gets sick, a skull icon appears next to the pet as it sits still at the bottom of the screen, with an unhappy expression. The pet can become sick for a number of reasons such as overfeeding of snacks or failing to clean up droppings. The pet can die if sickness is left unchecked. The pet can be cured by pressing the \"Medicine\" option. Usually a pet will not play or be fed a meal when sick.\nPets would often fall asleep during the night time. Originally players had the option of manually turning off the light when the pet fell asleep (it would turn on the light by itself when it awoke). In order to raise a healthy pet, players were encouraged but not required to turn off the lights when the pet fell asleep. In recent versions, the pet turns off the light on its own when it went to sleep. Recent versions also allow waking the pet for a short time once it has fallen asleep. V5 had the three children look outside on the window when they wake up in the morning and before bed at night.\n\nThe pet goes through several distinct stages of development throughout its life cycle. Each stage lasts a set amount of time, depending on the model of the toy, and when it reaches a new stage, the toy plays a jingle, and the pet's appearance changes. The pet can \"die\" due to poor care, old age, sickness, and in a few versions, predators. The pets life cycle stages are Baby, Child, Teen, and Adult. Later Tamagotchi models have added a Senior model. Usually the pet's age will increase once it has awakened from its sleep time.\n\nPoor care can cause a pet to die, but it can also die of old age. If an old pet dies without producing offspring, the family line has ended. The Japanese Tamagotchi toys usually feature a ghost and headstone when the pet dies, but English language versions have been changed to show an angel at death, or simply a floating UFO to indicate its return to its home planet. Often at times it will show the transition graphic, after which it will show the pet appearing to be sick, but with the skull flashing, beeping as it flashes. It then will show a happy version of the pet flashing with a longer beep, with an egg on the right side of the screen, after which it will show the pet as an angel (as indicated above). Pressing the middle button shows the age at which the pet died. After the pet dies, one can restart from the beginning by pressing A and C.\n\nIn recent models, the player earns currency called Gotchi Points while playing games, and can use the currency in an in-game shop to buy different foods, toys, accessories, or even room decorations for the pet.\n\nUsing infrared communication, two players can link their toys and the pets may form friendships, play games, exchange gifts, and even marry. Infrared connection was introduced with the Plus/Connection, but the Japanese Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi was the first model to interact with a computer. Since then, many subsequent models have also been able to interact with the E-Tamago or Tamatown websites by using alphanumeric codes generated by the toy to log into the website's Flash game. After generating a code, the toy remains paused until the player either enters a logout code or cancels. The player may play minigames in the town to earn Gotchi Points, or use Gotchi Points to buy items in the town shops. To transfer points and items back to the toy, the player signs out of the Flash game and is given a code to input back into the toy. Newer models, such as the Tamagotchi 4U and the Tamagotchi 4U+ can connect to other Tamagotchi 4U units, as well as smartphones and tablets, using near field communication. Unlike previous models, the Tamagotchi 4U does not have infrared, which consequently caused it to sell rather poorly.\n\nThe Mesutchi and Osutchi Tamagotchis were the first to introduce marriages and offspring, and the feature returned in the Plus/Connection and subsequent models. Two players with a male and female pet may link their toys and allow the pets to develop a friendship and fall in love. Once the pets have raised their relationship meter sufficiently, the pets may marry. The player can also choose to have their pet marry a random pet brought in by the \"Matchmaker.\" Once married, the female will eventually produce two eggs, keeping one and leaving one with the male. Since the parent will automatically guide the baby's life, the only care it needs from the player is medicine in the case of sickness. After a few days the parent will leave, and the player is left to care for a new generation. This can continue for as long as the player manages to care for the pets.\nThe Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi also introduced the idea of character \"families\" or \"groups.\" These \"families\" are a kind of classification for characters obtainable in the game, grouped mainly by appearance, though they are also associated with certain skills. A character of one group cannot grow into an adult of a different group, and if two pets of different groups marry and have an egg, the baby will be of the female's group. \"Tamagotchi M!X\", the latest Japanese release, has a notable change to this feature; in this release, Tamagotchi offspring have merged traits from both of their parents.\n\nWith the many different versions of the toy, there are other less common mechanics that influence the pet's growth, including but not limited to friendship with the player, varying types of skills, and career.\nThe Chou Jinsei Enjoy Tamagotchi also introduced Skills, which can be built by playing certain games with the pet, or using certain toys or foods bought from the E-Tamago or in-game shops. Having certain skills can help the pet obtain a career, and if built up high enough, can unlock special characters.\n\nAs of 2009, there have been over 44 Tamagotchi versions released since their creation in 1996, several of which were only released in Japan. Along with the original Tamagotchi, the first wave of Tamagotchi toys included Christmas, angel, and ocean themed versions. The newer versions began in 2004 with the Tamagotchi Plus, and the most recent version is the Japanese \"Tamagotchi M!X\".\n\nInternationally, in 2013, \"Tamagotchi Friends\" is the latest model, featuring a grayscale screen and a new NFC feature that enables owner to \"bump\" their Tamagotchi to trade items. An upgrade, called \"Tamagotchi Friends: Dream Town Digital Friend\", was released in 2015. It has additional features, but can only be bought at online stores due to a lack of retailer interest in the product.\n\nIn early 2013, Bandai released an enhanced version of the original 1996 Tamagotchi as a free iOS and Android app named \"Tamagotchi L.i.f.e.\". A sequel to the game, \"Tamagotchi L.i.f.e. Angel\", was released on February 26, 2014.\n\nSince its debut, Tamagotchi has made its way onto several gaming platforms. Several early games feature gameplay similar to the original toys. A few party-style games appeared on major consoles, along with the \"Corner Shop\" series of simulation games and a few role playing games for the Nintendo DS.\n\nConsole & Handheld Games:\nMobile & PC Games:\nThe character Mametchi makes an appearance in Namco Bandai/Nintendo's \"Mario Kart Arcade GP 2\" as a playable character, along with his pet, Bagubagutchi, as an item. Mametchi and Yumemitchi also appeared in the arcade game \"Taiko no Tatsujin\" as unlockable costumes.\n\nAn arcade machine known as TamaStation is available in Japan from which players can win prizes for their Tamagotchi toy. This machine has several sequels, such as TamaStation 2.\n\nOn June 5, 2007, it was announced by Reuters that an animated Tamagotchi film was to be released in December 2007. The film, \"\", focuses on Mametchi, along with his friends Memetchi and Kuchipatchi. Introduced are Tanpopo, a human girl who Mametchi accidentally transports to the Tamagotchi Planet; and Chamametchi, the younger sister of Mametchi who is born during the film's events. \"Tamagotchi: The Movie\" was released on December 15, 2007, and was distributed by Toho Co. The film opened at number 3 at the box office on opening weekend. On May 31, 2008, North American distributor Bandai Entertainment announced they had acquired the rights to the film. The movie's first English release was a direct-to-DVD version, released on June 3, 2009 in Australia by Madman Entertainment. The UK DVD was released on September 14, 2009 via Manga Entertainment.\n\nOn December 20, 2008, a second film, known as \"\" was released into theaters. This film, introducing a new Tamagotchi known as Hapihapitchi, was later released on DVD, on June 26, 2009. Unlike the first film, \"Happiest Story in the Universe\" has not been dubbed in English, but an extremely rare English dub existed in the Philippines. Madman Entertainment intended to dub \"Happiest Story in the Universe!\", but the dub was cancelled for unknown reasons.\n\nOn November 1, 2016, Bandai announced a new Tamagotchi short film called \"Tamagotchi: Secret Delivery Operation\". The film was theatrically released alongside the \"\" film on April 28, 2017, and was included in the \"Cocotama\" movie's DVD released on December 6th, 2017. The short film once again follows Mametchi and his friends, assigned to make an essential delivery to the Gotchi King when a giant mechanical claw controlled by the Spacy Brothers intervenes with the delivery.\n\nA Japanese-only anime series called \"Anime TV de Hakken!! Tamagotchi\" (アニメ TVで発見!! たまごっち, lit. \"Found on Anime TV!! Tamagotchi\") aired from July 7, 1997 to March 21, 1998 on Fuji TV.\n\nIn December 2007, Bandai Japan began airing \"Saa Ikō! Tamagotchi\" (さぁイコー！たまごっち) a week before the release of the first film. In December 2008, Bandai America dubbed the series, \"Let's Go! Tamagotchi\", and began streaming it on YouTube in both English and Japanese, with captions for up to seven other languages.\n\nIn 2009, another anime television series was announced, called \"Tamagotchi!\" (たまごっち!). It began in October 2009 and ended in March 2015. A short-lived English dub of the Tamagotchi anime aired in Australia on channel GO! from 2010-2014; only the first 26 episodes have been dubbed and have been repeated until 2014, when GO! took the anime out of their channel. The anime has been dubbed in Tagalog in the Philippines. There is also a dub in Taiwan airing on YoYo TV.\n\nFrom November 23, 2013 to December 2014, Bandai America has been adapting the second Tamagotchi anime, \"Tamagotchi! Yume Kira Dream\", into \"webisodes\" promoting the latest addition to the franchise outside Japan, \"Tamagotchi Friends\".\n\nAn animated video, Tamagotchi Video Adventures, was produced by 7th Level, Inc. in association with Bandai in 1997. Directed by Dan Kuenster, produced by Susan Deming and written by Kuenster, Deming and David Lewman. It runs approximately 42 and a half minutes long. Cosmotchi sends the Tamagotchi to Earth to collect an object that best exemplifies the planet for the Tamagotchi Museum. An original animated music video (\"What's a Tamagotchi?\") and a how-to-draw Tamagotchi featurette, starring director Kuenster follow the movie.\n\n\nDuring the 1990s, children frequently took Tamagotchi digital pets to school because in the first two releases (Generation 1 and Generation 2), a character could die in less than half a day if it did not receive adequate care. Concerns over class disruption as well as general distraction from schoolwork eventually prompted many schools to ban the product.\n\n"}
{"id": "6973466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6973466", "title": "Terje Aa", "text": "Terje Aa\n\nTerje Aa (born 16 March 1961) is a Norwegian bridge player, WBF World Life Master, and regular member of the Norwegian team since 1993. Teams on which he was a member have placed in the top three of the World Bridge Federation European and World Championships 11 times between 1984 and 2008.\n\nIn 1993, Aa debuted as the member of Norwegian national selection and won the Schiphol Invitational Teams in Netherlands and bronze medal in European Teams Championship in Menton, France. In the same year, they reached the final of Bermuda Bowl in Santiago de Chile, where they lost to the young Dutch team. In 1997, they again won the European bronze medal and lost to France in the Bermuda Bowl semifinals, held in Tunis, ending up third by defeating the United States for the bronze. The same team earned the European silver in the Tenerife in 2001 finishing behind Italy.\n\nAa works for the Norwegian Post Office. His regular partner between 1993 and 2006 was Glenn Grøtheim playing the \"Viking Precision\", a relay-based system\n\n"}
{"id": "4964392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964392", "title": "Voltinism", "text": "Voltinism\n\nVoltinism is a term used in biology to indicate the number of broods or generations of an organism in a year. The term is most often applied to insects, and is particularly in use in sericulture, where silkworm varieties vary in their voltinism.\n\n\nThe speckled wood butterfly is univoltine in the northern part of its range, e.g. northern Scandinavia. Adults emerge in late spring, mate, and die shortly after laying eggs; their offspring will grow until pupation, enter diapause in anticipation of the winter, and emerge as adults the following year – thus resulting in a single generation of butterflies per year. In southern Scandinavia, the same species is bivoltine – here, the offspring of spring-emerging adults will develop directly into adults during the summer, mate, and die. Their offspring in turn constitute a second generation, which is the generation that will enter winter diapause and emerge as adults (and mate) in the spring of the following year. This results in a pattern of one short-lived generation (c. 2–3 months) that breeds during the summer, and one long-lived generation (ca. 9-10 months) that diapauses through the winter and breeds in the spring. The Rocky Mountain parnassian and the High brown fritillary are more examples of univoltine butterfly species.\n\nThe bee species \"Macrotera portalis\" is bivoltine, and is estimated to have about 2 or 3 broods annually. During winter, individuals remain in diapause, in their pharate or prepupal stage. This diapause stage continues until metamorphosis in the next spring or summer, whereupon the bees emerge as adults. \n\nThe Dawson's burrowing bee is an example of a univoltine insect of the order Hymenoptera. The brood of one winter will remain dormant underground until the following winter, and then will surface from their burrows to mate once, and establish new nests. \nThe term partial voltinism is used to refer to two different (but not necessarily exclusive) situations:\n\nThe number of breeding cycles in a year is under genetic control in many species and they are evolved in response to the environment. Many phytophagous species that are dependent on seasonal plant resources are univoltine. Some such species have the ability to diapause for a large part of the year, typically during a cold winter. Others that bore in wood or other low-grade, but plentiful, food material may spend nearly the entire year feeding, with only brief pupal, adult and egg stages to complete a univoltine life cycle. Yet other species that live in tropical regions with little seasonality may be highly multivoltine, with several generations feeding on constantly growing vegetation (such as some species of Saturniidae), or continually renewed detritus, such as \"Drosophila\" and many other genera of flies with a life cycle of just a week or two.\n\n"}
{"id": "8455187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8455187", "title": "Xian (Taoism)", "text": "Xian (Taoism)\n\nXian () is a Chinese word for an enlightened person, translatable in English as:\n\"Xian\" semantically developed from meaning spiritual \"immortality; enlightenment\", to physical \"immortality; longevity\" involving methods such as alchemy, breath meditation, and tai chi, and eventually to legendary and figurative \"immortality\".\n\nThe \"xian\" archetype is described by Victor H. Mair.\n\nThey are immune to heat and cold, untouched by the elements, and can fly, mounting upward with a fluttering motion. They dwell apart from the chaotic world of man, subsist on air and dew, are not anxious like ordinary people, and have the smooth skin and innocent faces of children. The transcendents live an effortless existence that is best described as spontaneous. They recall the ancient Indian ascetics and holy men known as \"ṛṣi\" who possessed similar traits.1994:376 \n\nAccording to the Digital Dictionary of Buddhism, Chinese \"xian\" (仙) can mean Sanskrit \"ṛṣi\" (\"rishi\" \"inspired sage in the Vedas\").\n\nThe most famous Chinese compound of \"xiān\" is \"Bāxiān\" (八仙 \"the Eight Immortals\"). Other common words include \"xiānrén\" (仙人 sennin in Japanese, \"immortal person; transcendent\", see \"Xiānrén Dòng\"), \"xiānrénzhăng\" (仙人掌 \"immortal's palm; cactus\"), \"xiānnǚ\" (仙女 \"immortal woman; female celestial; angel\"), and \"shénxiān\" (神仙 \"gods and immortals; divine immortal\"). Besides humans, \"xiān\" can also refer to supernatural animals. The mythological \"húlijīng\" 狐狸精 (lit. \"fox spirit\") \"fox fairy; vixen; witch; enchantress\" has an alternate name of \"húxiān\" 狐仙 (lit. \"fox immortal\").\n\nThe etymology of \"xiān\" remains uncertain. The circa 200 CE \"Shiming\", a Chinese dictionary that provided word-pun \"etymologies\", defines \"xiān\" (仙) as \"to get old and not die,\" and explains it as someone who \"qiān\" (遷 \"moves into\") the mountains.\"\n\nEdward H. Schafer (1966:204) defined \"xian\" as \"transcendent, sylph (a being who, through alchemical, gymnastic and other disciplines, has achieved a refined and perhaps immortal body, able to fly like a bird beyond the trammels of the base material world into the realms of aether, and nourish himself on air and dew.)\" Schafer noted \"xian\" was cognate to \"xian\" 䙴 \"soar up\", \"qian\" 遷 \"remove\", and \"xianxian\" 僊僊 \"a flapping dance movement\"; and compared Chinese \"yuren\" 羽人 \"feathered man; \"xian\"\" with English peri \"a fairy or supernatural being in Persian mythology\" (Persian pari from \"par\" \"feather; wing\").\n\nTwo linguistic hypotheses for the etymology of \"xian\" involve Arabic and Sino-Tibetan languages. Wu and Davis (1935:224) suggested the source was \"jinn\", or \"jinni\" \"genie\" (from Arabic \"جني\" \"jinnī\"). \"The marvelous powers of the \"Hsien\" are so like those of the \"jinni\" of the Arabian Nights that one wonders whether the Arabic word, \"jinn\", may not be derived from the Chinese \"Hsien\".\" Axel Schuessler's etymological dictionary (2007:527) suggests a Sino-Tibetan connection between \"xiān\" (Old Chinese *\"san\" or *\"sen\") \"'An immortal' ... men and women who attain supernatural abilities; after death they become immortals and deities who can fly through the air\" and Tibetan \"gšen\" < \"g-syen\" \"shaman, one who has supernatural abilities, incl[uding] travel through the air\".\n\nThe word \"xiān\" is written with three characters , , or , which combine the logographic \"radical\" \"rén\" (人 or 亻 \"person; human\") with two \"phonetic\" elements (see Chinese character classification). The oldest recorded \"xiān\" character 僊 has a \"xiān\" (\"rise up; ascend\") phonetic supposedly because immortals could \"ascend into the heavens\". (Compare \"qiān\" 遷 \"move; transfer; change\" combining this phonetic and the motion radical.) The usual modern \"xiān\" character 仙, and its rare variant 仚, have a \"shān\" (山 \"mountain\") phonetic. For a character analysis, Schipper (1993:164) interprets \"'the human being of the mountain,' or alternatively, 'human mountain.' The two explanations are appropriate to these beings: they haunt the holy mountains, while also embodying nature.\"\n\nThe \"Classic of Poetry\" (220/3) contains the oldest occurrence of the character 僊, reduplicated as \"xiānxiān\" (僊僊 \"dance lightly; hop about; jump around\"), and rhymed with \"qiān\" (遷). \"But when they have drunk too much, Their deportment becomes light and frivolous—They leave their seats, and [遷] go elsewhere, They keep [僊僊] dancing and capering.\" (tr. James Legge) Needham and Wang (1956:134) suggest \"xian\" was cognate with \"wu\" 巫 \"shamanic\" dancing. Paper (1995:55) writes, \"the function of the term \"xian\" in a line describing dancing may be to denote the height of the leaps. Since, \"to live for a long time\" has no etymological relation to \"xian\", it may be a later accretion.\"\n\nThe 121 CE \"Shuowen Jiezi\", the first important dictionary of Chinese characters, does not enter 仙 except in the definition for ( \"name of an ancient immortal\"). It defines 僊 as \"live long and move away\" and 仚 as \"appearance of a person on a mountaintop\".\n\nThis section chronologically reviews how Chinese texts describe \"xian\" \"immortals; transcendents\". While the early \"Zhuangzi\", \"Chuci\", and \"Liezi\" texts allegorically used \"xian\" immortals and magic islands to describe spiritual immortality, later ones like the \"Shenxian zhuan\" and \"Baopuzi\" took immortality literally and described esoteric Chinese alchemical techniques for physical longevity. On one the hand, \"neidan\" (內丹 \"internal alchemy\") techniques included \"taixi\" (胎息 \"embryo respiration\") breath control, meditation, visualization, sexual training, and Tao Yin exercises (which later evolved into Qigong and T'ai chi ch'uan). On the other hand, \"waidan\" (外丹 \"external alchemy\") techniques for immortality included alchemical recipes, magic plants, rare minerals, herbal medicines, drugs, and dietetic techniques like inedia.\n\nThe earliest representations of Chinese immortals, dating from the Han Dynasty, portray them flying with feathery wings (the word \"yuren\" 羽人 \"feathered person\" later meant \"Daoist\") or riding dragons. In Chinese art, \"xian\" are often pictured with symbols of immortality including the dragon, crane, fox, white deer, pine tree, peach, and mushroom. \nBesides the following major Chinese texts, many others use both graphic variants of \"xian\". \"Xian\" (仙) occurs in the \"Chunqiu Fanlu\", \"Fengsu Tongyi\", \"Qian fu lun\", \"Fayan\", and \"Shenjian\"; \"xian\" (僊) occurs in the \"Caizhong langji\", \"Fengsu Tongyi\", \"Guanzi\", and \"Shenjian\".\n\nTwo circa 3rd century BCE \"Outer Chapters\" of the \"Zhuangzi\" (莊子 \"[Book of] Master Zhuang\") use the archaic character \"xian\" 僊. Chapter 11 has a parable about \"Cloud Chief\" (雲 將)  and \"Big Concealment\" (鴻濛) that uses the \"Shijing\" compound \"xianxian\" (\"dance; jump\"):\nBig Concealment said, \"If you confuse the constant strands of Heaven and violate the true form of things, then Dark Heaven will reach no fulfillment. Instead, the beasts will scatter from their herds, the birds will cry all night, disaster will come to the grass and trees, misfortune will reach even to the insects. Ah, this is the fault of men who 'govern'!\"<br>\"Then what should I do?\" said Cloud Chief.<br>\"Ah,\" said Big Concealment, \"you are too far gone! [僊僊] Up, up, stir yourself and be off!\"<br>Cloud Chief said, \"Heavenly Master, it has been hard indeed for me to meet with you—I beg one word of instruction!\"<br>\"Well, then—mind‑nourishment!\" said Big Concealment. \"You have only to rest in inaction and things will transform themselves. Smash your form and body, spit out hearing and eyesight, forget you are a thing among other things, and you may join in great unity with the deep and boundless. Undo the mind, slough off spirit, be blank and soulless, and the ten thousand things one by one will return to the root—return to the root and not know why. Dark and undifferentiated chaos—to the end of life none will depart from it. But if you try to know it, you have already departed from it. Do not ask what its name is, do not try to observe its form. Things will live naturally end of themselves.\"<br>Cloud Chief said, \"The Heavenly Master has favored me with this Virtue, instructed me in this Silence. All my life I have been looking for it, and now at last I have it!\" He bowed his head twice, stood up, took his leave, and went away. (11, tr. Burton Watson 1968:122-3)\n\nChapter 12 uses \"xian\" when mythical Emperor Yao describes a \"shengren\" (聖 人 \"sagely person\").\nThe true sage is a quail at rest, a little fledgling at its meal, a bird in flight who leaves no trail behind. When the world has the Way, he joins in the chorus with all other things. When the world is without the Way, he nurses his Virtue and retires in leisure. And after a thousand years, should he weary of the world, he will leave it and [上] ascend to [僊] the immortals, riding on those white clouds all the way up to the village of God. (12, tr. Watson 1968:130)\n\nWithout using the word \"xian\", several \"Zhuangzi\" passages employ \"xian\" imagery, like flying in the clouds, to describe individuals with superhuman powers. For example, Chapter 1, within the circa 3rd century BCE \"Inner Chapters\", has two portrayals. First is this description of Liezi (below).\nLieh Tzu could ride the wind and go soaring around with cool and breezy skill, but after fifteen days he came back to earth. As far as the search for good fortune went, he didn't fret and worry. He escaped the trouble of walking, but he still had to depend on something to get around. If he had only mounted on the truth of Heaven and Earth, ridden the changes of the six breaths, and thus wandered through the boundless, then what would he have had to depend on? Therefore, I say, the Perfect Man has no self; the Holy Man has no merit; the Sage has no fame. (1, tr. Watson 1968:32) \n\nSecond is this description of a \"shenren\" (神人 \"divine person\").\nHe said that there is a Holy Man living on faraway [姑射] Ku-she Mountain, with skin like ice or snow, and gentle and shy like a young girl. He doesn't eat the five grains, but sucks the wind, drinks the dew, climbs up on the clouds and mist, rides a flying dragon, and wanders beyond the Four Seas. By concentrating his spirit, he can protect creatures from sickness and plague and make the harvest plentiful. (1, tr. Watson 1968:33) \n\nThe authors of the \"Zhuangzi\" had a lyrical view of life and death, seeing them as complimentary aspects of natural changes. This is antithetical to the physical immortality (\"changshengbulao\" 長生不老 \"live forever and never age\") sought by later Daoist alchemists. Consider this famous passage about accepting death.\nChuang Tzu's wife died. When Hui Tzu went to convey his condolences, he found Chuang Tzu sitting with his legs sprawled out, pounding on a tub and singing. \"You lived with her, she brought up your children and grew old,\" said Hui Tzu. \"It should be enough simply not to weep at her death. But pounding on a tub and singing—this is going too far, isn't it?\"\n\nChuang Tzu said, \"You're wrong. When she first died, do you think I didn't grieve like anyone else? But I looked back to her beginning and the time before she was born. Not only the time before she was born, but the time before she had a body. Not only the time before she had a body, but the time before she had a spirit. In the midst of the jumble of wonder and mystery a change took place and she had a spirit. Another change and she had a body. Another change and she was born. Now there's been another change and she's dead. It's just like the progression of the four seasons, spring, summer, fall, winter.\"<br>\"Now she's going to lie down peacefully in a vast room. If I were to follow after her bawling and sobbing, it would show that I don't understand anything about fate. So I stopped. (18, tr. Watson 1968:191–2) \n\nAlan Fox explains this anecdote about Zhuangzi's wife.\nMany conclusions can be reached on the basis of this story, but it seems that death is regarded as a natural part of the ebb and flow of transformations which constitute the movement of Dao. To grieve over death, or to fear one's own death, for that matter, is to arbitrarily evaluate what is inevitable. Of course, this reading is somewhat ironic given the fact that much of the subsequent Daoist tradition comes to seek longevity and immortality, and bases some of their basic models on the \"Zhuangzi\". (1995:100) \n\nThe 3rd-2nd century BCE \"Chuci\" (楚辭 \"Lyrics of Chu\") anthology of poems uses \"xian\" 仙 once and \"xian\" 僊 twice, reflecting the disparate origins of the text. These three contexts mention the legendary Daoist \"xian\" immortals Chi Song (赤松 \"Red Pine\", see Kohn 1993:142–4) and Wang Qiao (王僑, or Zi Qiao 子僑). In later Daoist hagiography, Chi Song was Lord of Rain under Shennong, the legendary inventor of agriculture; and Wang Qiao was a son of King Ling of Zhou (r. 571–545 BCE), who flew away on a giant white bird, became an immortal and was never again seen.\n\nThe \"Yuan You\" (遠遊 \"Far-off Journey\") poem describes a spiritual journey into the realms of gods and immortals, frequently referring to Daoist myths and techniques.\nMy spirit darted forth and did not return to me,<br>And my body, left tenantless, grew withered and lifeless.<br>Then I looked into myself to strengthen my resolution,<br>And sought to learn from where the primal spirit issues.<br>In emptiness and silence I found serenity;<br>In tranquil inaction I gained true satisfaction.<br>I heard how once Red Pine had washed the world's dust off:<br>I would model myself on the pattern he had left me.<br>I honoured the wondrous powers of the [真人] Pure Ones,<br>And those of past ages who had become [仙] Immortals.<br>They departed in the flux of change and vanished from men's sight,<br>Leaving a famous name that endures after them. (tr. Hawkes 1985:194) \n\nThe \"Xi shi\" (惜誓 \"Sorrow for Troth Betrayed\") resembles the \"Yuan You\", and both reflect Daoist ideas from the Han period. \"Though unoriginal in theme,\" says Hawkes (1985:239), \"its description of air travel, written in a pre-aeroplane age, is exhilarating and rather impressive.\"\nWe gazed down of the Middle Land [China] with its myriad people<br>As we rested on the whirlwind, drifting about at random.<br>In this way we came at last to the moor of Shao-yuan:<br>There, with the other blessed ones, were Red Pine and Wang Qiao.<br>The two Masters held zithers tuned in perfect concord:<br>I sang the Qing Shang air to their playing.<br>In tranquil calm and quiet enjoyment,<br>Gently I floated, inhaling all the essences.<br>But then I thought that this immortal life of [僊] the blessed,<br>Was not worth the sacrifice of my home-returning. (tr. Hawkes 1985:240) \n\nThe \"Ai shi ming\" (哀時命 \"Alas That My Lot Was Not Cast\") describes a celestial journey similar to the previous two.\nFar and forlorn, with no hope of return:<br>Sadly I gaze in the distance, over the empty plain.<br>Below, I fish in the valley streamlet;<br>Above, I seek out [僊] holy hermits.<br>I enter into friendship with Red Pine;<br>I join Wang Qiao as his companion.\nWe send the Xiao Yang in front to guide us;<br>The White Tiger runs back and forth in attendance.<br>Floating on the cloud and mist, we enter the dim height of heaven;<br>Riding on the white deer we sport and take our pleasure. tr. Hawkes 1985:266) \n\nThe \"Li Sao\" (離騷 \"On Encountering Trouble\"), the most famous \"Chuci\" poem, is usually interpreted as describing ecstatic flights and trance techniques of Chinese shamans. The above three poems are variations describing Daoist \"xian\".\n\nSome other \"Chuci\" poems refer to immortals with synonyms of \"xian\". For instance, \"Shou zhi\" (守志 \"Maintaining Resolution), uses \"zhenren\" (真人 \"true person\", tr. \"Pure Ones\" above in \"Yuan You\"), which Wang Yi's commentary glosses as \"zhen xianren\" (真仙人 \"true immortal person\").\nI visited Fu Yue, bestriding a dragon,<br>Joined in marriage with the Weaving Maiden,<br>Lifted up Heaven's Net to capture evil,<br>Drew the Bow of Heaven to shoot at wickedness,<br>Followed the [真人] Immortals fluttering through the sky,<br>Ate of the Primal Essence to prolong my life. (tr. Hawkes 1985:318) \n\nThe \"Liezi\" (列子 \"[Book of] Master Lie\"), which Louis Komjathy (2004:36) says \"was probably compiled in the 3rd century CE (while containing earlier textual layers)\", uses \"xian\" four times, always in the compound \"xiansheng\" (仙聖 \"immortal sage\").\n\nNearly half of Chapter 2 (\"The Yellow Emperor\") comes from the \"Zhuangzi\", including this recounting of the above fable about Mount Gushe (姑射, or Guye, or Miao Gushe 藐姑射).\nThe Ku-ye mountains stand on a chain of islands where the Yellow River enters the sea. Upon the mountains there lives a Divine Man, who inhales the wind and drinks the dew, and does not eat the five grains. His mind is like a bottomless spring, his body is like a virgin's. He knows neither intimacy nor love, yet [仙聖] immortals and sages serve him as ministers. He inspires no awe, he is never angry, yet the eager and diligent act as his messengers. He is without kindness and bounty, but others have enough by themselves; he does not store and save, but he himself never lacks. The Yin and Yang are always in tune, the sun and moon always shine, the four seasons are always regular, wind and rain are always temperate, breeding is always timely, the harvest is always rich, and there are no plagues to ravage the land, no early deaths to afflict men, animals have no diseases, and ghosts have no uncanny echoes. (tr. Graham 1960:35) \n\nChapter 5 uses \"xiansheng\" three times in a conversation set between legendary rulers Tang (湯) of the Shang Dynasty and Ji (革) of the Xia Dynasty.\nT'ang asked again: 'Are there large things and small, long and short, similar and different?'<br>—'To the East of the Gulf of Chih-li, who knows how many thousands and millions of miles, there is a deep ravine, a valley truly without bottom; and its bottomless underneath is named \"The Entry to the Void\". The waters of the eight corners and the nine regions, the stream of the Milky Way, all pour into it, but it neither shrinks nor grows. Within it there are five mountains, called Tai-yü, Yüan-chiao, Fang-hu, Ying-chou and P'eng-Iai. These mountains are thirty thousand miles high, and as many miles round; the tablelands on their summits extend for nine thousand miles. It is seventy thousand miles from one mountain to the next, but they are considered close neighbours. The towers and terraces upon them are all gold and jade, the beasts and birds are all unsullied white; trees of pearl and garnet always grow densely, flowering and bearing fruit which is always luscious, and those who eat of it never grow old and die. The men who dwell there are all of the race of [仙聖] immortal sages, who fly, too many to be counted, to and from one mountain to another in a day and a night. Yet the bases of the five mountains used to rest on nothing; they were always rising and falling, going and returning, with the ebb and flow of the tide, and never for a moment stood firm. The [仙聖] immortals found this troublesome, and complained about it to God. God was afraid that they would drift to the far West and he would lose the home of his sages. So he commanded Yü-ch'iang to make fifteen [鼇] giant turtles carry the five mountains on their lifted heads, taking turns in three watches, each sixty thousand years long; and for the first time the mountains stood firm and did not move.<br>'But there was a giant from the kingdom of the Dragon Earl, who came to the place of the five mountains in no more than a few strides. In one throw he hooked six of the turtles in a bunch, hurried back to his country carrying them together on his back, and scorched their bones to tell fortunes by the cracks. Thereupon two of the mountains, Tai-yü and Yüan-chiao, drifted to the far North and sank in the great sea; the [仙聖] immortals who were carried away numbered many millions. God was very angry, and reduced by degrees the size of the Dragon Earl's kingdom and the height of his subjects. At the time of Fu-hsi and Shen-nung, the people of this country were still several hundred feet high.' (tr. Graham 1960:97–8) \n\nPenglai Mountain became the most famous of these five mythical peaks where the elixir of life supposedly grew, and is known as Horai in Japanese legends. The first emperor Qin Shi Huang sent his court alchemist Xu Fu on expeditions to find these plants of immortality, but he never returned (although by some accounts, he discovered Japan).\n\nHolmes Welch (1957:88–97) analyzed the beginnings of Daoism, sometime around the 4th-3rd centuries BCE, from four separate streams: philosophical Daoism (Laozi, Zhuangzi, Liezi), a \"hygiene school\" that cultivated longevity through breathing exercises and yoga, Chinese alchemy and Five Elements philosophy, and those who sought Penglai and elixirs of \"immortality\". This is what he concludes about \"xian\".\nIt is my own opinion, therefore, that though the word \"hsien\", or Immortal, is used by Chuang Tzu and Lieh Tzu, and though they attributed to their idealized individual the magic powers that were attributed to the \"hsien\" in later times, nonetheless the \"hsien\" ideal was something they did not believe in—either that it was possible or that it was good. The magic powers are allegories and hyperboles for the \"natural\" powers that come from identification with Tao. Spiritualized Man, P'eng-lai, and the rest are features of a \"genre\" which is meant to entertain, disturb, and exalt us, not to be taken as literal hagiography. Then and later, the philosophical Taoists were distinguished from all other schools of Taoism by their rejection of the pursuit of immortality. As we shall see, their books came to be adopted as scriptural authority by those who did practice magic and seek to become immortal. But it was their misunderstanding of philosophical Taoism that was the reason they adopted it. (Welch 1957:95) \n\nThe \"Shenxian zhuan\" (神仙傳 Biographies of Spirit Immortals\") is a hagiography of \"xian\". Although it was traditionally attributed to Ge Hong (283–343 CE), Komjathy (2004:43) says, \"The received versions of the text contain some 100-odd hagiographies, most of which date from 6th-8th centuries at the earliest.\"\n\nAccording to the \"Shenxian zhuan\", there are four schools of immortality:\n\nQì (气—“energy”): Breath control and meditation. Those who belong to this school can\n\n\"...blow on water and it will flow against its own current for several paces; blow on fire, and it will be extinguished; blow at tigers or wolves, and they will crouch down and not be able to move; blow at serpents, and they will coil up and be unable to flee. If someone is wounded by a weapon, blow on the wound, and the bleeding will stop. If you hear of someone who has suffered a poisonous insect bite, even if you are not in his presence, you can, from a distance, blow and say in incantation over your own hand (males on the left hand, females on the right), and the person will at once be healed even if more than a hundred li away. And if you yourself are struck by a sudden illness, you have merely to swallow pneumas in three series of nine, and you will immediately recover.<br>But the most essential thing [among such arts] is fetal breathing. Those who obtain [the technique of] fetal breathing become able to breathe without using their nose or mouth, as if in the womb, and this is the culmination of the way [of pneumatic cultivation].\" (Campany 2002:21) \n\nFàn (饭—“Diet”): Ingestion of herbal compounds and abstention from the \"Sān Shī Fàn\" (三尸饭—“Three-Corpses food”)—Meats (raw fish, pork, dog, leeks, and scallions) and grains. The \"Shenxian zhuan\" uses this story to illustrate the importance of \"bigu\" \"grain avoidance\":\n\"During the reign of Emperor Cheng of the Han, hunters in the Zhongnan Mountains saw a person who wore no clothes, his body covered with black hair. Upon seeing this person, the hunters wanted to pursue and capture him, but the person leapt over gullies and valleys as if in flight, and so could not be overtaken. [But after being surrounded and captured, it was discovered this person was a 200 plus year old woman, who had once been a concubine of Qin Emperor Ziying. When he had surrendered to the 'invaders of the east', she fled into the mountains where she learned to subside on 'the resin and nuts of pines' from an old man. Afterwards, this diet 'enabled [her] to feel neither hunger nor thirst; in winter [she] was not cold, in summer [she] was not hot.']<br>The hunters took the woman back in. They offered her grain to eat. When she first smelled the stink of grain, she vomited, and only after several days could she tolerate it. After little more than two years of this [diet], her body hair fell out; she turned old and died. Had she not been caught by men, she would have become a transcendent.\" (Campany 2002:22–23) \n\nFángzhōng Zhī Shù (房中之术—“Arts of the Bedchamber”): Sexual yoga. (Campany 2002:30–31) According to a discourse between the Yellow Emperor and the immortaless \"Sùnǚ\" (素女—“Plain Girl”), one of the three daughters of Hsi Wang Mu,\n\nThe \"White Tigress (Zhuang Li Quan Pure Angelic Metal Ajna Empress \"Toppest\") Manual\", a treatise on female sexual yoga, states,\n\nDān (丹—\"Alchemy\", literally \"Cinnabar\"): Elixir of Immortality.(Campany 2002:31)\n\nThe 4th century CE \"Baopuzi\" (抱朴子 \"[Book of] Master Embracing Simplicity\"), which was written by Ge Hong, gives some highly detailed descriptions of \"xian\".\n\nThe text lists three classes of immortals:\n\n\nThese titles were usually given to humans who had either not proven themselves worthy of or were not fated to become immortals. One such famous agent was Fei Changfang, who was eventually murdered by evil spirits because he lost his book of magic talismans. However, some immortals are written to have used this method in order to escape execution. (Campany 2002:52–60)\n\nGe Hong wrote in his book \"The Master Who Embraces Simplicity\",\nThe [immortals] Dark Girl and Plain Girl compared sexual activity as the intermingling of fire [yang/male] and water [yin/female], claiming that water and fire can kill people but can also regenerate their life, depending on whether or not they know the correct methods of sexual activity according to their nature. These arts are based on the theory that the more females a man copulates with, the greater benefit he will derive from the act. Men who are ignorant of this art, copulating with only one or two females during their life, will only suffice to bring about their untimely and early death. (Hsi 2001:48) \n\nThe \"Zhong Lü Chuan Dao Ji\" (鐘呂傳道集/钟吕传道集 \"Anthology of the Transmission of the Dao from Zhong[li Quan] to Lü [Dongbin]\") is associated with Zhongli Quan (2nd century CE?) and Lü Dongbin (9th century CE), two of the legendary Eight Immortals. It is part of the so-called “Zhong-Lü” (鍾呂) textual tradition of internal alchemy (\"neidan\"). Komjathy (2004:57) describes it as, \"Probably dating from the late Tang (618–906), the text is in question-and-answer format, containing a dialogue between Lü and his teacher Zhongli on aspects of alchemical terminology and methods.\"\n\nThe \"Zhong Lü Chuan Dao Ji\" lists five classes of immortals:\n\n\nThe \"Śūraṅgama Sūtra\", in an approach to Taoist teachings, discusses the characteristics of ten types of \"xian\" who exist between the world of devas (\"gods\") and that of human beings. This position, in Buddhist literature, is usually occupied by asuras (\"Titans\", \"antigods\"). These \"xian\" are not considered true cultivators of \"samadhi\" (\"unification of mind\"), as their methods differ from the practice of \"dhyāna\" (\"meditation\").\n\n\n\n\n"}
