{"id": "13675658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13675658", "title": "10+2", "text": "10+2\n\n10+2 refers to the 2 years of schooling required post grade 10, currently adopted by high schools in India and Nepal. It is similar to the K12 education system, and equivalent to the International Baccalaureate and General Certificate of Secondary Education levels in the west. 10+2 refers to two years of schooling post grade 10 in India since autumn 2002. \n\n10+2 is gradually replacing the conventional modes of intermediate education, being the Intermediate of Science (I. Sc.), Intermediate of Commerce (I. Comm.), Intermediate of Arts/Humanities (I. A.) normally taken by Students after having received their School Leaving Certificate (SLC) provided by Tribhuvan University.\n\nStudents in Nepal either opt for a 10+2 course in the Science, Management, and Humanities stream under the Higher Secondary Education Board (HSEB), or opt for other options like the British GCSE curriculum under Cambridge University.\n"}
{"id": "26690992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26690992", "title": "Academic integrity", "text": "Academic integrity\n\nAcademic integrity is the moral code or ethical policy of academia. The term was coined by the late Don McCabe, who is considered to be the \"grandfather of academic integrity\". This includes values such as avoidance of cheating or plagiarism; maintenance of academic standards; honesty and rigor in research and academic publishing.\n\nDuring the late 18th century, academic integrity tightly correlated to the southern honor code (United States). This was monitored mainly by the students and surrounding culture of the time. The southern honor code focused on duty, pride, power, and self-esteem. Any act promoting the uprising or building of any of these within an individual was the goal. Thus, academic integrity was tied solely to the status and appearance of upstanding character of the individual. Any acts of academic dishonesty performed to maintain their good name was seen as a necessary means to an end.\n\nIt wasn't until the end of the 19th century when the goals of the university changed that the concept of academic integrity changed. Academics of this era were required to teach and produce original research. The pressure to acquire tenure and publish added extra stress to their jobs, though acts of academic dishonesty were viewed as acts of follies. Still, the southern honor code concept of academic integrity was evolving into a more contemporary concept. Academic integrity was now beginning to replace honor of the individual honor to the university as an institution. Such an evolution was important to promote unity throughout the academic institution and encourage students to hold each other accountable for dishonest acts. It also allowed the students to feel empowered through the self-monitoring of each other.\n\nAs the importance of original research grew among faculty members the questioning of research integrity grew as well. With so much pressure linked to their professional status professor were under intense scrutiny by the surrounding society. This inevitably led to the separating academic integrity ideals for student and faculty. Because of each groups different goal orientations it no longer made sense to hold them to the same standards. By 1970 most universities in the United States has established honor codes for their student body and faculty members, although this concept has not really caught on elsewhere in the world (e.g. see Yakovchuk et al.).\n\nImprovements in information technology have created challenges academic integrity, especially with respect to increased plagiarism and use of poor-quality sources found on the internet. Technology has also increased opportunities for collaborative writing, raising issues of proper attribution of authorship.\n\nAcademic integrity is practiced in the majority of educational institutions, it is noted in mission statements and represented in honor codes, but it is also being taught in ethics classes and being noted in syllabuses. Many universities have sections on their websites devoted to academic integrity which define what the term means to their specific institution.\n\nHonor code can help improve trust and honesty to students and give credits to those that actually wrote it. It can help teachers and students create an honor pledge that allows them to have severe punishments to those who committed academic dishonesty. The honor pledge is created before the assignment is assigned and need to be read over and signed, so it can show that the student is agreeing to not violate any rules.\n\nUniversities have moved toward an inclusive approach to inspiring academic integrity, by creating Student Honor Councils as well as taking a more active role in making students aware of the consequences for academic dishonesty.\n\nAcademic Integrity is also the meaning of what it truly feels to be involved with many on campus activities, and making contributions to your local community.\n\nGary Pavela, Director of Judicial Programs and Student Ethical Development, University of Maryland stated that \"Promoting student moral development requires affirming shared values. More colleges are starting to focus on one value that goes to the heart of the academic enterprise: a commitment to honesty in the pursuit of truth.\"\n\nTo help with understanding of a university's level of academic integrity, Clemson University's International Center for Academic Integrity at Rutland Institute for Ethics has developed a Campus Assessment Guide which includes information for universities to survey their own current academic integrity.\n\nTo promote the academic integrity, publication ethics, and responsible research in the higher education system in India, the University Grants Commission (India) enacted the \"UGC (Promotion of Academic Integrity and Prevention of Plagiarism in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2018\" on July 23, 2018 . The Regulations then recommend some institutional mechanisms to eliminate the scope of plagiarism. \n\nApart from the Assessment Guide, the Computer Science and Engineering Department of The Chinese University of Hong Kong has invented a plagiarism detection software system named as VeriGuide. This system aims at upholding the academic honesty levels of various academic institutions (such as: universities, community colleges). Through its website, the system provides a platform for students and educators to manage and submit academic works (i.e. student assignments). The system also provides as a function of analyzing the readability of academic works and serve as an assignment collection system and database.\n\nDespite these advances, academic dishonesty still plagues the university and in the 1990s the academic dishonesty rates were as bad as, and in some cases, worse than they were in the 1960s. The acknowledgement of this ethics crisis is inspiring many universities to focus more on promoting common values of academic integrity.\n\nConversely, critics have drawn attention to the fact that \"teaching and learning are interrupted because faculty, in an effort to control plagiarism and protect notions of intellectual capital, are forced to engage with the students as detectives rather than as teachers, advisors, or mentors. The focus on controlling plagiarism among students is critiqued as unnecessarily legalistic and the rules more rigid than those necessarily accorded to intellectual property law (Marsh, 2004)\". Similarly, contributions made from a societal perspective question or critique previously unexamined assumptions of the \"inherent goodness, universality, and absoluteness of independence, originality, and authorship (Valentine, 2006). Authors who write about the societal dimension such as Ede and Lundsford (2001) do not suggest the elimination of notions of individual authorship and the unconditional acceptance of copying and collaboration in its place. Rather, the societal dimension highlights the need to consider both and the importance of deconstructing how the idea of the \"individual author\" might be serving (or not serving) the goals of teaching (learning), service, and research. ... Postsecondary education institutions are urged to step back from the mindless or fear-based ready adoption of the \"turnitin culture\" (Maruca, 2005) to allow for such question asking in the spirit of enhancing academic integrity and the teaching and learning environment.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26701492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26701492", "title": "Academic standards", "text": "Academic standards\n\nAcademic standards are the benchmarks of quality and excellence in education such as the rigour of curricula and the difficulty of examinations. The creation of universal academic standards requires agreement on rubrics, criteria or other systems of coding academic achievement. At colleges and universities, faculty are under increasing pressure from administrators to award students good marks and grades without regard for those students' actual abilities, both to keep those students in school paying tuition and to boost the schools' graduation rates. Students often use course evaluations to criticize any instructor who they feel has been making the course too difficult, even if an objective evaluation would show that the course has been too easy. It is very difficult to find a direct correlation between the quality of the course and the outcome of the course evaluations.\n\nStudent evaluations are a controversial method of assessing academic achievement. Recent studies have correlated high student evaluation of instructors with high grades rather than mastery of content. Studies have also noted that students' understanding of assessment criteria can lead to enhanced learning experiences.\n\nAccording to a 2009 report by UNESCO, changes in the university structure in the late 20th and early 21st century have led to increasing access to or \"massification\" of higher education which has, in turn, resulted in both a diversification of the student population but also a general decrease in academic standards globally.\n\nIn the UK, degree awarding bodies themselves are responsible for standards in higher education, but these are checked during inspection by the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) and the Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation (Ofqual). On its website QAA defines academic standards as 'The standards set and maintained by institutions for their courses (programmes and modules) and expected for their awards.'\n\nThe Dearing Report recommended in 1997 that benchmarking be used to measure and improve academic standards. From 1997 to 2011 this was done by code of practice and other guidelines known as the \"Academic Infrastructure\". During 2012-13, this was replaced by the \"Quality Code for Higher Education\", which included points about the availability of information about the learning experience to emphasize the role of the student as a paying customer of the institutions.\n\nIn the USA, regulation is at state level by bodies such as the Standards and Assessment Division of the Arizona Department of Education.\n\nThe Common Core is a group of academic standards which focus on two main subjects: mathematics and English language arts (ELA). These standards are intended to ensure mastery of information and prepare students for entry into the next grade and beyond. The core originated as a way to standardize the way students were taught from state-to-state, and also to quality of information students received. The Common Core has now been adopted by 42 states in the US.\n\nThe Common Core standards are:\n\n"}
{"id": "21022704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21022704", "title": "Advanced Skills Teacher", "text": "Advanced Skills Teacher\n\nAdvanced Skills Teacher is a role in a maintained school in England and Wales. Advanced Skills Teachers are judged through external assessment against a range of criteria to demonstrate excellent classroom teaching practice. They are employed in Advanced Skills Teacher posts in roles which include an element of work dedicated to supporting teaching colleagues in their own schools, and other schools in the area, to improve their own practice. The role was introduced in 1998 to reward excellent teachers who chose to stay working in classrooms, rather than following other routes to promotion through leadership.\n\nThe Labour party manifesto for the general election of 1997 included a statement that they would \"create a new grade of teachers to recognise the best.\" The intention was to ensure that teachers who excelled in the classroom were given both financial incentive and career-path options to allow them to continue in that role, providing a role model of high quality teaching.\n\nFollowing its election in May of that year, the new government brought forward the white paper, \"Excellence in Schools\", which outlined proposals for the new grade of teacher. The then Secretary of State for Education and Employment, David Blunkett, released additional details about the nature and pay relating to the posts in March 2008. In July of that year, regulations were put in place to provide funding for the role, with the grade being formally introduced from September 1998.\n\nAdvanced Skills Teachers (ASTs) are given additional non-teaching time to allow them to share their teaching skills with colleagues both within their own school, and in other schools in the local area. This time normally amounts to a minimum 20% of the working week. In this time, ASTs are expected to undertake a range of tasks related to the raising of standards of teaching and learning in classrooms. These include, although are not limited to:\nIt is expected that a considerable amount of this work will be undertaken in schools other than the teacher's own school as part of outreach schemes. This may involve working in liaison with the Local Education Authority.\n\nTo become an Advanced Skills Teacher, a qualified teacher must first be assessed as meeting the professional standards of the role. In addition, they must be appointed to a specially-created Advanced Skills Teacher post.\n\nIn order to be assessed as an AST, a teacher must demonstrate that they are able to meet the professional standards for the role. There are three stated standards relating to the role of AST, but in addition, applicants must also meet the subsumed standards of an Excellent teacher - a separate role as defined by government policy. There are a total of 28 standards to be met, falling under three main categories:\n\nTeachers applying for AST posts must meet an external assessor who will judge the postholder against the criteria before being appointed to the post.\n\nWhen the role of AST was first introduced, it was accompanied by a 27-point pay scale separate from that of classroom teachers or school managers. In its review of school teachers' pay in 2004, the School Teachers' Review Body recommended a change to the scale with effect from September 2006. Since that time, Advanced Skills Teachers have been paid on a scale of 18 pay points, which is identical to the first 18 points range of the Leadership pay scale, which is used for Head teachers, and Deputy and Assistant Headteachers.\n\nUnlike teachers employed on the main pay scale, Advanced Skills Teachers are not subject to the limits on working time of 195 days per academic year, or 1265 directed hours per year. Head teachers are, however, required to ensure that Advanced Skills Teachers have a reasonable work/life balance.\n\n"}
{"id": "6323056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6323056", "title": "Biological Sciences Curriculum Study", "text": "Biological Sciences Curriculum Study\n\nBiological Sciences Curriculum Study (BSCS) is an educational center that develops curricular materials, provides educational support, and conducts research and evaluation in the fields of science and technology. It was formed in 1958, and became an independent non-profit organization in 1973, headquartered in Colorado Springs, Colorado.\n\nSoon after receiving a National Science Foundation grant in 1958, the American Institute of Biological Sciences established the base for BSCS activities at the University of Colorado at Boulder. Arnold Grobman, a herpetologist, served as the first director of BSCS, from 1958 until 1965. Hiram Bentley Glass, a geneticist, chaired the first Steering Committee (later the Board) from 1959 until 1965. The BSCS leadership during its first decade of operation was mainly made up of professional biologists. These professional biologists worked with high school educators and administrators to develop and implement new curriculum materials.\n\nDuring the first Steering Committee meetings in 1959, the BSCS decided to target high school biology, mainly at the tenth-grade level, for improvement. In the summer of 1960, the BSCS convened an intensive summer writing conference in Boulder, at which three new high school biology textbooks were developed. The three versions were: Blue, a molecular biology approach; Green, an ecology approach; and Yellow, a cellular biology approach. These three versions, and their corresponding newly developed laboratory exercises, were piloted at high schools around the United States during the 1960-61 school year. The curriculum materials were then revised during the summer of 1961 based on feedback from teachers, students and professional biologists, and tested again during 1961-62. In 1963, the three textbook versions were published commercially.\n\nAll three BSCS curriculum versions stressed key biological themes, such as science as inquiry, the complementarity of structure and function, genetic continuity and evolution. The BSCS textbooks emphasized evolution as a major scientific theory at a time when it was largely omitted from existing high school curricula, and the BSCS organization has remained committed to the teaching of evolution since its inception.\n\nThe BSCS also expanded its work beyond standard tenth-grade biology curriculum to produce educational materials for exceptional students, for teachers, and for all educational levels, from kindergarten to adult.\n\nTo advance the teaching of science, BSCS developed a lesson structure they call the \"BSCS 5E Instructional Model\", standing for the different sections of a lesson. It is important to note that it is NOT considered that these 5 sections—that this lesson—would be done in a single 50-60 minute class period. These 5 E's include: Engage, Explore, Explain, Elaborate, Evaluate.\n\nThe use of this model brings coherence to different teaching strategies, provides connections among educational activities, and helps science teachers make decisions about interactions with students.\nEach phase of the model and a short phrase to indicate its purpose from a student perspective are:\n\nDuring the Cold War, in 1957, the Soviet Union successfully launched the first Earth orbiting artificial satellite, Sputnik I. The event triggered alarm in United States by heightening fears there that the Soviet Union were achieving technological and strategic superiority. One response to what the Americans termed the \"Sputnik crisis\" was to invest money and expertise towards a re-invigoration of the country's science and technological educational system. It was during this period that the BSCS was engaged to develop updated high school biology textbooks. The biology texts they developed covered evolutionary theory, which was by this time overwhelmingly accepted as biology's central organizing principle.\n\nThese books became widely used in the nation's high schools, and as a consequence, the public controversy about the teaching of evolution in public schools re-ignited. After a 1968 Supreme Court decision nullified decades-old laws prohibiting the teaching of evolution in many places of the country, some evolution opponents turned their efforts against the public funding of evolutionary teaching, including publicly funded textbooks. The BSCS textbooks were featured in the 1973 case \"Willoughby v. Stever\", a suit filed by an evangelical opponent of evolution who attempted, and failed, to have the evolution instruction in the textbook legally recognized as an unconstitutional establishment of religious secularism. The case was dismissed as meritless, and was cited as legal precedent in other groundbreaking decisions in the American cultural battle over evolution in the schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2917415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2917415", "title": "Block scheduling", "text": "Block scheduling\n\nBlock scheduling or blocking is a type of academic scheduling used in schools in the American K-12 system, in which each pupil has fewer classes per day. It is more common in middle and high schools than in primary schools. Each class is scheduled for a longer period of time than normal (e.g. 90 minutes instead of 50). In one form of block scheduling, a single class will meet every day for a number of days, after which another class will take its place. In another form, daily classes rotate through a changing daily cycle.\n\nBlocks offer more concentrated experiences of subjects, with fewer, usually half as many if going through a schedule transfer, classes daily.\n\nUnder a traditional American schedule, pupils in a high school will study seven subjects a day for 45 minutes for each day of the week for a semester. There will be two semesters in the year so 14 subjects could be studied. Some pupils will not study all seven subjects. There was great variety as each school board was free to decide the requirement.\nConversion to block scheduling became a relatively widespread trend in the 1990s for middle schools and high schools in the United States. Prior to that, many schools scheduled classes such that a student saw every one of their teachers each day. Classes were approximately 40–60 minutes long, but under block scheduling, they became approximately 90 minutes long.\n\nMany forms of block scheduling were devised. \nOne variety of block scheduling, called A/B block scheduling, is shown in the example table. Instead of taking six classes every day, students attend three classes every other day and spend double the amount of continuous time in each class. Students can take 4 classes during one semester and another 4 the next. The example given reverts to a six-period day on Fridays.\nA method called 4×4 block scheduling splits the academic year into quarters, and uses a four-period day. This leaves eight slots available for classes during a semester (four classes in each of two quarters). The 4×4 method is somewhat more flexible in that students can take two sequential classes (such as Algebra 1 and 2) in the same semester (in different quarters), which would not be possible on a traditional schedule. This also allows students in their final year to fail a third-quarter class but repeat it in the fourth quarter in order to graduate.\nAnother common block system exists in which students spend up to 100 minutes per class, and earn four credits each semester. Excluding very rare occasions, students at schools using this system take two core classes and two electives per semester. Some schools modify this system further to use one of the mid-day periods for students to take optional year-long classes (usually band) that take half of the period length and take another year-long class during the rest of the period (such as math or journalism). Under such a system most of the classes taken on a year-long basis have all students participating, however it is not uncommon for journalism or yearbook classes to operate under the normal system and only have a few students who leave or arrive halfway through the period. It is also not uncommon for these classes to be scheduled as two credits, and taken both semesters. \nWaldorf schools traditionally employ a mixed approach. Certain academic subjects are taught in intensive three to five week blocks known as \"main lesson blocks\", while other subjects are taught in regularly meeting skills classes.\n\nWithin the context of post K-12 establishments, such as in medical school or other intensive university program, a block schedule may mean taking one class at a time, all day, every day, until all of the material is covered. A normal university course might then be completed in three or four weeks of focused effort on a single topic. This is sometimes called \"One Course At A Time\" (\"OCAAT\") (see Colorado College and Cornell College). When used as a supplement change instead of the normal schedule, this approach is sometimes called a \"mini-mester\".\n\n\"Where we were able to combine data to produce summary effect sizes, we found that 4 x 4 block scheduling resulted in higher cross subject achievement than traditional schedules. However, the outcome average cross-subject achievement could conceal worsening performance in some subjects and better performance in others.\"\n\nSome schools have compensated for this by making AP courses last for the entire school year, providing essentially double the instruction time of normal classes, but this results in a dramatic reduction in the number of courses a student can take. Some schools that make AP courses year long offset this by having students always choose a pair of AP courses during class registration. The student will go to the first AP class one day, and the other AP course the next day. Therefore, the student takes the same number of courses as other students, but both AP classes last for the duration of the year.\n\nA systematic review on Block Scheduling was also conducted by Dickson et al. (2010) at the EPPI-Centre which asserts that there is no conclusive evidence to support the introduction of policy guidance on the use of block scheduling in secondary schools in the UK. Although the findings do not indicate that participating in block schedules would produce negative outcomes for pupils across subjects, neither are the positive effects of block scheduling strong enough to recommend their implementation.\n\nSome critics believe that certain subjects suffer from a lack of daily exposure to subject matter and practice that occurs with an A/B block schedule. Courses like mathematics, foreign languages, and music may benefit from daily practice and suffer from a lack thereof.\nBlock scheduling can result in gaps of a day or days (or even weeks or months in some circumstances) where students are receiving no reinforcement of instruction in a specific subject like math or history, and critics say this results in retention problems and the need for more remedial review. Some observers similarly feel that summer vacation has a similar effect of interrupting the learning and retention process forcing a need to repeat material at the start of a new school year in the Fall.\n\nA University of Virginia study of 8,000 college students found that students who had block scheduling in high school performed worse in university science courses.\n\nStudents who miss a block-scheduled day can miss a considerable amount of material in a single subject, possibly making it more difficult to catch up. One way this can be mitigated is by making course material available online, which allows students to catch up outside of school, and another way is by using a flipped classroom system.\n\nSome students are better able to manage their time with nightly homework in every class, while other students do better with larger homework assignments that are spaced out over several days. Some subjects may benefit from daily drills while other subjects may lend themselves to less frequent homework projects. Mid-term transfers between schools with different schedules can be problematic in cases where the schedules are different.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30930512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30930512", "title": "Boyer's model of scholarship", "text": "Boyer's model of scholarship\n\nBoyer's model of scholarship is an academic model advocating expansion of the traditional definition of scholarship and research into four types of scholarship. It was introduced in 1990 by Ernest Boyer. According to Boyer, traditional research, or the scholarship of discovery, had been the center of academic life and crucial to an institution's advancement but it needed to be broadened and made more flexible to include not only the new social and environmental challenges beyond the campus but also the reality of contemporary life. His vision was to change the research mission of universities by introducing the idea that scholarship needed to be redefined.\n\nHe proposed that scholarship include these four different categories:\n\n\nBoyer's model has been embraced across academia with occasional refinement, such as specific applications for different disciplines.\n\n"}
{"id": "24306166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306166", "title": "Create a Comic Project", "text": "Create a Comic Project\n\nThe Create a Comic Project (CCP) is a youth literacy program and webcomic created by John Baird. The program uses comics, many taken from the Internet, to encourage children to write their own narratives. The program began in November 2006 at the main branch of the New Haven Free Public Library as an after-school program. The project has since worked with several other groups, including the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh, Braddock Carnegie Library, and the Pittsburgh YMCA. Baird has presented the results of his work on the project at several conventions and conferences, including South by Southwest Interactive and SXSWedu. The project has been praised for its work in engaging children in learning by Marjorie Scardino, CEO of Pearson, Professor Mirta Ojito of Columbia University, and Arne Duncan, the US Secretary of Education.\n\nThe webcomic side of the project posts comics made by the children. The website was launched 4 January 2007. Archives of the Taiwan comics, labeled \"Create a Comic Project ROC\" or \"CCP Version 1.0,\" go from 9 July 2005 through 28 November 2006. Comics generated in America, labeled \"CCP Version 2.0,\" were first posted 29 November 2006 to present.\n\nThe Create a Comic Project was first conceived in the Republic of China while Baird was teaching English at Hess Educational Organization. He used it as an ESL activity in class. A version of the project was eventually published as part Hess's official curriculum materials in their \"Student Activities Booklet\", which is currently used in both the ROC and Singapore. One of Baird's inspirations was the \"Penny Arcade Remix Project\".\n\nAfter going to New Haven for graduate school at Yale University, Baird remade the project as a stand-alone activity for the New Haven Public Library. Library staffers called the program \"wonderful\" and that it had \"encouraged children to willingly express their creativity.\" In Pittsburgh, Baird hosted a number of workshops in the city before entering into a year-long collaboration with the Greater Pittsburgh YMCA's summer camp and after-school programs. While attending Teachers College, Columbia University, Baird brought the project into several area schools in the city, including LaGuardia High School and The School at Columbia University. From 2010 to 2012, the project was based in Houston, Texas, where Baird has given workshops to employees at the University of Texas Charter School and was invited to give workshops at the Conference for the Advancement of Math Teaching in 2011. The project is currently on hiatus.\n\nThe program hosted regular comic tournaments at the New Haven Library from 2007 to 2011. They were funded by grant awards from the Community Foundation for Greater New Haven. The CCP is the single largest multi-webcomic collaborative project of its kind. It was the only comic-based children's program of its type in New Haven and Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 2009, Baird and other webcomic creators held a panel and two project-based workshops at Otakon. The project has also hosted panels and workshops at Tekkoshocon in 2009 and 2010. John was named a Featured Panelist for Otakon 2012 for his series of workshops. A Wheaton University student has created art for the project's official materials.\n\nVarious comic creators allow Baird to use their work for the \"Create a Comic Project\". The first webcomic ever used was \"Okashina Okashi - Strange Candy\", with others following later. They include (in alphabetical order):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46532573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46532573", "title": "Culturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports", "text": "Culturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports\n\nCulturally Responsive Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports (CRPBIS) is an ongoing statewide research project founded by Dr. Aydin Bal in 2011. The purpose of CRPBIS is to re-mediate school cultures that reproduce behavioral outcome disparities and marginalization of non-dominant students and families. CRPBIS is conducted at the Wisconsin Center for Education Research at the School of Education, University of Wisconsin-Madison. CRPBIS develops, utilizes, and researches processes and interventions such as Learning Lab to create locally meaningful and sustainable systemic transformations together with local stakeholders (educators, families, students, community representatives). \nLearning Lab is an innovative methodology of systemic transformation, informed by Cultural-Historical Activity Theory (CHAT) (Bal, 2015; Engestrom, 2008).\nAs a part of CRPBIS, local schools create teams with members of their communities to identify and understand systemic problems (e.g., racial disproportionality in school disciplinary actions) within their own schools, propose new solutions, and examine the effectiveness of their solutions.\n"}
{"id": "1107734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107734", "title": "Deschooling", "text": "Deschooling\n\nDeschooling, a term rooted in the beliefs of Ivan Illich, is the shift from a traditional, government-influenced institution of schooling to a less-restricted method of learning that focuses on being educated by one's natural curiosities.\n\nDeschooling is mainly accredited to Ivan Illich, who felt that the traditional schooling children received needed to be reconstructed. He believed that schools contained a \"hidden curriculum\" that caused learning to align with grades and accreditation rather than important skills. Illich believed that the modern school is grounded on a foundation that is focused on growing schools as an industrialized system. Rather than focusing on the needs of the children, it is more heavily focused on the aggrandizement of the school system. Illich communicated that the school system has formed a toxic industry that specializes in what families should be capable of forming themselves, namely education. According to Illich, schools align success on paper with academic excellence. He presumed that schools, grades, and diplomas gave false assumptions that the students have become knowledgeable in a certain educational concept. \n\nJohn Holt was another thinker who believed in deschooling. His thoughts were closely aligned with Illich because neither were convinced that school was the place that taught students everything they needed to know. Instead, they communicated that school was not the sole avenue for learning because students learn consistently through other facets, such as exposure to the natural world. As a result, Illich and Holt saw schools as being insufficient because of their focus on strictly doing \"skill drill\" instead of other methods of learning. Additionally, theorist of deschooling saw education as maintaining the social order. Therefore, they wanted to \"denounce the monopoly that traditional education institutions held on education and learning.\" \n\n\"Deschooling\" a person does not mean disregarding the act of learning or studying in schools. Illich and Holt's image of a deschooling society would ensure that everybody has his or her own decision as to whether or not they go to school. Rather than being forced to go to school, taking a test before entering a school, being denied the opportunity to learn a desired topic, people would be free to choose how they learn. According to John Holt, an advocate for deschooling, \"a deschooled society would be a society in which everyone shall have the widest and freest possible choice to learn whatever he wants to learn, whether in school or in some altogether different way.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1630843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630843", "title": "Drug-free school zone", "text": "Drug-free school zone\n\nUnited States Federal law and many state and local laws increase penalties for illegal drug-related activities in Drug-free school zones. \n\nThe United States Congress has supplemented the core offenses under the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. ' 841) with several additional offenses carrying increased maximum penalties, when the crimes are committed under certain specified circumstances. For example section 21 U.S.C.'860 provides that the penalties for manufacturing, distributing, and possessing with intent to distribute are doubled or tripled when the offense is committed within a specified distance of a school or other facility regularly used by children. Under Federal law the affected areas can include illegal federal drug sales on, or within one thousand feet of, real property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary school or a public or private college, junior college, or university, or a playground, or housing facility owned by a public housing authority, or within 100 feet of a public or private youth center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility.\n\nIn one state, New Hampshire, a Drug-free school zone is defined as an area inclusive of any property used for school purposes by any publicly funded primary school, whether or not owned by such school, within 1,000 feet of any such property, and within or immediately adjacent to school buses.\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act amended and reauthorized the Safe and Drug-Free Schools & Communities Act (SDFSCA) as Part A of Title IV-21st century schools. The No Child Left Behind Act authorized funds for SDFSCA program, which is the federal government’s major initiative to prevent drug abuse violence in and around schools. As part of the SDFSCA, Congress allocated millions to school districts to help them establish programs to prevent the use of alcohol and other drugs, but there are no accountability standards to accompany the money. The SDFSCA was established by the 1986 Anti-Drug Abuse Act. The SDFSC Advisory Committee, was appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Education Margaret Spellings. The Committee was established to advise the Secretary on Federal, state, and local programs designated to create safe and drug-free schools, and on issues related to crisis planning.\n\nThe purpose of the SDFSCA is to support programs that: (1) prevent violence in and around schools; (2) prevent the illegal use of alcohol, tobacco, and drugs; (3) involve parents and communities; and, (4) are coordinated with related Federal, State, school, and community efforts and resources to foster a safe and drug-free learning environment that promotes student academic achievement.\n\nDue primarily to an ongoing lack of research supporting any of these efforts being an effective deterrent to crime, Congress recently eliminated several programs administered by the Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "23625227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23625227", "title": "Early Years Professional Status", "text": "Early Years Professional Status\n\nEarly Years Professional Status (EYPS) is a professional status for practitioners in England at the Early Years Foundation Stage (ages 0 – 5), which is intended to be broadly equivalent to Qualified Teacher Status (ages 5 – 18). Introduced by the British government in 2007, via the Children's Workforce Development Council, EYPS courses require a degree, and include an assessment in an early years setting - either a placement or within the trainee's own early years workplace. In Scotland the Childhood Practice Award (either a professional development award, a practice based ordinary degree or a post-graduate diploma) similarly requires those who lead and manage Early Years (In Scotland Childhood Practice incorporates all those working in non-compulsory children's services 0-16).\n\nBy 2010, all early years children's centres in England (of which there are nearly 3000) will be required to have at least one Early Years Professional (EYP), and by 2015, all full daycare settings will be required to have at least one, which will require 20,000 EYPs. In early 2009 there were more than 2,500 graduate-level EYPs and a further 2,400 in training in 35 higher education institutions. In Scotland, since 2011, it is a registration requirement with SSSC (Scottish Social Service Council) that all leaders and managers who are in charge of EY centres, nurseries or family centres must have a Level 9 qualification ( SCQF) which is equivalent to an ordinary degree.\n\nGovernment funding is available (via the Graduate Leader Fund) to support private, voluntary or independent sector daycare in gaining EYPS status, but is not currently available for the 20% of England's early years childcare workforce which is run by the government.\n\nPay for EYPs however is often only half that of a Newly Qualified Teacher, at £8-9/hr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54056494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54056494", "title": "Education 2030 Agenda", "text": "Education 2030 Agenda\n\nEducation 2030 Agenda refers to the global commitment of the Education for All movement to ensure access to basic education for all. It is an essential part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The roadmap to achieve the Agenda is the Education 2030 Incheon Declaration and Framework for Action, which outlines how countries, working with UNESCO and global partners, can translate commitments into action.\n\nThe Education 2030 Agenda stretches from early childhood learning to youth and adult education and training; Emphasizes the acquisition of skills for work; Underlines the importance of citizenship education; Focuses on inclusion, equity and gender equality; And aims to ensure quality learning outcomes for all, throughout their lives.\n\nWhile the main responsibility for implementing the agenda lies with governments, UNESCO and partners provide support through coordinated policy advice, technical assistance, capacity development and monitoring of progress at global, regional and national levels.\n\nThe 10 targets of Sustainable Development Goal 4 encompass many different aspects of education. Seven targets are of expected outcomes and three are means of achieving these targets.\n\n4.1 Universal primary and secondary education: By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes.\n\n4.2 Early childhood development and universal pre-primary education: By 2030, ensure that all girls and boys have access to quality early childhood development care and pre-primary education so that they are ready for primary education.\n\n4.3 Equal access to technical/vocational and higher education: By 2030, ensure equal access for all women and men to an ordable and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education, including university.\n\n4.4 Relevant skills for decent work: By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship.\n\n4.5 Gender equality and inclusion: By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and ensure equal access to all levels of education and vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations.\n\n4.6 Universal youth and adult literacy: By 2030, ensure that all youth and a substantial proportion of adults, both men and women, achieve literacy and numeracy.\n\n4.7 Education for sustainable development and global citizenship: By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and non-violence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture’s contribution to sustainable development.\n\n4.a Effective learning environments: Build and upgrade education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, non-violent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all.\n\n4.b Scholarships: By 2020, substantially expand globally the number of scholarships available to developing countries, in particular least developed countries, small island developing States and African countries, for enrolment in higher education, including vocational training and information and communications technology, technical, engineering and scientific programmes, in developed countries and other developing countries.\n\n4.c Teachers and educators: By 2030, substantially increase the supply of qualified teachers, including through international cooperation for teacher training in developing countries, especially least developed countries and small island developing States.\n\n"}
{"id": "6811550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6811550", "title": "Educational crossover", "text": "Educational crossover\n\nCrossover, sometimes referred to as cross-pollination, is a philosophical presupposition of Liberal arts, Great books, and Integrative learning approaches to education. The value of such crossover is disputed by those who adhere to certain versions of Pragmatism, especially John Dewey. \n"}
{"id": "4076593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076593", "title": "Emergent Design", "text": "Emergent Design\n\nEmergent Design is a phrase coined by David Cavallo to describe a theoretical framework for the implementation of systemic change in education and learning environments. This examines how choice of design methodology contributes to the success or failure of education reforms through studies in Thailand. It is related to the theories of situated learning and of constructionist learning. The term constructionism was coined by Seymour Papert under whom Cavallo studied. Emergent Design holds that education systems cannot adapt effectively to technology change unless the education is rooted in the existing skills and needs of the local culture.\n\nThe most notable non-theoretical application of the principles of emergent design is in the OLPC, whose concept work is supported in Cavallo's paper \"Models of growth — towards fundamental change in learning environment\".\n\nEmergent design is a consistent topic in agile software development, as a result of the methodology's focus on delivering small pieces of working code with business value. With emergent design, a development organization starts delivering functionality and lets the design emerge. Development will take a piece of functionality A and implement it using best practices and proper test coverage and then move on to delivering functionality B. Once B is built, or while it is being built, the organization will look at what A and B have in common and refactor out the commonality, allowing the design to emerge. This process continues as the organization continually delivers functionality. At the end of an agile release cycle, development is left with the smallest set of the design needed, as opposed to the design that could have been anticipated in advance. The end result is a simpler design with a smaller code base, which is more easily understood and maintained and naturally has less room for defects.. Practices like Change Vector Tracking has helped teams adopting Emergent design as their design philosophy more systematic, disciplined and pragmatic.\n\nEmergent Design is also being used in social change movements, such as a group of Canadian NGOs that are bringing together a group of civic leaders to discuss how their work scales up and scales deep. A series of events are being organized by the Carold Institute and in 2013 through to 2015. The project goals currently include, but are not limited to:\n\n"}
{"id": "33910181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33910181", "title": "First Principles of Instruction", "text": "First Principles of Instruction\n\nFirst Principles of Instruction, created by M. David Merrill, Professor Emeritus at Utah State University, is an instructional theory based on a broad review of many instructional models and theories. First Principles of Instruction are created with the goal of establishing a set of principles upon which all instructional theories and models are in general agreement, and several authors acknowledge the fundamental nature of these principles. These principles can be used to assist teachers, trainers and instructional designers in developing research-based instructional materials in a manner that is likely to produce positive student learning gains.\n\nFirst Principles of Instruction are described as a set of interrelated principles which, when properly applied in an instructional product or setting, will increase student learning. These principles include the following:\n\n\nThese principles can be used in a Task or Problem-Centered cycle of instruction beginning with Activation and continuing through Demonstration, Application, and Integration.\n\nFirst Principles of Instruction is similar to other task-centered instructional theories (e.g. Van Merriënboer’s Four Component Instructional Design Model) in that it uses a real-world problem or task as a vehicle for instruction. Students view demonstrations of real-world problem solving examples, are given opportunities to solve real-world problems and are given feedback on their application. Students are taught new knowledge and information within the context of the real-world task or problem, which provides a context in which the knowledge is obtained. First Principles is different than problem-based-learning, however, in that it provides more guidance and demonstration to students which is reduced as students gain expertise.\n\nThere is a growing body of research support for Merrill's First Principles of Instruction. In one study, researchers surveyed 140 students at 89 different higher education institutions and discovered that students were 9 times more likely to report that they had mastered learning the course objectives when First Principles of Instruction were used and when they spent ample time and effort studying. Another study observed award-winning instructors at an institute of higher education and found that they used some or all of First Principles of Instruction in their teaching strategies, thereby linking acclaimed instructors with the principles. In another study, researchers compared the effectiveness of instruction using First Principles of Instruction with more traditional instruction and found that students in the First Principles group learned significantly more and finished learning tasks significantly faster. Another study found that biology students learning from instruction using First Principles of Instruction had significantly increased confidence in their ability to solve similar problems in the future, compared to other learners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7082759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7082759", "title": "Foundation Stage", "text": "Foundation Stage\n\nFoundation Stage is the British government label for education of pupils aged 2 to 5 in England. In Northern Ireland, it is also used to refer to the first two years of compulsory education for pupils aged 4 to 6.\n\nFoundation Stage 1 takes place in a pre-school / childcare environment such as Nursery between the ages 3 and 4, but is non compulsory education. Foundation Stage 2 takes place in the Reception class of an Infant or Primary school between the ages 4 and 5. It is also known as Key Stage 0 to fit in alongside key stages 1 to 4. \n\nThe introduction of a Foundation Stage was a significant landmark in education. The early years were given a distinct identity, and a more detailed, focused curriculum, where the emphasis is on learning through planned play activities.\n\nIn order for practitioners to plan a curriculum that will ensure attainment of the early learning goals for the majority of children at the end of the reception year, a series of stepping stones are provided. These stepping stones identify the developing knowledge, skills, understanding and attitudes that children need if they are to achieve the goals at the end of the foundation stage. \n\nFor babies and children aged from birth to three, a separate framework named \"Birth to Three Matters\" was created to support those practitioners working with very young children and babies. Certain principles underpin the framework, for example, that parents and family are central to the well-being of the child, and that a relationship with a key person at home and in the setting is essential to young children's well-being. Most importantly, the framework emphasised that children learn most effectively when, with the support of a knowledgeable and trusted adult, they are actively involved and interested. In other words, children learn by \"doing\" rather than by being \"told\".\n\nThe Key Stages were first introduction of the National Curriculum. \n\nThe Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA) published “Curriculum Guidance for the Foundation Stage” in 2000, and is the document upon which all Foundation Stage provision is planned, and which outlines the expected learning for pupils of this age. \n\nIn 2007, a new curriculum combining the two frameworks (Foundation Stage and Birth to Three Matters) was be introduced, with considerable training and support available to early years practitioners in all settings. This is called the Early Years Foundation Stage (EYFS) and became statutory in September 2008.\n\nThe guidance states that through well-planned play, both indoors and outdoors, children can:\n\nThe curriculum is organised into six areas of learning:\n\nThese six areas help practitioners to plan the learning environment and the activities provided within it, but this does not mean that children learn in these separate subject-based areas. Very often, a well-planned activity can promote children’s development and understanding in several areas simultaneously.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31590773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31590773", "title": "Fronimo Dialogo", "text": "Fronimo Dialogo\n\nThe Fronimo Dialogo di Vincentio Galilei (Vincenzo Galilei) is an instructional book on playing, composing and intabulating vocal music for the lute.\n\nThe first edition was printed by Girolamo Scotto in Venice with the full title \"FRONIMO DIALOGO / DI VINCENTIO GALILEI FIORENTINO, / NEL QUALE SI CONTENGONO LE VERE, / et necessarie regole del Intavolare la Musica nel Liuto\". While the title page bears the date 1568, the final page confusingly bears the date 1569. Apparently, although the manuscript was completed by Galilei in the Autumn of 1568, the official letter of privilege allowing the publication of the book was received only in December, and the printing actually took place in 1569. In addition, still in 1569, Girolamo Scotto broke the book into two parts, selling a collection of 30 musical selections from near the end of the book and the Dialogo separately. A second edition of the complete Dialogo, with significant revisions, was printed in 1584 by the “heir of Girolamo Scotto,” under the title \"FRONIMO / DIALOGO / DI VINCENTIO GALILEI / NOBILE FIORENTINO, / SOPRA L'ARTE DEL BENE INTAVOLARE, / ET RETTAMENTE SONARE LA MUSICA / Negli strumenti artificiali si di corde come di fiato, & in particulare nel Liuto\".\n\nUnlike other lute instruction manuals of the 16th century, each of the editions of Fronimo contains quite a large amount of music. Galilei provided examples in order to illustrate how he believed compositions should be structured and how intabulations should be made from existing compositions. The examples range from a few notes or measures in length up to complete compositions in either mensural notation or lute tablature. In the 1584 edition, for example, there are 48 pieces in tablature form sprinkled throughout the text (including a set of 24 ricercars in all the possible tonalities) and a collection of 60 more pieces placed all together at the end. The 1568 edition includes a total of 96 complete pieces, many of which are different from those chosen for the 1584 edition.\n\n"}
{"id": "23261600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23261600", "title": "Fushūgaku", "text": "Fushūgaku\n\nThere are a number of reasons as to why these children do not go to school. There are many cases where they cannot understand the Japanese language. In other cases they may be able to understand both Japanese and their own native language, but their level of conversation is insufficient to participate in class lessons. Bullying by native Japanese students may also contribute to their choice not to attend school. In other cases, the children have parents who both work to support the family, and the children end up being left at home alone. In these families, they spend time together late at night after their parents stop working. On their parents' day off, they go out late at night together (shopping, etc.) They pass their time at autonomous Japanese language classrooms that were built for the children of foreigners. These parents are usually blue-collar workers.\n\nOther reasons are that the parents of \"fushugaku\" children want their children to go to a school where they would use their native language. However, such schools cost between 30,000 and 50,000 yen per month, so parents cannot afford to send their children.\n\n"}
{"id": "9177274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9177274", "title": "Governance in higher education", "text": "Governance in higher education\n\nGovernance in higher education is the means by which institutions for higher education (tertiary or post-secondary education) are formally organized and managed (though often there is a distinction between definitions of management and governance). Simply, university governance is the way in which universities are operated. Governing structures for higher education are highly differentiated throughout the world, but the different models nonetheless share a common heritage. Internationally, tertiary education includes private not-for-profit, private for-profit, and public institutions governed by differentiated structures of management.\n\nGovernance and management of post-secondary institutions becomes even more diverse with the differences in defining the relationships between higher and tertiary education (university education), postsecondary education, technical and vocational education, and community college models of education. The issues are complicated by current debates over collegial and shared forms of governance contrasted to corporate and business forms of institutional governance.\n\nThe concept of governance in postsecondary education predominantly refers to the internal structure, organization and management of autonomous institutions. The internal governance organization typically consists of a governing board (board of regents, board of directors), the university president (executive head, CEO) with a team of administrative chancellors and staff, faculty senates, academic deans, department chairs, and usually some form of organization for student representation. In the United States, state institution governing boards often emphasize the concept of citizen governance in recognizing that board members serve a civic role for the institution. Management structures themselves have become increasingly complex due to the increasing complexity of intraorganizational, interorganizational and governmental relationships. Whether college and university education, adult education, technical or vocational education, educational administration presents complex challenges at all levels of private and public education.\n\n\"Governance\" is defined by Kezar and Eckel as the macro-level of policy decision making. Kezar and Eckel suggest governance is a multi-level concept including several different bodies and processes with different decision-making functions. In this way, governance is sometimes defined at difference to the internal management of institutions. Throughout the world, many national, state and local governments have begun to establish coordinating and governing boards as both buffer and bridge to coordinate governance and institutional management.\nDue to the influences of public sector reforms, several authors (Kezar and Eckel 2004; Lapworth 2004; Middlehurst 2004) point out that next to the concept of shared and participative governance a new form of governance has emerged. According to Lapworth, the rise of the notion of corporate governance and the decline of the shared or consensual governance can be seen to be a result of the decline in academic participation, a growing tendency towards managerialism and the new environment where the universities are operating.\n\nUniversity governance varies between countries. McMaster notes the different cultures in universities and the traditional relationships between faculty and administration, characterizing historical transitions and suggesting that universities today are undergoing transitions in culture. Kezar and Eckel point out the substance of governance has changed during the last decades with more emphasis put on high stake issues and more incremental decisions made in a less collegial mode – the reasons for this stem from trends that have devalued the notion of participation and also from the external pressures for more accountability and demands for quicker decision-making (that sometimes is achieved through bureaucracy). McMaster discusses the same changes in university management resulting from the “huge amount of additional administrative work at all levels within the university, and the requirement for a wide range of specialist skills in areas such as marketing, HR management, management accounting, web development and instructional design” and the difficulties with the tensions that have resulted between collegial and corporate models of management.\n\nDearlove emphasises that, under the conditions of mass higher education, no university can avoid the need for some sort of bureaucratic management and organisation, though this does not mean that the importance of informal discipline and profession-based authority (internal governance of universities) can totally be ignored. Lapworth advocates what the author believes is a model of university governance with the positive aspects of corporate and collegial approaches. The issues in university governance discussed by these literatures are detailed by Coaldrake, Stedman, and Little (2003) through a comparative study of current trends in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States, with poignant insight into the different models of governance for the management of higher education. Critical of the currents of change toward “corporate governance,” the authors cite reference to literature that calls for “re-balancing” of university governance, maintaining that the re-balancing “would amount to a clarification of shared governance”. With changing roles in human resources and the external pressures for accountability affecting university relationships internally, McMaster provides insights by defining management styles in terms of nested partnership between faculty and administration, contiguous partnership, and segmented partnership. With debates over the recent trends, university organizations, governing associations, and numerous postsecondary institutions themselves have set forth policy statements on governance.\n\nWithin the US, governance varies greatly from university to university. Without any policy, various statements have been influential. \n\nThe American Association of University Professors (AAUP) was the first organization to formulate a statement on the governance of higher education based on principles of democratic values and participation (which, in this sense, correlates with the Yale Report of 1828, which has been referred to as the “first attempt at a formally stated philosophy of education” for universities, emphasizing at that time that Enlightenment curricula following the establishment of democratic constitutional governance should not be replaced with retrogression to religious curricula). The AAUP published its first \"Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities\" in 1920, “emphasizing the importance of faculty involvement in personnel decisions, selection of administrators, preparation of the budget, and determination of educational policies. Refinements to the statement were introduced in subsequent years, culminating in the 1966 Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities. The document does not provide for a “blueprint” for the governance of higher education. Nor was the purpose of the statement to provide principles for relations with industry and government (though it establishes direction on “the correction of existing weaknesses”). Rather, it aimed to establish a shared vision for the internal governance of institutions. Student involvement is not addressed in detail. The statement concerns general education policy and internal operations with an overview of the formal structures for organization and management. In process and structure, the meaning with the end result is an organizational philosophy for shared governance in higher education.\n\nFirst published in 1987, the National Education Association (NEA) statement on faculty governance in higher education is a straightforward point of view on their policy in support of shared governance. The policy maintains that faculty involvement in governance is critical. Providing research support, the organization states faculty should advise administration in developing curriculum and methods of instruction. Faculty is responsible for establishing degree requirements, takes primary responsibility in tenure appointments and the award of promotion and sabbatical. Addressing issues through collective bargaining, the statement believes “administration and the governing boards of colleges and universities should accept the faculty's recommendations”. The statement also maintains that faculty should be involved in salary decisions, evaluating administrators, and budgeting. The policy concludes with the assertion:\n\nThe policy statement references the AAUP's \"1966 Statement on Government of Colleges and Universities.\" The basic principles evidently draw from the early AAUP statement on governance. Though the NEA makes no mention of students anywhere in the policy, the NEA like the AAUP does reflect the basic ideas and premise for the “responsibility primarily of the faculty to determine the appropriate curriculum and procedures of student instruction”. In this respect, the AAUP grants that considerations should be made for publicly supported institutions. Unlike the NEA, the AAUP elaborates more on the role of governing structures, including the role of the president to ensure \"sound academic practices\", as the NEA suggests faculty rights to appeal flawed and improper procedures. In summation, where the AAUP discusses the organizational structure for governance and management in more detail while touching on student involvement, the NEA statement differs by detailing primarily faculty rights and responsibilities in shared governance.\n\nFollowing on the 1987 publication of \"Policy Statement on Higher Education Faculty Governance\", in 1989 the NEA issued a \"Policy Statement on Higher Education Policy for Community College Governance.\" The NEA elaborates upon issues in support of shared governance for the management of community colleges, junior and technical colleges not addressed in their previous statement. The statement is based on the same principles, believing cooperative decision-making and collective bargaining in governance should be based on “collegial” relationships. Where statements from the NEA and the AAUP advocate the importance of faculty involvement in governance, the community college statement notes that many do not exercise the right when available and that faculty “at public institutions are not yet permitted to bargain collectively in many states”. The NEA then elaborates upon the need for faculty participation.\n\nAgain, the \"Policy Statement of Community College Governance\" correlates based upon the same underlying principles of the AAUP and NEA statement on faculty governance. The community college statement also elaborates upon structure and procedure not addressed in the previous statement, including the “ad hoc” and standing committees as discussed in the AAUP policy statement on governance. Where the AAUP statement discusses policy on students and their academic rights, with the community college statement the NEA does not address student involvement.\n\nIn 2002, the Higher Education Program and Policy Council of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) published a statement in support of the shared governance of institutions. The policy statement is a response to the fact that many governing boards have adopted the \"mantra of business”. The AFT iterates the purpose by which higher education achieves democratic organizational processes between administration and faculty, believing shared governance is under attack in six ways:\n\nAccordingly, six principles affirm standards of academic freedom, faculty participation in standards and curriculum, and faculty decisions on academic personnel as the AAUP first established principles of governance. The statement maintains that participation in shared governance should be extended, acknowledging that the way in which participation is expanded will vary from institution to institution; “but each group whose work contributes to the academic enterprise should be involved in a manner appropriate to institutional functions and responsibility”. The policy addresses unions and faculty senates, believing that they contribute to the maintenance of shared governance in institutions as well as the role of accrediting agencies to support management standards. In conclusion, the AFT emphasizes affirmation of the goals, objectives and purpose for shared governance in higher education.\n\nWith recent debates and trends in the governance of institutions of higher education in the United States, the Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges (AGB) issued a statement on governance, most recently updated in 2010. The original statement was published with a correlating statement, “Governing in the Public Trust: External Influences on Colleges and Universities.” In the first statement on governance, the advisiory organization for institutional governance discusses facts and perceptions concerning governance, including specific facts related to institutional trends and perceptions that “internal governance arrangements have become so cumbersome that timely decisions are difficult to make”. The AGB statement then defines general principles upon which governing boards are to operate and the responsibilities of a governing board to the institution; the updated principles as of 2010 are below.\n\n\nWith their statement on governing bodies, the AGB then provides statement on governing in the public trust, iterating many of the same points concerning recent external pressures. The statement defines the historic role and rationale behind the principles of citizen governance upon which state institutional boards operate. Again, addressing the nature of external influences in university governance, the AGB defines specific principles in maintaining accountability and autonomy in the public trust, including\n\nIn conclusion, the statement asks for the reaffirmation of a commitment to citizen governance to maintain the balanced and independent governance of institutions.\n\nSponsored by the AAUP and the American Conference of Academic Deans, the 2001 Survey of Higher Education Governance is a study done by Gabriel Kaplan, a doctoral student at Harvard University interested in replicating research done by Committee T of the AAUP thirty years previously. The findings of the report detail the method with summary of the present state of shared governance. The findings include the state of the locus of authority and reforms as well as the analysis of the challenges facing Liberal Arts Colleges with the pressures of the current economic climate. The preliminary results contain the raw data on the landscape of governance in higher education from a population of 1303 4-year institutions in the United States, with data compiled from both administrative structures and the faculty. The survey did not include participation from any population of students.\n\nSince the 1819 U.S. Supreme Court case \"Dartmouth College v. Woodward\" before the Yale Report of 1828 (where the former was catalyst from the later, each of which upheld the separation of church and state) private universities in the United States generally maintain remarkable autonomy from local, state, and federal government. Questions might be raised over the role of shared governance in private education. In \"Conversations on Jesuit Higher Education\", Quinn and Moore (2005) support values of shared governance in Jesuit Universities. Quinn notes the way in which Catholic colleges and universities adopted principles of shared governance throughout the 1960s. Moore begins by noting that the concept of shared governance is often viewed as inefficient in the corporate world. The author believes that shared governance is not a cumbersome system of management, but necessary given the organizational dynamics and complexities of university systems.\n\nBy contrast to corporate trends, the author maintains that the corporate “one-size-fits-all” system could not effectively suit institutional needs. From which, the perspective then affirms the AAUP tradition of shared governance as a sound system of organization and management in higher education, “essential to the long term interests of colleges and universities if they wish to remain competitive and academically credible”. The way in which shared governance is realized in Catholic colleges and universities does vary from institution to institution. In Jesuit institutions, when serving the role of a board member an individual of the formal order provides guidance on the philosophy of Jesuit education while facilitating “the mutuality so essential for shared governance before the law and in reality,” respecting Catholic traditions with a democratic spirit of institutional governance.\n\nIn October 2003, the Australian Vice-Chancellors’ Committee (AVCC), the council of Australia’s university presidents, put forward a “Chancellors and AVCC statement on university governance.\" Given national and institutional debates over the governance of tertiary education, the statement acknowledges the opportunities with developments in management and governing structures. The statement notes the role of the “business model” that has been advanced alongside the traditional models of governance in Australia. With reference to additional “third models” in introducing a discussion of the existing frameworks for the governance of tertiary education, the statement defines the legal autonomy of institutions and independence from external stakeholders. Acknowledging the diversity of governing structures and believing a balance is necessary between internal and external forces, the organization maintains: “No single way to achieve an effective governance arrangement” is possible. In recognizing the differences in institutional structures and frames of reference, the statement offers operational good practices as generic principles and recommendations, also identifying national protocols for the success of Australian higher education.\n\nThe recommendations address practices by which internal governing structures operate and how they can improve institutional governance for the Commonwealth of Australia. External relations, the role of faculty and students in governance are not approached except inasmuch as institutional board members should be appointed with their selection based on contributions “to the effective working of the governing body by having needed skills, knowledge and experience, an appreciation of the values of a university and its core activities of teaching and research, its independence and academic freedom and the capacity to appreciate the university’s external community needs from that university”. The committee defines the responsibilities of university governance, including legal obligations and legislative requirements for the internal governing boards of Australian institutions. Accordingly, governing bodies “should make available a programme of induction and professional development . . . to ensure that all members are aware of the nature of their duties and responsibilities”. The report concludes with protocol for annual reports, including report of risk management and additional steps to ensure good governance.\n\nThe Pan-African Institute of University Governance is a project set up by the Agence Universitaire de la Francophonie and by the Association of Commonwealth universities, in support of the Ministry of the higher education of Cameroon. It was launched during the World Conference on the Higher education of the UNESCO which was held in Paris from 5 to 8 July 2009, by the Rector of the AUF, Mr Bernard Cerquiglini, and the General Secretary of the ACU Mr John Tarrant.\n\nBased physically at the Yaounde - Cameroon, it is about a unique structure of support which aims at improving all the practices which contribute to the smooth running of higher education in Africa. Its vocation is to accompany the modernization of the governance of higher education thanks to the implementation of expertise, the modules of training, seminars and workshops and especially specific tools of management, analysis and evaluation. It spreads his actions on the whole domain of governance (academic, administrative, financial, social, numerical and of the research) and has a function of observatory of higher education in Africa.\n\nAt this effect, the Institute founds its methods of work on its role of observatory of higher education, on its expertise in evaluation of mechanisms of functioning and decision-making in establishments, and thus on its capacity of analysis of the modes and tools of management of higher education.\n\nThe Institute’s action is founded around five major challenges:\n\nThe activities of the Institute in 2009–2010 are articulate around three types of actions:\n\nThe Institute works in partnership with stakeholders and international institutions to accompany initiatives and realize actions which can contribute to the improvement of the functioning of higher education and more widely education in Africa.\n\nThe philosophy of this Institute expands dialogue and shared experience between African university leaders on issues related to university governance. Methods will step out from the classical models of cooperation in which the \"expertise\" of the North are transmitted to “addressee” and “consignee” of the South, leading to the principals and attitudes of copy-write. African Universities can only develop if they succeed in inventing their own policies and procedures, all by taking into consideration international standards.\n\nTo assist universities in the accomplishment of their missions in an efficient and modern way, the Pan-African Institute of University Governance shall make use of the relationship it has with partners such as the Agence universitaire de la Francophonie (AUF) and the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU).\n\nThe AUF-ACU partnership consists of two joined visions. Rounding on common objectives and shared missions, Anglophones, Francophones, Lusophones and Arabic-speakers will better enrich discussions on how to develop higher educational system. This illustrates the importance taken by cultural diversity in the World today, being an essential basis for development inside more harmonized globalization which takes into account each person’s identity and values. Therefore, our approach is that of the exchange of experience and good practices likely to be widespread within the framework of our institutions that most frequently lack real communication.\n\nAbout governance : Two approaches shall enable us to tackle the problems of higher education institutions’ governance in Africa. The first one is current. It consists of rationalizing, valorizing and modernizing both the university foundations and their various systems of functioning. It supposes to put on better the whole university structure : better management, transparency in the decision-making and the participation of all actors in the decision-making. The second approach of governance fundamentally questions the efficiency of the systems of functioning of universities, too much centered on the hierarchical authority of the State, and on that of the university and academic administration, whether it is to define the financing, programs, the qualifications and even the courses of training. The governance of higher education will succeed only if it allows creating a common space of meeting between the actors : political, socioeconomic, students, teaching and civil society.\nWeb site : www.ipagu.org\n\nSouth Africa faces issues related to the governance of their tertiary system of higher education that correlate with international trends. Hall and Symes (2005) discuss the state of South African higher education in the first decade of the country’s constitutional democracy at a time when the country has faced not only democratic transition but also the end of Apartheid racial segregation. With the South African transition to democracy in 1994, the national government and institutions of postsecondary learning envisioned the cooperative governance of higher education. For a developing country that faced “massive social exclusion” for the better part of a century – only to be challenged in the 1970s and 1980s – traditional models for governance in higher education, European and North American models of institutional autonomy are not entirely applicable to the South African context. The authors discuss the need for government “steering,” an idea originally envisioned in South Africa with the democratic transition, based upon a cooperative framework as a “conditional autonomy.” The goals and objectives for cooperative governance were thus established with the National Commission on Higher Education (NCHE) in 1994, detailed in its 1996 report.\n\nThe South African National Commission on Higher Education was meant to serve as a “buffer mechanism” between government and institutions to establish a system by which “autonomous higher education institutions would work in a range of partnerships with government and other stakeholders,” from the involvement of state supervision and consultation. Within the initial years of the democratic transition and the end of the Apartheid, Hall and Symes (2005) note that the national government assumed a much stronger regulatory and bureaucratic control of South African postsecondary institutions than what had been originally expected. From the appointments to the National Commission on Higher Education, the 1997 Higher Education Act, and the 2001 National Plan for Higher Education, the national government has assumed direct command of curriculum, funding and regulation over institutions with “weak or non-existent traditions of academic freedom”.\n\nWhere the 1997 Higher Education Act and ministerial appointments provided the framework by which the national government could assert control over postsecondary institutions, the 2001 Education Amendment Act and white paper expressed the government’s motivations to take a strong position of power in the governance of South African higher education. Whereby, the “period from the 1997 White Paper to the 2001 National Plan for Higher Education has seen a systematic tightening of state control and the erosion of both the procedural and substantive autonomy of individual institutions”. Furthermore, Hall and Symes note that while the ten universities reserved for white students during the apartheid maintained substantial autonomy, other institutions such as technical schools and “branches of the racially defined government bureaucracy,” continued to be governed by tight government intervention. The authors do not reject the need for government “steering,” and cooperative governance with the national government for the developing country. Nonetheless, where the concept of conditional autonomy remained vague with its vision in 1996, the authors suggest that given the direction the government and NCHE have taken, there need be a rethinking of the relationship between institutions and the newly established democratic government.\n\nInstitutions of tertiary higher education in Europe have been under reform, following the common goals and objectives to develop new models for institutional governance. Sporn, writing for EDUCAUSE, discusses the restructuring of higher education with “notions of new public management\", which the author correlates to neoliberal economic models. The author directly relates these currents in the management of European higher education with the influence of U.S. models for approaching change in higher education. The European countries of Norway and Sweden are provided as additional examples of the new managerialism in tertiary education. In both Norway and Sweden, each have emphasized restructuring based on in vogue international trends with different approaches to reform that are characterized as common to continental Europe. New organizational forms for governance and leadership with the diversification of higher education have emphasized maintaining institutional autonomy, harmonizing institutional standards, and expanding higher education with goals related to the neoliberal market model of education. Stressing quality of learning and leadership within higher education, restructuring by way of the key catchphrases such as accountability, changing management in Europe also includes providing for human resource goals such as staff development.\n\nSignificant among these changes is the establishment of governing and coordinating boards with decision-making structures for collaboration in external and internal governance of higher education (as done in many states within the United States). Believing that there will be either a convergence or divergence between a strong administrative managerialism and faculty involvement in governance throughout Europe, the UK and U.S., the example of the system in Austria illustrates the potential for innovative approaches that grant autonomy to institutions with restructuring through an external board. In conclusion, Sporn believes the new governing structures provide stronger leadership and management, but that institutions \"should pay close attention to the role of faculty and shared governance.\"\n\nChanges in the United Kingdom’s system of higher education are given as examples of neoliberal economic models. Increased managerialism with economic privatization and minimizing internal governing structures are common themes in the restructuring of UK higher education, which entails the “erosion of the power of unions and professionals and the increased importance of managers and nonexecutive, nonelected directors. In general, the new managerialism in Europe involves four different trends:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5145435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5145435", "title": "Holistic education", "text": "Holistic education\n\nHolistic education is a relatively new movement, which began taking form as an identifiable area of study and practice in the mid-1980s in North America. It is a philosophy of education based on the premise that each person finds identity, meaning, and purpose in life through connections to the community, to the natural world, and to humanitarian values such as compassion and peace. Holistic education aims to call forth from people an intrinsic reverence for life and a passionate love of learning, gives attention to experiential learning, and places significance on \"relationships and primary human values within the learning environment.\" The term holistic education is often used to refer to the more democratic and humanistic types of alternative education.\n\nIt is difficult to map the history of holistic education, as in some respects its core ideas are not new but \"timeless and found in the sense of wholeness in humanity's religious impetus\". \n\nThe explicit application of holistic ideas to education has a clear tradition, however, whose originating theorists include: \nJean-Jacques Rousseau, \nRalph Waldo Emerson, \nHenry Thoreau, \nBronson Alcott, \nJohann Pestalozzi, and\nFriedrich Fröbel. \n\nMore recent theorists are Rudolf Steiner, \nMaria Montessori, \nFrancis Parker, \nJohn Dewey, \nFrancisco Ferrer\nJohn Caldwell Holt, \nGeorge Dennison \nKieran Egan, \nHoward Gardner, \nJiddu Krishnamurti, \nCarl Jung, \nAbraham Maslow, \nCarl Rogers, \nPaul Goodman, \nIvan Illich, and \nPaulo Freire.\n\nMany scholars feel the modern 'look and feel' of holistic education coalesced through two factors: the rise of humanist philosophies after World War II and the cultural paradigm shift beginning in the mid-1960s. In the 1970s, after the holism movement in psychology became much more mainstream, \"an emerging body of literature in science, philosophy and cultural history provided an overarching concept to describe this way of understanding education – a perspective known as \"holism\".\"\n\nIn July 1979, the first National Holistic Education Conference took place at the University of California at San Diego. The conference was presented by The Mandala Society and The National Center for the Exploration of Human Potential and was titled, \"Mind: Evolution or Revolution? The Emergence of Holistic Education.\" For six years after, the Holistic Education Conference was combined with the Mandala Holistic Health Conferences at the University of California, San Diego. About three thousand professionals participated each year. Out of this came the Journal of Holistic Education.\n\nAny approach to education must ask itself, what is the goal of education? Holistic education aims at helping students be the most that they can be. Abraham Maslow referred to this as \"self-actualization\". Education with a holistic perspective is concerned with the development of every person's intellectual, emotional, social, physical, artistic, creative and spiritual potentials. It seeks to engage students in the teaching/learning process and encourages personal and collective responsibility.\n\nIn describing the general philosophy of holistic education, Robin Ann Martin and Scott Forbes (2004) divided their discussion into two categories: the idea of \"ultimacy\" and Basil Bernstein's notion of \"sagacious competence\".\n\n\n\nVarious attempts to articulate the central themes of a holistic education, seeking to educate the whole person, have been made:\n\n\n\n\nWith the goal of educating the whole child, holistic education promotes several strategies to address the question of how to teach and how people learn. First, the idea of holism advocates a \"transformative\" approach to learning. Rather than seeing education as a process of transmission and transaction, transformative learning involves a change in the frames of reference that a person may have. This change may include points of view, habits of mind, and worldviews. Holism understands knowledge as something that is constructed by the context in which a person lives. Therefore, teaching students to reflect critically on how we come to know or understand information is essential. As a result, if \"we ask students to develop critical and reflective thinking skills and encourage them to care about the world around them they may decide that some degree of personal or social transformation is required.\"\n\nSecond, the idea of \"connections\" is emphasized as opposed to the fragmentation that is often seen in mainstream education. This fragmentation may include the dividing of individual subjects, dividing students into grades, etc. Holism sees the various aspects of life and living as integrated and connected, therefore, education should not isolate learning into several different components. Martin (2002) illustrates this point further by stating that, \"Many alternative educators argue instead that who the learners are, what they know, how they know it, and how they act in the world are not separate elements, but reflect the interdependencies between our world and ourselves\". Included in this idea of connections is the way that the classroom is structured. Holistic school classrooms are often small and consist of mixed-ability and mixed-age students. They are flexible in terms of how they are structured so that if it becomes appropriate for a student to change classes, (s)he is moved regardless of what time of year it is on the school calendar. \"Flexible pacing\" is key in allowing students to feel that they are not rushed in learning concepts studied, nor are they held back if they learn concepts quickly.\n\nThird, along the same thread as the idea of connections in holistic education, is the concept of \"transdisciplinary inquiry\". Transdisciplinary inquiry is based on the premise that division between disciplines is eliminated. One must understand the world in wholes as much as possible and not in fragmented parts. \"Transdisciplinary approaches involve multiple disciplines and the space between the disciplines with the possibility of new perspectives 'beyond' those disciplines. Where multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary inquiry may focus on the contribution of disciplines to an inquiry transdisciplinary inquiry tends to focus on the inquiry issue itself.\"\n\nFourth, holistic education proposes that \"meaningfulness\" is also an important factor in the learning process. People learn better when what is being learned is important to them. Holistic schools seek to respect and work with the meaning structures of each person. Therefore, the start of a topic would begin with what a student may know or understand from their worldview, what has meaning to them rather than what others feel should be meaningful to them. \"Meta-learning\" is another concept that connects to meaningfulness. In finding inherent meaning in the process of learning and coming to understand how they learn, students are expected to self-regulate their own learning. However, they are not completely expected to do this on their own. Because of the nature of community in holistic education, students learn to monitor their own learning through interdependence on others inside and outside of the classroom.\n\nFinally, as mentioned above, \"community\" is an integral aspect in holistic education. As relationships and learning about relationships are keys to understanding ourselves, so the aspect of community is vital in this learning process. Scott Forbes stated, \"In holistic education the classroom is often seen as a community, which is within the larger community of the school, which is within the larger community of the village, town, or city, and which is, by extension, within the larger community of humanity.\"\n\nIn holistic education, the teacher is seen less as person of authority who leads and controls but rather is seen as \"a friend, a mentor, a facilitator, or an experienced traveling companion\". Schools should be seen as places where students and adults work toward a mutual goal. Open and honest communication is expected and differences between people are respected and appreciated. Cooperation is the norm, rather than competition. Thus, many schools incorporating holistic beliefs do not give grades or rewards. The reward of helping one another and growing together is emphasized rather than being placed above one another.\n\n\n\nThere is a debate on whether holistic education is connected to the idea of holistic education which is used to refer to education in holistic health or spiritual practices such as massage and yoga. Some educators feel that holistic education is a part of holistic practices, while others feel that they are totally separate concepts.\n\n[[7"}
{"id": "22366414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22366414", "title": "Irvington Community School", "text": "Irvington Community School\n\nIrvington Community Schools is a K-12 charter school corporation located in the Irvington Historic District of Indianapolis, Indiana. Originally Chartered by Ball State University, ICS, Inc is currently chartered by the Indianapolis Mayor’s Office of Education Innovation.\n\nICS, Inc. provides a liberal arts focus: all students K-12 participate weekly in Physical Education, Music, an Art program, and Foreign Language.\n\nIrvington Community Schools Inc.'s three schools are each, by design, small community schools:\n\n\nIn 2009, the school was awarded the Maestro Award from the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra. Also, 7 of the school's students had art featured on display at the Indiana State Museum through the Symphony in Color competition by the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra which represented the greatest number of honors for a single school.\n"}
{"id": "16187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16187", "title": "John Dewey", "text": "John Dewey\n\nJohn Dewey (; October 20, 1859 – June 1, 1952) was an American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer whose ideas have been influential in education and social reform. Dewey is one of the primary figures associated with the philosophy of pragmatism and is considered one of the fathers of functional psychology. A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Dewey as the 93rd most cited psychologist of the 20th century. A well-known public intellectual, he was also a major voice of progressive education and liberalism. Although Dewey is known best for his publications about education, he also wrote about many other topics, including epistemology, metaphysics, aesthetics, art, logic, social theory, and ethics. He was a major educational reformer for the 20th century.\n\nThe overriding theme of Dewey's works was his profound belief in democracy, be it in politics, education, or communication and journalism. As Dewey himself stated in 1888, while still at the University of Michigan, \"Democracy and the one, ultimate, ethical ideal of humanity are to my mind synonymous.\"\n\nKnown for his advocacy of democracy, Dewey considered two fundamental elements—schools and civil society—to be major topics needing attention and reconstruction to encourage experimental intelligence and plurality. Dewey asserted that complete democracy was to be obtained not just by extending voting rights but also by ensuring that there exists a fully formed public opinion, accomplished by communication among citizens, experts, and politicians, with the latter being accountable for the policies they adopt.\n\nJohn Dewey was born in Burlington, Vermont to a family of modest means. He was one of four boys born to Archibald Sprague Dewey and Lucina Artemisia Rich Dewey. Their second son was also named John, but he died in an accident on January 17, 1859. The second John Dewey was born October 20, 1859, forty weeks after the death of his older brother. Like his older, surviving brother, Davis Rich Dewey, he attended the University of Vermont, where he was initiated into Delta Psi, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1879. A significant professor of Dewey's at the University of Vermont was Henry Augustus Pearson Torrey (H. A. P. Torrey), the son-in-law and nephew of former University of Vermont president Joseph Torrey. Dewey studied privately with Torrey between his graduation from Vermont and his enrollment at Johns Hopkins University.\n\nAfter two years as a high-school teacher in Oil City, Pennsylvania and one teaching elementary school in the small town of Charlotte, Vermont, Dewey decided that he was unsuited as a primary or secondary school teacher. After studying with George Sylvester Morris, Charles Sanders Peirce, Herbert Baxter Adams, and G. Stanley Hall, Dewey received his Ph.D. from the School of Arts & Sciences at Johns Hopkins University. In 1884, he accepted a faculty position at the University of Michigan (1884–88 and 1889–94) with the help of George Sylvester Morris. His unpublished and now lost dissertation was titled \"The Psychology of Kant.\"\n\nIn 1894 Dewey joined the newly founded University of Chicago (1894–1904) where he developed his belief in Rational Empiricism, becoming associated with the newly emerging Pragmatic philosophy. His time at the University of Chicago resulted in four essays collectively entitled \"Thought and its Subject-Matter\", which was published with collected works from his colleagues at Chicago under the collective title \"Studies in Logical Theory\" (1903). During that time Dewey also initiated the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, where he was able to actualize the pedagogical beliefs that provided material for his first major work on education, \"The School and Society\" (1899). Disagreements with the administration ultimately caused his resignation from the university, and soon thereafter he relocated near the East Coast. In 1899, Dewey was elected president of the American Psychological Association. From 1904 until his retirement in 1930 he was professor of philosophy at Columbia University. In 1905 he became president of the American Philosophical Association. He was a longtime member of the American Federation of Teachers.\n\nAlong with the historians Charles A. Beard and James Harvey Robinson, and the economist Thorstein Veblen, Dewey is one of the founders of The New School. Dewey's most significant writings were \"The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology\" (1896), a critique of a standard psychological concept and the basis of all his further work; \"Democracy and Education\" (1916), his celebrated work on progressive education; \"Human Nature and Conduct\" (1922), a study of the function of habit in human behavior; \"The Public and its Problems\" (1927), a defense of democracy written in response to Walter Lippmann's \"The Phantom Public\" (1925); \"Experience and Nature\" (1925), Dewey's most \"metaphysical\" statement; \"Impressions of Soviet Russia and the Revolutionary World\" (1929), a glowing travelogue from the nascent USSR; \"Art as Experience\" (1934), Dewey's major work on aesthetics; \"A Common Faith\" (1934), a humanistic study of religion originally delivered as the Dwight H. Terry Lectureship at Yale; \"\" (1938), a statement of Dewey's unusual conception of logic; \"Freedom and Culture\" (1939), a political work examining the roots of fascism; and \"Knowing and the Known\" (1949), a book written in conjunction with Arthur F. Bentley that systematically outlines the concept of trans-action, which is central to his other works (see Transactionalism). While each of these works focuses on one particular philosophical theme, Dewey included his major themes in most of what he published. He published more than 700 articles in 140 journals, and approximately 40 books.\n\nReflecting his immense influence on 20th-century thought, Hilda Neatby wrote \"Dewey has been to our age what Aristotle was to the later Middle Ages, not a philosopher, but \"the\" philosopher.\"\n\nDewey married to Alice Chipman in 1886 shortly after Chipman graduated with her PhB from the University of Michigan. The two had six children: Frederick Archibald Dewey, Evelyn Riggs Dewey, Morris (who died young), Gordon Chipman Dewey, Lucy Alice Chipman Dewey, and Jane Mary Dewey. Alice Chipman died in 1927 at the age of 68; weakened by a case of malaria contracted during a trip to Turkey in 1924 and a heart attack during a trip to Mexico City in 1926, she died from cerebral thrombosis on July 13, 1927. Dewey married Estelle Roberta Lowitz Grant, \"a longtime friend and companion for several years before their marriage\" on December 11, 1946. At Roberta's behest, the couple adopted two siblings, Lewis (changed to John, Jr.) and Shirley. John Dewey died of pneumonia on June 1, 1952 at his home in New York City after years of ill-health. and was cremated the next day.\n\nThe United States Postal Service honored Dewey with a Prominent Americans series 30¢ postage stamp in 1968.\n\nIn 1919, while traveling in Japan on sabbatical leave, Dewey was invited by Peking University to visit China, probably at the behest of his former students, Hu Shih and Chiang Monlin. Dewey and his wife Alice arrived in Shanghai on April 30, 1919, just days before student demonstrators took to the streets of Peking to protest the decision of the Allies in Paris to cede the German held territories in Shandong province to Japan. Their demonstrations on May Fourth excited and energized Dewey, and he ended up staying in China for two years, leaving in July 1921.\n\nIn these two years, Dewey gave nearly 200 lectures to Chinese audiences and wrote nearly monthly articles for Americans in \"The New Republic\" and other magazines. Well aware of both Japanese expansionism into China and the attraction of Bolshevism to some Chinese, Dewey advocated that Americans support China's transformation and that Chinese base this transformation in education and social reforms, not revolution. Hundreds and sometimes thousands of people attended the lectures, which were interpreted by Hu Shih. For these audiences, Dewey represented \"Mr. Democracy\" and \"Mr. Science,\" the two personifications which they thought of representing modern values and hailed him as \"Second Confucius\". Perhaps Dewey's biggest impact, however, was on the forces for progressive education in China, such as Hu Shih and Chiang Monlin, who had studied with him, and Tao Xingzhi, who had studied at Teachers College, Columbia University.\n\nTheir letters from China and Japan describing their experiences to their family were published in 1920, edited by their daughter Evelyn. During and after his visit his commentaries on China would be published in such periodicals as the New Republic, Asia, the China Review, and sometimes in Newspapers like the Baltimore Sun. Though discussing Chinese philosophy but rarely, one article in 1922, \"As the Chinese Think\", discusses the teachings of Laozi and Confucius in an attempt to improve understanding of the Chinese in international business relations.\n\nDewey and his daughter Jane went to South Africa in July 1934, at the invitation of the World Conference of New Education Fellowship in Cape Town and Johannesburg, where he delivered several talks. The conference was opened by the South African Minister of Education Jan Hofmeyr, and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Smuts. Other speakers at the conference included Max Eiselen and Hendrik Verwoerd, who would later become prime minister of the Nationalist government that introduced Apartheid. John and Jane's expenses were paid by the Carnegie Foundation. He also traveled to Durban, Pretoria and Victoria Falls in what was then Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) and looked at schools, talked to pupils, and gave lectures to the administrators and teachers. In August 1934, Dewey accepted an honorary degree from the University of the Witwatersrand.\n\nAt the University of Michigan, Dewey published his first two books, \"Psychology\" (1887), and \"Leibniz's New Essays Concerning the Human Understanding\" (1888), both of which expressed Dewey's early commitment to British neo-Hegelianism. In \"Psychology\", Dewey attempted a synthesis between idealism and experimental science.\n\nWhile still professor of philosophy at Michigan, Dewey and his junior colleagues, James Hayden Tufts and George Herbert Mead, together with his student James Rowland Angell, all influenced strongly by the recent publication of William James' \"Principles of Psychology\" (1890), began to reformulate psychology, emphasizing the social environment on the activity of mind and behavior rather than the physiological psychology of Wilhelm Wundt and his followers.\n\nBy 1894, Dewey had joined Tufts, with whom he would later write \"Ethics\" (1908) at the recently founded University of Chicago and invited Mead and Angell to follow him, the four men forming the basis of the so-called \"Chicago group\" of psychology.\n\nTheir new style of psychology, later dubbed functional psychology, had a practical emphasis on action and application. In Dewey's article \"The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology\" which appeared in \"Psychological Review\" in 1896, he reasons against the traditional stimulus-response understanding of the reflex arc in favor of a \"circular\" account in which what serves as \"stimulus\" and what as \"response\" depends on how one considers the situation, and defends the unitary nature of the sensory motor circuit. While he does not deny the existence of stimulus, sensation, and response, he disagreed that they were separate, juxtaposed events happening like links in a chain. He developed the idea that there is a coordination by which the stimulation is enriched by the results of previous experiences. The response is modulated by sensorial experience.\n\nDewey was elected president of the American Psychological Association in 1899.\n\nIn 1984, the American Psychological Association announced that Lillian Moller Gilbreth (1878–1972) had become the first psychologist to be commemorated on a United States postage stamp. However, psychologists Gary Brucato Jr. and John D. Hogan later made the case that this distinction actually belonged to John Dewey, who had been celebrated on an American stamp 17 years earlier. While some psychology historians consider Dewey more of a philosopher than a bona fide psychologist, the authors noted that Dewey was a founding member of the A.P.A., served as the A.P.A.'s eighth president in 1899, and was the author of an 1896 article on the reflex arc which is now considered a basis of American functional psychology.\n\nDewey also expressed interest in work in the psychology of visual perception performed by Dartmouth research professor Adelbert Ames Jr. He had great trouble with listening, however, because it is known Dewey could not distinguish musical pitches—in other words was tone deaf.\n\nDewey sometimes referred to his philosophy as instrumentalism rather than pragmatism, and would have recognized the similarity of these two schools to the newer school named consequentialism. He defined with precise brevity the criterion of validity common to these three schools, which lack agreed-upon definitions:\n\nHis concern for precise definition led him to detailed analysis of careless word usage, reported in \"Knowing and the Known\" in 1949.\n\nThe terminology problem in the fields of epistemology and logic is partially due, according to Dewey and Bentley, to inefficient and imprecise use of words and concepts that reflect three historic levels of organization and presentation. In the order of chronological appearance, these are:\n\nA series of characterizations of Transactions indicate the wide range of considerations involved.\n\nDewey sees paradox in contemporary logical theory. Proximate subject matter garners general agreement and advancement, while the ultimate subject matter of logic generates unremitting controversy. In other words, he challenges confident logicians to answer the question of the truth of logical operators. Do they function merely as abstractions (e.g., pure mathematics) or do they connect in some essential way with their objects, and therefore alter or bring them to light?\n\nLogical positivism also figured in Dewey's thought. About the movement he wrote that it \"eschews the use of 'propositions' and 'terms', substituting 'sentences' and 'words'.\" (\"General Theory of Propositions\", in \"Logic: The Theory of Inquiry\") He welcomes this changing of referents \"in as far as it fixes attention upon the symbolic structure and content of propositions.\" However, he registers a small complaint against the use of \"sentence\" and \"words\" in that without careful interpretation the act or process of transposition \"narrows unduly the scope of symbols and language, since it is not customary to treat gestures and diagrams (maps, blueprints, etc.) as words or sentences.\"\nIn other words, sentences and words, considered in isolation, do not disclose intent, which may be inferred or \"adjudged only by means of context.\"\n\nYet Dewey was not entirely opposed to modern logical trends. Concerning traditional logic, he states:\n\nLouis Menand argues in \"\" that Jane Addams had been critical of Dewey's emphasis on antagonism in the context of a discussion of the Pullman strike of 1894. In a later letter to his wife, Dewey confessed that Addams' argument was:\n\nHe went on to add:\n\nIn a letter to Addams, clearly influenced by his conversation with her, Dewey wrote:\n\n\"Art as Experience\" (1934) is Dewey's major writing on aesthetics.\n\nIt is, in accordance with his place in the Pragmatist tradition that emphasizes community, a study of the individual art object as embedded in (and inextricable from) the experiences of a local culture. In the original illustrated edition, Dewey drew on the modern art and world cultures collection assembled by Albert C. Barnes at the Barnes Foundation, whose own ideas on the application of art to one's way of life was influenced by Dewey's writing. Barnes was particularly influenced by \"Democracy and Education\" (1916) and then attended Dewey's seminar on political philosophy at Columbia University in the fall semester of 1918.\n\nDewey founded the University of Chicago laboratory school, supported educational organizations, and supported settlement houses especially Jane Addams' Hull House.\n\nThrough his work at the Hull House serving on its first board of trustees, Dewey was not only an activist for the cause but also a partner working to serve the large immigrant community of Chicago and women's suffrage. Dewey experienced the lack of children's education while contributing in the classroom at the Hull House and the lack of education and skills of immigrant women. Stengel argues:\n\nHis leading views on democracy included: \"First, Dewey believed that democracy is an ethical ideal rather than merely a political arrangement. Second, he considered participation, not representation, the essence of democracy. Third, he insisted on the harmony between democracy and the scientific method: ever-expanding and self-critical communities of inquiry, operating on pragmatic principles and constantly revising their beliefs in light of new evidence, provided Dewey with a model for democratic decision making ... Finally, Dewey called for extending democracy, conceived as an ethical project, from politics to industry and society\". This helped to shape his understanding of human action and the unity of human experience.\n\nDewey believed that a woman's place in society was determined by her environment and not just her biology. On women he says, \"You think too much of women in terms of sex. Think of them as human individuals for a while, dropping out the sex qualification, and you won't be so sure of some of your generalizations about what they should and shouldn't do\". John Dewey's support helped to increase the support and popularity of Jane Addams' Hull House and other settlement houses as well. With growing support, involvement of the community grew as well as the support for the women's suffrage movement.\n\nAs commonly argued by Dewey's greatest critics, he was not able to come up with strategies in order to fulfill his ideas that would lead to a successful democracy, educational system, and a successful women's suffrage movement. While knowing that traditional beliefs, customs, and practices needed to be examined in order to find out what worked and what needed improved upon, it was never done in a systematic way. \"Dewey became increasingly aware of the obstacles presented by entrenched power and alert to the intricacy of the problems facing modern cultures\". With the complex of society at the time, Dewey was criticized for his lack of effort in fixing the problems.\n\nWith respect to technological developments in a democracy:\n\nHis work on democracy influenced B.R. Ambedkar, one of his students, who later became one of the founding fathers of independent India.\n\nDewey's educational theories were presented in \"My Pedagogic Creed\" (1897), \"The School and Society\" (1900), \"The Child and the Curriculum\" (1902), \"Democracy and Education\" (1916), \"Schools of To-morrow\" (c1915) with Evelyn Dewey, and \"Experience and Education\" (1938). Several themes recur throughout these writings. Dewey continually argues that education and learning are social and interactive processes, and thus the school itself is a social institution through which social reform can and should take place. In addition, he believed that students thrive in an environment where they are allowed to experience and interact with the curriculum, and all students should have the opportunity to take part in their own learning.\n\nThe ideas of democracy and social reform are continually discussed in Dewey's writings on education. Dewey makes a strong case for the importance of education not only as a place to gain content knowledge, but also as a place to learn how to live. In his eyes, the purpose of education should not revolve around the acquisition of a pre-determined set of skills, but rather the realization of one's full potential and the ability to use those skills for the greater good. He notes that \"to prepare him for the future life means to give him command of himself; it means so to train him that he will have the full and ready use of all his capacities\" (\"My Pedagogic Creed\", Dewey, 1897). In addition to helping students realize their full potential, Dewey goes on to acknowledge that education and schooling are instrumental in creating social change and reform. He notes that \"education is a regulation of the process of coming to share in the social consciousness; and that the adjustment of individual activity on the basis of this social consciousness is the only sure method of social reconstruction\".\n\nIn addition to his ideas regarding what education is and what effect it should have on society, Dewey also had specific notions regarding how education should take place within the classroom. In \"The Child and the Curriculum\" (1902), Dewey discusses two major conflicting schools of thought regarding educational pedagogy. The first is centered on the curriculum and focuses almost solely on the subject matter to be taught. Dewey argues that the major flaw in this methodology is the inactivity of the student; within this particular framework, \"the child is simply the immature being who is to be matured; he is the superficial being who is to be deepened\" (1902, p. 13). He argues that in order for education to be most effective, content must be presented in a way that allows the student to relate the information to prior experiences, thus deepening the connection with this new knowledge.\n\nAt the same time, Dewey was alarmed by many of the \"child-centered\" excesses of educational-school pedagogues who claimed to be his followers, and he argued that too much reliance on the child could be equally detrimental to the learning process. In this second school of thought, \"we must take our stand with the child and our departure from him. It is he and not the subject-matter which determines both quality and quantity of learning\" (Dewey, 1902, pp. 13–14). According to Dewey, the potential flaw in this line of thinking is that it minimizes the importance of the content as well as the role of the teacher.\n\nIn order to rectify this dilemma, Dewey advocated for an educational structure that strikes a balance between delivering knowledge while also taking into account the interests and experiences of the student. He notes that \"the child and the curriculum are simply two limits which define a single process. Just as two points define a straight line, so the present standpoint of the child and the facts and truths of studies define instruction\" (Dewey, 1902, p. 16). It is through this reasoning that Dewey became one of the most famous proponents of hands-on learning or experiential education, which is related to, but not synonymous with experiential learning. He argued that \"if knowledge comes from the impressions made upon us by natural objects, it is impossible to procure knowledge without the use of objects which impress the mind\" (Dewey, 1916/2009, pp. 217–18). Dewey's ideas went on to influence many other influential experiential models and advocates. Problem-Based Learning (PBL), for example, a method used widely in education today, incorporates Dewey's ideas pertaining to learning through active inquiry.\n\nDewey not only re-imagined the way that the learning process should take place, but also the role that the teacher should play within that process. Throughout the history of American schooling, education's purpose has been to train students for work by providing the student with a limited set of skills and information to do a particular job. The works of John Dewey provide the most prolific examples of how this limited vocational view of education has been applied to both the K–12 public education system and to the teacher training schools who attempted to quickly produce proficient and practical teachers with a limited set of instructional and discipline-specific skills needed to meet the needs of the employer and demands of the workforce. In \"The School and Society\" (Dewey, 1899) and \"Democracy of Education\" (Dewey, 1916), Dewey claims that rather than preparing citizens for ethical participation in society, schools cultivate passive pupils via insistence upon mastery of facts and disciplining of bodies. Rather than preparing students to be reflective, autonomous and ethical beings capable of arriving at social truths through critical and intersubjective discourse, schools prepare students for docile compliance with authoritarian work and political structures, discourage the pursuit of individual and communal inquiry, and perceive higher learning as a monopoly of the institution of education (Dewey, 1899; 1916).\n\nFor Dewey and his philosophical followers, education stifles individual autonomy when learners are taught that knowledge is transmitted in one direction, from the expert to the learner. Dewey not only re-imagined the way that the learning process should take place, but also the role that the teacher should play within that process. For Dewey, \"The thing needful is improvement of education, not simply by turning out teachers who can do better the things that are not necessary to do, but rather by changing the conception of what constitutes education\" (Dewey, 1904, p. 18). Dewey's qualifications for teaching—a natural love for working with young children, a natural propensity to inquire about the subjects, methods and other social issues related to the profession, and a desire to share this acquired knowledge with others—are not a set of outwardly displayed mechanical skills. Rather, they may be viewed as internalized principles or habits which \"work automatically, unconsciously\" (Dewey, 1904, p. 15). Turning to Dewey's essays and public addresses regarding the teaching profession, followed by his analysis of the teacher as a person and a professional, as well as his beliefs regarding the responsibilities of teacher education programs to cultivate the attributes addressed, teacher educators can begin to reimagine the successful classroom teacher Dewey envisioned.\n\nFor many, education's purpose is to train students for work by providing the student with a limited set of skills and information to do a particular job. As Dewey notes, this limited vocational view is also applied to teacher training schools who attempt to quickly produce proficient and practical teachers with a limited set of instructional and discipline skills needed to meet the needs of the employer and demands of the workforce (Dewey, 1904). For Dewey, the school and the classroom teacher, as a workforce and provider of a social service, have a unique responsibility to produce psychological and social goods that will lead to both present and future social progress. As Dewey notes, \"The business of the teacher is to produce a higher standard of intelligence in the community, and the object of the public school system is to make as large as possible the number of those who possess this intelligence. Skill, ability to act wisely and effectively in a great variety of occupations and situations, is a sign and a criterion of the degree of civilization that a society has reached. It is the business of teachers to help in producing the many kinds of skill needed in contemporary life. If teachers are up to their work, they also aid in the production of character.\"(Dewey, TAP, 2010, pp. 241–42).\n\nAccording to Dewey, the emphasis is placed on producing these attributes in children for use in their contemporary life because it is \"impossible to foretell definitely just what civilization will be twenty years from now\" (Dewey, MPC, 2010, p. 25). However, although Dewey is steadfast in his beliefs that education serves an immediate purpose (Dewey, DRT, 2010; Dewey, MPC, 2010; Dewey, TTP, 2010), he is not ignorant of the impact imparting these qualities of intelligence, skill, and character on young children in their present life will have on the future society. While addressing the state of educative and economic affairs during a 1935 radio broadcast, Dewey linked the ensuing economic depression to a \"lack of sufficient production of intelligence, skill, and character\" (Dewey, TAP, 2010, p. 242) of the nation's workforce. As Dewey notes, there is a lack of these goods in the present society and teachers have a responsibility to create them in their students, who, we can assume, will grow into the adults who will ultimately go on to participate in whatever industrial or economical civilization awaits them. According to Dewey, the profession of the classroom teacher is to produce the intelligence, skill, and character within each student so that the democratic community is composed of citizens who can think, do and act intelligently and morally.\n\nDewey believed that the successful classroom teacher possesses a passion for knowledge and an intellectual curiosity in the materials and methods they teach. For Dewey, this propensity is an inherent curiosity and love for learning that differs from one's ability to acquire, recite and reproduce textbook knowledge. \"No one,\" according to Dewey, \"can be really successful in performing the duties and meeting these demands [of teaching] who does not retain [her] intellectual curiosity intact throughout [her] entire career\" (Dewey, APT, 2010, p. 34). According to Dewey, it is not that the \"teacher ought to strive to be a high-class scholar in all the subjects he or she has to teach,\" rather, \"a teacher ought to have an unusual love and aptitude in some one subject: history, mathematics, literature, science, a fine art, or whatever\" (Dewey, APT, 2010, p. 35). The classroom teacher does not have to be a scholar in all subjects; rather, a genuine love in one will elicit a feel for genuine information and insight in all subjects taught.\n\nIn addition to this propensity for study into the subjects taught, the classroom teacher \"is possessed by a recognition of the responsibility for the constant study of school room work, the constant study of children, of methods, of subject matter in its various adaptations to pupils\" (Dewey, PST, 2010, p. 37). For Dewey, this desire for the lifelong pursuit of learning is inherent in other professions (e.g. the architectural, legal and medical fields; Dewey, 1904 & Dewey, PST, 2010), and has particular importance for the field of teaching. As Dewey notes, \"this further study is not a side line but something which fits directly into the demands and opportunities of the vocation\" (Dewey, APT, 2010, p. 34).\n\nAccording to Dewey, this propensity and passion for intellectual growth in the profession must be accompanied by a natural desire to communicate one's knowledge with others. \"There are scholars who have [the knowledge] in a marked degree but who lack enthusiasm for imparting it. To the 'natural born' teacher learning is incomplete unless it is shared\" (Dewey, APT, 2010, p. 35). For Dewey, it is not enough for the classroom teacher to be a lifelong learner of the techniques and subject-matter of education; she must aspire to share what she knows with others in her learning community.\n\nThe best indicator of teacher quality, according to Dewey, is the ability to watch and respond to the movement of the mind with keen awareness of the signs and quality of the responses he or her students exhibit with regard to the subject-matter presented (Dewey, APT, 2010; Dewey, 1904). As Dewey notes, \"I have often been asked how it was that some teachers who have never studied the art of teaching are still extraordinarily good teachers. The explanation is simple. They have a quick, sure and unflagging sympathy with the operations and process of the minds they are in contact with. Their own minds move in harmony with those of others, appreciating their difficulties, entering into their problems, sharing their intellectual victories\" (Dewey, APT, 2010, p. 36). Such a teacher is genuinely aware of the complexities of this mind to mind transfer, and she has the intellectual fortitude to identify the successes and failures of this process, as well as how to appropriately reproduce or correct it in the future.\n\nAs a result of the direct influence teachers have in shaping the mental, moral and spiritual lives of children during their most formative years, Dewey holds the profession of teaching in high esteem, often equating its social value to that of the ministry and to parenting (Dewey, APT, 2010; Dewey, DRT, 2010; Dewey, MPC, 2010; Dewey, PST, 2010; Dewey, TTC, 2010; Dewey, TTP, 2010). Perhaps the most important attributes, according to Dewey, are those personal inherent qualities which the teacher brings to the classroom. As Dewey notes, \"no amount of learning or even of acquired pedagogical skill makes up for the deficiency\" (Dewey, TLS, p. 25) of the personal traits needed to be most successful in the profession.\n\nAccording to Dewey, the successful classroom teacher occupies an indispensable passion for promoting the intellectual growth of young children. In addition, they know that their career, in comparison to other professions, entails stressful situations, long hours and limited financial reward; all of which have the potential to overcome their genuine love and sympathy for their students. For Dewey, \"One of the most depressing phases of the vocation is the number of care worn teachers one sees, with anxiety depicted on the lines of their faces, reflected in their strained high pitched voices and sharp manners. While contact with the young is a privilege for some temperaments, it is a tax on others, and a tax which they do not bear up under very well. And in some schools, there are too many pupils to a teacher, too many subjects to teach, and adjustments to pupils are made in a mechanical rather than a human way. Human nature reacts against such unnatural conditions\" (Dewey, APT, 2101, p. 35).\n\nIt is essential, according to Dewey, that the classroom teacher has the mental propensity to overcome the demands and stressors placed on them because the students can sense when their teacher is not genuinely invested in promoting their learning (Dewey, PST, 2010). Such negative demeanors, according to Dewey, prevent children from pursuing their own propensities for learning and intellectual growth. It can therefore be assumed that if teachers want their students to engage with the educational process and employ their natural curiosities for knowledge, teachers must be aware of how their reactions to young children and the stresses of teaching influence this process.\n\nDewey's passions for teaching—a natural love for working with young children, a natural propensity to inquire about the subjects, methods and other social issues related to the profession, and a desire to share this acquired knowledge with others—are not a set of outwardly displayed mechanical skills. Rather, they may be viewed as internalized principles or habits which \"work automatically, unconsciously\" (Dewey, 1904, p. 15). According to Dewey, teacher education programs must turn away from focusing on producing proficient practitioners because such practical skills related to instruction and discipline (e.g. creating and delivering lesson plans, classroom management, implementation of an assortment of content-specific methods) can be learned over time during their everyday school work with their students (Dewey, PST, 2010). As Dewey notes, \"The teacher who leaves the professional school with power in managing a class of children may appear to superior advantage the first day, the first week, the first month, or even the first year, as compared with some other teacher who has a much more vital command of the psychology, logic and ethics of development. But later 'progress' may with such consist only in perfecting and refining skill already possessed. Such persons seem to know how to teach, but they are not students of teaching. Even though they go on studying books of pedagogy, reading teachers' journals, attending teachers' institutes, etc., yet the root of the matter is not in them, unless they continue to be students of subject-matter, and students of mind-activity. Unless a teacher is such a student, he may continue to improve in the mechanics of school management, but he cannot grow as a teacher, an inspirer and director of soul-life\" (Dewey, 1904, p. 15). For Dewey, teacher education should focus not on producing persons who know how to teach as soon as they leave the program; rather, teacher education should be concerned with producing professional students of education who have the propensity to inquire about the subjects they teach, the methods used, and the activity of the mind as it gives and receives knowledge. According to Dewey, such a student is not superficially engaging with these materials, rather, the professional student of education has a genuine passion to inquire about the subjects of education, knowing that doing so ultimately leads to acquisitions of the skills related to teaching. Such students of education aspire for the intellectual growth within the profession that can only be achieved by immersing one's self in the lifelong pursuit of the intelligence, skills and character Dewey linked to the profession.\n\nAs Dewey notes, other professional fields, such as law and medicine cultivate a professional spirit in their fields to constantly study their work, their methods of their work, and a perpetual need for intellectual growth and concern for issues related to their profession. Teacher education, as a profession, has these same obligations (Dewey, 1904; Dewey, PST, 2010). As Dewey notes, \"An intellectual responsibility has got to be distributed to every human being who is concerned in carrying out the work in question, and to attempt to concentrate intellectual responsibility for a work that has to be done, with their brains and their hearts, by hundreds or thousands of people in a dozen or so at the top, no matter how wise and skillful they are, is not to concentrate responsibility—it is to diffuse irresponsibility\" (Dewey, PST, 2010, p. 39). For Dewey, the professional spirit of teacher education requires of its students a constant study of school room work, constant study of children, of methods, of subject matter in its various adaptations to pupils. Such study will lead to professional enlightenment with regard to the daily operations of classroom teaching.\n\nAs well as his very active and direct involvement in setting up educational institutions such as the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools (1896) and The New School for Social Research (1919), many of Dewey's ideas influenced the founding of Bennington College and Goddard College in Vermont, where he served on the Board of Trustees. Dewey's works and philosophy also held great influence in the creation of the short-lived Black Mountain College in North Carolina, an experimental college focused on interdisciplinary study, and whose faculty included Buckminster Fuller, Willem de Kooning, Charles Olson, Franz Kline, Robert Duncan, Robert Creeley, and Paul Goodman, among others. Black Mountain College was the locus of the \"Black Mountain Poets\" a group of avant-garde poets closely linked with the Beat Generation and the San Francisco Renaissance.\n\nSince the mid-1980s, Deweyan ideas have experienced revival as a major source of inspiration for the public journalism movement. Dewey's definition of \"public,\" as described in \"The Public and its Problems\", has profound implications for the significance of journalism in society. As suggested by the title of the book, his concern was of the transactional relationship between publics and problems. Also implicit in its name, public journalism seeks to orient communication away from elite, corporate hegemony toward a civic public sphere. \"The 'public' of public journalists is Dewey's public.\"\n\nDewey gives a concrete definition to the formation of a public. Publics are spontaneous groups of citizens who share the indirect effects of a particular action. Anyone affected by the indirect consequences of a specific action will automatically share a common interest in controlling those consequences, i.e., solving a common problem. Since every action generates unintended consequences, publics continuously emerge, overlap, and disintegrate.\n\nIn \"The Public and its Problems\", Dewey presents a rebuttal to Walter Lippmann's treatise on the role of journalism in democracy. Lippmann's model was a basic transmission model in which journalists took information given to them by experts and elites, repackaged that information in simple terms, and transmitted the information to the public, whose role was to react emotionally to the news. In his model, Lippmann supposed that the public was incapable of thought or action, and that all thought and action should be left to the experts and elites.\n\nDewey refutes this model by assuming that politics is the work and duty of each individual in the course of his daily routine. The knowledge needed to be involved in politics, in this model, was to be generated by the interaction of citizens, elites, experts, through the mediation and facilitation of journalism. In this model, not just the government is accountable, but the citizens, experts, and other actors as well.\n\nDewey also said that journalism should conform to this ideal by changing its emphasis from actions or happenings (choosing a winner of a given situation) to alternatives, choices, consequences, and conditions, in order to foster conversation and improve the generation of knowledge. Journalism would not just produce a static product that told what had already happened, but the news would be in a constant state of evolution as the public added value by generating knowledge. The \"audience\" would end, to be replaced by citizens and collaborators who would essentially be users, doing more with the news than simply reading it. Concerning his effort to change journalism, he wrote in \"The Public and Its Problems\": \"Till the Great Society is converted in to a Great Community, the Public will remain in eclipse. Communication can alone create a great community\" (Dewey, p. 142).\n\nDewey believed that communication creates a great community, and citizens who participate actively with public life contribute to that community. \"The clear consciousness of a communal life, in all its implications, constitutes the idea of democracy.\" (\"The Public and its Problems\", p. 149). This Great Community can only occur with \"free and full intercommunication.\" (p. 211) Communication can be understood as journalism.\n\nAs an atheist and a secular humanist in his later life, Dewey participated with a variety of humanistic activities from the 1930s into the 1950s, which included sitting on the advisory board of Charles Francis Potter's First Humanist Society of New York (1929); being one of the original 34 signatories of the first \"Humanist Manifesto\" (1933) and being elected an honorary member of the Humanist Press Association (1936).\n\nHis opinion of humanism is summarized in his own words from an article titled \"What Humanism Means to Me\", published in the June 1930 edition of \"Thinker 2\":\n\nAs a major advocate for academic freedom, in 1935 Dewey, together with Albert Einstein and Alvin Johnson, became a member of the United States section of the International League for Academic Freedom, and in 1940, together with Horace M Kallen, edited a series of articles related to the Bertrand Russell Case.\n\nAs well as being active in defending the independence of teachers, and opposing a communist takeover of the New York Teachers' Union, Dewey was involved in the organization that eventually became the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).\n\nHe was an avid supporter of Henry George's proposal for taxing land values. Of George, he wrote, \"No man, no graduate of a higher educational institution, has a right to regard himself as an educated man in social thought unless he has some first-hand acquaintance with the theoretical contribution of this great American thinker.\" As honorary president of the Henry George School of Social Science, he wrote a letter to Henry Ford urging him to support the school.\n\nHe directed the famous Dewey Commission held in Mexico in 1937, which cleared Leon Trotsky of the charges made against him by Joseph Stalin, and marched for women's rights, among many other causes.\n\nIn 1939, John Dewey was elected President of the League for Industrial Democracy, an organization with the goal of educating college students about the labor movement. The Student Branch of the L.I.D. would later become Students for a Democratic Society.\n\nIn 1950, Dewey, Bertrand Russell, Benedetto Croce, Karl Jaspers, and Jacques Maritain agreed to act as honorary chairmen of the Congress for Cultural Freedom, a false-front anti-communist advocacy group founded that year and funded by the CIA.\n\nDewey's interests and writings included many topics, and according to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, \"a substantial part of his published output consisted of commentary on current domestic and international politics, and public statements on behalf of many causes. (He is probably the only philosopher in this encyclopedia to have published both on the Treaty of Versailles and on the value of displaying art in post offices.)\"\n\nIn 1917, Dewey met F. M. Alexander in New York City and later wrote introductions to Alexander's \"Man's Supreme Inheritance\" (1918), \"Constructive Conscious Control of the Individual\" (1923) and \"The Use of the Self\" (1932). Alexander's influence is referenced in \"Human Nature and Conduct\" and \"Experience and Nature.\"\n\nAs well as his contacts with people mentioned elsewhere in the article, he also maintained correspondence with Henri Bergson, William M. Brown, Martin Buber, George S. Counts, William Rainey Harper, Sidney Hook, and George Santayana.\n\nDewey is considered the epitome of liberalism by historians, and sometimes was portrayed as \"dangerously radical.\" Meanwhile, Dewey was critiqued strongly by American communists because he argued against Stalinism and had philosophical differences with Marx, identifying himself as a democratic socialist.\n\nHistorians have examined his religious beliefs. Biographer Steven C. Rockefeller traced Dewey's democratic convictions to his childhood attendance at the Congregational Church, with its strong proclamation of social ideals and the Social Gospel. Historian Edward A. White suggested in \"Science and Religion in American Thought\" (1952) that Dewey's work led to the 20th century rift between religion and science.\n\n\n\nBesides publishing prolifically himself, Dewey also sat on the boards of scientific publications such as \"Sociometry\" (advisory board, 1942) and \"Journal of Social Psychology\" (editorial board, 1942), as well as having posts at other publications such as \"New Leader\" (contributing editor, 1949).\n\nThe following publications by John Dewey are referenced or mentioned in this article. A more complete list of his publications may be found at List of publications by John Dewey.\n\nSee also\n\nDewey's Complete Writings is available in 4 multi-volume sets (38 volumes in all) from Southern Illinois University Press:\n\n\"The Collected Works of John Dewey: 1882–1953\"', \"The Correspondence of John Dewey 1871–1952\", and \"The Lectures of John Dewey\" are available online via monographic purchase to academic institutions and via subscription to individuals, and also in TEI format for university servers in the \"Past Masters series\". (The CD-ROM has been discontinued).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18126", "title": "Learning object", "text": "Learning object\n\nA learning object is \"a collection of content items, practice items, and assessment items that are combined based on a single learning objective\". The term is credited to Wayne Hodgins, and dates from a working group in 1994 bearing the name. The concept encompassed by 'Learning Objects' is known by numerous other terms, including: content objects, chunks, educational objects, information objects, intelligent objects, knowledge bits, knowledge objects, learning components, media objects, reusable curriculum components, nuggets, reusable information objects, reusable learning objects, testable reusable units of cognition, training components, and units of learning.\n\nThe core idea of the use of learning objects is characterized by the following: discoverability, reusability, and interoperability. To support discoverability, learning objects are described by Learning Object Metadata, formalized as IEEE 1484.12 Learning object metadata. To support reusability, the IMS Consortium proposed a series of specifications such as the IMS Content package. And to support interoperability, the U.S. military's Advanced Distributed Learning organization created the Sharable Content Object Reference Model. Learning objects were designed in order to reduce the cost of learning, standardize learning content, and to enable the use and reuse of learning content by learning management systems.\n\nThe Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) defines a learning object as \"any entity, digital or non-digital, that may be used for learning, education or training\".\n\nChiappe defined Learning Objects as: \"A digital self-contained and reusable entity, with a clear educational purpose, with at least three internal and editable components: content, learning activities and elements of context. The learning objects must have an external structure of information to facilitate their identification, storage and retrieval: the metadata.\"\n\nThe following definitions focus on the relation between learning object and digital media. RLO-CETL, a British inter-university Learning Objects Center, defines \"reusable learning objects\" as \"web-based interactive chunks of e-learning designed to explain a stand-alone learning objective\". Daniel Rehak and Robin Mason define it as \"a digitized entity which can be used, reused or referenced during technology supported learning\".\n\nAdapting a definition from the Wisconsin Online Resource Center, Robert J. Beck suggests that learning objects have the following key characteristics:\n\n\nThe following is a list of some of the types of information that may be included in a learning object and its metadata:\n\nOne of the key issues in using learning objects is their identification by search engines or content management systems. This is usually facilitated by assigning descriptive learning object metadata. Just as a book in a library has a record in the card catalog, learning objects must also be tagged with metadata. The most important pieces of metadata typically associated with a learning object include:\n\nA mutated learning object is, according to Michael Shaw, a learning object that has been \"re-purposed and/or re-engineered, changed or simply re-used in some way different from its original intended design\". Shaw also introduces the term \"contextual learning object\", to describe a learning object that has been \"designed to have specific meaning and purpose to an intended learner\".\n\nBefore any institution invests a great deal of time and energy into building high-quality e-learning content (which can cost over $10,000 per classroom hour), it needs to consider how this content can be easily loaded into a Learning Management System. It is possible for example, to package learning objects with SCORM specification and load it in Moodle Learning Management System or Desire2Learn Learning Environment.\n\nIf all of the properties of a course can be precisely defined in a common format, the content can be serialized into a standard format such as XML and loaded into other systems. When it is considered that some e-learning courses need to include video, mathematical equations using MathML, chemistry equations using CML and other complex structures, the issues become very complex, especially if the systems needs to understand and validate each structure and then place it correctly in a database.\n\nIn 2001, David Wiley criticized learning object theory in his paper, The Reusability Paradox which is summarized by D'Arcy Norman as, \"If a learning object is useful in a particular context, by definition it is not reusable in a different context. If a learning object is reusable in many contexts, it isn’t particularly useful in any.\" \nIn Three Objections to Learning Objects and E-learning Standards, Norm Friesen, Canada Research Chair in E-Learning Practices at Thompson Rivers University, points out that the word \"neutrality\" in itself implies \"a state or position that is antithetical ... to pedagogy and teaching.\"\n\n\nInnayah: Creating An Audio Script with Learning Object, unpublished, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "7419828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7419828", "title": "Leisure studies", "text": "Leisure studies\n\nLeisure studies is a branch of the social sciences that focuses on understanding and analyzing leisure. Recreation and tourism are common topics of leisure research.\n\nThe National Recreation and Park Association is the national organization in the United States for leisure studies, and offers accreditation to many universities to offer courses of study (degree programs) in leisure studies.\n\nThe \"Journal of Leisure Research\" and \"Journal of Park and Recreation Administration\" are some scholarly US academic journals of leisure studies.\n\nWhile leisure studies has existed for much longer, a first centralized organization for directing leisure studies was established in Birmingham, England, in May 1975, and is known as the Leisure Studies Association. In 1984, the first international conference was held by the LSA at the University of Sussex in Brighton, which also set the record as the largest LSA event held to date with over 275 attendees. LSA conferences are widely regarded as some of the most attended events for leisure researchers in the world.\n\nPursuing a degree in leisure studies will give students the opportunity to learn how to incorporate leisure into recreational activities and tourism. Students take a wide variety of classes ranging from psychology and social sciences to biology and anatomy. Students learn how to improve and foster a healthy life through leisure.\n\nThe leisure activities that people who work in leisure studies deal with include a very broad range of activities. Most of the activities can be separated into 3 sub-categories: sport and recreation, tourism, and leisure.\nSport and recreation activities is one of the broadest categories in leisure studies. This includes sports, both traditional and non-traditional, and any indoor or outdoor physical activities done for recreational purposes. Sport and recreation activities includes, but is not limited to, swimming, running, hiking, weight lifting, playing games and other outdoor recreation.\n\nTourism describes the traveling for leisure purposes. Destinations include parks and national parks, hikes, and domestic and foreign cities.\n\nAll other activities that are not considered to be a part of sport and recreation or tourism are included general leisure activities. This category is quite vast, and includes, but are not limited to, yoga, the arts, nature conservation, and other hobbies.\n\nA bachelor's degree in leisure studies qualifies graduates for a wide range of entry level recreational occupations in . ALL THIS IS WRONG ABOUT LEISURE STUDIES...v/ooh/personal-care-and-service/recreation-workers.htm#tab-1|title=Recreation Workers|date=8 January 2014|publisher=|accessdate=29 July 2015}}</ref> This is growing as fast as the average of all jobs and is potentially due to increasing childhood obesity rates and the aging baby-boomers generation.\n\nWork settings include:\n\nIndustries that employed the most recreation/leisure workers in 2012 and average annual salary:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1343032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343032", "title": "List of Friends schools", "text": "List of Friends schools\n\nFriends schools are institutions that provide an education based on the beliefs and testimonies of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers). This article is a list of schools currently or historically associated with the Society of Friends, regardless of their current degree of affiliation.\n\nFriends schools vary greatly, both in their interpretation of Quaker principles and in how they relate to formal organizations that make up the Society of Friends. Most Friends schools are similar in their mission however: to provide an academically sound education while also instilling values of community, spirituality, responsibility and stewardship in their students.\n\nSome institutions founded by Friends were never formally \"Quaker schools.\" Some historically Friends institutions are no longer formally associated with the Society of Friends. Those that continue to call themselves \"Quaker schools\" may have formal oversight from a Friends yearly or monthly meetings (often called coming \"under care of\" a meeting), and others are governed by members of the Society of Friends and/or adhere to aspects of Quaker practice.\n\nBecause of the wide range of Friends, the branch (or branches) of Quakerism with which the school affiliates are included, and where applicable the Yearly, Quarterly or Monthly Meeting under whose care or governance the school is held is shown.\n\n\n\nBolivian Friends have established several schools, which are supported from the United States by the Bolivian Quaker Education Fund.\n\n\n\n\n\"For Northern Ireland, see Ireland below.\"\n\n\nNon-Friends schools with Friends connections\n\nDefunct Friends schools\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll Quaker schools and yearly meetings in Kenya are affiliated with Friends United Meeting. Note that the Friends World Committee for Consultation counts, but does not name, many more Kenyan Friends schools than are listed here,\n\n\n\n\nAbbreviations:\n\n\n\"\"Independent Quaker schools\" are operated using Quaker principles and often include a majority of Quakers among trustees, but are not formally under care of a meeting.\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: This section lists schools with grades only below 9th grade. Schools including high school grades are listed above.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52730540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52730540", "title": "List of countries by secondary education attainment", "text": "List of countries by secondary education attainment\n\nThis is a list of countries by the proportion of the population that has attained at least a secondary education. The list is composed of the percent of the population of the relevant age groups that have completed an upper secondary education in the listed countries. The lists are compiled from several sources.\n"}
{"id": "9844642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9844642", "title": "List of education trade unions", "text": "List of education trade unions\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of education trade unions:\n\n\n\nCeylon independent teachers' services union - Sri lanka\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8616199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8616199", "title": "List of law school GPA curves", "text": "List of law school GPA curves\n\nMany, or perhaps most, law schools in the United States grade on a curve. The process generally works within each class, where the instructor grades each exam, and then ranks the exams against each other, adding to and subtracting from the initial grades so that the overall grade distribution matches the school's specified curve (usually a bell curve). \"The curve\" is the permitted range of each letter grade that can be awarded, for example, 0-3% A+, 3-7% A, etc. Curves vary between different law schools, as do the rules for when the curve is mandatory versus suggestive. It is common for the curve to be mandatory for first year (\"1L\") courses, and for classes above a certain size.\n\nGrading on a curve contributes to the notoriously competitive atmosphere within law schools. \"The main source of this competition is the mandatory curve you will likely encounter once you enter law school. The curve affects the class rank, affects the chances of making law review, affects the chances of scoring that big job/externship.\" Some law schools set their curve lower to retain scholarship funding; others set their curve higher to make their students more competitive in the job market.\n\nThe following list shows where law schools set the 50% mark for an individual class subject to the curve. Because not all classes are curved and because professors still have discretion within the curve's ranges, where a law school sets its curve is not necessarily revealing of that school's average student GPA (whether after 1L or upon graduation).\n\n\nThe following law schools have adopted a grading system which does not allow for the calculation of a comparable median GPA on a 4.0 scale, if any GPA is recorded at all:\n"}
{"id": "52729949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52729949", "title": "National Council on Measurement in Education", "text": "National Council on Measurement in Education\n\nThe National Council on Measurement in Education (NCME) is an organization serving assessment professionals. These professionals work in evaluation, testing, program evaluation, and, more generally, educational and psychological measurement. Members come from universities, test development organizations, and industry. A goal of the organization is to ensure that assessment is carried out fairly.\n\nPsychometrics\n"}
{"id": "5022384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5022384", "title": "National Survey of Student Engagement", "text": "National Survey of Student Engagement\n\nThe National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) (pronounced: nessie) is a survey mechanism used to measure the level of student participation at universities and colleges in Canada and the United States as it relates to learning and engagement. The results of the survey help administrators and professors to assess their students' student engagement. The survey targets first-year and senior students on campuses. NSSE developed ten student Engagement Indicators (EIs) that are categorized in four general themes: academic challenge, learning with peers, experiences with faculty, and campus environment. Since 2000, there have been over 1,600 colleges and universities that have opted to participate in the survey. Additionally, approximately 5 million students within those institutions have completed the engagement survey. Overall, NSSE assesses \"effective teaching\" practices \"and\" student engagement in educationally purposeful activities. The survey is administered and assessed by Indiana University School of Education Center for Postsecondary Research.\n\nThe initial idea of the National Survey of Student Engagement centers on providing an alternative metric of evaluation for colleges and universities to measure “quality” on a national platform and it is designed specifically to gauge the extent of student engagement. The NSSE was birthed in 1998 and financially supported by a grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts. Much of the quality metrics according to the initial working group of higher education leaders that the Pew Charitable Trust organized concluded that there were few external incentives for institutions to partake in “\"meaningful quality improvement\".” The quality concept as it relates to colleges and universities has largely been impacted by accrediting agencies, government regulations (e.g. licensure standards), and \"third-party\" rankings (\"e.g.\" \"U.S. News and World Report\") that focus on student selectivity and faculty credentials. Nevertheless, these types of quality metrics do not give insight regarding the resources institutions invest to facilitate significant academic experiences/activities or effective instructional practices that demonstrate high-level of engagement and success in college\n\nThe National Survey of Student Engagement (NSSE) contestably, serves as a tool for four-year institutions to gather data centered on institutional quality, ultimately to be used to improve undergraduate studies. This quality is measured by the energy that students spend engaging in meaningful educational experiences ( high-impact\npractices) during college that have significantly impacted desired learning outcomes and overall student experiences, regardless of institutional type and the individual. Purposeful institutional priorities and practices lead to student engagement and student success in college. Institutions that align their resources to foster engagement potentially experience higher levels of quality– the marriage of purposeful engagement and institutional quality. There are several identifiers that researchers have studied that draw parallels to student success among institutions; the survey provides colleges and universities with the student engagement data that show strengths and opportunities for growth.\n\nStudents’ responses in the survey have been categorized into ten Engagement Indicators (EIs) and narrowly concentrated among four general themes: academic challenge, learning with\npeers, experiences with faculty, and campus environment. NSSEs ten Engagement Indicators include:higher-order learning, reflective and integrative learning, learning strategies, quantitative reasoning, learning with peers, discussions with diverse others, experiences with faculty, effective teaching practices, quality of interactions, and supportive environments. Moreover, NSSE provides results on six High-Impact practices (HIPs) that are duly noted for their positive outcomes on \"student learning\" and \"retention.\" These HIPs are known by researchers as educational experiences that shift one’s trajectory of success in college. The HIPs refer to: learning community, service-learning, research with faculty (effective for first-year student and seniors), internship or field experience, study abroad, and culminating senior experience that seniors should engage in (e.g. capstone project). In 2008, George Kuh suggested that all students should experience at least one HIP during their first-year and one during senior year. These teaching and learning practices have been proven to be beneficial to\ncollege students from various backgrounds.\n\nThe survey offers an unconventional assessment for evaluating collegiate quality by collecting data that is used to depict institutional experiences and instructional practices that affects learning and college student success. There are three envisioning principles for data collected by NSSE. The first is to allow a vehicle for institutions to improve upon its undergraduate studies program (e.g. how the institution aligns with its strategic foci). Secondly, external agencies such as accrediting bodies and state agencies of higher education could use the information to gauge institutional effectiveness. Lastly, the publication of results could be of interest to media outlets as a means of incorporating into college ranking metrics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33982507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33982507", "title": "Oral exam", "text": "Oral exam\n\nThe oral exam (also oral test or ; in German-speaking nations) is a practice in many schools and disciplines in which an examiner poses questions to the student in spoken form. The student has to answer the question in such a way as to demonstrate sufficient knowledge of the subject to pass the exam. The oral exam also helps reduce (although it does not eliminate) the risk of granting a degree to a candidate who has had the thesis or dissertation ghostwritten by an expert.\n\nMany science programs require students pursuing a bachelor's degree to finish the program by taking an oral exam or a combination of oral and written exams to show how well a student has understood the material studied in the program. Usually, study guides or a syllabus are made available so that the students may prepare for the exam by reviewing practice questions and topics likely to be on the exam. There is a small but growing body of literature on the use of oral examinations in undergraduate education in the English speaking world. \n\nSome medical schools use oral exams for second and third year students to test knowledge but also the ability to respond on the spot. Students are required to take an oral exam prior to being awarded a PhD. Some universities allow the option of either taking written and oral exams or completing a project or thesis, but occasionally, all three are required for graduation. Oral exams are distinct from a defense of a thesis in that the questions in the latter are more narrow and specific to the topic of the thesis.\n\nGraduate students are sometimes allowed to choose their examiners for oral exams.\n\nSometimes, the oral exam is offered in schools as an alternative to a written exam for students with a learning disability, like dysgraphia, developmental coordination disorder, or non-verbal learning disorder. Often parents of the students have to request that the oral exam be given to their child in lieu of the written exam.\n\nA Private Pilot Oral Exam is also required as part of the FAA and CAA practical test for prospective pilots. An oral exam is also carried out by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency in the UK for the purpose of issuing certificate of competencies for Merchant Navy deck and engine officers.\n\nThe \"viva voce\" is a component of music diploma examinations administered by ABRSM, Trinity College of Music and London College of Music. Candidates are posed a series of questions by the examiner about their chosen pieces, the composer and musical era. Depending on exam board, candidates may also be required to do a short writeup on their pieces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18960210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960210", "title": "Plagiarism", "text": "Plagiarism\n\nPlagiarism is the \"wrongful appropriation\" and \"stealing and publication\" of another author's \"language, thoughts, ideas, or expressions\" and the representation of them as one's own original work.\n\nPlagiarism is considered academic dishonesty and a breach of journalistic ethics. It is subject to sanctions such as penalties, suspension, and even expulsion from school or work. Recently, cases of \"extreme plagiarism\" have been identified in academia. The modern concept of plagiarism as immoral and originality as an ideal emerged in Europe in the 18th century, particularly with the Romantic movement.\n\nPlagiarism is not in itself a crime, but can constitute copyright infringement. In academia and industry, it is a serious ethical offense. Plagiarism and copyright infringement overlap to a considerable extent, but they are not equivalent concepts, and many types of plagiarism do not constitute copyright infringement, which is defined by copyright law and may be adjudicated by courts. Plagiarism is not defined or punished by law, but rather by institutions (including professional associations, educational institutions, and commercial entities, such as publishing companies).\n\nIn the 1st century, the use of the Latin word \"plagiarius\" (literally \"kidnapper\") to denote stealing someone else's work was pioneered by the Roman poet Martial, who complained that another poet had \"kidnapped his verses\". \"Plagiary\", a derivative of \"plagiarus\", was introduced into English in 1601 by dramatist Ben Jonson during the Jacobean Era to describe someone guilty of literary theft.\n\nThe derived form \"plagiarism\" was introduced into English around 1620. The Latin \"plagiārius\", \"kidnapper\", and \"plagium\", \"kidnapping\", have the root \"plaga\" (\"snare\", \"net\"), based on the Indo-European root \"*-plak\", \"to weave\" (seen for instance in Greek \"plekein\", Bulgarian \"плета\" \"pleta\", and Latin \"plectere\", all meaning \"to weave\").\n\nAlthough plagiarism in some contexts is considered theft or stealing, the concept does not exist in a legal sense, although the use of someone else's work in order to gain academic credit may meet some legal definitions of fraud. \"Plagiarism\" specifically is not mentioned in any current statute, either criminal or civil. Some cases may be treated as unfair competition or a violation of the doctrine of moral rights. The increased availability of copyrighted material due to the development of information technology has furthered the debate as to whether copyright offences are criminal. In short, people are asked to use the guideline, \"if you did not write it yourself, you must give credit\".\n\nPlagiarism is not the same as copyright infringement. While both terms may apply to a particular act, they are different concepts, and false claims of authorship generally constitute plagiarism regardless of whether the material is protected by copyright. Copyright infringement is a violation of the rights of a copyright holder, when material whose use is restricted by copyright is used without consent. Plagiarism, in contrast, is concerned with the unearned increment to the plagiarizing author's reputation, or the obtaining of academic credit, that is achieved through false claims of authorship. Thus, plagiarism is considered a moral offense against the plagiarist's audience (for example, a reader, listener, or teacher).\n\nPlagiarism is also considered a moral offense against anyone who has provided the plagiarist with a benefit in exchange for what is specifically supposed to be original content (for example, the plagiarist's publisher, employer, or teacher). In such cases, acts of plagiarism may sometimes also form part of a claim for breach of the plagiarist's contract, or, if done knowingly, for a civil wrong.\n\nWithin academia, plagiarism by students, professors, or researchers is considered academic dishonesty or academic fraud, and offenders are subject to academic censure, up to and including expulsion. Some institutions use plagiarism detection software to uncover potential plagiarism and to deter students from plagiarizing. Some universities address the issue of academic integrity by providing students with thorough orientations, required writing courses, and clearly articulated honor codes. Indeed, there is a virtually uniform understanding among college students that plagiarism is wrong. Nevertheless, each year students are brought before their institutions’ disciplinary boards on charges that they have misused sources in their schoolwork.\" However, the practice of plagiarizing by use of sufficient word substitutions to elude detection software, known as rogeting, has rapidly evolved as students and unethical academics seek to stay ahead of detection software. \n\nAn extreme form of plagiarism, known as contract cheating involves students paying someone else, such as an essay mill, to do their work for them.\n\nIn journalism, plagiarism is considered a breach of journalistic ethics, and reporters caught plagiarizing typically face disciplinary measures ranging from suspension to termination of employment. Some individuals caught plagiarizing in academic or journalistic contexts claim that they plagiarized unintentionally, by failing to include quotations or give the appropriate citation. While plagiarism in scholarship and journalism has a centuries-old history, the development of the Internet, where articles appear as electronic text, has made the physical act of copying the work of others much easier.\n\nPredicated upon an expected level of learning/comprehension having been achieved, all associated academic accreditation becomes seriously undermined if plagiarism is allowed to become the norm within academic submissions.\n\nFor professors and researchers, plagiarism is punished by sanctions ranging from suspension to termination, along with the loss of credibility and perceived integrity. Charges of plagiarism against students and professors are typically heard by internal disciplinary committees, by which students and professors have agreed to be bound. Plagiarism is a common reason for academic research papers to be retracted.\n\n No universally adopted definition of academic plagiarism exists; however, this section provides several definitions to exemplify the most common characteristics of academic plagiarism.\n\nAccording to Bela Gipp academic plagiarism encompasses:\n\n\"The use of ideas, concepts, words, or structures without appropriately acknowledging the source to benefit in a setting where originality is expected.\"\n\nThe definition by B. Gipp is an abridged version of Teddi Fishman's definition of plagiarism, which proposed five elements characteristic of plagiarism. According to T. Fishman, plagiarism occurs when someone:\n\nFurthermore, plagiarism is defined differently among institutions of higher learning and universities:\n\n\nAccording to a 2015 survey of teachers and professors by Turnitin there are 10 main forms of plagiarism that students commit:\n\n\nIn the academic world, plagiarism by students is usually considered a very serious offense that can result in punishments such as a failing grade on the particular assignment, the entire course, or even being expelled from the institution. Generally, the punishment increases as a person enters higher institutions of learning. The seriousness with which academic institutions address student plagiarism may be tempered by a recognition that students may not fully understand what plagiarism is. A 2015 study showed that students who were new to university study did not have a good understanding of even the basic requirements of how to attribute sources in written academic work, yet students were very confident that they understood what referencing and plagiarism are. The same students also had a lenient view of how plagiarism should be penalised.\n\nFor cases of repeated plagiarism, or for cases in which a student commits severe plagiarism (e.g., purchasing an assignment), suspension or expulsion may occur. There has been historic concern about inconsistencies in penalties administered for university student plagiarism, and a plagiarism tariff was devised in 2008 for UK higher education institutions in an attempt to encourage some standardization of approaches.\n\nHowever, to impose sanctions, plagiarism needs to be detected. Strategies faculty members use to detect plagiarism include carefully reading students work and making note of inconsistencies in student writing, citation errors and providing plagiarism prevention education to students. It has been found that a significant share of (university) teachers do not use detection methods such as using text-matching software. A few more try to detect plagiarism by reading term-papers specifically for plagiarism, while the latter method might be not very effective in detecting plagiarism – especially when plagiarism from unfamiliar sources needs to be detected. There are checklists of tactics to prevent student plagiarism.\n\nThere are allegations that some diploma mills take students' money for essays, then produce a low standard essay or close their websites without providing the purchased essay. Students then have little time to provide an essay before a deadline. Also diploma mills have allegedly blackmailed students demanding more money than was originally agreed and threatening to reveal plagiarism to the university unless more money is paid. Sorana Vieru of the NUS said, “We would urge those who are struggling to seek support through their unions and universities rather than looking to a quick fix, and be aware that using these websites could cost not only money but jeopardise their qualifications.”\n\nThere are calls for diploma mills to be made illegal in the United Kingdom, in New Zealand and some juristictions in the United States they are already illegal.\n\nGiven the serious consequences that plagiarism has for students, there has been a call for a greater emphasis on learning in order to help students avoid committing plagiarism. This is especially important when students move to a new institution that may have a different view of the concept when compared with the view previously developed by the student. Indeed, given the seriousness of plagiarism accusations for a student's future, the pedagogy of plagiarism education may need to be considered ahead of the pedagogy of the discipline being studied. The need for plagiarism education extends to academic staff, who may not completely understand what is expected of their students or the consequences of misconduct.\n\nSeveral studies investigated factors that influence the decision to plagiarize. For example, a panel study with students from German universities found that academic procrastination predicts the frequency plagiarism conducted within six months followed the measurement of academic procrastination. It has been argued that by plagiarizing students cope with the negative consequences that result from academic procrastination such as poor grades. Another study found that plagiarism is more frequent if students perceive plagiarism as beneficial and if they have the opportunity to plagiarize. When students had expected higher sanctions and when they had internalized social norms that define plagiarism as very objectionable, plagiarism was less likely to occur.\n\nSince journalism relies on the public trust, a reporter's failure to honestly acknowledge their sources undercuts a newspaper or television news show's integrity and undermines its credibility. Journalists accused of plagiarism are often suspended from their reporting tasks while the charges are being investigated by the news organization.\n\nThe reuse of significant, identical, or nearly identical portions of one's own work without acknowledging that one is doing so or citing the original work is sometimes described as \"self-plagiarism\"; the term \"recycling fraud\" has also been used to describe this practice. Articles of this nature are often referred to as duplicate or multiple publication. In addition there can be a copyright issue if copyright of the prior work has been transferred to another entity. Self-plagiarism is considered a serious ethical issue in settings where someone asserts that a publication consists of new material, such as in publishing or factual documentation. It does not apply to public-interest texts, such as social, professional, and cultural opinions usually published in newspapers and magazines.\n\nIn academic fields, self-plagiarism occurs when an author reuses portions of their own published and copyrighted work in subsequent publications, but without attributing the previous publication. Identifying self-plagiarism is often difficult because limited reuse of material is accepted both legally (as fair use) and ethically.\n\nMiguel Roig has written at length about the topic of self-plagiarism and his definition of self-plagiarism as using previously disseminated work is widely accepted among scholars of the topic. However, the \"self-plagiarism\" has been challenged as being self-contradictory, an oxymoron, and on other grounds.\n\nFor example, Stephanie J. Bird argues that self-plagiarism is a misnomer, since by definition plagiarism concerns the use of others' material. Bird identifies the ethical issues of \"self-plagiarism\" as those of \"dual or redundant publication.\" She also notes that in an educational context, \"self-plagiarism\" refers to the case of a student who resubmits \"the same essay for credit in two different courses.\" As David B. Resnik clarifies, \"Self-plagiarism involves dishonesty but not intellectual theft.\" \n\nAccording to Patrick M. Scanlon\n\n\"Self-plagiarism\" is a term with some specialized currency. Most prominently, it is used in discussions of research and publishing integrity in biomedicine, where heavy publish-or-perish demands have led to a rash of duplicate and \"salami-slicing\" publication, the reporting of a single study's results in \"least publishable units\" within multiple articles (Blancett, Flanagin, & Young, 1995; Jefferson, 1998; Kassirer & Angell, 1995; Lowe, 2003; McCarthy, 1993; Schein & Paladugu, 2001; Wheeler, 1989). Roig (2002) offers a useful classification system including four types of self-plagiarism: duplicate publication of an article in more than one journal; partitioning of one study into multiple publications, often called salami-slicing; text recycling; and copyright infringement.\n\nSome academic journals have codes of ethics that specifically refer to self-plagiarism. For example, the \"Journal of International Business Studies\". Some professional organizations like the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) have created policies that deal specifically with self-plagiarism. Other organizations do not make specific reference to self-plagiarism such as the American Political Science Association (APSA). The organization published a code of ethics that describes plagiarism as \"...deliberate appropriation of the works of others represented as one's own.\" It does not make any reference to self-plagiarism. It does say that when a thesis or dissertation is published \"in whole or in part\", the author is \"not ordinarily under an ethical obligation to acknowledge its origins.\" The American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) also published a code of ethics that says its members are committed to: \"Ensure that others receive credit for their work and contributions,\" but it makes no reference to self-plagiarism.\n\nPamela Samuelson, in 1994, identified several factors she says excuse reuse of one's previously published work, that make it not self-plagiarism. She relates each of these factors specifically to the ethical issue of self-plagiarism, as distinct from the legal issue of fair use of copyright, which she deals with separately. Among other factors that may excuse reuse of previously published material Samuelson lists the following:\n\n\nSamuelson states she has relied on the \"different audience\" rationale when attempting to bridge interdisciplinary communities. She refers to writing for different legal and technical communities, saying: \"there are often paragraphs or sequences of paragraphs that can be bodily lifted from one article to the other. And, in truth, I lift them.\" She refers to her own practice of converting \"a technical article into a law review article with relatively few changes—adding footnotes and one substantive section\" for a different audience.\n\nSamuelson describes misrepresentation as the basis of self-plagiarism. She also states \"Although it seems not to have been raised in any of the self-plagiarism cases, copyrights law's fair use defense would likely provide a shield against many potential publisher claims of copyright infringement against authors who reused portions of their previous works.\"\n\nPlagiarism is presumably not an issue when organizations issue collective unsigned works since they do not assign credit for originality to particular people. For example, the American Historical Association's \"Statement on Standards of Professional Conduct\" (2005) regarding textbooks and reference books states that, since textbooks and encyclopedias are summaries of other scholars' work, they are not bound by the same exacting standards of attribution as original research and may be allowed a greater \"extent of dependence\" on other works. However, even such a book does not make use of words, phrases, or paragraphs from another text or follow too closely the other text's arrangement and organization, and the authors of such texts are also expected to \"acknowledge the sources of recent or distinctive findings and interpretations, those not yet a part of the common understanding of the profession.\"\n\nThrough all of the history of literature and of the arts in general, works of art are for a large part repetitions of the tradition; to the entire history of artistic creativity belong plagiarism, literary theft, appropriation, incorporation, retelling, rewriting, recapitulation, revision, reprise, thematic variation, ironic retake, parody, imitation, stylistic theft, pastiches, collages, and deliberate assemblages. There is no rigorous and precise distinction between practices like imitation, stylistic plagiarism, copy, replica and forgery. These appropriation procedures are the main axis of a literate culture, in which the tradition of the canonic past is being constantly rewritten.\n\nRuth Graham quotes T.S. Eliot—\"Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal. Bad poets deface what they take.\"—she notes that despite the \"taboo\" of plagiarism, the ill-will and embarrassment it causes in the modern context, readers seem to often forgive the past excesses of historic literary offenders.\n\nA passage of Laurence Sterne's 1767 \"Tristram Shandy\" condemns plagiarism by resorting to plagiarism. Oliver Goldsmith commented:\n\nSterne's Writings, in which it is clearly shewn, that he, whose manner and style were so long thought original, was, in fact, the most unhesitating plagiarist who ever cribbed from his predecessors in order to garnish his own pages. It must be owned, at the same time, that Sterne selects the materials of his mosaic work with so much art, places them so well, and polishes them so highly, that in most cases we are disposed to pardon the want of originality, in consideration of the exquisite talent with which the borrowed materials are wrought up into the new form.\n\nFree online tools are becoming available to help identify plagiarism, and there are a range of approaches that attempt to limit online copying, such as disabling right clicking and placing warning banners regarding copyrights on web pages. Instances of plagiarism that involve copyright violation may be addressed by the rightful content owners sending a DMCA removal notice to the offending site-owner, or to the ISP that is hosting the offending site. The term \"content scraping\" has arisen to describe the copying and pasting of information from websites and blogs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24535515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24535515", "title": "Postbaccalaureate program", "text": "Postbaccalaureate program\n\nPostbaccalaureate programs (postbac) are reserved for students who are working toward a second bachelor's degree or a second entry degree. These programs are offered for those who already have a first undergraduate degree. Post Baccalaureate programs are not considered traditional graduate education, but it is more advanced than a bachelor's degree. These programs are offered under the umbrella of continuing education and leads to a second graduate degree. Often first year of the second entry degree is redacted with Postbaccalaureate credentials (PBD). Programs like post-degree diploma, graduate diploma, graduate certificates or a pre-medical to a master's degree in a field such as biomedical or health sciences may come under the range of post-baccalaureate programs. In addition, students with a bachelor's degree, who wish to pursue a master's degree in a field other than their BS/BA degree, may be admitted to a college or university individualized or preset postbac program to earn the necessary entry credits in their new chosen subject. These courses of study are considered as an equivalent blend of foundation year graduate/professional school studies and final year of the specific bachelor's program. This also provides opportunity to those who prepare for changing careers and profession or as a supportive for those interested in continuing education to familiarize with new modalities in their particular fields. The usual length of the programs is 8 months to 1 year and the advanced thesis route grad-entry program is for 2 years.\n"}
{"id": "7441528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7441528", "title": "Practice-based professional learning", "text": "Practice-based professional learning\n\nPractice-based professional learning (pbpl) is understood in contrast to 'classroom-' or 'theory-based' learning. It is kindred to terms such as 'work-based learning', 'workplace' or 'work-centred' learning. Distinctive, though, are a concern for \"professional\" learning, and the preference for 'practice' rather than 'work'. While it does not disdain propositional knowledge and what is sometimes called 'theory', its prime interest is in the formation of self-renewing and effective professional practices—a distinct theoretical position in its own right.\n\nThe range of concerns may be seen, for example, in the UK Open University's practice-based professional learning centre, one of the Higher Education Funding Council for England's centres for excellence in teaching and learning. Its interests cover the inter-relation of various forms of professional knowledge, ways of fostering them and their co-ordination, workplaces as sites of learning, the assessment of practice-based learning achievements, and the use of modern technologies to support distributed learning.\n\nOther centres for excellence occupy some or all of the territory, notably the Professional Development Unit at the University of Chester, SCEPTrE in the University of Surrey, CEPLW in the University of Westminster and NCWBLP in Middlesex University.\n\nInterest in this territory is not confined to the UK, with some of the most respected work associated with David Boud at the University of Technology, Sydney, NSW.\n\n"}
{"id": "42208078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42208078", "title": "Public sphere pedagogy", "text": "Public sphere pedagogy\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy (PSP) represents an approach to educational engagement that connects classroom activities with real world civic engagement. The focus of PSP programs is to connect class assignments, content, and readings with contemporary public issues. Students are then asked to participate with members of the community in various forms of public sphere discourse and democratic participation such as town hall meetings and public debate events. Through these events, students are challenged to practice civic engagement and civil discourse.\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy is theoretically grounded in Jürgen Habermas' conceptualization of the public sphere. In his seminal work \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\", Habermas envisioned the public sphere as an inclusive discursive space in which the citizens of a society gathered, discussed, and debated over the issues of the day. Habermas argued that the European bourgeois public sphere that emerged in eighteenth century coffee houses and salons represented an idealized form of the public sphere. Individuals engaging in discussion in these spaces would share and debate their views with one another. Habermas argues that this dialectic encounter was a critical part of one's social life where individuals, as part of a larger public, could construct public opinion through critical rational discourse. Habermas argued that these discussions served to fill the gap between the state and the people by creating what he called a \"civil society\". Further, Habermas argued that a functioning public sphere was critical to maintaining a healthy democratic order and deliberative democracy.\n\nThis traditional notion of a face-to-face public sphere has evolved with the invention of online technologies. The public sphere no longer requires a physical setting, but can manifest in cyberspace. The coffee house discussions idealized by Habermas have expanded to blogs, discussion forums, and online videos. Henry Giroux in particular discusses the role of new media in the public sphere and public pedagogy. However, scholars debate whether computer-mediated communication in an online setting actually constitutes a functioning public sphere or just a public space.\n\nTown Hall Meetings are one way public sphere pedagogy has been integrated into curriculum. This event began at California State University, Chico in 2007. Classes participating in the Town Hall event require students to research and write about controversial issues. Students then come together with classmates, students from other classes, faculty, and community members. During the Town Hall Meeting, participants move into breakout sessions to share their work and engage in discussions about their topics. Faculty and community members moderate these discussions, share expert insight, and move students toward further development of their work.\nThe Great Debate also uses public sphere pedagogy as its foundation. This event started at California State University, Chico in 2010 and has since been implemented at Butte College, Shasta College, and Chabot College. The Great Debate requires students from a variety of classes to research and write about a controversial theme. These themes have ranged from water and agriculture to mental health. The event is open to the public. Students give individual and group presentations, engage in formal debates, break out into discussion sessions, and display interactive poster presentations. Community members and public officials also participate as moderators, discussion leaders, and debaters. Unlike the Town Hall Meetings, which usually take place on campus property, the Great Debate is hosted in public spaces including City Council Chambers and public libraries.\n\nStudent Voices programs are a type of civic engagement initiative that have been implemented in several high schools in the United States. The curriculum has high school students research and complete classroom assignments on current issues in government and candidates in local elections. Students then connect with outside communities via the digital public sphere and engage in moderated \"Speak Out\" events. Student Voices programs have been successfully implemented in curricula in Seattle and Pennsylvania school districts.\n\nPublic sphere pedagogy inherently is subject to many of the criticisms of Habermas' conception of the public sphere. Chief among them is the traditionally exclusionary nature. The bourgeois public sphere, as introduced by Habermas, has been characterized as highly patriarchal, and oblivious to the existence of female and plebeian styles of discourse. The concern here is that as a model of the bourgeois public sphere, applications of public sphere pedagogy might alienate students and community members unaccustomed to this type of dialectic experience.\nIn addition to its exclusionary nature, attention has also been called to Habermas' privileging of a hegemonic public sphere. Michael Warner argues that the bourgeois public sphere was structured to be affable to those privileged few who made up the powerful upperclass. While students participating in public sphere pedagogy application receive special training in their classrooms, the same is not necessarily true of community members who participate. This specialized student training draws two critiques. First, conceiving of public pedagogy as a form of instruction risks erasing the plurality that is central to being a public. Training individuals how to be \"good\" citizens prescribes action in a way that limits the scope of politics and the public sphere. Second, conceiving of public pedagogy as a form of learning risks eclipsing politics with education. Turning political and social issues into learning problems individualizes the issues instead of making them the responsibility of the public.\n"}
{"id": "58189093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58189093", "title": "Robert Foster Cherry Award", "text": "Robert Foster Cherry Award\n\nThe Robert Foster Cherry Award is a prize given biennially by Baylor University for \"great teaching\". The Cherry Award honors professors at the College or University level, in the English-speaking world, with established track records of teaching excellence and the ability to inspire students. Robert Foster Cherry, a graduate of Baylor University (A.B., 1929), made an estate bequest to establish the award. In a typical award cycle, three Finalists are selected based on nomination packages. The Finalists then compete for the award by giving a series of lectures at Baylor University. Each Finalist receives $15,000 and the ultimate award Recipient receives an additional $250,000 prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27036625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27036625", "title": "Robots and Avatars", "text": "Robots and Avatars\n\nRobots and Avatars was a programme of events and educational activities which explores how young people will work and play with new representational forms of virtual and physical life in 10–15 years time. It was produced by body>data>space with support from NESTA. between 2009 and 2012.\n\nThe project examined multi-identity evolutions of younger generations within the context of a world in which virtual and physical spaces are increasingly blended. A participatory web and events led programme with connected educational activities took taking place across 2010 and onwards, in the UK and internationally. The project included contributions by a diverse range of experts, professionals and specialists working with robots and avatars including Professor Noel Sharkey (Professor of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics and Professor of Public Engagement University of Sheffield), Pear Urishima (Apple), Ghislaine Boddington from body>data>space and Derek Richards from Hi8us South.\n\nRobots and Avatars launched in November 2009 with a Forum at NESTA, attended by an international group of 80 experts, professionals and young people in London.\n\nBetween June and November 2010 the programme hosted a series of Lunch Debates exploring Artificial Intelligence, Behaviour and Ethics, Health and Wellbeing and the Future Workplace with expert provocateurs and top level thinkers.\n\nThe programme continued throughout 2010-2011 with educational events, an exhibition, a website, vodcasts with key experts and a book/DVD.\n\nRobots and Avatars explored a wide range of themes including:\n\n"}
{"id": "34418660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34418660", "title": "Réseau Canopé", "text": "Réseau Canopé\n\nRéseau Canopé is a French public institution under the supervision of the French Ministry of Education. As the publishing arm of the National Education service, it performs editing, production and dissemination of educational and administrative resources for professional education. It contributes to the development of information and communication technologies in education (ICTs) as well as artistic and cultural education. \"Canopé\" stands for \"Conception et accompagnement des nouvelles offres pour l'éducation\" (\"Design and Support of New Offers for Education\").\n\nIn 2014, it replaced the National Centre for Educational Documentation (\"Centre national de documentation pédagogique\", CNDP) and its regional (CRDP) and departmental (CDDP) branches. These and a few other institutions formed the SCÉRÉN network (\"Services, Culture, Éditions, Ressources pour l'Éducation nationale\": \"Services, Culture, Publishing, Resources for National Education\").\n\nThe network also includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "47797003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47797003", "title": "S.C.A.M.P.E.R", "text": "S.C.A.M.P.E.R\n\nSCAMPER is an acronym that provides a structured way of assisting students to think out of the box and enhance their knowledge.\n\nIt is thought to protect students' creativity as they mature.\n\nSCAMPER was proposed by Alex Faickney Osborn in 1953, and was further developed by Bob Eberle in 1971 in his book; \"SCAMPER: Games for Imagination Development\".\n\nSCAMPER is an activity based thinking process that can be performed by Cooperative learning. Here the teacher assists the students in choosing a particular topic and helps them to develop it through a structured process. After choosing an idea, the students are given a tale where they perform the activity in steps corresponding to the letters in the name.\n\n\nHence, SCAMPER as a teaching strategy helps the students to analyse the knowledge in its creative form and helps the teacher to make teaching creative and interesting.\n\nSCAMPER also provides a ‘hip-pocket’ tool; i.e., an unplanned method of developing questions on an impromptu basis designed to challenge meeting participants' creativity and to make their thinking visible.\n"}
{"id": "41841758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41841758", "title": "Slow education", "text": "Slow education\n\nSlow education is based upon Socratic, adaptive and non-standards based approaches to teaching. Slow education is in part a reaction to the overly compacted course content requirements teachers are experiencing from nationalized curricula worldwide, which many educators find students cannot cover in a single year with sufficient depth. Slow education is also a reaction to the proliferation of standardized testing, favoring instead qualitative measures of student and teacher success. Slow education is frequently a feature in free, democratic and home schools. However, it can be a significant element in any classroom, including those in college preparatory and rigorous environments. The term \"slow education\" was derived from the distinction between slow food and fast food or junk food, and is an effort to associate quality, culture and personalization with quality schooling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31055387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31055387", "title": "Strength and conditioning coach", "text": "Strength and conditioning coach\n\nA strength and conditioning coach is a fitness and physical performance professional who uses exercise prescription specifically, but not limited, to improve the performance of competitive athletes. This is achieved through the combination of strength training and aerobic conditioning, alongside a variety of further methods. Strength and conditioning coaches also help athletes with injury prevention and proper mechanics within their sports performances.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches may work with sports teams, as well as individuals. Strength and conditioning coaches are often employed by higher education institutions and professional athletic teams.\n\nStrength and conditioning coaches have the option to specialize in a particular sports team, type of performance, training type, training philosophy, or work in the collegiate level, where they are assigned a sport. The general description and duty of a strength and conditioning coach is to develop an exercise prescription plan that modulates aerobic, resistance, and/or flexibility training to suit the metabolic and physical demands of the sport in question. With aerobic exercise prescription, strength and conditioning coaches determine the type, duration, and frequency of each exercise. For resistance exercise prescription, the type of exercise, total session volume, rest period, frequency, and intensity are determined. They may also be involved in prescription of stretching routines or other approaches. Nutrition and medical consultation are not within their scope of practice and training qualifications.\n\nIn the US, The National Strength and Conditioning Association offers a Certified Strength and Conditioning Coach qualification that is required for positions in the field. In addition to the C.S.C.S. certification, it is encouraged to attain a bachelor's degree in majors that are related to exercise science due to the competitiveness of the field.\n\nThe Collegiate Strength & Conditioning Coaches association also offers certification exclusive to the collegiate and professional-level strength and conditioning coach. This certification is known as Strength & Conditioning Coach Certified (SCCC) and requires a bachelor's degree and a 640-hour internship in addition to passing the certification exam.\n\nStrength and conditioning in the UK is generally overseen by the UK Strength and Conditioning Association (UKSCA) and the Register of Exercise Professionals (REPS). Both organisations provide regulations and standards for employers and professionals. A UKSCA membership and Bachelor's degree in sport and exercise science are generally accepted by many professional sports clubs as prerequisites for strength and conditioning positions. As well as the UKSCA and REPS, 1st4sport Qualifications offer standardised training in accordance with other official National Governing Body qualifications.\n\nThe implementation of effective strength and conditioning programmes has led to an increase in speed and strength. Research has demonstrated that not only does training improve performance but incorrect training (distance running, a slow-twitch muscle fiber activity, in football athletes with fast-twitch characteristics) can cause decrements to performance. Using techniques such as plyometrics in some high-power athletes and sports-specific movements in others, strength coaches may improve physical function and athletic performance.\n\nCriticism has followed the increased use of strength and conditioning coaches in a variety of sports due to the shift in importance to the size and speed of the players. In rugby union, a game with heavy physical contact and minimal protection, players are being described as being \"too big\", creating collisions that are increasing the risk of short and long term injuries. Further, it has been proposed that the increased weight and speed of players and subsequent rise of collision force leads to more frequent and severe concussion injuries.\n\nHowever, there is as yet no research to suggest an increased use of strength and conditioning leading to an increased risk of injury.\n"}
{"id": "411509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411509", "title": "Student-centred learning", "text": "Student-centred learning\n\nStudent-centered learning, also known as learner-centered education, broadly encompasses methods of teaching that shift the focus of instruction from the teacher to the student. In original usage, student-centered learning aims to develop learner autonomy and independence by putting responsibility for the learning path in the hands of students by imparting them with skills and basis on how to learn a specific subject and schemata required to measure up to the specific performance requirement. Student-centered instruction focuses on skills and practices that enable lifelong learning and independent problem-solving. Student-centered learning theory and practice are based on the constructivist learning theory that emphasizes the learner's critical role in constructing meaning from new information and prior experience.\n\nStudent-centered learning puts students' interests first, acknowledging student voice as central to the learning experience. In a student-centered learning space, students choose what they will learn, how they will learn, and how they will assess their own learning. This is in contrast to traditional education, also dubbed \"teacher-centered learning\", which situates the teacher as the primarily \"active\" role while students take a more \"passive\", receptive role. In a teacher-centered classroom, teachers choose what the students will learn, how the students will learn, and how the students will be assessed on their learning. In contrast, student-centered learning requires students to be active, responsible participants in their own learning and with their own pace of learning.\n\nUsage of the term \"student-centered learning\" may also simply refer to educational mindsets or instructional methods that recognize individual differences in learners. In this sense, student-centered learning emphasizes each student's interests, abilities, and learning styles, placing the teacher as a facilitator of learning for individuals rather than for the class as a whole.\n\nTheorists like John Dewey, Jean Piaget and Lev Vygotsky, whose collective work focused on how students learn, have informed the move to student-centered learning. Carl Rogers' ideas about the formation of the individual also contributed to student-centered learning. Rogers wrote that \"the only learning which significantly influences behavior [and education] is self discovered\". Maria Montessori was also a forerunner of student-centered learning, where preschool children learn through independent self-directed interaction with previously presented activities.\n\nSelf-determination theory focuses on the degree to which an individual’s behavior is self-motivated and 'self-determined'. When students are given the opportunity to gauge their learning, learning becomes an incentive.\n\nStudent-centered learning means inverting the traditional teacher-centered understanding of the learning process and putting students at the centre of the learning process. In the \"teacher-centered\" classroom, teachers are the primary source for knowledge. On the other hand, in \"student-centered\" classrooms, active learning is strongly encouraged. Armstrong (2012) claimed that \"traditional education ignores or suppresses learner responsibility\".\n\nA further distinction from a teacher-centered classroom to that of a student-centered classroom is when the teacher acts as a facilitator, as opposed to instructor. In essence, the teacher’s goal in the learning process is to guide students into making new interpretations of the learning material, thereby 'experiencing' content, reaffirming Rogers' notion that \"significant learning is acquired through doing\".\n\nThrough peer-to-peer interaction, collaborative thinking can lead to an abundance of knowledge. In placing a teacher closer to a peer level, knowledge and learning is enhanced, benefitting the student and classroom overall. According to Lev Vygotsky's theory of the zone of proximal development (ZPD), students typically learn vicariously through one another. Scaffolding is important when fostering independent thinking skills. Vygotsky proclaims, \"Learning which is oriented toward developmental levels that have already been reached is ineffective from the viewpoint of the child's overall development. It does not aim for a new stage of the developmental process but rather lags behind this process.\"\n\nOne of the most critical differences between student-centered learning and teacher-centered learning is in assessment. Student-centered learning typically involves more formative assessment and less summative assessment than teacher-centered learning. In student-centered learning, students participate in the evaluation of their learning. This means that students are involved in deciding how to demonstrate their learning. Developing assessment that supports learning and motivation is essential to the success of student-centered approaches.\n\nStudent-centered learning environments have been shown to be effective in higher education. They have been defined specifically within higher education as both a mindset and a culture within a given educational institution and as a learning approach broadly related to, and supported by, constructivist theories of learning. They are characterised by innovative methods of teaching which aim to promote learning in communication with teachers and other learners and which take students seriously as active participants in their own learning and foster transferable skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, and reflective thinking. The revised European Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance, due to be approved by the ministers of European higher education in May 2015, include the following passage on student-centred learning: \"Institutions should ensure that programmes are delivered in a way that encourages students to take an active role in creating the learning process and [should ensure] that the assessment of students reflects this approach.\"\n\nA research university in Hong Kong sought to promote student-centered learning across the entire university by employing the following methods:\n\nThe success of this initiative was evaluated by surveying the students. After two years, the mean ratings indicating the students' perception of the quality of the teaching and learning environment at the university all rose significantly. The study is one of many examining the process of implementing student-centered pedagogies in large institutions of higher education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21602780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21602780", "title": "Technology-enhanced active learning", "text": "Technology-enhanced active learning\n\nTechnology-enhanced active learning, or TEAL, is a new method of teaching pioneered at MIT as an alternative to the traditional style of lecture halls. It is currently in use at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, North Carolina State University, University of Colorado, Harvard University, and the University of Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "38532630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38532630", "title": "Veterinary College Admission Test", "text": "Veterinary College Admission Test\n\nThe Veterinary College Admission Test often called the VCAT is a former Veterinary school admissions examination. Depending on the school, pre-veterinary students usually take the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) or the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) for entrance to schools now.\n"}
{"id": "50599763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50599763", "title": "WAC Clearinghouse", "text": "WAC Clearinghouse\n\nThe WAC Clearinghouse publishes peer-reviewed, open-access journals and books, as well as other professional resources for teachers and instructional materials for students. Writing-across-the-curriculum (WAC) refers to a formal programmatic approach within contemporary secondary and higher education composition studies that promotes the importance of writing in classes outside of composition. \n\nWorking in partnership with the Association for Writing Across the Curriculum Programs (AWAC), the WAC Clearinghouse operates as a publishing collaborative, drawing on contributions from more than 125 individuals serving on the editorial boards of academic journals supported by the Clearinghouse, as editors or reviewers of its book series, as editors of resource pages on its website, and as members of the overall Clearinghouse editorial board. The open-access character of the scholarship available through the Clearinghouse book series provides free access to scholarly books and textbooks, providing students and teachers with an alternative to purchasing scholarly and classroom instructional materials. For individuals and libraries who wish to own print copies of its books, the Clearinghouse works with University Press of Colorado to make print books available in low-cost editions. The Clearinghouse also collaborates with other open-access publishers in the field of writing studies, including Computers and Composition Digital Press and Writing Spaces, which both publish open-access scholarly work, including innovative, multimodal digital writing projects, using traditional academic peer reviewed processes. The WAC Clearinghouse addresses several disciplinary areas within writing studies, such as second-language writing, writing fellows, and writing in the STEM disciplines.\n\nEstablished in 1997, the Clearinghouse is among the most successful open-access publishing projects in the humanities. It supports eight academic journals, including \"The WAC Journal,\" focused on WAC theory and ideas; \"Across the Disciplines,\" devoted to language, learning and academic writing; \"Double Helix,\" an international journal on writing, critical thinking, pedagogical theory and classroom practice; and \"RhetNet,\" an online journal of rhetoric and composition that explores what \"net\" publishing may be in its natural form, as well as several others. The Clearinghouse also has published 90 books and provides access to peer-reviewed resources for teachers who wish to use writing in courses across the disciplines, including a bibliography (published in collaboration with CompPile, which became part of the Clearinghouse in 2018), resource pages on writing fellows programs and second-language learners, conference proceedings, WAC program descriptions, a list of scholarly journals, and the 2014 Statement on WAC Principles and Practices, among others.\n\nIn May 2012, to mark its fifteenth year of operation, the WAC Clearinghouse launched the 25 Collective, a demonstration project for sustainable publishing. The goal of the project was to publish 25 new books for a total expenditure of $50,000—a cost far below that borne by traditional academic presses. Leveraging university resources (office space, computing resources, and web servers), the project operated within its budget and had, by March 2017, reached its goal, producing 29 books at an average cost of less than $2000 per book. The success of the project led to the launch of the Colorado State University Open Press, a publishing project that supports the use of the publishing collaborative model developed through the WAC Clearinghouse in other disciplines.\n\nThe Clearinghouse is hosted by Colorado State University and receives support from the Colorado State University Open Press. It also receives support from donations and funds from purchases of selected books in print form. Donations are used to defray costs associated with honoraria for graduate students who serve as copy editors and designers for Clearinghouse books, for accessibility to the Web site and publications, for the purchase of ISBN numbers, and for software and equipment expense. Interested patrons my donate online or by check through the Clearinghouse Web site. \n\n"}
{"id": "23108415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23108415", "title": "World Innovation Summit for Education", "text": "World Innovation Summit for Education\n\nThe World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) is an international initiative aimed at transforming education through innovation. WISE was established by Qatar Foundation in 2009 under the patronage of its chairperson, Sheikha Mozah bint Nasser. With a biennial Summit held in Doha, and a range of year-round initiatives, WISE's mission revolves around promoting new approaches to education and investigating new ways to manage education challenges.\n\nThe 3-day WISE Summit is held every 2 years in Doha, Qatar. It unites over 1,500 experts, researchers, and innovators from multiple sectors worldwide to foster new collaborations and develop solutions with the goal of inspiring creative changes in education. The summit is currently organized by Stavros Yiannouka and his team. Each summit has a distinct theme. The first summit was held in 2009 under the theme \"Global Education: Working Together for Sustainable Achievements\".\n\nThe WISE Prize for Education is an international prize that rewards an individual or a team for contributions to education which have been adjudged to be outstanding. The inaugural edition was launched in 2011 with a monetary award of $500,000.\n\nSelection criteria for the prize stipulates that the laureate’s work should have had a significant and lasting impact at any level of education. The laureate is selected by an international jury of education stakeholders and announced at the annual Summit.\n\nThe first WISE Prize was awarded to Fazle Hasan Abed, founder and chairman of BRAC (Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee). The second prize, in 2012, went to Madhav Chavan, co-founder and CEO of India-based NGO Pratham. The third WISE Prize laureate, announced at the 2013 Summit, was Vicky Colbert, founder and director of Fundacion Escuela Nueva in Colombia. Ann Cotton, an advocate of girls' education, was awarded the 2014 prize. Dr. Sakena Yacoobi was awarded the 2015 prize.Most recently, the 2017 prize was awarded to the founder and president of Ashesi University in Ghana, Dr. Patrick Awuah.\n\nEach year the WISE Awards recognize and promotes six projects that address global educational challenges. A pre-jury composed of education experts assesses submissions and selects a shortlist of fifteen finalists. Following this, a jury chooses the six award-winning projects. Winners receive a cash prize of $20,000. The first WISE Awards were handed out in 2009.\n\nThe WISE Research Reports bring key topics to the forefront of the global education debate, and reflect the priorities of the Qatar National Research Strategy.\n\nWISE Books are aimed at supporting innovative thinking in education. As of October 2014, WISE has published three books addressing educational topics. WISE Book authors and photographers travel to several countries in an attempt to identify the challenges and illustrate the impact of initiatives and practices that are making tangible differences. The third book to be released by WISE, \"Learning (Re)Imagined - How the connected society is transforming learning\" focuses on the link between technology and education.\n\nLearners' voice, inaugurated in 2010, is a program that aims to reshape students' perception of education. Each year, a selected group of young people, aged 18–25, participate at the annual summit by engaging in debates and making presentations. Workshop sessions are also held throughout the year. In late 2013, 36 new learners joined the existing network of 78 learners from previous years.\n\nThe accelerator is a support and advisory program with the aim of developing early-stage projects in education. The program, founded in 2014, seeks to assist projects that have a high potential for scalability and a positive impact on the field of education. The program selects five innovative projects from a variety of countries every year.\n\nThe past participants of the program, including country of origin and date of creation:\n\nThe WISE initiative has cooperation agreements with the following institutions in major education issues: (AUF), the Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU), the Institute of International Education (IIE), the International Association of University Presidents (IAUP), RAND Corporation, and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21138276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21138276", "title": "Writing across the curriculum", "text": "Writing across the curriculum\n\nWriting across the curriculum (WAC) is a movement within contemporary composition studies that concerns itself with writing in classes outside of composition, literature, and other English courses. According to a comprehensive survey performed in 2006–2007, approximately half of American institutes of higher learning have something that can be identified as a WAC program.\n\nThis page principally concerns itself with WAC in American colleges and universities. WAC has also been important in Britain, but primarily at the K–12 level.\n\nDavid Russell traces the history of WAC in the United States to the 1870s, the emergence of professional disciplines, and the new need for college-level instruction in writing. Prior to this era, college students were exclusively (for all practical considerations) affluent white men whose natural discourse was identical to the approved discourse of the academy; therefore, their way of speaking and writing was already considered appropriate by and for the academy and composition didn't need to be taught at the college level. Two changes happened to motivate the need for college writing instruction. Firstly, as disciplines (as divisions within academic studies) and contemporary professions specialized, they developed their own specialized discourses. Because these discourses were not merely the same as the everyday discourse of the upper classes, they had to be taught. Secondly, as college students became more diverse – first in terms of social background and, later, in terms of gender, race, and age – not all college students grew up speaking the accepted language of the academy.\n\nClearly, composition courses couldn't be about the content of the writing, because content was what the other disciplines taught. Composition, therefore, had to be about the form the writing took and so \"writing\" was reduced to mechanics and style. Because of this reduced focus and because writing was addressed by composition, other disciplines assumed no responsibility for writing instruction; most students, then, were not taught to write in the context of their specialties. As American education became increasingly skills-oriented following World War II – in part a reaction to the suffusion of universities with war veterans in need of job training, in part a result of modeling education after the efficiency of Fordian factory production – writing instruction was further reduced to a set of skills to be mastered. Once correct (that is, standard academic) grammar, punctuation, spelling, and style were mastered – preferably before reaching the post-secondary level – there was no need for additional writing instruction save as remedial education.\n\nThis product-oriented, skills-focused paradigm of writing pedagogy began to change in the 1970s with the popularization of James Britton and colleagues' expressivist school of composition, which said that students benefited from writing as a tool for self-expression and that focusing on technical correctness was damaging. Janet Emig's 1977 article \"Writing as a Mode of Learning,\" grounded in constructivist theories of education, suggested that writing functioned as a unique and invaluable way for students to understand and integrate information. Simultaneously, widespread media attention around college students' apparently decreasing writing proficiency (more a product of the changing demographics of college students than an overt shift in teaching) provoked institutions of higher learning to reevaluate and increase the amount of writing required of students. Carleton College and Beaver College began what were probably the first contemporary WAC programs in 1974 and 1975, respectively, with faculty workshops and writing requirements shared across disciplines.\n\nIn 2010, Thaiss and Porter defined WAC as \"a program or initiative used to 'assist teachers across disciplines in using student writing as an instructional tool in their teaching'\". WAC, then, emerged as and remains a way to bring writing back to disciplines which had become accustomed to assigning relatively little of it. WAC has also been part of the student-centered pedagogies movement (student-centred learning) seeking to replace teaching via one-way transmission of knowledge from teacher to student with more interactive strategies that enable students to interact with and participate in creating knowledge in the classroom.\n\nWAC efforts are usually driven principally by one of two theories: writing to learn or on learning to write in disciplinary discourses, sometimes also called writing in the disciplines. Though both may be used together, one of the two theories generally guides any given writing assignment and, often, any given WAC course.\n\nWriting to learn is also occasionally referred to as the expressivist or cognitive mode of WAC. Writing to learn supports the use of mostly informal, often ungraded writing exercises to help students understand course content in non-English disciplines. Writing to learn assumes that being able to explain or express concepts in one's own words both builds and reflects understanding. Because the goal of writing to learn exercises is learning rather than a finished writing product, instructors are discouraged from paying attention to grammar and surface mechanics. The student himself or herself, not the teacher, is the audience. Common writing to learn exercises include reading responses, journals, free writing, and multiple forms of collaborative writing.\n\nWriting in the disciplines is also occasionally referred to as the transactional or rhetorical mode of WAC. Writing in the Disciplines (WID) teaches students how to write acceptably in their respective disciplines. Writing in the Disciplines classes teach students to learn to write texts that they will apply in their scholarly and professional lives. Although WID and WAC are correlated, WID emphasizes disciplinary orientation. The students’ participation in their majors enlists the students in discourse communities, which are social groups that communicate, at least in part, via written texts and share common goals, values, and writing standards. These writing standards include but are not limited to specialized vocabularies and particular genres. The goal of WID is to allow students to demonstrate writing skills within the genres expected in academic and professional discourse communities.\n\nWriting in the discipline courses are commonly referred to as Writing Intensive courses(WI). Writing Intensive courses were developed for two reasons: 1) Students' writing skills would decrease if not consistently reinforced. 2) Students' writing improves significantly when they write involving their major. The controversy surrounding WID is who holds responsibility for teaching WID courses. The different models for teaching WID classes are the following: 1) The English department faculty teaches writing courses focused on individual disciplines. 2) English departments and other discipline departments collaborate on instructing writing courses for particular majors. 3) Individual faculty of respective disciplines teach writing for their respective disciplines. Scholars agree that each university decides which model works best for their institution. The University of San Francisco has implemented model one to teach their Writing in Psychology course(RHET 203). Cornell University has used model two to teach their Technical Writing course(WRIT 7100). The University of Missouri employs the third model to teach their Process Synthesis and Design course - Writing Intensive(CH_ENG 4980W).\n\nWAC may exist as a formal program housed in or attached to an English department, a formal program as a free-standing unit reporting directly to a dean or vice president, a program attached to an all-campus writing center, or an informal initiative in which faculty voluntarily participate. The WAC director, at most universities, is a tenure-track professor. WAC programs are often administered by a WAC director, frequently with the aid of a WAC faculty committee, and are sometimes staffed by undergraduate or graduate student assistants (also referred to as tutors, consultants, or fellows.)\n\nWorkshops at which faculty from many disciplines meet to share ideas about and strategies around writing are a primary way in which WAC is enacted.\n\nWorkshops serve multiple functions including:\n\nA major complaint against the workshop model of WAC is that it can encourage the mindset that writing pedagogy is relatively simple and can be mastered in a few days, whereas using writing effectively (in English or non-English classes) is widely recognized as taking years of practice.\n\nOn a programmatic level, WAC most often manifests as some kind of writing-intensive (also called writing-enriched or writing-in-the-major) courses. Courses carrying this designation typically meet university-wide criteria including a minimum number of pages or words students write over the semester (or some other measure of writing frequency), opportunity for revision, and deriving a significant portion of the final grade from writing. Writing-intensive courses also often have relatively small enrollment limits (15–35 students depending on institution) and may require faculty to participate in WAC-related professional development activities.\n\nThe rationale for writing-intensive coursework includes:\n\nWhile WAC is usually understood as distributing writing across the curriculum in courses outside of English departments, a WAC philosophy can also influence the structure of first-year composition courses. Because first-year composition is often the only writing course students take, the composition of the class can shape students' understanding of what writing is. Incorporating writing from diverse academic genres can therefore expand students' expectations about what constitutes \"writing.\" WAC in first-year composition owes much to genre theory (genre studies) which asks students to think about the classification and rhetorical implications of writing within socially constructed genres.\n\nWriting-Enriched Curriculum (or WEC) is a movement that scholars have recently started to implement in composition programs across the U.S. With its basic premise reflecting WAC's integration of writing throughout all student's courses, WEC aims to focus on faculty involvement in devising a writing program that is effective and relevant for students in their various fields .\n\nIn the late 1990's, North Carolina State University developed an approach to writing across the curriculum that involved extensive consultation by writing experts with individual departments. These consultations began with a focus on the qualities and characteristics faculty felt that student majors would exhibit if they were strong communicators. Those discussions led to the articulation of learning outcomes for both writing and oral communication. The departments then developed implementation plans that could help them reach the outcomes, followed or preceded by plans for assessing student abilities in order to further refine or project plans for implementation. The Campus Writing and Speaking Program, directed since 1999 by Distinguished Professor Chris Anson (www.ansonica.net), provided much of the support for this campus-wide approach. A few years into the program's existence, Anson and colleague Michael Carter (who is often credited with originating the departmentally-focused conversations on which WEC is founded) consulted with Pamela Flash at the University of Minnesota (where Anson had been a professor for 15 years) to help them spearhead a similar effort. Minnesota branded their program and design \"WEC,\" although now the acronym is becoming generalized as other institutions adopt the approach.\n\nWEC is a developing concept relating to WAC; the acronym was created by Pamela Flash and her colleagues at The University of Minnesota. Flash is the university's director of Writing Across the Curriculum, founding director of the Writing-Enriched Curriculum and co-director of the writing center. As a pioneer of the WEC writing instruction model, the University of Minnesota has had its faculty enroll up to 5 units of WEC plans per year into the undergraduate curriculum for up to 10 years.\n\nAccording to the WEC website at the University of Minnesota,<Writing-Enriched Curriculum Program> </https://wec.umn.edu/> WEC is a faculty-driven method to ensuring the effective, intentional integration of relevant writing and writing instruction into disciplinary curricula. The WEC model created by Writing Across the Curriculum director Pamela Flash and colleagues and initially implemented by the University of Minnesota involves departmental faculty in developing a locally relevant Writing Plan. The outlining of plans is attempted through collaborative discussions between numerous departmental faculty and specialists in both writing and assessment and the consideration of previous attempts at effective writing instruction. Some of the content under consideration include writing assessments, locally collected data, stakeholder surveys and writing expectations from instructors. The outcome of this meetings is pronounced expectations and plans for relevant instructions to be implemented in the curricula. The next step is the application of the plan into the undergraduate curriculum and assessing Undergraduate Writing Plans. Integrating the WEC model is anticipated to show improvements in writing instruction at a rate that would meet faculty expectations. Each of three writing plans is tested for 1-3 academic years through multiple outlets; internal curricular study and structural changes, material development, writing workshops, seminars, and panels, and additional research. The feasibility of each edition of these writing plans is assessed by a subcommittee of the Faculty Senate; the Campus Writing Board. Contributions to writing plan assessment include triennial panel ratings of student writing against faculty expectations and criteria. The results are then used to guide future writing plans. \n\nBecause WEC closely reflects WAC, the principles that Barbara Walvoord gives to devise a WAC program are similar to Anson's Campus Writing and Speaking Program at NC State and Pamela Flash's WEC model at the University of Minnesota. James K. Elmborg's work on information literacy and WAC summarizes Walvoord's characteristics of creating a WAC program as:\n\nSimilarly, both Anson's approach at NC State and Pamela Flash's model at the University of Minnesota reflect the same idea of coming together with faculty members from various fields throughout the curriculum and implementing these changes cohesively. The main point of difference between WAC and WEC, however, is that WEC requires faculty to maintain intentional support activity and assessment of how the program is affecting their students and to make changes, if necessary. By comparison, WAC does not require routinely assessment as part of its model. Like WAC, Flash's WEC model also requires ongoing implementation and incremental direct and indirect assessment, which allows the faculty-implemented plans to sustain. Anson's program at NC State revisits departments to conduct \"profiles\" of their efforts, resulting in a formative report for the department's use According to Flash, WEC differs from most WAC programming in its departmental locus and its direct focus on the ways that faculty members in diverse disciplines conceptualize writing and writing instruction. \n\nP.A. Ramsay, in his paper Writing across the curriculum: Integrating discourse communities in the academy, found that students that participate in WAC programs become better communicators in their chosen discipline and demonstrated improved critical/analytical thinking. \n\nDisadvantages of WAC include fears that the teaching style will reduce the available time to teach content material, difficuties getting teachers \"on board\" with the style, as well as fears that the teacher is illequipped to teach writing.Ramsay also found while working in Jamaica, that students who were unable to compose in their first language (either because of academic defficiencies or because the language did not have a written language) had difficulties composing in their second language using WAC practices. This was a sentiment echoed by Alexander Friedlander, who in his research found that students unable to write in their first language will have great difficulty writing in their second language regardless of whether their instruction has used WAC strategies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1226945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1226945", "title": "XF (grade)", "text": "XF (grade)\n\nXF is a letter grade used at some U.S. colleges, to denote either students who withdraw from a course after the refund period has lapsed or who are caught performing acts of academic dishonesty. This was intended to make it evident from the transcript why the failing grade was assigned, though critics have pointed to inconsistent grading schema among universities issuing XF grades. The XF variation is also used by at least one institution to indicate a student who has failed a course due to non-attendance.\n\nThe earliest instance of the XF grade occurred at the University of Maryland, College Park, and XFs have been assigned for plagiarists at Kansas State University since 2000. Pennsylvania State University and East Carolina University have also recently adopted the practice. At Kansas, students with XF grades may have the grade changed to a regular \"F\" by enrolling in an academic integrity course.\n\nStudents at Wichita State University, who did not wish for \"F\"s on their transcript to be mistaken for academic dishonesty, requested adoption of the XF by their university. Students at Thomas Edison State University requested that XF grades gained from missing the withdrawal deadline be omitted from official transcripts, leading to a policy change within the university. This is notable in that the discussion was sparked, in part, by inconsistent grading policies among universities issuing XF grades.\n\n"}
