{"id": "24891124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24891124", "title": "Across the Universe (message)", "text": "Across the Universe (message)\n\nAcross the Universe is an interstellar radio message (IRM) consisting of the song \"Across the Universe\" by The Beatles that was transmitted on 4 February 2008, at 00:00 UTC by NASA in the direction of the star Polaris. This transmission was made using a 70-meter dish in the Deep Space Network's (DSN) Madrid Deep Space Communication Complex, located in Robledo, near Madrid, Spain.\n\nThis action was done in order to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the song's recording, the 45th anniversary of the DSN, and the 50th anniversary of NASA. The idea was hatched by Beatles historian Martin Lewis, who encouraged all Beatles fans to play the track as it was beamed to the distant star. The event marked the second time a song had ever been intentionally transmitted into deep space (the first being Russia's Teen Age Message in 2001), and was approved by Paul McCartney, Yoko Ono, and Apple Records.\n\nThis IRM project has some significant defects in that the message was aimed at Polaris, which is 431 light years distant from us and whose planetary system, even if it exists, may not be suited for life, because it is a supergiant star, spectral type F7Ib. In addition, the transmission rate was very high, about 128 kbit/s, for such moderate transmitter power (about 18 kW).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2575522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2575522", "title": "Agnes Nestor", "text": "Agnes Nestor\n\nAgnes Nestor (24 June 1880 – 28 December 1948) was an American labor leader, politician, and social reformer. She is best remembered for her membership and leadership roles in the International Glove Workers Union (IGWU) and the Women's Trade Union League (WTUL), where she organized for women's suffrage and workers' rights . Nestor's prominent activities included organizing women workers in Chicago in the early 1900s, running for public office, serving on national commissions to promote education, and securing work-hour limitations for women.\n\nAgnes Nestor was born on June 24, 1880, in Grand Rapids, Michigan to Thomas and Anna (McEwen) Nestor. Her father owned a grocery store there, but due to the depression of the 1890s he returned to his old trade as a machinist in Chicago, Illinois. In spring of 1897 Agnes and the rest of her family followed after their father and headed to Chicago; Agnes, still in her teens, found work in Chicago's Eisendrath Glove Company (a non-union shop). In her autobiography \"Woman's Labor Leader\", Nestor discusses the company's unjust practices such as: the company charged workers fifty cents a week for machine rental, workers had to provide their own needles (and if somebody was to break a needle they were charged for a new one to replace it), and also workers had to purchase their own machine oil, however, these unjust practices would not go unchallenged. In 1902 Nestor stepped forward as leader in a strike of women workers at the Eisendrath Glove Company (encouraged and supported by the unionised men), which lasted ten days. The strike was successful, all the women's demands were met; workers received a raise in pay, no longer had to pay rent for their machines, and the Eisendrath company took greater responsibility for their machinery, its greatest outcome being the implementation of a union shop.\n\nFollowing the success of the strike, Nestor took on more leadership roles. In 1902, the same small organization of women who took part in the Eisendrath Glove Company strike formed Glove Makers Local 2, with Agnes Nestor as a founder and leader. Nestor was the national vice president of the International Glove Workers Union from 1903 to 1906, secretary-treasurer from 1906 to 1913, general president from 1913 to 1915, vice-president, again, from 1915 to 1938, and director of research and education from 1938 until her death in 1948. As a leader in the International Glove Workers Union, Nestor gained prominence among labor leaders and earned access to network with notable women in Chicago society, many of whom she met through her involvement with women's clubs. Though there were differences between \"club women\" and \"working women,\" particularly in terms of class, domestic roles, and educational attainment, the relationship and outreach efforts Nestor built with club women were to further the agenda of the International Glove Workers Union.\n\nNestor was also an active member of the Women's Trade Union League (WTUL) of Chicago beginning in 1904, and served as its president from 1913 to 1948. Unlike other women's clubs, the Women's Trade Union League admitted women regardless of class, the club's aim was to secure the organization of all women workers of the U.S. into trade unions in the hopes of gaining better working conditions, a reduced work day, a living wage, and full citizenship of women. At the Women's Trade Union League, Nestor worked alongside prominent women labor leaders Mary Kenney O'Sullivan, Jane Addams, Mary McDowell, Margaret Haley, Helen Marot, Florence Kelley, and Sophonisba Breckinridge, together they were able to lobby, organize, fundraise, and create the WTUL into an influential and transformative organization.\n\nThe Women's Trade Union League seal exhibits the phrases \"The Eight Hour Day,\" \"A Living Wage,\" and \"To Guard the Home,\" thereby conveying the message that the WTUL believed that in advocating for reduced work hours, and raising wages, women workers would be able to better attend domestic responsibilities at home. They would come to work diligently to achieve the status they longed for displayed on their seal. For many years attempts were made by various labor groups to enact legislation to protect women workers from overlong working hours, from the dangers of unprotected machinery, and sweatshop conditions. The WTUL took action in composing a bill that would make the previous goals attainable, the bill called for an eight-hour day. They worked for three years gathering reports on conditions under which women were working, including unorganized women who did factory work in their own homes (these women had no standard wages, and payments ranged, the poorer the woman the worse the tragedies). The reports were presented in the Women's Trade Union League's first exhibit, which was called \"Exhibit of Dyanamic Sweatshops,\" they presented the eight-hour day bill as a health measure, because it was on those grounds that the Oregon ten-hour day was passed. The bill did not pass, Senator Jones suggested they exclude hotel and restaurant workers from the protection of the proposed law, and accept a ten-hour day, the WTUL refused to exclude any working women but did accept the ten-hour day, thus, in 1909 passed the Illinois ten-hour day (their proposed eight-hour day would be reached in 1937). \nThe topic of education for working women was just as crucial to the WTUL, they created an education program for working girls, in hopes of providing them with opportunities to explore cultural avenues which they had been denied from. In 1917, they worked out a plan with the Chicago Board of Education for the use of the classrooms of public schools (when they were not in use) to hold classes for the working women, Nestor particularly helped work out a course in the history of the trade-union movement. In 1918, Nestor joined a group organized by Samuel Gompers to travel on a Labor mission to Europe, the purpose of the mission was to cultivate international relationships between labor groups in the United States and in Europe and to demonstrate the readiness to help war-stricken Europe and cooperate once World War I ended.\n\nWhen Nestor returned to Chicago, she formed the Cooperative Glove Association of Chicago in 1921 to compete against non-union shops, but it failed in 1925 because it could not compete effectively. She became involved in politics, running unsuccessfully in the Democratic primary for state legislature in 1928, serving on the Chicago Recreation Commission (1934), the Board of Trustees of Chicago's Century of Progress Exposition (1933-1934), and the Advisory Committee of the Chicago Planning Commission (1939). She opposed the National Woman's Party and the Equal Rights Amendment, arguing that they would not protect working women.\n\nBy the 1930s, the Great Depression would have effected both the WTUL and the IGWU financially, the latter suffered greater than the former. Even with such setback, Nestor continued her work as a labor leader and spent a lot of time fundraising for the unions. In the last decade of her life Nestor never retired, rather she spent her remaining years recruiting unorganized glove workers, and preventing the relaxation of labor laws during World War II \n\n\nNestor died on December 28, 1948 (aged 68) in Chicago of undisclosed causes.\n\n"}
{"id": "49703340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49703340", "title": "American political development", "text": "American political development\n\nAmerican political development (often abbreviated as APD) is a subfield of political science that studies the historical development of politics in the United States. In American political science departments, it is considered a subfield within American politics and is closely linked to historical institutionalism.\n\nScholarship in American political development focuses on \"the causes, nature, and consequences of key transformative periods and central patterns in American political history.\" Karen Orren and Stephen Skowronek, co-founders of the subfield's flagship journal, define American political development as the study of \"durable shifts in governing authority\" in the United States. The subfield emerged within American political science in the 1980s, alongside a general renewal of work in historical institutionalism, as an \"insurgent movement\" that sought to refocus attention on the study of historical American politics and to use such historical study to recast the study of contemporary political phenomena.\n\nAPD shares overlaps with the research agendas of comparative politics (particularly comparative historical analysis), historical sociology, and political history. However, scholarship in APD differs from political history in that the former's \"primary concerns are analytical, conceptual, and theoretical rather than historical.\" Methodologically, the subfield tends to use within-case analysis and conduct causes-of-effects research (as opposed to effects-of-causes research).\n\nMajor journals in the subfield include the flagship journal \"Studies in American Political Development\", founded in 1986, and \"The Journal of Political History\", founded in 1989. As of 2005, the Politics and History section (founded in 1989) of the American Political Science Association was the eighth-largest in membership out of 35 total sections.\n\nSome major works in the subfield, as indicated by reading lists for comprehensive exams in graduate schools, are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "16594692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16594692", "title": "Aonach", "text": "Aonach\n\nAn Aonach or Óenach was an ancient Irish public national assembly called upon the death of a king, queen, notable sage or warrior as part of ancestor worship practices. As well as the entertainment, the óenach was an occasion on which kings and notables met under truce and where laws were pronounced and confirmed.\n\nThe Aonach had three functions; honoring the dead, proclaiming laws, and funeral games and festivities to entertain. The first function took between one and three days depending on the importance of the deceased, guests would sing mourning chants called the \"Guba\" after which druids would improvise songs in memory of the dead called a \"Cepóg\". The dead would then be burnt on a funeral pyre. The second function would then be carried out by the Ollamh Érenn, giving out laws to the people via bards and druids and culminating in the igniting of another massive fire. The custom of rejoicing after a funeral was then enshrined in the \"Cuiteach Fuait\", games of mental and physical ability accompanied by a large market for traders. \n\nThe most notable fair, that held under the auspices of the High King of Ireland and the Uí Néill, was the \"Óenach Tailten\" or \"Tailteann Games\", which is given prehistoric origins by medieval writers. This was held at Teltown, in modern County Meath, as late as 1770. The compilers of the Irish annals considered violence and disorders at this óenach, or the failure of the incumbent High King to hold the fair, to be of note. The Irish Free State held revivals of the Tailteann Games from 1924 to 1932. \n\nOther important assemblies included that of Tlachtga, held on the Hill of Ward at Samhain, that of Carman, held in County Wexford, that of Uisnech, held at Beltane and that of Raigne in Osraige. Not all had pagan calendrical associations. The \"Óenach Colmáin\", probably held at Lynally, was named for Saint Elo Colman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30991666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30991666", "title": "Armed violence reduction", "text": "Armed violence reduction\n\nThe concept of armed violence reduction (AVR) has gained significant in importance after the 2006 Geneva Declaration on Armed Violence and Development. According to OECD, more than 740,000 people die each year as a result of the violence associated with armed conflicts and large- and small-scale criminality. Furthermore, armed violence impedes humanitarian and socio-economic development and, hence, it is an obstruction to achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDG).\n\n\nArmed violence reduction is therefore essential for the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50522600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50522600", "title": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life", "text": "Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life\n\nThe Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life is a research centre on the University of Alberta's Augustana Campus in Camrose, Alberta. It is the first such centre in a public university in Canada to focus on the intersection of religion and public life.\n\nThe Ronning Centre is named in for Chester Alvin Ronning, Canadian diplomat and principal of Camrose Lutheran College from 1927 to 1942. The Chester Ronning Centre for the Study of Religion and Public Life grew from the merger of Augustana University College with the University of Alberta in 2004. The Centre's activities involve a diversity of communities. It seeks to enhance debate on contested issues through lively discussion.\n\n"}
{"id": "11454544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11454544", "title": "Conflict transformation", "text": "Conflict transformation\n\nConflict transformation is a concept designed to reframe the way in which peacebuilding initiatives are discussed and pursued, particularly in contexts of ethnic conflict. Traditionally the emphasis has been on conflict resolution and conflict management methods, which focus on reducing or defusing outbreaks of hostility. Conflict transformation, in contrast, places a greater weight on addressing the underlying conditions which give rise to that conflict, preferably well in advance of any hostility, but also to ensure a sustainable peace. In other terms, it attempts to make explicit and then reshape the social structures and dynamics behind the conflict, often employing analytical tools borrowed from systems thinking. \"The very structure of parties and relationships may be embedded in a pattern of conflictual relationships that extend beyond the particular site of conflict. Conflict transformation is therefore a process of engaging with and transforming the relationships, interests, discourses and, if necessary, the very constitution of society that supports the continuation of violent conflict\".\n\nConflict transformation approaches differ from those of conflict management or conflict resolution.\nWhereas conflict transformation involves transforming the relationships that support violence, conflict management approaches seek to merely manage and contain conflict, and conflict resolution approaches seek to move conflict parties away from zero-sum positions towards positive outcomes, often with the help of external actors.\n\nConflict transformation theory and practice are often associated with the academics and practitioners Johan Galtung and John Paul Lederach.\n\nAccording to Johan Galtung's \"Transcend Method\" conflict transformation theory and practice, and process/es, comprise:\nand are based upon \"basic premises\" inspired by main world religions:\nAccording to Berghof Foundation, conflict transformation means:\n\nAccording to Institute for Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding (ICP), conflict transformation means:\n\nAccording to Search for Common Ground conflict transformation initiatives are often characterized by longtime horizons and interventions at multiple levels, aimed at changing perceptions and improving communications skills addressing the roots of conflict, including inequality and social injustice.\n\nThe \"Principles of Conflict Transformation\", by TransConflict, specify further in order to help with defining conflict transformation:\n\n"}
{"id": "52454436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52454436", "title": "Devendrar Jayanti", "text": "Devendrar Jayanti\n\nDevendrar Jayanthi is a festival celebrated annually on 11 September. It is organised by various political parties, community organisations and civil societies in Southern Tamil Nadu to commemorate the memory of Immanuvel Devendrar, a freedom fighter and Indian National Congress leader who took part in the Quit India movement during the British Raj era. He worked in the Indian Army in independent India and later he fought for the rights of depressed class people of Southern Tamil Nadu, particularly for upliftment of Pallar caste. He was a close associate of chief minister K. Kamaraj.\n\nImmanuel Devendrar was a member of the Indian National Congress and a close associate of its leader, K. Kamaraj. At that time, Congress was supported by influential communities of southern Tamil Nadu, such as the Pallars and Nadars, and opposed by the Forward Block, which was itself favoured by the Maravar community. The two sides clashed during elections. Violence erupted notably in the districts of Ramanathapuram and Madurai which claimed over 40 lives. Devendrar was killed at this time and the anniversary of his death is today celebrated by various political parties and community organisations and civil societies as Devendrar Jayanthi.\n\nDevendrar Jayanti is among the celebrations sometimes criticised as being designed mainly as expressions of caste pride and political power, which sometimes turn into inter-caste violence. The critics claim that political parties used them as a form of vote bank politics.\n\nThese critics are rebutted by people who say that every caste has its own leader and the people are celebrating the memories of their leaders. Despite of these arguments every year the government is struggling to maintain the law and order during these celebrations.\n"}
{"id": "20726862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20726862", "title": "Digital citizen", "text": "Digital citizen\n\nA digital citizen refers to a person utilizing information technology (IT) in order to engage in society, politics and government. K. Mossberger, et al. define digital citizens as \"those who use the Internet regularly and effectively\". Digital citizens understand digital citizenship, which is the appropriate use of technology.\n\nPeople characterizing themselves as digital citizens often use IT extensively, creating blogs, using social networks, and participating in online journalism. Although digital citizenship potentially begins when any child, teen, and/or adult signs up for an email address, posts pictures online, uses e-commerce to buy merchandise online, and/or participates in \"any\" electronic function that is B2C or B2B, the process of becoming a digital citizen goes beyond simple Internet activity. In the framework of T.H. Marshall's perspective on citizenship's three traditions (liberalism, republicanism, and ascriptive hierarchy), digital citizenry can occur alongside the promotion of equal economic opportunity, as well as increased political participation and civic duty. Digital technology can lower the barriers to entry for participation as a citizen within society.\n\nHighly developed states possess the capacity to link their respective governments with digital sites. Such sites function in ways such as illuminating recent legislation, educating current and future policy objectives, lending agency toward political candidates, and/or allowing citizens to voice themselves in a political way. Likewise, the generation of these sites has been linked to increased voting advocacy. Lack of access toward becoming a digital citizen can be a serious drawback, since many elementary procedures such as tax report filing, birth registration, and use of Web sites to support candidates in political campaigns (E-democracy) etc. have been transferred to only be available via the Internet. Furthermore, many cultural and commercial entities only publicize information on web pages. Non-digital citizens will not be able to retrieve this information and this may lead to social isolation or economic stagnation. The gap between digital citizens and non-digital citizens is often referred to as the digital divide. Currently, the digital divide is a subject of academic debate as access to the Internet has increased, but the place in which the Internet is accessed (work, home, public library, etc.) has a significant effect on how such access will be utilized, if even in a manner related to citizenry. Recent scholarship has correlated the desire to be technologically proficient with greater belief in computer access equity, and thus, digital citizenship (Shelley, et al.).\n\nIn developing countries digital citizens are more sparse. They consist of the people in such countries who utilize technology to overcome their localized obstacles including development issues, corruption, and even military conflict. Examples of such citizens include users of Ushahidi during the 2007 disputed Kenyan election, and protesters in the Arab Spring movements who used media to document repression of protests.\n\nThe development of digital citizen participation can be divided into two main stages: information dissemination and citizen deliberation. Digital citizenship, or the ability to participate in society online, promotes social inclusion. Digital Citizenship examines three aspects of participation in society online: economic opportunity, democratic participation and inclusion in prevailing forms of communication.\n\nA recent survey revealed that teenagers and young adults spend more time on the Internet than watching TV. This has raised a number of concerns about how Internet use could impact cognitive abilities. According to a study by Wartella et al., the first of its kind, teens are concerned about how digital technologies may have an impact on their health.\nDigital youth can be generally viewed as the test market for the next generation's digital content and services. Sites such as Myspace and Facebook have come to the fore in sites where youth participate and engage with others on the Internet. However, due to the lack of popularity with MySpace in particular, more young people are turning to websites such as SnapChat, Instagram, and YouTube. In fact, in 2015, it was reported that teenagers spend up to 9 hours a day on the internet, with the vast majority of that time being spent on social media websites from mobile devices, contributing to the ease of access and availability to young people. Vast amounts of money are spent annually to research the demographic by hiring psychologists, sociologists and anthropologists in order to discover habits, values and fields of interest\nParticularly in the United States, \"Social media use has become so pervasive in the lives of American teens that having a presence on a social network is almost synonymous with being online; 95% of all teens ages 12-17 are now online and 80% of those online teens are users of social media sites\". However, movements such as these appear to benefit strictly those wishing to advocate for their business towards youth. The critical time when young people are developing their civic identities is between the ages 15–22. During this time they develop three attributes: civic literacy, civic skills and civic attachment that comprise civic engagement later reflected in political actions of their adult lives.\n\nAn open Internet as delegated by a state's government is necessary to instill a sense of trust, legitimacy, and participation in the state's citizenry. WikiLeaks represents an occurrence where particular political actors have criticized and taken citizen action toward revealing the government's unnecessary clandestine activity online. \"The benefit of transparency isn't just catching red-handed bastards. It's also about collaborating and coming together with a more engaged citizenry.\"\nThe Internet is a reading-intensive medium that may challenge full access and participation to youth. For youth to fully participate and realize their presence on the Internet, a quality level of reading comprehension is required. \"The average government Web site, for examples, requires an eleventh-grade level of reading comprehension, even though about half of the U.S. population reads at an eighth-grade level or lower\". So despite the Internet being a place irrespective of certain factors such as race, religion, and class, education plays a large part in a person's capacity to present themselves online in a formal manner conducive towards their citizenry. Concurrently, education also affects people's motivation to participate online.\n\nStudents in school should be encouraged to utilize technology with responsibility and Ethical Digital Citizenship strongly promoted. Education on harmful viruses, Trojans, and worms must be emphasized to protect resources. A student can be a successful Digital Citizen with the help of educators, parents, and school counselors.\n\nInternational OECD Guidelines state that \"personal data should be relevant to the purposes for which they are to be used, and to the extent necessary for those purposes should be accurate, complete, and kept up to date\". Also Article 8 prevents subjects to certain exceptions. Meaning that certain things cannot be published online revealing race, ethnicity, religion, political stance, health, and sex life. This is enforced generally by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)- but very generally. For example, the FTC did bring an action against Microsoft for preventing to properly protect their customers' personal information.\n\nThe FTC does play a significant role in protecting the digital citizen. However, individuals' public records are increasingly useful to the government and highly sought after. This is because this material can help the government detect a variety of crime such as fraud, drug distribution rings, terrorist cells, and so forth. This allows for an easier ability to properly profile a suspected criminal and keep an eye on them . Although there are a variety of ways to gather information on an individual through credit card history, employment history, and so on- the internet is becoming the most desirable information gatherer. The two aspects that have caused the internet to be a greater collector of information is the façade of security and amount of information that can be stored on the internet. Anonymity is proven to be very rare online as ISPs can keep track of an individual, account information, web surfing durations, and so forth.\n\nAccording to digitalcitizenship.net, the nine elements (or themes) of digital citizenship are:\n\nDigital Citizenship is a term used to define the appropriate and responsible use of technology among users. Three principles were developed by Mark Ribble to teach digital users how to responsibly use technology to become a digital citizen. The three principles include: respect, educate, and protect. Each principle contains three of the nine elements of digital citizenship. \n\nAccording to DigCit.us, the overlapping goals of digital citizenship education include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55670558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55670558", "title": "Discourse of renewal", "text": "Discourse of renewal\n\nDiscourse of renewal is a theory in crisis communication that seeks to establish and emphasize \"learning from the crisis, ethical communication, communication that is prospective in nature, and effective organizational rhetoric.” With a prospective approach, Lippett established the organizational renewal theory that would lead organizations “to higher stages progressively and to preclude a decline toward a lower stage” of organizational recovery. With the application of discourse of renewal practices, organizations and communities “can consider developing a crisis plan and, more important, build their crisis communication skills over time”.\n\nMultiple stages exist within the discourse of renewal framework. Each of these different stages contain core components that provide an expectation for what an organization should achieve within each stage and provides suggestions for how the organization should progress through each stage. The four significant stages for the discourse of renewal framework are: organizational learning, ethical communication, a prospective rather than retrospective vision, and sound organizational rhetoric.\n\nOrganizational learning requires the organization as a whole to take account of a crisis situation and consider what caused the crisis to occur and consider how it should have been handled. Crises often make the weak parts of an organization or an organization’s response plans visible. This visibility allows these vulnerabilities to be examined and remedied in order to prevent similar failures from occurring in future crisis situations\n\nWhen responding to a crisis, organizations need to be honest, moral, and ethical in addressing the public and stakeholders regarding the status of the crisis and the information they know regarding its causes and consequences. If an organization engaged in unethical behavior prior to a crisis, “those lapses are eventually revealed during and after the crisis”. When an unethical organization attempts to re-emerge after a crisis, full recovery of the organization becomes difficult because of the unethical acts committed previously.\n\nIn order for an organization to recover, actions taken by the organization throughout the recovery process must be forward-looking and address the faults the organization faced. With consideration to the type of crisis, “issues of responsibility, harm, victimage, and blame may be subordinate to a more optimistic discourse that emphasizes moving beyond the crisis, focusing on strong value positions, responsibility to stakeholders, and growth as a result of the crisis”. Movement to post-crisis and recovery stages suggests “organizations committed to renewal direct their messages toward the ultimate goal of rebuilding the organization so that it is more resilient to crisis, cleanly focuses on values of social responsibility, and more attentive to stakeholder needs”.\n\nOrganizations in crisis must communicate with the public and with stakeholders who are affected by that crisis. By interacting with these groups positively and expressing messages with a prospective outlook, organizational leaders can express confidence regarding the organization’s ability to overcome the crisis. In order for this confidence to be received by these audiences, organizational leaders must “frame the crisis in a way that inspires, empowers, and motivates” the public and stakeholders regarding the future of the organization. The language and information presented by organizational leaders possesses the ability to comfort impacted stakeholders when messages are delivered positively; however, negative deliveries can instill concern in the public and stakeholders. A lack of confidence from the public and stakeholders due to the information they received can drastically impact the outcome of an organization’s renewal efforts as well as the relationship the organization has with future stakeholders in the post-crisis stage.\n\nThe discourse of renewal framework directs organizations to consider how to plan for a crisis and negotiate a crisis when they experience one. A major challenge organizations face when planning for a crisis or when they are attempting to manage a crisis situation is the image they convey throughout the recovery and the overall implications of a crisis. It is important that an organization seizes the opportunity to situate the minds of the public and of stakeholders regarding what the crisis means for that organization. A prospective outlook and a plan for direct, honest, and informative communication and recovery allows organizations to establish a positive reputation when responding to a crisis. By engaging in positive discourse and acknowledging the problems they are facing, to the public and the stakeholders, an organization can plan for how to proceed in the post-crisis stage.\n"}
{"id": "47126428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47126428", "title": "Edward Vivian Birchall", "text": "Edward Vivian Birchall\n\nEdward Vivian Dearman Birchall (10 August 1884 – 10 August 1916), was an English philanthropist who died of wounds at the Battle of the Somme. He left a legacy of £1000 for the promotion of voluntary services. The money was used to help create, in 1919, the National Council of Social Services. It later became the National Council for Voluntary Organisations, an umbrella body for charities in England.\n\nHe was born on 10 August 1884 at Bowden Hall, Upton St Leonards, Gloucestershire, the son of Dearman and Emily Jowitt Birchall.\n\nBirchall was a captain in the 1/1st Buckinghamshire Battalion. He died on 10 August 1916 and is buried in France, at Étaples Military Cemetery near Boulogne.\n"}
{"id": "794038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794038", "title": "Ella A. Boole", "text": "Ella A. Boole\n\nElla Alexander Boole (July 26, 1858 – March 13, 1952) was an American temperance leader and social reformer. She served as head of the world's Woman's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) from 1931 to 1947, after serving as head of the United States' national WCTU.\n\nShe was born as Ella Alexander on July 26, 1858 in Van Wert, Ohio. Boole's father was a prominent lawyer, who edited a free soil newspaper and supported reforms during Reconstruction following the Civil War. She attended public schools in Van Wert, then the College of Wooster where she studied classics. She had an aptitude for natural science and developed skills in public speaking. She received an A.B. degree (1878), followed by an A.M. degree (1881).\n\nShe married Reverend William H. Boole of the Willet Street Methodist Church on July 3, 1883. Her husband died in 1896 and she became a deaconess in his church.\n\nBoole's husband was active in prohibition and temperance activities, in which she joined him. Boole joined the Women's Christian Temperance Union (WCTU) in 1883. She showed great skill as an organizer of new unions, and became vice-president of the New York state union in 1891. After the death of Boole's husband, she was able to support her family through an inheritance from her father and income from her speaking engagements and temperance activities. In 1898, she became president of the New York WCTU. She held this position until 1925, with the exception of a six-year period when she was corresponding secretary of the Woman's Board of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church (1903-1909). One of her key activities was in shifting WCTU work away from its emphasis on collecting petitions, and towards direct lobbying of legislators.\n\nFollowing the enfranchisement of women in the United States, Boole decided to run for office herself. In 1920, she unsuccessfully challenged James Wolcott Wadsworth Jr. for the Republican Party nomination for the United States Senate. After losing the nomination, she ran as a candidate for the Prohibition Party against Wadsworth and the Democratic and Socialist Party candidates in the general election. Wadsworth won easily with 52% of the vote, while Boole came in third place with 7% of the vote, not far ahead of the Socialist candidate.\n\nBoole served as head of the national Woman's Christian Temperance Union from 1931 to 1947. She died on March 13, 1952 at age 93.\n\nHer other causes included supporting legislative changes to bring about social reform, including laws to protect the rights of women and children in industry, the establishment of separate courts and deputies for juvenile offenders, and woman suffrage. As President of the International WCTU, she promoted disarmament, the end of the international illicit drug trade, and supported international women's rights.\n\n"}
{"id": "2455462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455462", "title": "Ero guro", "text": "Ero guro\n\nThe term itself is an example of \"wasei-eigo\", a Japanese combination of English words or abbreviated words: \"ero\" from \"ero(tic)\", \"guro\" from \"gro(tesque)\", and \"nansensu\" from \"nonsense\". \nIn actuality the \"grotesqueness\" implied in the term refers to things that are malformed, unnatural, or horrific. Items that are pornographic and bloody are not necessarily \"ero guro\", and vice versa. The term is often used incorrectly by western audiences to mean \"gore\"—depictions of horror, blood, and guts.\n\nEro guro nansensu, characterized as a \"prewar, bourgeois cultural phenomenon that devoted itself to explorations of the deviant, the bizarre, and the ridiculous,\" manifested in the popular culture of Taishō Tokyo during the 1920s. Writer Ian Buruma describes the social atmosphere of the time as \"a skittish, sometimes nihilistic hedonism that brings Weimar Berlin to mind.\" Its roots go back to artists such as Tsukioka Yoshitoshi, who, besides erotic shunga, also produced woodblock prints showing decapitations and acts of violence from Japanese history. Ukiyo-e artists such as Utagawa Kuniyoshi presented similar themes with bondage, rape and erotic crucifixion.\n\nEro guro's first distinct appearance began in 1920s and 1930s Japanese literature. The Sada Abe Incident of 1936, where a woman strangled her lover to death and castrated his corpse, struck a chord with the ero guro movement and came to represent that genre for years to come. Other like activities and movements were generally suppressed in Japan during World War II, but re-emerged in the postwar period, especially in manga and music.\n\nOver time, the ero guro movement's influence expanded into parts of Japanese theatre, art, manga, and eventually into film and music.\n\nEro guro is also an element of many Japanese horror films and \"pinku eiga\", particularly of the 1960s and 1970s. Examples include Teruo Ishii's \"Shogun's Joys of Torture\" (1968) and \"Horrors of Malformed Men\" (1969) and Yasuzo Masumura's \"Blind Beast\" (1969), the latter two based on the works of Edogawa Rampo. A more recent example of ero guro in cinema is Sion Sono's \"Strange Circus\" (2005).\n\nThere are modern guro artists, some of whom cite Erotic Grotesque Nonsense as an influence on their work. These artists explore the macabre intermingled with sexual overtones. Often the erotic element, even when not explicit, is merged with grotesque themes and features similar to the works of H. R. Giger. Others produce ero guro as a genre of Japanese pornography and hentai involving blood, gore, disfiguration, violence, mutilation, urine, enemas, or feces.\n\nWell-known guro manga artists include Suehiro Maruo, Hajime Yamano, Jun Hayami, Go Nagai, Shintaro Kago, Toshio Maeda, Henmaru Machino, Yamamoto Takato, Horihone Saizō, and Waita Uziga.\n\nThe modern genre of tentacle rape began within the category of ero guro (although it has much older roots in Japanese art; see \"Octopi and shell diver\") but became so popular that it is now usually considered separately.\n\nSome visual kei bands have a concept or theme relating to ero guro, most notably Cali Gari. Western visual kei fans assumed their theme was a subgenre of visual kei and linked it with other similar bands.\n\nThe 2014 Flying Lotus album \"You're Dead!\" prominently featured ero guro artwork from Japanese manga artist Shintaro Kago on the cover and inner sleeve, with further art being utilised in the accompanying live show. Much of the drawings featured men and women being disfigured and mutilated in unrealistic, hi-tech ways with a significant amount of gore and nudity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25907070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25907070", "title": "Ethnoscience", "text": "Ethnoscience\n\nEthnoscience has been defined as an attempt \"to reconstitute what serves as science for others, their practices of looking after themselves and their bodies, their botanical knowledge, but also their forms of classification, of making connections, etc.\" (Augé, 1999: 118).\n\nEthnoscience has not always focused on ideas distinct from those of \"cognitive anthropology\", \"component analysis\", or \"the New Ethnography\"; it is a specialization of indigenous knowledge-systems, such as ethno-botany, ethno-zoology, ethno-medicine, etc. (Atran, 1991: 595). According to Scott Atran, ethnoscience looks at culture with a scientific perspective (1991: 650), although most anthropologists abhor this definition. Ethnoscience helps to understand how people develop with different forms of knowledge and beliefs, and focuses on the ecological and historical contributions people have been given (Atran, 1991: 650). Tim Ingold describes ethnoscience as a cross-discipline (2000: 160). He writes that ethnoscience is based on increased collaboration between social sciences and the humanities (e.g., anthropology, sociology, psychology, and philosophy) with natural sciences such as biology, ecology, or medicine (Ingold, 2000: 406-7). At the same time, ethnoscience is increasingly transdisciplinary in its nature (Ingold, 2000: 407).\n\nOf course, naturally over time, the ways in which data has been collected and studied has changed and the field has evolved, becoming more detailed and specific (Urry, 1972: 45). The ideas, mechanics, and methods of ethnoscience evolved from something else - a combination of several things. This pretext amalgamation of theories, processes, and –isms led to the evolution of today's ethnoscience.\n\nEarly on, Franz Boas established cultural relativism as an approach to understanding indigenous scientific practices (Uddin, 2005: 980). Cultural relativism identifies people's differences and shows how they are a result of the social, historical, and geographical conditions (Uddin, 2005: 980). Boas is known for his work in Northern Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, working with the Kwakwaka'wakw Indians, which is where he established the importance of culture (Uddin, 2005: 980). Lévi-Strauss' structuralism was a strong contributor to the ideas of ethnoscience (Uddin, 2005: 980). It, itself, was the leading idea of providing structure to the research and a guide to organizing and relating different cultures. \"Ethnoscience refers to a 'reduction of chaos' achieved by a particular culture, rather than to the 'highest possible and conscious degree' to which such chaos may be reduced;\" basically, the ethnoscience of a society creates its culture (Sturtevant, 1964: 100). Much of the influence of anthropology, e.g., geographical determinism, was through the contributions of Jean Bodin (Harris, 1968: 42). In his text, he tried to explain why \"northern people were faithful, loyal to the government, cruel, and sexually uninterested, compared to why southern people were malicious, craft, wise, expert in science but ill-adapted to political activity (Harris, 1968: 52).\" The Greek historian, Polybius, asserted \"we mortals have an irresistible tendency to yield to climatic influences; and to this cause, and no other, may be traced the great distinctions that prevail among us in character, physical formation, complexion, as well as in most of our habits…\" (quoted in Harris, 1968: 41).\n\nAnother aspect of anthropology prior to ethnoscience is enculturation. Newton and Newton described enculturation as a process whereby the novice, or \"outsider\", learns what is important to the \"insider\" (1998). Marvin Harris writes, \"One of [enculturation's] most important technical expressions is the doctrine of 'psychic unity,' the belief that in the study of sociocultural differences, hereditary (genetic) differences cancel each other out, leaving 'experience' as the most significant variable\" (Harris, 1968: 15). This is one of the many starts of people opening up to the idea that just because people are different, doesn't mean they are wrong in their thinking. Harris describes how religious beliefs hinder and affect the progress of anthropology and ethnography. The moral beliefs and restrictions of religion fought against anthropological ideas, possibly due to (especially at the time) to the newly hyped idea of evolutionism and Darwinism (Harris, 1968).\n\nBronislaw Malinowski was one of many who contributed heavily to the precursor of ethnoscience. His earlier work brought attention to sociological studies; his earliest publication focused on a family in Australia, using a sociological study perspective (Harris, 1968: 547). After the First World War, anthropological work was at a stand still; nothing had evolved, if not regressed (Urry, 1972: 54). This allowed him to start from scratch, and rebuild his ideas and methods (Harris, 1968: 547).\n\nLater, however, Malinowski branched out to political evolution during World War II. The period after World War II is what led to ethnoscience; anthropologists learned their skills could be applied to problems that were affecting modern societies (Mead, 1973: 1). Malinowski said \"… with his tables of kinship terms, genealogies, maps, plans and diagrams, proves an extensive and big organization, shows the contribution of the tribe, of the clan, of the family, and he gives a picture of the natives subjected to a strict code of behavior and good manners, to which in comparison the life at the Court of Versailles or Escurial was free and easy\" (1922: 10). After World War II, there was an extreme amount of growth in the anthropological field, not only with research opportunities but academically, as well (Mead, 1973: 2).\n\nThe anthropologist Robin Horton, who taught at several Nigerian universities, considered the traditional knowledge of indigenous peoples as incorporated within conceptual world views that bear certain similarities to, and differences from, the modern scientific worldview. Like modern science, traditional thought provides a theoretical structure that \"places things in a causal order wider than that provided by common sense\" (Horton, 1967, p. 53). In contrast to modern science, he saw traditional thought as having a limited awareness of theoretical alternatives and, consequently, displaying \"an absolute acceptance of the established theoretical tenets\" (Horton, 1967, pp. 155–6).\n\nThere are dozens, if not hundreds, of related methods and processes that preceded ethnoscience. Ethnoscience is just another way to study the human culture and the way people interact in society. Taking a look at the ideas and analyses prior to ethnoscience can help understand why it was developed in the first place. Although, it is not widely used and there is criticism on both ends, ethnoscience allows for a more comprehensive way to collect data and patterns of a people. This is not to say the process is its best or that there will be nothing better. That is the best part: everything evolves, even thought. Just as the ideas did in the past, they can improve over time and regress over time but change is inevitable.\n\nEthnoscience is a new term and study that came into anthropological theory in the 1960s. Often referred to as \"indigenous knowledge\", ethnoscience introduces a perspective based on native perceptions. It is based on a complete emic perspective, which excludes all observations, interpretations and or any personal notions belonging to the ethnographer. The taxonomy and classification of indigenous systems, to name a few, used to categorize plants, animals, religion and life is adapted from a linguistic analysis. The concept of \"Native Science\" is also related to the understanding the role of the environment intertwined with the meaning humans place upon their lives. Understanding the language and the native people's linguistic system is one method to understand a native people's system of knowledge of organization. Not only is there categorization for things pertaining to nature and culture thought language, but more importantly and complex is the relationship between environment and culture. Ethnoscience looks at the intricacies of the connection between culture and its surrounding environment. There are also potential limitations and shortcomings in interpreting these systems of knowledge as a dictation of culture and behavior.\n\nSince an ethnographer is not able to physically enter inside an indigenous person's mind, it is essential to not only create a setting or question-answer format to understand perspective but to analyze semantics and word order of given answer to derive an emic understanding. The main focus on a particular component of the languages is placed on its lexicon. The terms \"etic\" and \"emic\" are derived from the linguistic terms of \"phonetic\" and \"phonemic\".\n\nAs introduced by Gregory Cajete, some limitations the concept of indigenous knowledge, is the potential to bypass non-indigenous knowledge as pertinent and valuable. The labels of \"indigenous\" are overly accepted by those who seek more support by outsiders to further their cause. There might also be an unequal distribution of knowledge amongst a tribe or peoples. There is also the idea that culture is bound by environment. Some theorists conclude that indigenous people's culture is not operated by mental concentrations but solely by the earth that surrounds them. Some theorists go the extent to state that biological processes are based upon the availability, of lack thereof, environmental resources. The methods for sustainability are founded through the workings of the land. These techniques are exercised from the basis of tradition. The importance of the combination of ecological process, social structures, environmental ethics and spiritual ecology are crucial to the expression of the true connection between the natural world and \"ecological consciousness\".\n\nThe origin of Ethnoscience began between the years 1960 to 1965; deriving from the concept of \"ethno- + science\". Ethno- a combining form meaning \"race\", \"culture\", \"people\", used in the formation of compound words: ethnography. The two concepts later emerged into \"ethno-science\". The origin of the word 'science' involves the empiric observation of measurable quantities and the testing of hypotheses to falsify or support them. \n\"Ethnoscience refers to the system of knowledge and cognition typical of a given culture...to put it another way a culture itself amounts to the sum of a given society's folk classifications, all of that society's ethnoscience, its particular ways of classifying its material and social universe\" (Sturtevant 1964: 99–100). The aim of ethnoscience is to gain a more complete description of cultural knowledge. Ethnoscience has been successfully used on several studies of given cultures relating to their linguistics, folk taxonomy, and how they classify their foods, animals and plants.\n\nEthnoscience is the examination of the perceptions, knowledge, and classifications of the world as reflected in their use of language, which can help anthropologists understand a given culture. By using an ethnographic approach to studying a culture and learning their lexicon and syntax they are able to gain more knowledge in understanding how a particular culture classifies its material and social universe. In addition, this approach \"adopted provides simultaneously a point at which the discipline of linguistics, or at least some of its general attitudes, may sensibly be used in anthropology and as a means of gaining insight not only into the nature of man but also into the nature of culture\" (Videbeck and Pia, 1966).\n\nResearchers can use linguistics to study what a given culture considers important in a given situation or unforeseen event, and can rank those potential situations in terms of their likelihood to recur. In addition, \"understanding the contingencies is helpful in the task of comprehending folk taxonomies on the one hand, and, on the other, an understanding of the taxonomy is required for a full scale appreciation of criteria considered relevant in a given culture (Videbeck and Pia, 1966).\n\nEthnoscience can be used to analyze the kinship terminology of a given culture, using their language and according to how they view members of their society. Taxonomies \"are models of analysis whose purpose is the description of particular types of hierarchical relationships between members of a given set of elements\" (Perchonock and Werner, 1969). For example, in our society we classify family groups by giving members the title of father, mother, sister, daughter, brother, son, grandfather, grandmother, etc.\n\nEthnoscience deals with how a given culture classifies certain principles in addition to how it is express through their language. By understanding a given culture through how they view the world, anthropologists attempt to eliminate any bias through translation as well as categorized their principles in their own ways. \"The new methods, which focus on the discovery and description of folk systems, have come to be known as Ethnoscience. Ethnoscience analysis has thus far concentrated on systems of classification within such cultural and linguistic domains as colors, plants, and medicines\" (Perchonock and Werner, 1969). An ethnoscientific approach can be used to better understand a given culture and their knowledge of their culture. Using an ethnographic approach can help anthropologists understand how that given culture views and categorizes their own foods, animal kingdom, medicines, as well as plants.\n\nEthnoscience can be effectively summed up as a classification system for a particular culture in the same way that a botanist would use a taxonomic system for the classification of plant species. Everything from class levels, food consumption, clothing, and material culture objects would be subjected to a taxonomic classification system. In essence, ethnoscience is a way of classifying cultural systems in a structured order to better understand the culture.\nThe roots of ethnoscience can be traced back to influential anthropologists such as Franz Boas, Bronislaw Malinowski, and Benjamin Whorf who attempted to understand other cultures from an insider's perspective. Ward Goodenough is accredited for bringing ethnoscience to the stage when he define cultural systems of knowledge by stating:\n\n\"\"A societies culture consists of whatever it is one has to know or believe in order to operate in a manner acceptable to its members. Culture is not a material phenomenon; it does not consist of things, behavior, or emotions. It is rather an organization of these things. It is the form of things that people have in mind, their models for perceiving, relating, and otherwise interpreting them.\"\n\" (Goodenough 1957:167)\nIn order to properly put ethnoscience in context we must first understand the definition of ethnoscience. it is defined as \"an attempt at cultural description from a totally emic perspective (a perspective in ethnography that uses the concepts and categories that are relevant and meaningful to the culture that is insider analysis) standpoint, this eliminating all of the ethnographer's own categories\" (Morey and Luthans 27). Ethnoscience is also a way of learning and understanding how an individual or group perceive their environment and how they fit in with their environment as reflected in their own words and actions.\n\nEthnoscience has many techniques when applied to an emic perspective. Ethnosemantics, ethnographic semantics, ethnographic ethnoscience, formal analysis, and componential analysis are the terms that apply to the practice of ethnoscience. Ethnosemantics looks at the meaning of words in order to place them in context of the culture being studied. It allows for taxonomy of a certain part of the culture being looked at so that there is a clear breakdown which in turn leads to a deeper understanding of the subject at hand. Ethnographic semantics are very similar to cognitive anthropology in that its primary focus is the intellectual and rational perspectives of the culture being studied. Ethnographic semantics specifically looks at how language is used throughout the culture. Lastly, ethnographic ethnoscience is related to ethnosemantics such that, it uses a taxonomic system to understand how cultural knowledge is accessible through language. Ethnographic ethnoscience uses similar classification systems for cultural domains like ethnobotany and ethnoanatomy. Again, ethnoscience is a way of understanding a how a culture sees itself through its own language. Understanding the cultural language allows the ethnographer to have a deeper and more intimate understanding of the culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20311344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20311344", "title": "European social model", "text": "European social model\n\nThe European social model is a common vision many European states have for a society that combines economic growth with high living standards and good working conditions. Historian Tony Judt has argued that the European social model \"binds Europe together\" in contrast to the 'American way of life'.\n\nEuropean states do not all use a single social model, but welfare states in Europe do share several broad characteristics. These generally include a commitment to full employment, social protections for all citizens, social inclusion, and democracy. Examples common among European countries include universal health care, free higher education, strong labor protections and regulations, and generous welfare programs in areas such as unemployment insurance, retirement pensions, and public housing. The Treaty of the European Community set out several social objectives: \"promotion of employment, improved living and working conditions ... proper social protection, dialogue between management and labour, the development of human resources with a view to lasting high employment and the combating of exclusion.\" Because different European states focus on different aspects of the model, it has been argued that there are four distinct social models in Europe: the Nordic, British, Mediterranean and the Continental.\n\nThe general outlines of a European social model emerged during the post-war boom. Tony Judt lists a number of causes: the abandonment of protectionism, the baby boom, cheap energy, and a desire to catch up with living standards enjoyed in the United States. The European social model also enjoyed a low degree of external competition as the Soviet bloc, China and India were not yet integrated into the global economy. In recent years, it has become common to question whether the European social model is sustainable in the face of low birthrates, globalisation, Europeanisation and an ageing population.\n\nSome of the European welfare states have been described as the most well developed and extensive. A unique \"European social model\" is described in contrast with the social model existing in the US. Although each European country has its own singularities, four welfare or social models are identified in Europe:\n\nAs can be seen in the graph to the right, the Nordic model holds the highest level of social insurance. Its main characteristic is its universal provision nature which is based on the principle of \"citizenship\". Therefore, there exists a more generalised access, with lower conditionability, to the social provisions.\n\nAs regards labour market, these countries are characterised by important expenditures in active labour market policies whose aim is a rapid reinsertion of the unemployed into the labour market. These countries are also characterised by a high share of public employment. Trade unions have a high membership and an important decision-making power which induces a low wage dispersion or more equitable income distribution.\n\nThe Nordic model is also characterised by a high tax wedge.\n\nThe Continental model has some similarities with the Nordic model. Nevertheless, it has a higher share of its expenditures devoted to pensions. The model is based on the principle of \"security\" and a system of subsidies which are not conditioned to employability (for example in the case of France or Belgium, there exist subsidies whose only requirement is being older than 25).\n\nAs regards the labour market, active policies are less important than in the Nordic model and in spite of a low membership rate, trade-unions have important decision-making powers in collective agreements.\n\nAnother important aspect of the Continental model is the disability pensions.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon model features a lower level of expenditures than the previous ones. Its main particularity is its social assistance of last resort. Subsidies are directed to a higher extent to the working-age population and to a lower extent to pensions. Access to subsidies is (more) conditioned to employability (for instance, they are conditioned on having worked previously).\n\nActive labour market policies are important. Instead, trade unions have smaller decision-making powers than in the previous models, this is one of the reasons explaining their higher income dispersion and their higher number of low-wage employments.\n\nThe Mediterranean model corresponds to southern European countries who developed their welfare state later than the previous ones (during the 1970s and 1980s). It is the model with the lowest share of expenditures and is strongly based on pensions and a low level of social assistance. There exists in these countries a higher segmentation of rights and status of persons receiving subsidies which has as one of its consequences a strongly conditioned access to social provisions.\n\nThe main characteristic of labour market policies is a rigid employment protection legislation and a frequent resort to early retirement policies as a means to improve employment conditions. Trade unions tend to have an important membership which again is one of the explanations behind a lower income dispersion than in the Anglo-Saxon model.\n\nTo evaluate the different social models, we follow the criteria used in Boeri (2002) and Sapir (2005) which consider that a social model should satisfy the following:\n\nThe graph on the right shows the reduction in inequality (as measured by the Gini index) after taking account of taxes and transfers, that is, to which extent does each social model reduce poverty without taking into account the reduction in poverty provoqued by taxes and transfers. The level of social expenditures is an indicator of the capacity of each model to reduce poverty: a bigger share of expenditures is in general associated to a higher reduction in poverty. Nevertheless, another aspect that should be taken into account is the efficiency in this poverty reduction. By this is meant that with a lower share of expenditures a higher reduction in poverty may be obtained.\n\nIn this case, the graph on the right shows that the Anglosaxon and Nordic models are more efficient than the Continental or Mediterranean ones. The Continental model appears to be the least efficient. Given its high level of social expenditures, one would expect a higher poverty reduction than that attained by this model. Remark how the Anglosaxon model is found above the average line drawn whereas the Continental is found below that line.\n\nProtection against labour market risks is generally assured by two means: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, there is a clear trade-off between these two types of labour market instruments (remark the clear negative slope between both). Once again different European countries have chosen a different position in their use of these two mechanisms of labour market protection. These differences can be summarised as follows: \n\nEvaluating the different choices is a hard task. In general there exists consensus among economists on the fact that employment protection generates inefficiencies inside firms. Instead, there is no such consensus as regards the question of whether employment protection generates a higher level of unemployment.\n\nSapir (2005) and Boeri (2002) propose looking at the employment-to-population ratio as the best way to analyse the incentives and rewards for employment in each social model. The Lisbon Strategy initiated in 2001 established that the members of the EU should attain a 70% employment rate by 2010.\n\nIn this case, the graph shows that the countries in the Nordic and Anglosaxon model are the ones with the highest employment rate whereas the Continental and Mediterranean countries have not attained the Lisbon Strategy target.\n\nSapir (2005) proposes as a general mean to evaluate the different social models, the following two criteria: \n\nAs can be seen in the graph, according to these two criteria, the best performance is achieved by the Nordic model. The Continental model should improve its efficiency whereas the Anglosaxon model its equity. The Mediterranean model under-performs in both criteria.\n\nSome economists consider that between the Continental model and the Anglo-Saxon, the latter should be preferred given its better results in employment, which make it more sustainable in the long term, whereas the equity level depends on the preferences of each country (Sapir, 2005). Other economists argue that the Continental model cannot be considered worse than the Anglosaxon given that it is also the result of the preferences of those countries that support it (Fitoussi et al., 2000; Blanchard, 2004). This last argument can be used to justify any policy.\n\n\nLocation-specific:\n\n"}
{"id": "1907833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1907833", "title": "Frank Parsons (social reformer)", "text": "Frank Parsons (social reformer)\n\nFrank Parsons (November 14, 1854 – September 26, 1908) was an American professor, social reformer, and public intellectual. Although he was educated as an engineer at Cornell University, he passed the Massachusetts state bar examination and became a lawyer in 1881. Parsons was for more than a decade a lecturer at Boston University School of Law and taught at Kansas State Agricultural College from 1897 to 1899. As a leading social commentator of the Progressive Era, Parsons authored a dozen books and more than 125 magazine and journal articles on a wide range of reform topics, including currency reform, regulation of monopolies, municipal ownership, establishment of direct democracy, and other matters. Parsons is also widely regarded as the father of the vocational guidance movement.\n\nFrank Parsons was born on November 14, 1854, in Mount Holly, New Jersey, the son of an Anglo-Saxon family with American antecedents dating back to the time of the American Revolution. The family was highly intellectual in proclivity, with a number of physicians, lawyers, and teachers dotting the family tree, particularly on Frank's mother's side.\n\nIntellectually talented from an early age, Frank was enrolled in Cornell University at the age of 15 and graduated after just three years with a Bachelor's degree in civil engineering.\n\nParsons took a job as a civil engineer for a railroad located in Western Massachusetts upon graduation but he lost this position when the firm collapsed amidst the Panic of 1873.\n\nAfter relatively brief stints as a common laborer and a public school teacher, Parsons decided to go into the legal profession, preparing for the Massachusetts bar examination for one year before taking and passing the exam in 1881.\n\nUnfortunately, Parsons experienced a health failure shortly after passing the bar exam and found himself compelled to move the New Mexico Territory in search of recovery. Parsons would remain in that state for three years. Parsons established a legal practice in New Mexico but soon tired of the profession. Instead, Parsons was employed by the publishing firm of Little, Brown and Company as a writer of law textbooks. Several volumes were produced during the course of this association.\n\nWith textbook publications came academic recognition, and in 1892 Parsons was added to the staff as a lecturer at Boston University School of Law. He would remain in that position for the greater part of the rest of his life, leaving only in 1905 on account of competing research interests.\n\nParson's position at Boston University only occupied part of the academic year, leaving him free to work on other projects and in other capacities for much of the year. He joined the staff of Kansas State Agricultural College in 1897, in the wake of a recent Populist electoral victory in that state and the advent of a new liberal administration at that school.\n\nParsons became interested in the ideas of economic rationalization during the Progressive Era of the 1890s. It was a time of great disparity between wealthy plutocrats, often exercising monopoly power over the economy through organized associations called trusts, and a frequently impoverished working class, racked by periodic depressions such as the 1873 event which had cost Parsons his first job.\n\nWith his characteristic energy, Parsons threw himself into the systematic study of many of the topics espoused by muckraking journalists and intellectuals of the day. A series of books followed, including tomes on monetary reform \"(Rational Money,\" 1898), market dysfunction in the communications industry \"(The Telegraph Monopoly,\" 1899), public ownership of monopoly industries \"(The City for the People,\" 1899), substitution of democracy for oligarchy \"(Direct Legislation,\" 1900), and the abuses of the railroad industry \"(The Trusts, the Railroads, and the People,\" 1906).\n\nIn December 1895, Parsons ran for Mayor of Boston, as the candidate for the Municipal Reform Party—\"a fusion of prohibitionists, labor, populists, and socialists\". He finished third in a field of three, with 0.8% of the vote.\n\nIn addition to his steady stream of books and pamphlets, Parsons wrote extensively for the periodical press, contributing more than 125 articles to B.O. Flower's progressive monthly, \"The Arena\" and other publications. In addition to his prolific work for \"The Arena,\" Parsons was named a contributing editor to the social democratic monthly \"The American Fabian\" in 1896.\n\nIn addition to his writing activities, Parsons also emerged as a prominent public speaker, serving as a lecturer for the National Direct Legislation League, as head of the lecture department of the Social Reform Union, and as President of the National League for Promoting Public Ownership of Monopoly. In the course of his activity, Parsons came to be recognized as a national expert on public ownership of utilities. In 1906, he was commissioned by the National Civic Federation to travel to Great Britain to study the incidence of municipal ownership and its outcomes in that country.\n\nParsons also served as dean of the extension division of Ruskin College in Trenton, Missouri.\n\nFrank Parsons died Sept. 26, 1908, in Boston, Massachusetts. He was 53 years old at the time of his death.\n\nA memorial service in Parsons' honor was held October 25, 1908, at the People's Church in Washington, D.C.. In the eulogy by Rev. Alexander Kent, Parson's was remembered as a consistent analyst striving to advance the general weal:\n\"There were few men whose ability was so completely devoted to the public good... The problem of human betterment was always uppermost in his thought. He was continually at work tracing the evils from which men suffer to their source, and showing how they might be avoided or at least greatly lessened. He was a consistent opponent of that individualism which pits men against each other in the struggle for existence, and an earnest advocate of that individuality that fits men for useful membership in the social body, and so draws them together in mutual fellowship and service.\"\n\nParsons' papers are housed at Yale University Library in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nThe posthumous publication in 1911 of Parson's manuscript, \"Choosing a Vocation,\" and its so-called \"talent-matching approach\" proved to be massively influential with a generation of educationalists. Parson's book remains regarded as a classic in the field and Parsons is still in the 21st Century remembered as \"the founder of the vocational guidance movement.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36204723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36204723", "title": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington", "text": "Frederick Nicholas Charrington\n\nFrederick Nicholas Charrington (4 February 1850 – 2 January 1936) was an English social reformer who renounced succession to a fortune of over £1 million in order to devote his life to temperance work.\n\nCharrington was born in the Bow Road, in the East End of London. His father was a partner in the Charrington Brewery, one of London’s biggest brewing companies. Charrington was heir to a fortune of a million and a quarter pounds. He was educated at Marlborough College, but left because of illness and finished his school career at Brighton College. He subsequently joined the family business.\n\nAt the age of 19, Charrington had a conversion experience and became an Evangelical Christian. About a year later, while walking through Whitechapel, he saw a poorly dressed woman with her children begging her husband to leave a public house and give her money for food. The furious husband came out and knocked her into the gutter. Charrington went to help and was also knocked to the ground. Looking up, he saw his name on the sign above the pub.\n\n“When I saw that sign,” he later wrote, “I was stricken just as surely as Paul on the Damascus Road. Here was the source of my family wealth, and it was producing untold human misery before my own eyes. Then and there I pledged to God that not another penny of that money should come to me.”\n\nCharrington abandoned the family business to devote his life to helping the poor in the East End. He opened a school, led a fight to clean up the music halls and became an ardent worker for the Temperance Movement. In 1870 he founded the Tower Hamlets Mission and made the Great Assembly Hall in the Mile End Road a centre of Christian work in the East End of London.\n\nIn 1903 Charrington purchased Osea Island off the coast of Maldon in Essex and established a treatment centre for people with alcohol and opiate addictions. In return for free treatment, clients would remain on the island and work the land.\n\nHe was one of the original members of the London County Council (1889–95).\n\nHe died in the London Hospital in January 1936.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11424442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11424442", "title": "Freedom of panorama", "text": "Freedom of panorama\n\nFreedom of panorama (FOP) is a provision in the copyright laws of various jurisdictions that permits taking photographs and video footage and creating other images (such as paintings) of buildings and sometimes sculptures and other art works which are permanently located in a public place, without infringing on any copyright that may otherwise subsist in such works, and the publishing of such images. Panorama freedom statutes or case law limit the right of the copyright owner to take action for breach of copyright against the creators and distributors of such images. It is an exception to the normal rule that the copyright owner has the exclusive right to authorize the creation and distribution of derivative works. The phrase is derived from the German term \"\" (\"panorama freedom\").\n\nMany countries have similar provisions restricting the scope of copyright law in order to explicitly permit photographs involving scenes of public places or scenes photographed from public places. Other countries, though, differ widely in their interpretation of the principle.\n\nIn the European Union, Directive 2001/29/EC provides for the possibility of member states having a freedom of panorama clause in their copyright laws, but does not require such a rule.\n\n' is defined in article 59 of the German ', in section 62 of the United Kingdom Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, and it exists in several other countries or even \"a large majority of Member States\".\n\nThere are also European countries such as Italy where there is no freedom of panorama at all. In Italy, despite many official protests and a national initiative led by the lawyer Guido Scorza and the journalist Luca Spinelli (who highlighted the issue), the publishing of photographic reproductions of public places is still prohibited, in accordance with the old Italian copyright laws made more restrictive by a law called ' which states, among other provisions, that to publish pictures of \"cultural goods\" (meaning in theory every cultural and artistic object and place) for commercial purposes it is mandatory to obtain an authorization from the local branch of the Ministry of Arts and Cultural Heritage, the '.\n\nAn example of litigation due to the heterogeneous EU legislation is the \"\" (Hundertwasser decision), a case won by Friedensreich Hundertwasser in Germany against a German company for use of a photo of an Austrian building.\n\nOn 4 April 2016 the Swedish Supreme Court ruled that Wikimedia Sweden infringed on the copyright of artists of public artwork by creating a website and database of public artworks in Sweden, containing images of public artwork uploaded by the public. Swedish copyright law contains an exception to the copyright holder's exclusive right to make their works available to the public that allows depictions of public artwork. The Swedish Supreme Court decided to take a restrictive view of this copyright exception. The Court determined that the database was not of insignificant commercial value, for both the database operator or those accessing the database, and that \"this value should be reserved for the authors of the works of art. Whether the operator of the database actually has a commercial purpose is then irrelevant.\" The case was returned to a lower court to determine damages that Wikimedia Sweden owes to the collective rights management agency \"Bildkonst Upphovsrätt i Sverige\" (BUS), which initiated the lawsuit on behalf of artists they represent.\n\nIn Romania, the heirs of Anca Petrescu, the architect of the colossal Palace of the Parliament, sued the Romanian Parliament for selling photos and other souvenirs with the image of the iconic building. The copyright infringement trial is ongoing.\n\nSince 7 October 2016, article L122-5 of the French Code of Intellectual Property provides for a limited freedom of panorama for works of architecture and sculpture. The code authorizes \"reproductions and representations of works of architecture and sculpture, placed permanently in public places (\"voie publique\"), and created by natural persons, with the exception of any usage of a commercial character\".\n\nThe limits to freedom of panorama in France have a drastic effect on Wikipedia articles about French architecture. Wikimedia Commons editors routinely delete any images of recent French architecture, despite the changes in the law, because Commons does not allow images where commercial use is prohibited.\n\nIn Australia, freedom of panorama is dealt with in the federal Copyright Act 1968, sections 65 to 68. Section 65 provides: \"The copyright in a work ... that is situated, otherwise than temporarily, in a public place, or in premises open to the public, is not infringed by the making of a painting, drawing, engraving or photograph of the work or by the inclusion of the work in a cinematograph film or in a television broadcast\". This applies to any \"artistic work\" as defined in paragraph (c) of section 10: a \"work of artistic craftsmanship\" (but not a circuit layout).\n\nHowever, \"street art\" may be protected by copyright.\n\nSection 66 of the Act provides exceptions to copyright infringement for photos and depictions of buildings and models of buildings.\n\nSection 32.2(1) of the Copyright Act (Canada) states the following:\n\nThe Copyright Act also provides specific protection for the incidental inclusion of another work seen in the background of a photo. Photos that \"incidentally and not deliberately\" include another work do not infringe copyright.\n\nUnited States copyright law contains the following provision:\n\nThe definition of \"architectural work\" is a building, which is defined as \"humanly habitable structures that are intended to be both permanent and stationary, such as houses and office buildings, and other permanent and stationary structures designed for human occupancy, including but not limited to churches, museums, gazebos, and garden pavilions\". This freedom of panorama for buildings does not apply to art, however.\n\nAlmost all countries from the former Soviet Union lack freedom of panorama. Exceptions are three countries whose copyright laws were amended recently. The first was Republic of Moldova in July 2010, when the law in question was approximated to EU standards. Armenia followed in April 2013 with an updated . Freedom of panorama was partially adopted in Russia on October 1, 2014; from this day, one is allowed to take photos of buildings and gardens visible from public places, but that does not include sculptures and other 3-dimensional works.\n\nThe precise extent of this permission to make pictures in public places without having to worry about copyrighted works being in the image differs amongst countries. In most countries, it applies only to images of three-dimensional works that are permanently installed in a public place, \"permanent\" typically meaning \"for the natural lifetime of the work\". In Switzerland, even taking and publishing images of two-dimensional works such as murals or graffiti is permitted, but such images cannot be used for the same purpose as the originals.\n\nMany laws have subtle differences in regard to public space and private property. Whereas the photographer's location is irrelevant in Austria, in Germany the permission applies only if the image was taken from public ground, and without any further utilities such as ladders, lifting platforms, airplanes etc. Under certain circumstances, the scope of the permission is also extended to actually private grounds, e.g. to publicly accessible private parks and castles without entrance control, however with the restriction that the owner may then demand a fee for commercial use of the images.\n\nIn many Eastern European countries the copyright laws limit this permission to non-commercial uses of the images only.\n\nThere are also international differences in the particular definition of a \"public place\". In most countries, this includes only outdoor spaces (for instance, in Germany), while some other countries also include indoor spaces such as public museums (this is for instance the case in the UK and in Russia).\n\nThere has been a controversy among Filipino photographers and establishment managements. On June 12, 2013, Philippine Independence Day, pro-photography group, Bawal Mag-Shoot dito, launched at the Freedom to Shoot Day protest at Luneta Park. The group is protesting for their right to take photos on historical and public places, especially in Luneta and Intramuros. The park management imposes a fee for D-SLR photographers to shoot images for commercial purposes but it was also reported that security guards also charge 500 pesos to shoot photos even for non-commercial purposes, an act which the advocacy group branded as \"extortion\". The group also claimed that there is discrimination against Filipino photographers and claimed that the management is lenient on foreign photographers. There is no official policy on taking photographs of historical places and the group has called legislators to create a law on the matter.\n\nTension has arisen in countries where freedom to take pictures in public places conflicts with more recent anti-terrorism legislation. In the United Kingdom, the powers granted to police under section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000 have been used on numerous occasions to stop amateur and professional photographers from taking photographs of public areas. Under such circumstances, police are required to have \"reasonable suspicion\" that a person is a terrorist. While the Act does not prohibit photography, critics have alleged that these powers have been misused to prevent lawful public photography. Notable instances have included the investigation of a schoolboy, a Member of Parliament and a BBC photographer. The scope of these powers has since been reduced, and guidance around them issued to discourage their use in relation to photography, following litigation in the European Court of Human Rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2397984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2397984", "title": "House party", "text": "House party\n\nA house party is typically a type of party where medium to large groups of people gather at the residence of the party's host. In modern usage, a house party is typically associated with teenage or young adult crowds, loud music, dancing, and the consumption of alcohol or other recreational drugs. Historically, the term has also referred to more genteel gatherings at country estates, lasting anywhere from several days to weeks.\n\nA house party might be organized several months, down to just a few hours, in advance. News of a party is often spread by word of mouth, the sending of formal invitations, or on social networking websites like Facebook. In the case of the latter, the host must be particularly careful of how public the information regarding the party is made. There have been cases where hundreds of people have turned up to a party they found out about on the internet without knowing the host personally, causing massive damage to the house or the items within it. In the United Kingdom, such an occurrence may be referred to as a 'Skins' party, named after a well-known TV show set in the English city of Bristol focusing on the lives of teenagers who often participate in and host such parties.\n\nA person who attends a house party, but has not been invited, is typically referred to as a \"gatecrasher\". Such an activity is usually perceived negatively, although more liberal hosts may permit gatecrashers, depending on their behaviour. \n\nIn some instances house parties do not attract large crowds, and with ten or fewer people are often referred to as a 'gathering'.\n\nAn early example of a house party can be seen in the play \"Mostellaria\" (\"The Haunted House\") by the Roman playwright Plautus. In it a young man called Philolaches is having a great time while his father is away on business.\n\nHouse parties have become a prominent feature in popular movies, particularly movies aimed at teenagers. While many have probably been present before the movie, \"Animal House\" is one of the first to properly provide a scene of a house party.\n\n"}
{"id": "3730275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3730275", "title": "How the World Was One", "text": "How the World Was One\n\nHow the World Was One: Beyond the Global Village is Arthur C. Clarke's history and survey of the communications revolution, published in 1992. The title includes an intentional pun; in English \"How the World Was Won\" would sound exactly the same. This work is based on an earlier work by Clarke entitled \"Voice Across the Sea\", published in 1958.\n"}
{"id": "50674434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50674434", "title": "IASSIST", "text": "IASSIST\n\nThe International Association for Social Science Information Services and Technology (or IASSIST) is an international organisation that provides professional development, communication and conferences for data librarians, archivists, and social science aligned information specialists.\n\nEach year the IASSIST Fellow program sponsors members from developing nations to attend events and professional development to further the advancement of information management.\nThe first IASSIST conference was held in 1977 in Cocoa Beach, Florida\n"}
{"id": "44017960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44017960", "title": "International Institute of Social History", "text": "International Institute of Social History\n\nThe International Institute of Social History (IISG) is one of the largest archives for labour, left and social history in the world. It is an independent scientific institute in Amsterdam. The IISG is part of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences. It was founded in 1935 by Nicolaas Posthumus. The large archives of the institute (ca. 50 km) harbor invaluable and extensive papers of several international social movements and currents, including papers of individuals such as Rosa Luxemburg, Friedrich Engels, Karl Marx and Mikhail Bakunin.\n\nThe International Institute of Social History was founded in 1935 by Nicolaas Posthumus. To examine how labour relations develop over time, IISG collected archives from all over the world. During the first years Posthumus succeeded in obtaining many papers from anarchists (Bakunin manuscripts), other socialist and social democratic and Marxist movements from Germany and Russia.\n\nBefore the Germans invaded the Netherlands in 1940, Posthumus was able to move the most valuable archives to London. During the war, many remaining IISG archives were transported to Nazi Germany. They were not destroyed. Most of the papers were rediscovered in Hannover in 1946, and some other parts were later found in archives in Moscow in 1991, and returned to Amsterdam.\n\nIn 1989 the International Institute of Social History moved to new premises: an old warehouse at the Cruquiusweg in the eastern part of Amsterdam. This building also housed the Press Museum but in 2017 that museum became a part of the Dutch Institute for Image and Sound (Nederlands Instituut voor Beeld en Geluid) in Hilversum. \n\nThe personal archives at the International Institute of Social History are extensive, including (among many others) the collections of the papers of Diego Abad de Santillán, Alexander Atabekian, Angelica Balabanoff, Bernt Carlsson, Ruth Fischer, Emma Goldman, Rudolf Hilferding, Karl Kautsky, Gustav Landauer, Arthur Lehning, Max Nettlau, Theodor Liebknecht, Toma Sik, Andre Gunder Frank and Leon Trotsky.\n\nThere are also many institutional archives, among which the archives of the Russian Socialist Revolutionary Party, the Red Army Faction and the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (well over 200 m.). One of its most famous archives are the archives of the Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT) and its political arm, the Federación Anarquista Ibérica (FAI). These archives were smuggled out of Spain during the Spanish Civil War and made their way to Paris branch of the IISG in secret. The archives contain information regarding military activities, correspondence and financial documents. Other anarchist archives were destroyed during the war or remain lost which makes these collection in the IISG all the more valuable. \n\nIn the last decades the IISG also acquired the archives of Greenpeace and Amnesty International.\n\nA related institution is the Swiss Social Archives in Zurich.\n\nHistorian of anarchism Paul Avrich wrote that the institute is the foremost repository of anarchist documents in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12889077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12889077", "title": "Interpersonal communication relationship dissolution", "text": "Interpersonal communication relationship dissolution\n\nThe interpersonal communication that occurs during a relationship deterioration/dissolution looks to explain the possible \"why\" behind the relationship breakup and the communication steps that a breakup seems to follow. Studies have looked at the predictors of breakups, the breakup process, the strategies employed, the impact of the breakups, and finally the process to move on emotionally from the broken relationship.\n\nRelationship dissolution \"refers to the process of the breaking up of relationships (friendship, romantic, or marital relationships) by the voluntary activity of at least one partner.\" This article examines two types of relationship dissolution, the non-marital breakup and the marital breakup. The differences are how they are experienced, how they must be studied and how they might survive. Nonmarital breakups help us understand the nature of the issues involved and the patterns of grief experienced, they are meaningful to both persons, creating crisis in intimacy, personal and social development and future commitment expectations. Surviving a nonmarital breakup provides the opportunity to self-discovery, generosity, dignity and nobility of grief, and the promise of recovery (Weber, 1992). In marital breakups, more negotiation and delayed dissolution may occur because of the presence of children (Johnson, 1982) called a barrier force. Not all breakups should be considered a \"failure\", because they didn't last long enough or hit yearly marks as dictated by society. Some breakups may serve a distinct, positive change for one of the partners if there is abuse or other negative factors in the relationship.\n\nNo relationship is established with the thought that it will end with heartache and grief, at least experienced by one of the couple. Why do we bother if the common belief is that at least 50% or more marriages end in divorce? Jones & Burdette, 1994, state in their work that we face two daunting risks when we pursue an intimate relationship with another: rejection and betrayal. This is countered with our social need to belong which usually trumps the risks. Hill, Rubin, and Peplau conducted a study in 1976 where 231 heterosexual couples agreed to complete a questionnaire about their relationship for two years. Only 128 couples survived the two years together, but it was the information gathered from the 103 couples that provided substantial information on breakup factors.\n\n\nHill et al. (1976) found that the peak season for a breakup is when there are changes in one's life, which may force the relationship to be examined as to whether it can be sustained over time, distance, or other change in lifestyle. Women were more likely to be the initiators of change.\n\n\nSteve Duck (1981) developed a topographical model of relationship disengagement and dissolution, whether married or not, in which he outlined four models of dissolution: pre-existing doom, mechanical failure, process loss and sudden death.\n\n\n\n\nNew information on a partner can produce sudden death of the new relationship with a trust violation. Davis (1973) described three conditions that produce \"sudden death\" in a relationship: two-sided subsidence, in which both members of the couple maintain a formal relationship with no intimacy; one-sided subsidence, where one partner is dependent and hangs on, while the other actively seeks to end the relationship; and zero-sided subsidence which is an abrupt ending primarily brought on by outside factors that makes retreat or repair impossible.\n\nThere are at least fifteen strategies used to terminate relationships and are set apart by whether they are unilateral or bilateral and indirect or direct (Baxter, 1982, 1984).\n\n\n\n\n\nSteve Duck's (1982) four stages of relationship dissolution, each very distinctive with specific components, are moved through once one or both of the partners have crossed a cognitive threshold.\n\nIntrapsychic stage begins with one partner who is dissatisfied and secretively searches for a way to \"fix\" the relationship. Vaughan (1986) states that uncoupling begins with a secret, and Duck asserts that the secret of unhappiness is kept that way through the intrapsychic stage.\n\nDyadic stage where the dissatisfied partner decides to fix the problem by confronting the other partner, thus entering into uncharted territory. This may not fix what is wrong and just continue to draw out the relationship until the unhappy partner becomes determined to depart, which will move the relationship into the next phase.\n\nSocial stage is when the partners devise their accounts of how the breakup happened and how they will present it to their social circles. If it is in fact the end, they will cross over into the final phase of relationship dissolution.\n\nGrave-dressing stage is simply the \"attempt to bury and describe the relationship\" stage. Partners now create an acceptable story about their love and loss, do whatever cognitive work, including introspection, attribution, rationalization, and reassessment of self and other, which is necessary in order to get over the deceased relationship.\n\nStephanie Rollie and Steve Duck (2006) subsequently modified the original model after a critique of stage models that appear to suppose an orderly and relatively conscious progression through the above stages. Proposing instead five phases of breakdown, Rollie and Duck added a Resurrection Phase which was placed after \"Grave Dressing\" and represented the period of reconfiguration of self and preparation for new relationships. In the modified proposal, the authors articulated changes to communication patterns and topics that would typify each phase, but clarified that the result of the communication could at any time be not simply progression to the next phase of break up but reversion to an earlier state of the relationship.\n\nHarvey (1996) explains that when you experience a loss or a depletion of resources, you may need some time to sort out what you had in the first place, what was given up in the breakup, and what remains for you to rely on, cherish or use. Grief is not a passive experience but a series of active choices for the grieving person to confront and resolve in either the direction of healing or prolonged suffering (Neeld, 1990).\n\nWeber (1998) outlines the following central tasks for dealing with grief.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38656158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38656158", "title": "Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award", "text": "Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award\n\nThe Kenneth Harwood Outstanding Dissertation Award is an academic prize awarded each year by the Broadcast Education Association for the best doctoral dissertation in field of broadcasting and electronic media. The prize was established by Kenneth Harwood, Professor at the University of Houston and a former President of the BEA. The award offers $1,000 for the outstanding Ph.D. dissertation in broadcasting and electronic media. The award was established through gifts started by Professor Harwood and a donation from a friend of BEA.|\n"}
{"id": "17392705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17392705", "title": "KioskNet", "text": "KioskNet\n\nKioskNet is a system, developed at the University of Waterloo, to provide very low cost Internet access to rural villages in developing countries, based on the concept of delay-tolerant networking. It uses vehicles, such as buses, to ferry data between village kiosks and Internet gateways in nearby urban centers. The data is re-assembled at a Proxy Server for interaction with legacy servers. The system is free and open source.\n\nA video describing the KioskNet system can be found here . The dead page has been archived, and the video is still available on YouTube here.\n"}
{"id": "5879951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5879951", "title": "Legislative violence", "text": "Legislative violence\n\nLegislative violence broadly refers to any violent clashes between members of a legislature, often physically, inside the legislature and triggered by divisive issues and tight votes. Such clashes have occurred in many countries across time, and notable incidents still regularly occur.\n\nAlthough the sight of brawling politicians is incongruous with a legislature's stately image, its occupants, like in any other workplace, are still prone to stress and anger. The confrontational nature of politics, regardless of their location, and the high stakes involved often add to the simmering tensions. \nGalusha A. Grow, no stranger to legislative violence, described the precursors thusly:\n\nNazifa Zaki and Hamida Ahmadzai fought over rocket attacks into Afghanistan from Pakistan.\n\nTax bill sparks brawls in the parliament of Algeria.\n\nRoman general and dictator Julius Caesar was famously assassinated by a group of senators on the Ides of March, 44 BC during a meeting of the Roman Senate. The senators, led by Cassius and Brutus and calling themselves Liberatores, had conspired in secret to kill Caesar and considered various ways to do so. Ultimately, they decided to kill him during a meeting of the senate, since only senators would be allowed in the meeting and Caesar would be alone. The senators drafted a fake petition requesting that Caesar hand over power to senate; Caesar called a meeting of the senate to read it. When Caesar met the senators at the Theatre of Pompey, they stabbed him repeatedly with daggers concealed under their togas, killing him. Caesar's assassination led to a civil war for control of the republic, ending ultimately with the rise of Caesar Augustus and the founding of the Roman Empire.\n\nLegislative violence has happened in Armenia.\n\nIn 2007 a fight broke out in the lower chamber of the national legislature of Bolivia, the Chamber of Deputies. The fight erupted during a debate over whether or not to try four judges on corruption charges.\n\nNDP House Leader Nathan Cullen attempted to delay the passing of a Conservative budget bill, leading to a threatening confrontation between Conservative Government House Leader Peter van Loan and NDP leader Tom Mulcair, described in the media as a \"near-brawl\".\n\nBefore a vote in the House of Commons Prime Minister Justin Trudeau \"manhandled\" Conservative Party Opposition Whip Gord Brown and inadvertently elbowed NDP MP Ruth Ellen Brosseau. The incident went on to be known as \"Elbowgate\".\n\nCzech Health Minister David Rath and his right-wing rival, Miroslav Macek, fought during a meeting of disgruntled dentists in Prague.\n\n\nDuring a session of the Riigikogu, the Farmers' Assemblies accused Minister of Education and Welfare Leopold Johanson of Socialist Workers' Party of accepting bribes. Artur Tupits of the Farmers' Assemblies then slapped Johanson in the face twice, until the two were separated. Disturbances continued on the next day. Tupits was then arrested for two months. His name inspired a new expression for a brawl in Estonian (\"tupitsat tegema\", similar to the earlier expression \"tuupi tegema\").\n\nIn 1988 when Pope John Paul II addressed the European Parliament, Ian Paisley, then an MEP, denounced him as the Antichrist and was subjected to booing by fellow MEPs who also threw objects at him; Otto von Habsburg was among those who helped physically eject him from the room.\n\nMike Hookem punched Steven Woolfe in the face at a party meeting in 2016.\n\nA brawl broke out when an argument over the composition of Georgian delegations in international institutions turned violent.\n\nA fight erupted between rival MPs in the Greek Parliament.\n\nTwo lawmakers who entered the parliament's chamber without being authorized to do so caused a scuffle then the lawmakers tried to read out their oath of office.\n\nIn January 1988, there was a riot in the Tamil Nadu state legislative assembly over a vote of majority for Janaki Ramachandran, who was serving as Chief Minister following the death in December 1987 of her husband MGR. The ADMK party had split, with most MLAs supporting her and some supporting Jayalalithaa's bid to become Chief Minister instead. The Congress party with its 60 MLAs was able to play \"kingmaker\". While the Congress-led Central Government in New Delhi ordered them to vote against Janaki, some Congress MLAs chose to resign instead, allowing the Janaki government to survive the majority vote. A riot ensued in the legislature, with members clubbing each other with microphone stands and footwear, which was finally ended by riot police who stormed the legislature and beat up everybody with their batons. The Janaki faction was however dismissed by the Central Government under Article 356 of the Indian Constitution, having survived just 24 days in office. The state was placed under President's rule for a year, until the next scheduled state assembly elections in January 1989.\n\nOn 25 March 1989, a riot broke out in the state legislative assembly in Tamil Nadu between members of the ruling DMK party and the now-unified opposition ADMK party over the reading of the state budget. In the melee, Durai Murugan tried to disrobe Jayalalithaa, Karunanidhi had his sunglasses broken, and the budget was torn up by angry rioters.\n\nRiots broke out in the state legislative assembly in Uttar Pradesh with MLAs using microphones, chairs as weapons.\n\nA member of the legislative assembly has been assaulted on 10 November 2009 in the state assembly. One of the members 'who can't speak Marathi' took the oath in Hindi, one of the official languages of India. This was objected to by a right wing party Maharashtra Navanirmana Samithi, that wants Marathi to be the official language in the state. Four members of the Maharashtra Navaniramana Samithi were immediately suspended for 4 years.\n\nThere has been violence in the Council of Representatives of Iraq.\n\nKurdish MPs brawled in the Iraqi Kurdistan Parliament over president term.\n\nLegislative violence has happened in Israel.\n\nA brawl broke out in 2010 over an issue of funding for new youth social centres.\n\nA brawl broke out in Japan's parliament on 17 September after the upper house approved legislation for the controversial security bills that would allow the country to send troops to fight abroad for the first time since the Second World War. Members of the opposition tried to grab the microphone and stop Masahisa Sato, acting chairman of the upper house special committee, from carrying out the vote in parliament.\n\nThere has been violence during Parliament of Jordan sessions.\n\nKenya's lawmakers come to blows in parliament chamber over proposed security bill - meanwhile police arrest protesters outside the building.\n\nOpposition politicians release tear gas in parliament to obstruct a session in Kosovo's parliament\n\nA shoe fight started after Hamdan El-Azmi expressed his opposition to the government presenting an amendment to the distribution of electoral constituencies in the new municipal law.\n\nLawmakers were involved in a brawl over disputes during a meeting of a parliamentary committee.\n\nAn ethnic Albanian opposition party announced it was boycotting parliament after a fist fight broke out in the chamber between one of its members and another from a rival party.\n\nHours before the scheduled Oath of Office ceremony for Felipe Calderón in the Legislative Palace, the legislature erupted in a brawl. It was the latest installment of the string of fistfights that rattled the Mexican legislature. The incident was broadcast on live television. In spite of such events the ceremony took place. Calderón entered the Congress chamber through a back door directly onto the podium, and in a quick ceremony took the Oath of Office amid jeers. Then, after singing the national anthem which silenced the opposition for a while, he took a quick exit rather than deliver his inaugural address to Congress (the traditional follow-up to the oath taking).\n\nThere was a violent incident in the Parliament of Morocco.\n\nA brawl broke out in Nepal's parliament over Nepal's constitution\n\nA fight broke out in the National Assembly of Nigeria after a group of members were suspended for accusing the speaker of corruption.\nNigerian politicians were involved in a fight after a group from the People's Democratic Party (PDP) tried to address parliament.\n\nPakistani politicians fought over the Asia Bibi blasphemy case.\n\nThe Congress of the Republic of Peru has been in many violence acts through the years.\n\nWhen Peru had a bicameral legislature, member of congress Rómulo León (APRA) tried to grab and punch his colleague Fernando Olivera (FIM) because Olivera was accusing him of having secret bank accounts in a Swiss bank. He was suspended 120 days from Congress.\n\nAfter Alberto Fujimori dissolved Congress and approved a unicameral legislature, Congressman Javier Diez Canseco decided to finish a heated discussion with a Fujimorist congressman with a punch in the jaw. He was suspended 120 days from the legislature for the violent act.\n\nOn the oath day, Congressmen threw coins to their colleague Roger Cáceres because they were accusing him of being a turncoat for moving to the government party Peru 2000. His son Roger Cáceres Pérez (also a Congressman) insulted the coin throwers.\n\nCongresswomen Nancy Obregón and Elsa Malpartida did not approve the Free Trade Agreement with the United States. For that reason, they tried to escape punching and kicking the Congress security. They were suspended 120 days from the legislature for the violent acts.\n\nCongressman Víctor Andrés García Belaúnde accused his colleague Luis Wilson of having members of his family working for a national hospital with high salaries. Luis Wilson started to defy García Belaúnde's accusations, then he went to his desk and started insulting and tried to fight with him, but his colleagues prevented it.\n\nIn the Philippines, Senator Antonio Trillanes IV, a former military officer who led 2 infamous coup attempts (Oakwood Mutiny and Manila Peninsula siege) during the Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo presidential administration, seen on national television as he turned off the microphone of his fellow Senator (former Partymate) Alan Peter Cayetano during the Senate hearing on the Philippine war on drugs in September 2016, and in January 2017 to Sen. Migz Zubiri in near fistfighting, after the Kilusang Pagbabago Coalition Members rejected the Trillanes resolution for investigation for the Bureau of Immigration Bribery scandal.\n\nMembers of the Economic Freedom Fighters party became engaged in a brawl with security guards after attempting to prevent President Jacob Zuma from addressing the parliament.\n\nThere have been several events of legislative violence in South Korea. However, the politicians who were involved in the violence often don't receive criminal penalties under the civil laws.\n\nDuring a vote to approve Kim Jong-pil as Prime Minister, Grand National Party legislators submitted blank ballots to demonstrate their disapproval. A fight broke out after supporters of the ruling coalition of Kim Dae-jung demanded that the vote be declared void.\n\nDuring a National Assembly vote on the motion to impeach President Roh Moo-hyun, supporters of the President openly clashed with opposition MPs for 20 minutes in an effort to stop the vote (which was in favor of impeachment) from being finalized.\n\nA brawl broke out as The National Assembly passed three bills that is set to reform the media industry. Opposition MPs blocked the Speaker from entering the room to pass the bills while both sides clashed. The bills were eventually passed by the Deputy Speaker.\n\nA brawl broke out as the Grand National Party forcefully passed the year 2011 budget bill in advance without the presence of the opposition parties.\n\nA brawl broke out as The National Assembly ratified the country's Free-Trade Agreement (FTA) with the United States. The Opposition lawmakers used tear gas in the parliament. The ruling Grand National Party (GNP) managed to force it through without the kind of brawl that many were expecting.\n\nOn 23 February 1981. Lieutenant-Colonel Antonio Tejero led 200 armed Civil Guard officers into the Congress of Deputies during the vote to elect a Prime Minister. The officers held the parliamentarians and ministers hostage for 18 hours, during which time King Juan Carlos I denounced the coup in a televised address, calling for rule of law and the democratic government to continue. Though shots were fired, the hostage-takers surrendered the next morning without killing anyone. \n\nLegislative violence has happened in the Parliament of Sri Lanka.\n\nThe then-chairman of the National Assembly Paul Somohardjo (PL) and representatives Ronnie Brunswijk (ABOP) and Rashid Doekhie (NDP) were involved in a fistfight on the assembly floor, after the latter accused Somohardjo of involvement with alleged corruption at the ministry of Spatial Planning.\n\nThe Legislative Yuan of the Republic of China (Taiwan) is probably the most notable modern example of legislative violence. In the history of the Legislative Yuan, numerous violent acts have occurred during parliamentary sessions. It is popularly referred to locally as \"Legislator Brawling\" (). In 1995, the Legislative Yuan was presented with the Ig Nobel Prize Peace Award, for \"demonstrating that politicians gain more by punching, kicking and gouging each other than by waging war against other nations.\" Listed below are the most current brawlings in the Legislative Yuan of Taiwan.\n\nA serious scuffle broke out between the ruling and opposition party members after an argument over vote recounts from the presidential election.\n\nLegislators and William Lai got into a brawl over legislative procedures. TV stations showed Zhu grabbing Lai and trying to wrestle him onto a desk. He then tried to headbutt his colleague before jabbing him in the stomach. The brawl resulted in having a traffic policeman called into the chamber to test Zhu's alcohol level, after he was accused of being drunk. The tests showed no sign of alcohol influence.\n\nDuring a debate on a military hardware purchase ordinance, the opposition and ruling party engaged in a food fight after a disagreement broke out.\n\nAmid a proposal about creating direct transport links with People's Republic of China, DPP deputy Wang Shu-hui snatched the written proposal and shoved it into her mouth. Opposition members failed to get her to cough it up by pulling her hair. She later spat the proposal out and tore it up. This was the third time that the DPP’s actions had stopped a vote over the issue.\n\nDuring the incident another DPP member, Zhuang Hezi, spat at an opposition member.\n\nTwo dozen members overwhelmed the Speaker's podium, which became a free-for-all between the ruling (DPP) and opposition (KMT) parties with punches and sprayed water, requiring at least one hospitalization. The fight was over an alleged delay of the annual budget.\n\nAngry Taiwan legislators wrestled, splashed water and bit one another in a brawl over a controversial capital gains tax on share trading.\n\nLegislators in parliament brawled on two consecutive days over a controversial $420 billion infrastructure spending plan, which the opposition (headed by the KMT) claims to benefit cities and counties faithful to the current President's ruling party, the DPP. They also claim that the plan has been devised to secure support for the party ahead of next year's regional elections.\n\nOn 13 July 2017, the Premier of the Republic of China, Lin Chuan was prevented from delivering his report on the budget after a water balloon was thrown towards him. This resulted in him leaving the chamber and causing the session to come to a halt. In the following day, opposition lawmakers occupied the chamber and raised large padded office chairs above their heads, surrounded the podium and tussled with rival legislators to prevent Mr Lin from presenting the report once more as water balloons were thrown. This resulted in the early suspension of the parliamentary session.\n\nThere has been legislative violence in the National Assembly of Thailand.\n\nThere has been legislative violence during TBMM sessions, including:\n\nLawmakers of Parliament of Uganda were brawling during a plenary session after the parliament speaker allowed the constitutional amendment to be presented to MPs. The amendment about the age-limit issue on re-election of President Yoweri Museveni who is 73 years old and the limit for re-election is capped at 75.\n\nA debate on extending Russia's lease of the naval base in the Black Sea in exchange for cheaper oil descended into a mass brawl, involving smoke bombs, eggs and general fighting among members. The Speaker had to be escorted from the chamber, covered by umbrellas.\n\nViolent scuffles broke out in the Ukrainian parliament on 24 May 2012 during a debate over a bill which would allow the official use of Russian language in certain parts of the country.\n\nTwo parliament members, Oleh Lyashko and Oleksandr Shevchenko, got into an argument on the floor. Shevchenko accused Lyashko, who had built an image as a combative opponent of pro-Russian separatists, of never having visited the separatist eastern region. The argument eventually led to Shevchenko punching Lyashko in the face.\n\nYuriy Boyko, of the centre-left Opposition Bloc, punched Oleg Lyashko in the face after the left-wing Radical Party member purportedly accused him of being a “Kremlin agent”.\n\nIn the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, the government and the opposition are separated by red lines drawn on the carpet. The red lines in front of the two sets of benches are two sword-lengths apart (or a little more than two sword-lengths apart); a Member is traditionally not allowed to cross the line during debates, supposedly because the Member might then be able to attack an individual on the opposite side. These procedures were made because the Members were allowed to carry weapons into the House in its founding days.\n\nDuring a dispute over the conduct of British soldiers on Bloody Sunday on the day before, Independent Socialist MP Bernadette Devlin punched the Conservative Party Home Secretary Reginald Maudling. Her aggression was in response to the comments made by Maudling, who was maintaining that the British Army had fired at Bloody Sunday protesters in self-defence, contrary to the testimonies of civilian eyewitnesses (including Devlin herself). She argued that she was being denied the right to speak. Her actions resulted in her being banned from the House of Commons for six months.\n\nIn the aftermath of a rancorous debate with Labour MPs over the Aircraft and Shipbuilding Industries Bill, Conservative Michael Heseltine was enraged by a group who began singing \"The Red Flag\". He seized the chamber's ceremonial mace and brandished it over his head, but was restrained by Jim Prior, and after his departure legislative action was suspended for the day.\n\nFederalist Congressman Roger Griswold of Connecticut attacked Vermont Representative Matthew Lyon with a hickory walking stick in the chambers of the United States House of Representatives. Griswold struck Lyon repeatedly about the head, shoulders and arms, while Lyon attempted to shield himself from the blows. Lyon then turned and ran to the fireplace, took up a pair of metal tongs, and having armed himself thus returned to the engagement. Griswold then tripped Lyon and struck him in the face while he lay on the ground, at which point the two were separated. After a break of several minutes, however, Lyon unexpectedly pursued Griswold again with the tongs, and the brawl was re-ignited.\n\nThe two men had a prior history of conflict. On January 30 of that year, Griswold had publicly insulted Lyon by calling him a coward, and Lyon had retaliated by spitting in Griswold's face. As a result of Lyon's actions in that case, he became the first Congressman to have charges filed against him with that body's ethics committee, although he escaped censure through a vote in the House.\n\nJohn Wilson, the speaker of the Arkansas House of Representatives and president of the Arkansas Real Estate Bank, stabbed Representative J. J. Anthony to death during a legislative dispute on the floor of the chamber. Anthony had suggested that bounties for the killing of wolves be administered by the president of the state bank, a responsibility comically beneath an official of Wilson's stature. Incensed, he drew a bowie knife and attacked Anthony, who was unable to defend himself despite drawing a knife of his own. Although Wilson was expelled from his office, he was later acquitted of murder.\n\nCongressman Preston Brooks of South Carolina famously assaulted Charles Sumner of Massachusetts for a previous speech of his, saying his uncle Andrew Butler took \"a mistress who, though ugly to others, is always lovely to him; though polluted in the sight of the world, is chaste in his sight—I mean, the harlot, Slavery.\" After having consulted with fellow South Carolina Congressman Laurence Keitt on the situation, Brooks and Keitt decided that Sumner had the social status of a \"drunkard\" and was thus unworthy of the traditional challenge to a duel. Brooks (accompanied by Keitt), approached and confronted Sumner as he sat writing at his desk in the almost empty Senate chamber. As Sumner began to stand up, Brooks began beating Sumner severely on the head with a thick gutta-percha cane with a gold head before he could reach his feet. Sumner was knocked down and trapped under the heavy desk (which was bolted to the floor), but Brooks continued to bash Sumner until he ripped the desk from the floor. By this time, Sumner was blinded by his own blood, and he staggered up the aisle and collapsed, lapsing into unconsciousness. Brooks continued to beat the motionless Sumner until he broke his cane, then quietly left the chamber. Several other senators attempted to help Sumner, but were blocked by Keitt, who had jumped into the aisle, brandishing a pistol and shouting, \"Let them be!\" Keitt was censured for his actions and resigned in protest, but was overwhelmingly re-elected to his seat by his South Carolina constituency within a month. For several decades following, Senators often carried walking canes and even revolvers in the Senate Chamber, fearing a similar assault.\n\nCongressman Laurence Keitt of South Carolina was involved in another incident of legislative violence less than two years later, starting a massive brawl on the House floor during a tense late-night debate. Keitt became offended when Pennsylvania Congressman (and later Speaker of the House) Galusha A. Grow stepped over to the Democratic side of the House chamber while delivering an anti-slavery speech. Keitt dismissively interrupted Grow's speech to demand he sit down, calling him a \"black Republican puppy\". Grow indignantly responded by telling Keitt that “No negro-driver shall crack his whip over me.” Keitt became enraged and went for Grow's throat, shouting that he would \"choke him for that\". A large brawl involving approximately 50 representatives erupted on the House floor, ending only when a missed punch from Rep. Cadwallader Washburn of Wisconsin upended the hairpiece of Rep. William Barksdale of Mississippi. The embarrassed Barksdale accidentally replaced the wig backwards, causing both sides to erupt in spontaneous laughter. Keitt would later die of wounds following the Battle of Cold Harbor while fighting for the Confederacy.\n\nDuring an anti-slavery speech by Illinois Republican Owen Lovejoy on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on April 5, 1860, Lovejoy condemned the Democratic Party for its racist views and steadfast support of slavery. As Lovejoy gave his speech condemning the evils of slavery, several of the Democrats present in the audience, such as Roger Atkinson Pryor, grew irate and incensed over Lovejoy's anti-slavery remarks and threatened him with physical harm, brandishing pistols and canes, with several Republicans rushing to Lovejoy's defense.\n\nThe Indiana General Assembly experienced a massive brawl between Democrats and Republicans in the Indiana Senate and Indiana House of Representatives. The event began as an attempt by Democratic Governor Isaac P. Gray to be elected to the United States Senate and his own party’s attempt to thwart him. Gray was a former Republican who had been elected Governor by popular vote but was scorned as a turncoat by his new party, who maneuvered desperately (and unsuccessfully) to try to prevent his eligibility for the Senate seat. When Gray went over the head of the Democrats in arranging a midterm election for a new Lieutenant Governor, Republican Robert S. Robertson was elected with a majority of the popular vote, a situation the Democrats refused to accept despite a ruling from the Indiana Supreme Court. The matter came to a head when Robertson attempted to enter the Senate chamber to be sworn in and take his seat presiding over the session; he was attacked, beaten, and thrown bodily from the chamber by the Democrats, who then locked the chamber door, beginning four hours of intermittent mass brawling that spread throughout the Indiana Statehouse. The fight ended only after Republicans and Democrats began brandishing pistols and threatening to kill each other and the Governor was forced to deploy the Indianapolis Police Department to restore order. Subsequently, the Republican controlled House of Representatives refused to communicate with the Democratic Senate, ending the legislative session and leading to calls for United States Senators to be elected by popular vote.\n\nDuring a debate on a bill dealing with the Philippine Islands, Senator Benjamin Tillman of South Carolina accused Senator John L. McLaurin of South Carolina of \"treachery\" for siding with the Republicans in support of Philippine annexation, and alleged that McLaurin had been granted control of government patronage in South Carolina. Upon receiving word of this statement, McLaurin entered the Senate Chamber and denounced Tillman, upon which Tillman attacked him. During the fight, other senators were hit by the punches. As a result, the Senate went into closed session to debate the matter. Both senators apologized to the Senate, but almost came to blows immediately thereafter. On February 28, the Senate voted 54 to 12, with 22 abstentions, to Censure both Tillman and McLaurin. McLaurin did not seek reelection, while Tillman served in the Senate until 1918.\n\nOn the House of Representatives chamber floor, Democrat Thomas Downey of New York confronted Robert Dornan, a California Republican, and Dornan grabbed Downey's tie in response. Downey approached Dornan in response to a speech Downey had given two days earlier before the Conservative Political Action Conference, in which he called Downey a \"draft-dodging wimp\" because of Downey's repeated denouncement of US-backed antigovernment Contras rebels in Nicaragua. During the Vietnam War, Downey received a medical deferment from the draft because of a perforated eardrum. Downey had also been active in protesting the war. The Dornan-Downey beef originated two years earlier, when Downey spoke against Dornan's nomination for a position at the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.\n\nThe Downey speech was made on Saturday, 2 March. On Monday afternoon, 4 March, Downey confronted Dornan, attracting dozens of viewers. Dornan claims Downey grabbed him by the shoulder and turned him around, asking if he had actually called him a wimp. Dornan answered \"I did and you are.\" The exchange became heated, and at some point Dornan accused Downey of having cost him the job two years earlier. According to Downey, as he began to walk away, Dornan grabbed him by the tie and collar and threatened him with \"bodily harm.\" Dornan claimed he was just straightening Downey's tie knot, saying later, \"I like all the members to look elegant on the floor, you know.\" Dornan, according to himself and other witnesses, then told Downey to \"get out of my face.\" After, Downey went to the Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill to tell him what had happened.\n\nAfter the incident, Downey released a statement and stated through a spokesman that he would not speak to reporters \"until Dornan apologizes.\" His spokesman also said that Downey was considering filing a complaint with the House Sergeant at Arms. Several witnesses spoke about the incident. Democratic Congressman Mike Lowry said, \"Dornan grabbed Downey roughly by the collar, and I mean aggressively. None of this straighten-the-tie baloney. And he told Downey, 'Don't let me catch you off the floor, where you are protected by the sergeant at arms.' I really think Downey restrained himself.\" Republican Representative Chris Smith of New Jersey, who witnessed the altercation, said, \"I found it humorous that Downey had to run up to the Speaker when it was over to tell all. It was like a little classroom act . . . Very childish . . . I think he's made much to-do about nothing.\"\n\nThe day after the incident, House Speaker Tip O'Neill condemned the behavior, and said he told Dornan, \"You can settle it on the street, but don't settle it on the House floor.\" He also told reporters that \"discipline\" would ensue if \"anything like that\" happened again. That day, Downey stated again, \"Congressman Dornan owes me and the House of Representatives an apology.\" Dornan responded, \"Apologize for what? For calling him a wimp? I am willing to concede that perhaps he just walks, talks and acts like a little arrogant wimp. But maybe it's disinformation. Maybe he really wears a black leather jacket by night that I don't know about.\"\n\nDuring the final day of the 2007 regular session of the Alabama State Senate Republican Sen. Charles Bishop of Jasper punched Democratic Sen. Lowell Barron of Fyffe in the head after the latter allegedly called the former a \"son of a bitch\". The two were then pulled apart by bystanders in the room.\n\nDuring a vote of California budget state Assemblymen Warren Furutani and Don Wagner broke out in a fight over a comment Wagner made that Furutani deemed offensive.\n\nA bloody backroom brawl between the mayor and a council member at a city council meeting in Birmingham, Alabama.\n\nDuring a contentious 2017 Texas House of Representatives session, a minor altercation was observed after State Representative Matt Rinaldi was pushed and received personal death threats. The incident occurred after Rinaldi called U.S Immigration and Customs Enforcement when a large crowd of protesters, in opposition to the sanctuary cities ban, disrupted the legislative proceedings. Representative Poncho Nevárez admitted to laying hands on Rinaldi amid the fierce debates, but no arrests were made by Texas DPS.\n\nDeputy Alfonso Marquina protested the presence of a boisterous group of President Chávez supporters in the audience.\n\nDuring a session of the National Assembly . The origin of the discussion had to do with the rejection by National Assembly president Diosdado Cabello to give members of the opposition a right to speak.\n\nOn 5 July 2017, colectivos and supporters of President Nicolás Maduro stormed the Palacio Federal Legislativo on the Independence Day of Venezuela, assaulting many members of the opposition-led National Assembly. At least 12 opposition legislators and their staff were injured as a result of the attack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28248242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28248242", "title": "Lemnian deeds", "text": "Lemnian deeds\n\nA Lemnian deed is the cruel slaughter of someone as revenge. There are two possible origins for this term: the epic of Jason and the Argonauts, where Pelasgian women killed their men, and that of Herodotus narrative where the Pelasgians killed captive mothers and children.\n\nAs is usual in other nationalistic epics as well, other people and tribes are deemed to have barbaric tendencies. Besides, Pelasgians of Lemnos spoke pre-Greek Lemnian, and were technologically inferior (as can be seen from the weapons found in burials), which further promoted their primitive nature.\n\nIt is said that Pelasgian women decided to kill their men, due to the men's cheating with the mainland Thracian women. In anger, the women slaughtered the men in their sleep and lived without men for many years, until Jason and the Argonauts arrived during The Quest for the Golden Fleece.\nThey mingled with the women and created a new race: the Minyae.\n\nMichael Stewart relates the story of Herodotus thus:\nThe historian, Herodotus, relates the story that when the Pelasgians were driven from Attika (Attica) they kidnapped a number of Athenian women and took them to Lemnos; the women were defiant and taught their children to act and speak like Athenians; the Pelasgians would not accept such rebellious attitudes and killed the captive mothers and children and thus the term Lemnian Deeds became an enduring insult to the honor and manhood of the inhabitants.\n"}
{"id": "321956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321956", "title": "List of common misconceptions", "text": "List of common misconceptions\n\nThis is a list of common misconceptions. Each entry is formatted as a correction, and contains a link to the article where the misconception is described. The misconceptions themselves are implied rather than stated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "955626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=955626", "title": "List of historical separatist movements", "text": "List of historical separatist movements\n\nThis is a list of historical separatist movements around the world. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. Most separatist movements do not succeed in their goal, therefore only notable ones are listed here; however, not all listed here succeeded in their goal.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSri Lankan Tamil people\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(gained independence from Ottoman Empire after the Greek War of Independence) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11026266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11026266", "title": "Litigation public relations", "text": "Litigation public relations\n\nLitigation public relations is the management of the communication process during the course of any legal dispute or adjudicatory processing so as to affect the outcome or its impact on the client’s overall reputation (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nPlaintiffs and prosecutors have long used mass media to get their side of the story out to the public, but the formal practice of litigation PR, a sub-specialty of crisis communication, first emerged in the early 1980s with Alan Hilburg, a pioneer in litigation communications representation of U.S. Tobacco in the Marsee case. Since then, the need for litigation PR has grown tremendously as media coverage of court cases and the law has increased. Most parties to a lawsuit have important interests that expand beyond legal concerns. Negative publicity about a litigant can cause damage to an individuals reputation that a courtroom win years later may not salvage. Thus, parties to cases, whether civil or criminal, can not ignore the impact of negative publicity on public opinion (Reber, Gower, & Robinson, 2006).\n\nLitigation PR is the management of the communication process prior to and during the course of any legal dispute or adjudicatory processing so as to affect the outcome or its impact on the client’s overall reputation (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nBasic Concepts of Litigation Public Relations—\n\nThe First Concept—Litigation PR is to influence the outcome of the court case by encouraging early or favorable settlement or by pressuring the prosecution into bringing lesser or no charges (Haggerty, 2003).\n\nThe Second Concept—Litigation PR is to protect the client’s reputation before and during the trial. In this regard, litigation PR is akin to reputation management. Reputation management is about managing public perception of an organization or individual. It is about attitude toward the individual and not knowledge itself. An essential aspect of reputation management is influencing attitude about the individual and corporation, which can encourage positive activation to the benefit of the organization (Haywood, 2002).\n\nLitigation PR on the part of defendants is needed, especially in high-profile cases because the media have an inherent bias in favor of plaintiffs and prosecutors. When allegations are made public, the media tend to cast the lawsuit in terms of victim versus villain. News stories frequently lead with the plaintiff or prosecutors’ allegations. If the defendant’s responses are included at all, they appear well into the story. Thus, the defendant is forced on the defensive from the outset. In such situation, “working with the media to create more balanced, accurate, and less sensational coverage of a lawsuit is necessary element in defending high profile defendants\" (Hantler, Schwartz, & Goldberg, 2004, p. 8).\n\n\nTo achieve those objectives, the first step is to establish credibility with the media as an information source. The next step is to control the flow of information to the media so that the right message gets out. The third step is to develop a message that supports the client’s position and get that message out to the media and the public (Fitzpatrick, 1996, Haggerty, 2003, Reber, Gower, & Robinson, 2006).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "83525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83525", "title": "Matriarchy", "text": "Matriarchy\n\nMatriarchy is a social system in which females (most notably in mammals) hold the primary power positions in roles of political leadership, moral authority, social privilege and control of property at the specific exclusion of males — at least to a large degree.\n\nWhile those definitions apply in general English, definitions specific to the disciplines of anthropology and feminism differ in some respects. Most anthropologists hold that there are no known anthropological societies \"that are unambiguously matriarchal\", but some authors believe exceptions may exist or may have.\n\nMatriarchies may also be confused with matrilineal, matrilocal, and matrifocal societies. A few people consider any non-patriarchal system to be matriarchal, thus including genderally equalitarian systems (Peggy Reeves Sanday favors redefining and reintroducing the word matriarchy, especially in reference to contemporary matrilineal societies such as the Minangkabau), but most academics exclude them from matriarchies strictly defined.\n\nIn 19th-century Western scholarship, the hypothesis of matriarchy representing an early, mainly prehistoric, stage of human development gained popularity. Possibilities of so-called primitive societies were cited and the hypothesis survived into the 20th century, including in the context of second-wave feminism. This hypothesis was criticized by some authors such as Cynthia Eller in \"The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory\" and remains as a largely unsolved question to this day. Some older myths describe matriarchies.\n\nSeveral modern feminists have advocated for matriarchy now or in the future and it has appeared in feminist literature. In several theologies, matriarchy has been portrayed as negative.\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" (\"OED\"), matriarchy is a \"form of social organization in which the mother or oldest female is the head of the family, and descent and relationship are reckoned through the female line; government or rule by a woman or women.\" A popular definition, according to James Peoples and Garrick Bailey, is \"female dominance\". Within the academic discipline of cultural anthropology, according to the \"OED\", matriarchy is a \"culture or community in which such a system prevails\" or a \"family, society, organization, etc., dominated by a woman or women.\" In general anthropology, according to William A. Haviland, matriarchy is \"rule by women\". A matriarchy is a society in which females, especially mothers, have the central roles of political leadership, moral authority, and control of property, but does not include a society that occasionally is led by a female for nonmatriarchal reasons or an occupation in which females generally predominate without reference to matriarchy, such as prostitution or women's auxiliaries of organizations run by men. According to Lawrence A. Kuzner in 1997, A. R. Radcliffe-Brown argued in 1924 that the definitions of matriarchy and patriarchy had \"logical and empirical failings ... [and] were too vague to be scientifically useful\".\n\nMost academics exclude egalitarian nonpatriarchal systems from matriarchies more strictly defined. According to Heide Göttner-Abendroth, a reluctance to accept the existence of matriarchies might be based on a specific culturally biased notion of how to define matriarchy: because in a patriarchy men rule over women, a matriarchy has frequently been conceptualized as women ruling over men, while she believed that matriarchies are egalitarian.\nThe word matriarchy, for a society politically led by females, especially mothers, who also control property, is often interpreted to mean the genderal opposite of patriarchy, but it is not an opposite. According to Peoples and Bailey, the view of anthropologist Peggy Reeves Sanday is that matriarchies are not a mirror form of patriarchies but rather that a matriarchy \"emphasizes maternal meanings where 'maternal symbols are linked to social practices influencing the lives of both sexes and where women play a central role in these practices. Journalist Margot Adler wrote, \"literally, ... [\"matriarchy\"] means government by mothers, or more broadly, government and power in the hands of women.\" Barbara Love and Elizabeth Shanklin wrote, \"by 'matriarchy,' we mean a non-alienated society: a society in which women, those who produce the next generation, define motherhood, determine the conditions of motherhood, and determine the environment in which the next generation is reared.\" According to Cynthia Eller, \"'matriarchy' can be thought of ... as a shorthand description for any society in which women's power is equal or superior to men's and in which the culture centers around values and life events described as 'feminine.'\" Eller wrote that the idea of matriarchy mainly rests on two pillars, romanticism and modern social criticism. The notion of matriarchy was meant to describe something like a utopia placed in the past in order to legitimate contemporary social criticism. With respect to a prehistoric matriarchal Golden Age, according to Barbara Epstein, \"matriarchy ... means a social system organized around matriliny and goddess worship in which women have positions of power.\" According to Adler, in the Marxist tradition, it usually refers to a pre-class society \"where women and men share equally in production and power.\"\n\nAccording to Adler, \"a number of feminists note that few definitions of the word [matriarchy], despite its literal meaning, include any concept of power, and they suggest that centuries of oppression have made it impossible for women to conceive of themselves with such power.\"\n\nMatriarchy has often been presented as negative, in contrast to patriarchy as natural and inevitable for society, thus that matriarchy is hopeless. Love and Shanklin wrote:\nWhen we hear the word \"matriarchy\", we are conditioned to a number of responses: that matriarchy refers to the past and that matriarchies have never existed; that matriarchy is a hopeless fantasy of female domination, of mothers dominating children, of women being cruel to men. Conditioning us negatively to matriarchy is, of course, in the interests of patriarchs. We are made to feel that patriarchy is natural; we are less likely to question it, and less likely to direct our energies to ending it.\n\nThe Matriarchal Studies school led by Göttner-Abendroth calls for an even more inclusive redefinition of the term: Göttner-Abendroth defines \"Modern Matriarchal Studies\" as the \"investigation and presentation of non-patriarchal societies\", effectively defining matriarchy as non-patriarchy. She has also defined matriarchy as characterized by the sharing of power equally between the two genders. According to Diane LeBow, \"matriarchal societies are often described as ... egalitarian ...\", although anthropologist Ruby Rohrlich has written of \"the centrality of women in an egalitarian society.\"\n\nMatriarchy is also the public formation in which the woman occupies the ruling position in a family. For this usage, some scholars now prefer the term matrifocal to matriarchal. Some, including Daniel Moynihan, claimed that there is a matriarchy among Black families in the United States, because a quarter of them were headed by single women; thus, families composing a substantial minority of a substantial minority could be enough for the latter to constitute a matriarchy within a larger non-matriarchal society.\n\nEtymologically, it is from Latin \"māter\" (genitive \"mātris\"), \"mother\" and Greek ἄρχειν \"arkhein\", \"to rule\". The notion of matriarchy was defined by Joseph-François Lafitau (1681–1746), who first named it \"ginécocratie\". According to the \"OED\", the earliest known attestation of the word matriarchy is in 1885. By contrast, gynæcocracy, meaning 'rule of women', has been in use since the 17th century, building on the Greek word found in Aristotle and Plutarch.\n\nTerms with similar etymology are also used in various social sciences and humanities to describe matriarchal or \"matriological\" aspects of social, cultural and political processes. Adjective \"matriological\" is derived from the noun \"matriology\" that comes from Latin word \"māter\" (mother) and Greek word λογος (\"logos\", teaching about). The term matriology was used in theology and history of religion as a designation for the study of particular motherly aspects of various female deities. The term was subsequently borrowed by other social sciences and humanities and its meaning was widened in order to describe and define particular female-dominated and female-centered aspects of cultural and social life. The male alternative for matriology is patriology, with patriarchy being the male alternative to matriarchy.\n\nIn their works, Johann Jakob Bachofen and Lewis Morgan used such terms and expressions as \"mother-right\", \"female rule\", \"gyneocracy\", and \"female authority\". All these terms meant the same: the rule by females (mother or wife). Although Bachofen and Lewis Morgan confined the \"mother right\" inside households, it was the basis of female influence upon the whole society. The authors of the classics did not think that \"gyneocracy\" meant 'female government' in politics. They were aware of the fact that the sexual structure of government had no relation to domestic rule and to roles of both sexes.\n\nA matriarchy is also sometimes called a \"gynarchy\", a \"gynocracy\", a \"gynecocracy\", or a \"gynocentric\" society, although these terms do not definitionally emphasize motherhood. Cultural anthropologist Jules de Leeuwe argued that some societies were \"mainly \"gynecocratic\"\" (others being \"mainly \"androcratic\"\").\n\nGynecocracy, gynaecocracy, gynocracy, gyneocracy, and gynarchy generally mean 'government by women over women and men'. All of these words are synonyms in their most important definitions. While these words all share that principal meaning, they differ a little in their additional meanings, so that \"gynecocracy\" also means 'women's social supremacy', \"gynaecocracy\" also means 'government by one woman', 'female dominance', and, derogatorily, 'petticoat government', and \"gynocracy\" also means 'women as the ruling class'. \"Gyneocracy\" is rarely used in modern times. None of these definitions are limited to mothers.\n\nSome question whether a queen ruling without a king is sufficient to constitute female government, given the amount of participation of other men in most such governments. One view is that it is sufficient. \"By the end of [Queen] Elizabeth's reign, gynecocracy was a \"fait accompli\"\", according to historian Paula Louise Scalingi. Gynecocracy is defined by Scalingi as \"government by women\", similar to dictionary definitions (one dictionary adding 'women's social supremacy' to the governing role). Scalingi reported arguments for and against the validity of gynocracy and said, \"the humanists treated the question of female rule as part of the larger controversy over sexual equality.\" Possibly, queenship, because of the power wielded by men in leadership and assisting a queen, leads to queen bee syndrome, contributing to the difficulty of other women in becoming heads of the government.\n\nSome matriarchies have been described by historian Helen Diner as \"a strong gynocracy\" and \"women monopolizing government\" and she described matriarchal Amazons as \"an extreme, feminist wing\" of humanity and that North African women \"ruled the country politically,\" and, according to Adler, Diner \"envision[ed] a dominance matriarchy\".\n\nGynocentrism is the 'dominant or exclusive focus on women', is opposed to androcentrism, and \"invert[s] ... the privilege of the ... [male/female] binary ...[,] [some feminists] arguing for 'the superiority of values embodied in traditionally female experience'\".\n\nSome people who sought evidence for the existence of a matriarchy often mixed matriarchy with anthropological terms and concepts describing specific arrangements in the field of family relationships and the organization of family life, such as matrilineality and matrilocality. These terms refer to intergenerational relationships (as matriarchy may), but do not distinguish between males and females insofar as they apply to specific arrangements for sons as well as daughters from the perspective of their relatives on their mother's side. Accordingly, these concepts do not represent matriarchy as 'power of women over men'.\n\nAnthropologists have begun to use the term matrifocality. There is some debate concerning the terminological delineation between \"matrifocality\" and \"matriarchy\". Matrifocal societies are those in which women, especially mothers, occupy a central position. Anthropologist R. T. Smith refers to \"matrifocality\" as the kinship structure of a social system whereby the mothers assume structural prominence. The term does not necessarily imply domination by women or mothers. In addition, some authors depart from the premise of a mother-child dyad as the core of a human group where the grandmother was the central ancestor with her children and grandchildren clustered around her in an extended family.\n\nThe term matricentric means 'having a mother as head of the family or household'.\nMatristic: Feminist scholars and archeologists such as Marija Gimbutas, Gerda Lerner, and Riane Eisler label their notion of a \"woman-centered\" society surrounding Mother Goddess worship during prehistory (in Paleolithic and Neolithic Europe) and in ancient civilizations by using the term \"matristic\" rather than \"matriarchal.\" Marija Gimbutas states that she uses \"the term matristic simply to avoid the term matriarchy with the understanding that it incorporates matriliny.\"\n\nMatrilineality, in which descent is traced through the female line, is sometimes conflated with historical matriarchy. Sanday favors redefining and reintroducing the word \"matriarchy\", especially in reference to contemporary matrilineal societies such as the Minangkabau. The 19th-century belief that matriarchal societies existed was due to the transmission of \"economic and social power ... through kinship lines\" so that \"in a matrilineal society all power would be channeled through women. Women may not have retained all power and authority in such societies ..., but they would have been in a position to control and dispense power.\"\n\nA matrilocal society defines a society in which a couple resides close to the bride's family rather than the bridegroom's family.\n\nMost anthropologists hold that there are no known societies that are unambiguously matriarchal. According to J. M. Adovasio, Olga Soffer, and Jake Page, no true matriarchy is known actually to have existed. Anthropologist Joan Bamberger argued that the historical record contains no primary sources on any society in which women dominated. Anthropologist Donald Brown's list of human cultural universals (\"viz.\", features shared by nearly all current human societies) includes men being the \"dominant element\" in public political affairs, which he asserts is the contemporary opinion of mainstream anthropology. There are some disagreements and possible exceptions. A belief that women's rule preceded men's rule was, according to Haviland, \"held by many nineteenth-century intellectuals\". The hypothesis survived into the 20th century and was notably advanced in the context of feminism and especially second-wave feminism, but the hypothesis is mostly discredited today, most experts saying that it was never true.\n\nMatriarchs, according to Peoples and Bailey, do exist; there are \"individual matriarchs of families and kin groups.\"\n\n\"The Cambridge Ancient History\" (1975) stated that \"the predominance of a supreme goddess is probably a reflection from the practice of matriarchy which at all times characterized Elamite civilization to a greater or lesser degree\".\n\nTacitus claimed in his book \"Germania\" that in \"the nations of the Sitones a woman is the ruling sex.\"\n\nLegends of Amazon women originated not from South America, but rather Scythia (present day Russia).\n\nPossible matriarchies in Burma are, according to Jorgen Bisch, the Padaungs and, according to Andrew Marshall, the Kayaw.\n\nThe Mosuo culture, which is in China near Tibet, is frequently described as matriarchal. The Mosuo themselves often use this description and they believe it increases interest in their culture and thus attracts tourism. The term matrilineal is sometimes used, and, while more accurate, still doesn't reflect the full complexity of their social organization. In fact, it is not easy to categorize Mosuo culture within traditional Western definitions. They have aspects of a matriarchal culture: Women are often the head of the house, inheritance is through the female line, and women make business decisions. However, unlike in a true matriarchy, political power tends to be in the hands of males.\n\nIn India, of communities recognized in the national Constitution as Scheduled Tribes, \"some ... [are] matriarchal and matrilineal\" \"and thus have been known to be more egalitarian\". According to interviewer Anuj Kumar, Manipur, India, \"has a matriarchal society\", but this may not be a scholarly assessment.\n\nNairs in kerala follow matriarchy system. There were times in the 17th century AD when the Queen was the head of the family. The kingdom passed from the king to his sister's son. The Queen is always the king's sister. The head of the family is the eldest irrespective of gender. Refer kings of Travancore.\n\nAnthropologist Peggy Reeves Sanday said the Minangkabau society may be a matriarchy.\n\nAccording to William S. Turley, \"the role of women in traditional Vietnamese culture was determined [partly] by ... indigenous customs bearing traces of matriarchy\", affecting \"different social classes\" to \"varying degrees\". According to Peter C. Phan, that \"the first three persons leading insurrections against China were women ... that ancient Vietnam was a matriarchal society\" and \"the ancient Vietnamese family system was most likely matriarchal, with women ruling over the clan or tribe\" until the Vietnamese the patriarchal system introduced by the Chinese\", although \"this patriarchal system ... was not able to dislodge the Vietnamese women from their relatively high position in the family and society, especially among the peasants and the lower classes\", with modern \"culture and legal codes ... [promoting more] rights and privileges\" for women than in Chinese culture. According to Chiricosta, the legend of Âu Cơ is said to be evidence of \"the presence of an original 'matriarchy' in North Vietnam and [it] led to the double kinship system, which developed there ... [and which] combined matrilineal and patrilineal patterns of family structure and assigned equal importance to both lines.\" Chiricosta said that other scholars relied on \"this 'matriarchal' aspect of the myth to differentiate Vietnamese society from the pervasive spread of Chinese Confucian patriarchy\" and that \"resistance to China's colonization of Vietnam ... [combined with] the view that Vietnam was originally a matriarchy ... [led to viewing] women's struggles for liberation from (Chinese) patriarchy as a metaphor for the entire nation's struggle for Vietnamese independence.\" According to Keith Weller Taylor, \"the matriarchal flavor of the time is ... attested by the fact that Trung Trac's mother's tomb and spirit temple have survived, although nothing remains of her father\", and the \"society of the Trung sisters\" was \"strongly matrilineal\". According to Donald M. Seekins, an indication of \"the strength of matriarchal values\" was that a woman, Trưng Trắc, with her younger sister Trưng Nhị, raised an army of \"over 80,000 soldiers ... [in which] many of her officers were women\", with which they defeated the Chinese. According to Seekins, \"in [the year] 40, Trung Trac was proclaimed queen, and a capital was built for her\" and modern Vietnam considers the Trung sisters to be heroines. According to Karen G. Turner, in the 3rd century A.D., Lady Triệu to personify the matriarchal culture that mitigated Confucianized patriarchal norms ... [although] she is also painted as something of a freak ... with her ... savage, violent streak.\"\n\nThe Hopi (in what is now the Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona), according to Alice Schlegel, had as its \"gender ideology ... one of female superiority, and it operated within a social actuality of sexual equality.\" According to LeBow (based on Schlegel's work), in the Hopi, \"gender roles ... are egalitarian ... [and] [n]either sex is inferior.\" LeBow concluded that Hopi women \"participate fully in ... political decision-making.\" According to Schlegel, \"the Hopi no longer live as they are described here\" and \"the attitude of female superiority is fading\". Schlegel said the Hopi \"were and still are matrilinial\" and \"the household ... was matrilocal\". Schlegel explains why there was female superiority as that the Hopi believed in \"life as the highest good ... [with] the female principle ... activated in women and in Mother Earth ... as its source\" and that the Hopi \"were not in a state of continual war with equally matched neighbors\" and \"had no standing army\" so that \"the Hopi lacked the spur to masculine superiority\" and, within that, as that women were central to institutions of clan and household and predominated \"within the economic and social systems (in contrast to male predominance within the political and ceremonial systems)\", the Clan Mother, for example, being empowered to overturn land distribution by men if she felt it was unfair, since there was no \"countervailing ... strongly centralized, male-centered political structure\".\n\nThe Iroquois Confederacy or League, combining 5–6 Native American Haudenosaunee nations or tribes before the U.S. became a nation, operated by The Great Binding Law of Peace, a constitution by which women participated in the League's political decision-making, including deciding whether to proceed to war, through what may have been a matriarchy or gyneocracy. According to Doug George-Kanentiio, in this society, mothers exercise central moral and political roles. The dates of this constitution's operation are unknown; the League was formed in approximately 1000–1450, but the constitution was oral until written in about 1880. The League still exists.\n\nGeorge-Kanentiio explains:\n\nIn our society, women are the center of all things. Nature, we believe, has given women the ability to create; therefore it is only natural that women be in positions of power to protect this function...We traced our clans through women; a child born into the world assumed the clan membership of its mother. Our young women were expected to be physically strong...The young women received formal instruction in traditional planting...Since the Iroquois were absolutely dependent upon the crops they grew, whoever controlled this vital activity wielded great power within our communities. It was our belief that since women were the givers of life they naturally regulated the feeding of our people...In all countries, real wealth stems from the control of land and its resources. Our Iroquois philosophers knew this as well as we knew natural law. To us it made sense for women to control the land since they were far more sensitive to the rhythms of the Mother Earth. We did not own the land but were custodians of it. Our women decided any and all issues involving territory, including where a community was to be built and how land was to be used...In our political system, we mandated full equality. Our leaders were selected by a caucus of women before the appointments were subject to popular review...Our traditional governments are composed of an equal number of men and women. The men are chiefs and the women clan-mothers...As leaders, the women closely monitor the actions of the men and retain the right to veto any law they deem inappropriate...Our women not only hold the reigns of political and economic power, they also have the right to determine all issues involving the taking of human life. Declarations of war had to be approved by the women, while treaties of peace were subject to their deliberations.\n\nThe controversy surrounding prehistoric or \"primal\" matriarchy began in reaction to the book by Bachofen, \"Mother Right: An Investigation of the Religious and Juridical Character of Matriarchy in the Ancient World\", in 1861. Several generations of ethnologists were inspired by his pseudo-evolutionary theory of archaic matriarchy. Following him and Jane Ellen Harrison, several generations of scholars, usually arguing from known myths or oral traditions and examination of Neolithic female cult-figures, suggested that many ancient societies might have been matriarchal, or even that there existed a wide-ranging matriarchal society prior to the ancient cultures of which we are aware. According to Uwe Wesel, Bachofen's myth interpretations have proved to be untenable. The concept was further investigated by Lewis Morgan. Many researchers studied the phenomenon of matriarchy afterward, but the basis was laid by the classics of sociology. The notion of a \"woman-centered\" society was developed by Bachofen, whose three-volume \"Myth, Religion, and Mother Right\" (1861) impacted the way classicists such as Harrison, Arthur Evans, Walter Burkert, and James Mellaart looked at the evidence of matriarchal religion in pre-Hellenic societies. According to historian Susan Mann, as of 2000, \"few scholars these days find ... [a \"notion of a stage of primal matriarchy\"] persuasive.\"\n\nThe following excerpts from Lewis Morgan's \"Ancient Society\" will explain the use of the terms: \"In a work of vast research, Bachofen has collected and discussed the evidence of female authority, mother-right, and of female rule, gynecocracy.\" \"Common lands and joint tillage would lead to joint-tenant houses and communism in living; so that gyneocracy seems to require for its creation, descent in the female line. Women thus entrenched in large households, supplied from common stores, in which their own gens so largely predominated in numbers, would produce the phenomena of mother right and gyneocracy, which Bachofen has detected and traced with the aid of fragments of history and of tradition.\"\n\nKurt Derungs is a non-academic author advocating an \"anthropology of landscape\" based on allegedly matriarchal traces in toponymy and folklore.\n\nFriedrich Engels, in 1884, claimed that, in the earliest stages of human social development, there was group marriage and that therefore paternity was disputable, whereas maternity was not, so that a family could be traced only through the female line, and claimed that this was connected with the dominance of women over men or a \"Mutterrecht\", which notion Engels took from Bachofen, who claimed, based on his interpretations of myths, that myths reflected a memory of a time when women dominated over men. Engels speculated that the domestication of animals increased wealth claimed by men. Engels said that men wanted control over women for use as laborers and because they wanted to pass on their wealth to their children, requiring monogamy. Engels did not explain how this could happen in a matriarchal society, but said that women's status declined until they became mere objects in the exchange trade between men and patriarchy was established, causing the global defeat of the female sex and the rise of individualism, competition, and dedication to achievement. According to Eller, Engels may have been influenced with respect to women's status by August Bebel, according to whom this matriarchy resulted in communism while patriarchy did not.\n\nAustrian writer Bertha Diener, also known as Helen Diner, wrote \"Mothers and Amazons\" (1930), which was the first work to focus on women's cultural history. Hers is regarded as a classic of feminist matriarchal study. Her view is that in the past all human societies were matriarchal; then, at some point, most shifted to patriarchal and degenerated. The controversy was reinforced further by the publication of \"The White Goddess\" by Robert Graves (1948) and his later analysis of classical Greek mythology and the vestiges of earlier myths that had been rewritten after a profound change in the religion of Greek civilization that occurred within its very early historical times. From the 1950s, Marija Gimbutas developed a theory of an \"Old European culture\" in Neolithic Europe which had matriarchal traits, replaced by the patriarchal system of the Proto-Indo-Europeans with the spread of Indo-European languages beginning in the Bronze Age. According to Epstein, anthropologists in the 20th century said that \"the goddess worship or matrilocality that evidently existed in many paleolithic societies was not necessarily associated with matriarchy in the sense of women's power over men. Many societies can be found that exhibit those qualities along with female subordination.\" From the 1970s, these ideas were taken up by popular writers of second-wave feminism and expanded with the speculations of Margaret Murray on witchcraft, by the Goddess movement, and in feminist Wicca, as well as in works by Eisler, Elizabeth Gould Davis, and Merlin Stone.\n\n\"A Golden Age of matriarchy\" was, according to Epstein, prominently presented by Charlene Spretnak and \"encouraged\" by Stone and Eisler, but, at least for the Neolithic Age, has been denounced as feminist wishful thinking in \"The Inevitability of Patriarchy\", \"Why Men Rule\", \"Goddess Unmasked\", and \"The Myth of Matriarchal Prehistory\" and is not emphasized in third-wave feminism. According to Eller, Gimbutas had a large part in constructing a myth of historical matriarchy by examining Eastern European cultures that she asserts, by and large, never really bore any resemblance in character to the alleged universal matriarchy suggested by Gimbutas and Graves. She asserts that in \"actually documented primitive societies\" of recent (historical) times, paternity is never ignored and that the sacred status of goddesses does not automatically increase female social status, and believes that this affirms that utopian matriarchy is simply an inversion of antifeminism.\n\nJ.F. del Giorgio insists on a matrifocal, matrilocal, matrilineal Paleolithic society.\n\nAccording to Rohrlich, \"many scholars are convinced that Crete was a matriarchy, ruled by a queen-priestess\" and the \"Cretan civilization\" was \"matriarchal\" before \"1500 B.C.,\" when it was overrun and colonized.\n\nAlso according to Rohrlich, \"in the early Sumerian city-states 'matriarchy seems to have left something more than a trace.\n\nOne common misconception among historians of the Bronze Age such as Stone and Eisler is the notion that the Semites were matriarchal while the Indo-Europeans practiced a patriarchal system. An example of this view is found in Stone's \"When God Was a Woman\", wherein she makes the case that the worship of Yahweh was an Indo-European invention superimposed on an ancient matriarchal Semitic nation. Evidence from the Amorites and pre-Islamic Arabs, however, indicates that the primitive Semitic family was in fact patriarchal and patrilineal.\n\nHowever, not all scholars agree. Anthropologist and Biblical scholar Raphael Patai writes in The Hebrew Goddess that the Jewish religion, far from being pure monotheism, contained from earliest times strong polytheistic elements, chief of which was the cult of Asherah, the mother goddess. A story in the Biblical Book of Judges places the worship of Asherah in the 12th century B.C.E. Originally a Canaanite goddess, her worship was adopted by Hebrews who intermarried with Canaanites. She was worshipped in public and was represented by carved wooden poles. Numerous small nude female figurines of clay were found all over ancient Palestine and a 7th C. Hebrew text invokes her aid for a woman giving birth.\n\nShekinah is the name of the feminine holy spirit who embodies both divine radiance and compassion. She comforts the sick and dejected, accompanies the Jews whenever they are exiled, and intercedes with God to exercise mercy rather than to inflict retribution on sinners. While not a creation of the Hebrew Bible, Shekinah appears in a slightly later Aramaic translation of the Bible in the first or second century C.E., according to Patai. Initially portrayed as the presence of God, she later becomes distinct from God, taking on more physical attributes.\n\nMeanwhile, the Indo-Europeans were known to have practiced multiple succession systems, and there is much better evidence of matrilineal customs among the Indo-European Celts and Germans than among any ancient Semitic peoples.\n\nWomen were running Sparta while the men were often away fighting. Gorgo, Queen of Sparta, was asked by a woman in Attica something along the lines of, \"why are Spartan women the only women in the world who could rule men?\" Gorgo replied, \"Because we are the only women who are mothers of men.\"\n\nArising in the period ranging from the Iron Age to the Middle Ages, several early northwestern European mythologies from the Irish (\"e.g.\", Macha and Scáthach), the Brittonic (\"e.g.\", Rhiannon), and the Germanic (\"e.g.\", Grendel's mother and Nerthus) contain ambiguous episodes of primal female power which have been interpreted as folk evidence of a real potential for matriarchal attitudes in pre-Christian European Iron Age societies. Often transcribed from a retrospective, patriarchal, Romanised, and Catholic perspective, they hint at an earlier, culturally disturbing, era when female power could have predominated. The first-century–attested historic British figure of Boudicca indicates that Brittonnic society permitted explicit female autocracy or a form of gender equality in a form which contrasted strongly with the patriarchal structure of Mediterranean civilisation.\n\nIn 1995, in Kenya, according to Emily Wax, Umoja, a village only for women from one tribe with about 36 residents, was established under a matriarch. Men of the same tribe established a village nearby from which to observe the women's village, the men's leader objecting to the matriarch's questioning the culture and men suing to close the women's village. The village was still operational in 2005 when Wax reported on it.\n\nSpokespersons for various indigenous peoples at the United Nations and elsewhere have highlighted the central role of women in their societies, referring to them as matriarchies, or as matriarchal in character.\n\nMatriarchy may also refer to non-human animal species in which females hold higher status and hierarchical positions, such as among lions, elephants, and bonobos.\n\nA legendary matriarchy related by several writers was Amazon society. According to Phyllis Chesler, \"in Amazon societies, women were ... mothers and their society's only political and religious leaders\", as well as the only warriors and hunters; \"queens were elected\" and apparently \"any woman could aspire to and achieve full human expression.\" Herodotus reported that the Sarmatians were descendants of Amazons and Scythians, and that their females observed their ancient maternal customs, \"frequently hunting on horseback with their husbands; in war taking the field; and wearing the very same dress as the men\". Moreover, said Herodotus, \"no girl shall wed till she has killed a man in battle\". Amazons came to play a role in Roman historiography. Julius Caesar spoke of the conquest of large parts of Asia by Semiramis and the Amazons. Although Strabo was sceptical about their historicity, the Amazons were taken as historical throughout late Antiquity. Several Church Fathers spoke of the Amazons as a real people. Medieval authors continued a tradition of locating the Amazons in the North, Adam of Bremen placing them at the Baltic Sea and Paulus Diaconus in the heart of Germania.\n\nRobert Graves suggested that a myth displaced earlier myths that had to change when a major cultural change brought patriarchy to replace a matriarchy. According to this myth, in Greek mythology, Zeus is said to have swallowed his pregnant lover, the titan goddess Metis, who was carrying their daughter, Athena. The mother and child created havoc inside Zeus. Either Hermes or Hephaestus split Zeus's head, allowing Athena, in full battle armor, to burst forth from his forehead. Athena was thus described as being \"born\" from Zeus. The outcome pleased Zeus as it didn't fulfill the prophecy of Themis which (according to Aeschylus) predicted that Zeus will one day bear a son that would overthrow him. \n\nAccording to Adler, \"there \"is\" plenty of evidence of ancient societies where women held greater power than in many societies today. For example, Jean Markale's studies of Celtic societies show that the power of women was reflected not only in myth and legend but in legal codes pertaining to marriage, divorce, property ownership, and the right to rule.\"\n\nBamberger (1974) examines several matriarchal myths from South American cultures and concludes that portraying the women from this matriarchal period as immoral often serves to restrain contemporary women in these societies. \n\nWhile \"matriarchy\" has mostly fallen out of use for the anthropological description of existing societies, it remains current as a concept in feminism.\nIn first-wave feminist discourse, either Elizabeth Cady Stanton or Margaret Fuller (it is unclear who was first) introduced the concept of matriarchy and the discourse was joined in by Matilda Joslyn Gage. Victoria Woodhull, in 1871, called for men to open the U.S. government to women or a new constitution and government would be formed in a year; and, on a basis of equality, she ran to be elected President in 1872. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, in 1911 and 1914, argued for \"a woman-centered, or better mother-centered, world\" and described government by women. She argued that a government led by either sex must be assisted by the other, both genders being \"useful ... and should in our governments be alike used\", because men and women have different qualities.\n\nCultural feminism includes \"matriarchal worship\", according to Prof. James Penner.\n\nIn feminist literature, matriarchy and patriarchy are not conceived as simple mirrors of each other. While \"matriarchy\" sometimes means \"the political rule of women\", that meaning is often rejected, on the ground that matriarchy is not a mirroring of patriarchy. Patriarchy is held to be about power over others while matriarchy is held to be about power from within, Starhawk having written on that distinction and Adler having argued that matriarchal power is not possessive and not controlling, but is harmonious with nature.\n\nFor radical feminists, the importance of matriarchy is that \"veneration for the female principle ... somewhat lightens an oppressive system.\"\n\nFeminist utopias are a form of advocacy. According to Tineke Willemsen, \"a feminist utopia would ... be the description of a place where at least women would like to live.\" Willemsen continues, among \"type[s] of feminist utopias[,] ... [one] stem[s] from feminists who emphasize the differences between women and men. They tend to formulate their ideal world in terms of a society where women's positions are better than men's. There are various forms of matriarchy, or even a utopia that resembles the Greek myth of the Amazons... [V]ery few modern utopias have been developed in which women are absolute autocrats.\"\n\nA minority of feminists, generally radical, have argued that women should govern societies of women and men. In all of these advocacies, the governing women are not limited to mothers:\n\nSome such advocacies are informed by work on past matriarchy:\n\n\nSome fiction caricatured the current gender hierarchy by describing a matriarchal alternative without advocating for it. According to Karin Schönpflug, \"Gerd Brantenberg's \"Egalia's Daughters\" is a caricature of powered gender relations which have been completely reversed, with the female sex on the top and the male sex a degraded, oppressed group\"; \"gender inequality is expressed through power inversion\" and \"all gender roles are reversed and women rule over a class of intimidated, effeminate men\". \"\"Egalia\" is not a typical example of gender inequality in the sense that a vision of a desirable matriarchy is created; \"Egalia\" is more a caricature of male hegemony by twisting gender hierarchy but not really offering a 'better world.\n\nOn egalitarian matriarchy, Heide Göttner-Abendroth's International Academy for Modern Matriarchal Studies and Matriarchal Spirituality (HAGIA) organized conferences in Luxembourg in 2003 and Texas in 2005, with papers published. Göttner-Abendroth argued that \"matriarchies are all egalitarian at least in terms of gender—they have no gender hierarchy ... [, that, f]or many matriarchal societies, the social order is completely egalitarian at both local and regional levels\", that, \"for our own path toward new egalitarian societies, we can gain ... insight from ... [\"tested\"] matriarchal patterns\", and that \"matriarchies are not abstract \"utopias\", constructed according to philosophical concepts that could never be implemented.\"\n\nAccording to Eller, \"a deep distrust of men's ability to adhere to\" future matriarchal requirements may invoke a need \"to retain at least some degree of female hegemony to insure against a return to patriarchal control\", \"feminists ... [having] the understanding that female dominance is better for society—and better for men—than the present world order\", as is equalitarianism. On the other hand, Eller continued, if men can be trusted to accept equality, probably most feminists seeking future matriarchy would accept an equalitarian model.\n\n\"Demographic[ally]\", \"feminist matriarchalists run the gamut\" but primarily are \"in white, well-educated, middle-class circles\"; many of the adherents are \"religiously inclined\" while others are \"quite secular\".\n\nBiology as a ground for holding either males or females superior over the other has been criticized as invalid, such as by Andrea Dworkin and by Robin Morgan. A claim that women have unique characteristics that prevent women's assimilation with men has been apparently rejected by Ti-Grace Atkinson. On the other hand, not all advocates based their arguments on biology or essentialism.\n\nA criticism by Mansfield of choosing who governs according to gender or sex is that the best qualified people should be chosen, regardless of gender or sex. On the other hand, Mansfield considered merit insufficient for office, because a legal right granted by a sovereign (\"e.g.\", a king), was more important than merit.\n\nDiversity within a proposed community can, according to Becki L. Ross, make it especially challenging to complete forming the community. However, some advocacy includes diversity, in the views of Dworkin and Farley.\n\nProf. Christine Stansell, a feminist, wrote that, for feminists to achieve state power, women must democratically cooperate with men. \"Women must take their place with a new generation of brothers in a struggle for the world's fortunes. Herland, whether of virtuous matrons or daring sisters, is not an option... [T]he well-being and liberty of women cannot be separated from democracy's survival.\" (\"Herland\" was feminist utopian fiction by Charlotte Perkins Gilman in 1911, featuring a community entirely of women except for three men who seek it out, strong women in a matriarchal utopia expected to last for generations, although Charlotte Perkins Gilman was herself a feminist advocate of society being gender-integrated and of women's freedom.)\n\nOther criticisms of superiority are that it is reverse sexism or discriminatory against men, it is opposed by most people including most feminists, women do not want such a position, governing takes women away from family responsibilities, women are too likely to be unable to serve politically because of menstruation and pregnancy, public affairs are too sordid for women and would cost women their respect and femininity (apparently including fertility), superiority is not traditional, women lack the political capacity and authority men have, it is impractical because of a shortage of women with the ability to govern at that level of difficulty as well as the desire and ability to wage war, women are less aggressive, or less often so, than are men and politics is aggressive, women legislating would not serve men's interests or would serve only petty interests, it is contradicted by current science on genderal differences, it is unnatural, and, in the views of a playwright and a novelist, \"women cannot govern on their own.\" On the other hand, another view is that \"women have 'empire' over men\" because of nature and \"men ... are actually obeying\" women.\n\nPursuing a future matriarchy would tend to risk sacrificing feminists' position in present social arrangements, and many feminists are not willing to take that chance, according to Eller. \"Political feminists tend to regard discussions of what utopia would look like as a good way of setting themselves up for disappointment\", according to Eller, and argue that immediate political issues must get the highest priority.\n\n\"Matriarchists\", as typified by comic character Wonder Woman were criticized by Kathie Sarachild, Carol Hanisch, and some others.\n\nSome theologies and theocracies limit or forbid women from being in civil government or public leadership or forbid them from voting, effectively criticizing and forbidding matriarchy. Within none of the following religions is the respective view necessarily universally held:\n\n\nFeminist thealogy, according to Eller, conceptualized humanity as beginning with \"female-ruled or equalitarian societies\", until displaced by patriarchies, and that in the millennial future gynocentric,' life-loving values\" will return to prominence. This, according to Eller, produces \"a virtually infinite number of years of female equality or superiority coming both at the beginning and end of historical time\".\n\nAmong criticisms is that a future matriarchy, according to Eller, as a reflection of spirituality, is conceived as ahistorical, and thus may be unrealistic, unreachable, or even meaningless as a goal to secular feminists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7842528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7842528", "title": "Mobile social network", "text": "Mobile social network\n\nMobile social networking (MSN) is social networking where individuals with similar interests converse and connect with one another through their mobile phone and/or tablet. Much like web-based social networking, mobile social networking occurs in virtual communities.\n\nMany web-based social networking sites, such as Facebook and Twitter, have created mobile applications to give their users instant and real-time access from anywhere they have access to the Internet. Additionally, native mobile social networks have been created, such as Instagram, Foursquare, and Strava, to allow communities to be built around mobile functionality.\n\nMore and more, the line between mobile and web is being blurred as mobile apps use existing social networks to create native communities and promote discovery, and web-based social networks take advantage of mobile features and accessibility.\n\nAs mobile web evolved from proprietary mobile technologies and networks, to full mobile access to the Internet, the distinction changed to the following types:\n\n\nWhile mobile and web-based social networking systems often work symbiotically to spread content, increase accessibility, and connect users, consumers are increasingly spending their attention on native apps compared to web browsers.\n\nThe evolution of social networking on mobile networks started in 1999 with basic chatting and texting services. With the introduction of various technologies in mobile networks, social networking has reached an advance level over four generations.\n\nTechnologies used in this generation are application-based, pre-installed on mobile handsets. Features include text-only chat via chat rooms. The people who used these services were anonymous. The services of this generation's mobile social networks can be used on a pay-as-you-go or subscription-to-service basis.\n\nThe introduction of 3G and camera phones added many features such as uploading photos, mobile search for person based on profile, and contacting/flirting with another person anonymously. Regional distributions of these features include Japan, Korea, Australia, Western Europe and US. The applications are mostly useful for dating purposes. The services of this generation's mobile social networks can be used on a pay-as-you-go or subscription-to-service basis.\n\nThe experiments for this generation mobile social networks started in 2006. It was adopted widely in 2008/2009. This generation brought tremendous changes and made mobile social networks as a part of daily life. The features include a richer user experience, automatic publishing to web profile and status updates, some Web 2.0 features, search by group/join by interests, alerts, location-based services and content sharing (especially music). Technologies include WAP 2.0, Java on the server, MMS, and voice capture. Applications introduced were customized with general interests such as music and mobile-specific content distribution. Regional distributions of this generation of mobile social networks include Japan, Korea, Western Europe, and North America. Advertising and ad-supported content become increasingly important. The services in this generation can be used with pay-as-you-go plans; subscription-based plans were still popular as networks increased their scale to become content distribution platforms.\n\nFourth generation began in 2008 and reached in 2010. All the features in third generation are advanced in this generation of social mobile networks. The features of this generation include the features of the third generation, the ability to hide/mask one's presence, asynchronous video conversation, multi-point audio chat conversation with one button, and multiplayer mobile gaming. Technologies which made these features possible are Web 2.0 widgets, Flash Lite, OpenSocial, and Open Handset Alliance. The business model of previous generations continued along with virtual currency – the purchase and trade of virtual goods.\n\nIn parallel to the increase of various technologies in mobile networks, the number of hours spent per adult on mobile devices per day has increased dramatically since 2008. As of 2014, mobile devices have surpassed desktop/laptops as the most used device per day for internet usage. A steady increase of mobile application usage over the past few years has contributed to the rise of mobile social networks, as well as to the diversity of usage of mobile social networks.\n\nAs the use of mobile social networks has increased, the location-based services within the mobile social network has also been increasing. Social network service companies now provide more location-based services for customers' wide use of the mobile devices and their convenience.\n\nMobile social networking sites allow users to create a profile, send and receive messages via phone or computer and visit an online version of a mobile site. There were different models which were adapted by different networking sites. Most of these sites have many unique features or special functions, but the main function of the site remains the same as other services. All these sites are categorized according to the following business models and usage.\n\nSimilar to there being many online social networking sites, such as Facebook and Twitter, there are just as many social network on mobile devices. They offer vast number of functions including multimedia posts, photo sharing, and instant messaging. Most of these mobile apps offer free international calling and texting capabilities. Today, social networking apps are not just for the social aspect, but are frequently used for professional aspects as well, such as LinkedIn, which is still constantly growing. Along with sharing multimedia posts and instant messaging, social networks are commonly used to connect immigrants in a new country. While the thought of moving to a new country may be intimidating for many, social media can be used to connect immigrants of the same land together to make assimilation a little less stressful.\n\nThis model is focused on the ability to send short, text-based messages to an individual, group of close friends, or even a large group of classmates, simultaneously. This category enables messages to reach the right people as quickly as possible. Many messaging apps are very popular, maybe even more than classical texting. Some social network platforms, such as Facebook, have their own native messaging applications, similar to Facebook Messenger. Different countries have a certain messenger that is predominant, like China with WeChat, Korea with KakaoTalk, and the US with WhatsApp.\n\nThis can be viewed as an advanced version of the messenger category. In addition to text messages, audio and video files can be transmitted among a group, such as Skype or Oovoo, which are forms of online video chatting. In the case of Instagram and Vine, photos and videos of personal lives are shared to either friends or to the public. Similarly, Pinterest is used to share photos, but on a more community level. The largest media sharing app today is YouTube, which allows people post videos and share with the public. Many of these services store media content online for easy storage and access.\n\nSome mobile social networks, such as Yelp, FourSquare and YikYak, allow users to search for local venues. Many of these apps publish crowd-sourced reviews and tips about restaurants, shops, places of interest and more. Yelp and FourSquare also personalizes each user's database according to their latest search and interest to make searching more efficient.\n\nThis model is about connecting people through both multi-player games and competitive single-player games. Mobile devices are always increasing their capacity for graphics performance and computing power, making them capable gaming devices. The leader in this category is Zynga, creators of \"Farmville\" and \"Words with Friends\", though it has suffered a decline. \"Hearthstone\" is another popular mobile game where players use monster and spell cards to fight each other. Many games also introduce the idea of having another player as an \"ally\" during game play. For example, in \"Naruto Blazing\", players can choose one person from a set of players to be on their team while fighting enemies throughout the game. Mobile social networks can also connect people outside of the mobile environment. \"Pokemon Go\" incorporated augmented reality to allow players to catch Pokemon while together physically while outside. Players can also battle each other at gyms in various locations in the world. Facebook has also integrated games through its chat messenger. For example, friends can play chess by sending \"@fbchess play\" to the other person or basketball by sending a basketball emoji and clicking on the emoji.\n\nThese are location-based apps that allow users to create a profile and are matched with those who have similar interests. Some of these sites use radar to ping a user if there is a matching single profile within a certain distance. Tinder was the first dating app that started the trend and has one of the largest user base. Other dating apps include Coffee Meets Bagel and OkCupid. These sites are marked with serious security measures, so that no personal details are released without the user's consent. However, there still has been several dangerous incidents that rose questions of whether Tinder-like apps are safe and should be kept around.\n\nMusic apps connect people by sharing playlists and being able to see what other people are listening to. Spotify, a very popular music site, is also used to social networking in a sense that people can see what their friends are listening to at the moment as well. Users can also follow certain artists or even friends that they want to, which is a form of “liking” a post on Facebook. Other social media music apps include radio stations like Pandora and last.fm.\n\nRecently, mobile social networks has also been used to motivate individuals to stick to their fitness and health goals. These social networks either work as a form of encouragement by rewarding the individual when they have accomplish a goal, or as a form of punishment by disciplining those who failed to accomplish their goal through a monetary cost or social pressure. An example of this network is PACT. In PACT, individuals make a weekly goal to exercise more or eat healthier and set a monetary amount that you will pay if you don’t succeed. Using the app, you can prove that you were at the gym through GPS or that you ate healthy meals by uploading pictures of the meal. If you succeed in your goal, you earn cash paid by members who didn’t keep to their goals.\n\nStrava is another mobile social network application that lets you keep track of your activities using GPS and analyze your performance through metrics such as speed and distance. Using the social network, you can meet other individuals who are also into the same activities as you and find out about new track routes or challenges or other athletic content.\n\nMobile commerce, or m-commerce, is a branch of e-commerce, that is available in a form of apps and mobile sites. In some apps like letgo, it is easy for the buyer to talk to the seller about specifics about the product or negotiate the price and this assumes a form of social networking. It also narrows the search down by cities and topics to make it more efficient. Some major e-commerce sites, such as Amazon and eBay, are also available in apps, so that people can shop anytime and anywhere. Particularly, however, some mobile social media networks add m-commerce functionalities to their applications. For instance, there is the case of the Facebook Marketplace where people can sell and purchase products through their mobile devices. Many e-commerce and m-commerce applications are also increasingly developed to interface with other applications such as mobile payment, banking, and ticketing applications so customers can easily pay or accept payments. There is the case of Instagram, which in 2018 became open to merchants using the Shopify platform. \n\nMobile payment social networks such as Venmo and Square Cash allow for person-to-person money transfer between family and friends, with a swipeable feed of payment details similar to Facebook's News Feed.\n\nThere are still many functionalities of mobile social networks that do not fall into any specific categories. One is collecting rebates. Ibotta allows users to submit receipts to collect rebates for items they have purchased. They also added in a teamwork element where you can work with your friends to reach goals such as redeeming a certain amount of dollars or redeeming a certain amount of rebates for monetary rewards. Observers are also expecting the mobile social computing platform to be pivotal in the emergence of new technologies due to its rich sensing capabilities. For instance, it can augment real-world experiences, allowing mobile devices to bridge the physical world and the Internet.\n\nThe rise of the digital age has made social media a lasting trend, Facebook is still the leader of social networks, were initially as web-based and then extended towards access via mobile browsers and smartphone apps. Compared with Twitter, Instagram, and Pinterest, Facebook continues to dominate the social media world. As of the fourth quarter of 2015, 823 million Facebook users accessed the social network exclusively through mobile device, exceed from 526 million users in the previous year. In 2016, there was Instagram started as mobile and later developed into web-based platforms as well. In 2016, there was practically 1.6 billion active users around the world. Moreover, in the United States, a study named the usage of the most popular mobile social networking percentages showed that social media audiences spent a total of 230 billion minutes on Facebook in 2014, 80% higher than Instagram. Until January 2016, 52% of users in North America accessed social media through mobile when the global mobile social penetration rate was 27%. The report in 2017 showed that around 1 billion users will visit Facebook via mobile devices and during this year, the US market plays a significant role with nearly 80% of Facebook users using mobile devices to access their accounts. Facebook mobile advertising revenue account for 10 billion dollars and occupy for 74% of revenue in total. It shows that by 2018, more than 75% of the Facebook users worldwide will access the service via their mobile phones.\n\nSafety issues (including security, privacy, and trust) in mobile social networks are concerned about the condition of being protected against different types of failure, damage, error, accidents, harm or any other non-desirable event, while mobile carriers contact each other in mobile environments. However, lack of a protective infrastructure in these networks has turned them in to convenient targets for various perils. This is the main impulse why MSNs carry disparate and intricate safety concerns and embrace divergent safety challenging problems.\n\nThere has been cases where a user was caused bodily harm through mobile social media. For example, Kurt Eichenwald was sent a tweet with a flashing animated image by another user who knew that Eichenwald had epilepsy, causing a seizure. As a result of these dangers, many mobile social networks such as Twitter and Facebook have implemented various methods for protecting user safety such as removing harmful users, detecting malware, and verifying a user's identity; however, these policies are still in the workings.\n\nOther than online safety issues, the evolution of mobile devices has also introduced new offline, or physical, safety concerns. The distractions caused by mobile social networks have cause numerous accidents due to the user not paying attention to their surroundings. According to the National Safety Council, nearly 330,000 injuries occur each year from accidents where the driver was texting while driving. The safety issues caused by distractions from mobile social network became more prominent after the release of Pokemon Go in July 2016. In Pokemon Go, users can catch pokemon while walking around outdoors on their phones. While this game has positive impacts such as getting players to exercise, increasing museum and theme park visitors, and helping single people find dates, it has also led to more accidents. In California, two men fell over 40 feet from an ocean bluff while playing Pokemon Go. In Auburn, a driver went off the road and hit a tree because he was playing Pokemon Go while driving. In Pittsburgh, a teenager crossed a highway to catch a pokemon and was hit by a car because she was distracted.\n\nAnother safety concern arose from mobile dating applications such as Tinder and Hinge, where single people are matched up with each other to go on dates. These environments make it much easier for criminals to commit crimes such as rape and murder because it is difficult for users to completely know the other person before agreeing to meet them face to face. In England and Wales, there were 204 reported crimes due to Tinder or Grindr in 2014. This number rose to 412 in 2015. On November 23, 2016, Stephen Port was convicted for rape and murder of 4 men who he met on the Grindr. In April 2016, Ingrid Lyne was murdered and her accused murderer was a man she had met on a dating app. While there are many dangers to meeting people online, it has also successfully helped single people find love and marriage. Increasing the safety procedures regarding mobile dating applications is an ongoing work by the police force and by the developers of these mobile applications.\n\nWhile Japan, Korea, and China have a higher usage rate of mobile social networks compared to other western countries, the United States is a prevalent user of mobile social networks. The US has a population of 303.82 million people and a mobile penetration of 72% with 219.73 million mobile subscribers in 2008. Informa forecasts the number of mobile subscribers to rise to 243.27 million by 2013.\n\nThe mobile data market in the US is at a developed stage of growth where non-messaging data revenues account for 20% of US operators' overall data revenues. In September 2012, the CTIA (Cellular Telephone Industries Association) announced that data service revenues rose 40% to US $14.8 billion. The CTIA announced that SMS usage had maintained its strong growth.\n\nSocial networking once began in the online space, but it has rapidly spread to mobile platforms. Currently, consumption of mobile internet usage is being driven by mobile social networking. Data shows that the US has 220.14 million online internet users which is 72.5% of the population. Flat-rate data plans have been prevalent in the US for a number of years but the customer adoption of mobile internet was slow until 2008. However, the introduction of the iPhone has definitely increased the market for mobile internet. iPhones have transformed the mobile social network market, and today there is numerous mobile development for social network apps.\n\nThe US mobile social networking market experienced steady growth in 2008 with 6.4 million mobile social network users. Since then, the number of mobile users has continued to grow and below is graph forecasting the growth until 2013. According to Statista.com, the most popular social media networking app as of 2016 is Facebook at 123.55 million monthly users, surpassing the next most popular app, Facebook Messenger, which has 97.86 million monthly users.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1282344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1282344", "title": "Neo-Luddism", "text": "Neo-Luddism\n\nNeo-Luddism or new Luddism is a philosophy opposing many forms of modern technology. The word Luddite is generally used as a derogatory term applied to people showing technophobic leanings. The name is based on the historical legacy of the English Luddites, who were active between 1811 and 1816.\n\nNeo-Luddism is a leaderless movement of non-affiliated groups who resist modern technologies and dictate a return of some or all technologies to a more primitive level. Neo-Luddites are characterized by one or more of the following practices: passively abandoning the use of technology, harming those who produce technology, advocating simple living, or sabotaging technology. The modern neo-Luddite movement has connections with the anti-globalization movement, anti-science movement, anarcho-primitivism, radical environmentalism, and deep ecology.\n\nNeo-Luddism is based on the concern of the technological impact on individuals, their communities, and/or the environment, Neo-Luddism stipulates the use of the precautionary principle for all new technologies, insisting that technologies be proven safe before adoption, due to the unknown effects that new technologies might inspire.\n\nNeo-Luddism calls for slowing or stopping the development of new technologies. Neo-Luddism prescribes a lifestyle that abandons specific technologies, because of its belief that this is the best prospect for the future. As Robin and Webster put it, \"a return to nature and what are imagined as more natural communities.\" In the place of industrial capitalism, neo-Luddism prescribes small-scale agricultural communities such as those of the Amish and the Chipko movement in Nepal and India as models for the future.\n\nNeo-Luddism denies the ability of any new technology to solve current problems, such as environmental degradation, nuclear warfare and biological weapons, without creating more, potentially dangerous problems. Neo-Luddites are generally opposed to anthropocentrism, globalization and industrial capitalism.\n\nIn 1990, attempting to reclaim the term 'Luddite' and found a unified movement, Chellis Glendinning published her \"Notes towards a Neo-Luddite manifesto\". In this paper, Glendinning describes neo-Luddites as \"20th century citizens—activists, workers, neighbors, social critics, and scholars—who question the predominant modern worldview, which preaches that unbridled technology represents progress.\" Glendinning voices an opposition to technologies that she deems destructive to communities or are materialistic and rationalistic. She proposes that technology encourages biases, and therefore should question if technologies have been created for specific interests, to perpetuate their specific values including short-term efficiency, ease of production and marketing, as well as profit. Glendinning also says that secondary aspects of technology, including social, economic and ecological implications, and not personal benefit need to be considered before adoption of technology into the technological system.\n\nNeo-Luddism often establishes stark predictions about the effect of new technologies. \nAlthough there is not a cohesive vision of the ramifications of technology, neo-Luddism predicts that a future without technological reform has dire consequences. Neo-Luddites believe that current technologies are a threat to humanity and to the natural world in general, and that a future societal collapse is possible or even probable. \n\nNeo-Luddite Ted Kaczynski predicted a world with a depleted environment, an increase in psychological disorders, with either \"leftists\" who aim to control humanity through technology, or technology directly controlling humanity. According to Sale, \"The industrial civilization so well served by its potent technologies cannot last, and will not last; its collapse is certain within not more than a few decades.\". Stephen Hawking, a famous astrophysicist, predicted that the means of production will be controlled by the \"machine owner\" class and that without redistribution of wealth technology will create more economic inequality.\n\nThese predictions include changes in humanity's place in the future due to replacement of humans by computers, genetic decay of humans due to lack of natural selection, biological engineering of humans, misuse of technological power including disasters caused by genetically modified organisms, nuclear warfare, and biological weapons; control of humanity using surveillance, propaganda, pharmacological control, and psychological control; humanity failing to adapt to the future manifesting as an increase in psychological disorders, widening economic and political inequality, widespread social alienation, a loss of community, and massive unemployment; technology causing environmental degradation due to shortsightedness, overpopulation, and overcrowding.\n\nIn 1990, attempting to reclaim the term 'Luddite' and found a unified movement, Chellis Glendinning published her \"Notes towards a Neo-Luddite manifesto\". In this paper, Glendinning proposes destroying the following technologies: electromagnetic technologies (this includes communications, computers, appliances, and refrigeration), chemical technologies (this includes synthetic materials and medicine), nuclear technologies (this includes weapons and power as well as cancer treatment, sterilization, and smoke detection), genetic engineering (this includes crops as well as insulin production). She argues in favor of the \"search for new technological forms\" which are local in scale and promote social and political freedom.\nIn \"The coming revolution\", Kaczynski outlined what he saw as changes humanity will have to make in order to make society functional, \"new values that will free them from the yoke of the present technoindustrial system\", including:\n\nContemporary neo-Luddites are a widely diverse group of loosely affiliated or non-affiliated groups which includes \"writers, academics, students, families, Amish, Mennonites, Quakers, environmentalists, \"fallen-away yuppies,\" \"ageing flower children\" and \"young idealists seeking a technology-free environment.\" Some Luddites see themselves as victims of technology trying to prevent further victimization (such as Citizens Against Pesticide Misuse and Parents Against Underage Smartphones). Others see themselves as advocates for the natural order and resist environmental degradation by technology (such as Earth First!).\n\nOne neo-Luddite assembly was the \"Second Neo-Luddite Congress\", held April 13–15, 1996, at a Quaker meeting hall in Barnesville, Ohio. On February 24, 2001, the \"Teach-In on Technology and Globalization\" was held at Hunter College in New York city with the purpose to bring together critics of technology and globalization. The two figures who are seen as the movement's founders are Chellis Glendinning and Kirkpatrick Sale. Prominent neo-Luddites include educator S. D. George, ecologist Stephanie Mills, Theodore Roszak, Scott Savage, Clifford Stoll, Bill McKibben, Neil Postman, Wendell Berry, Alan Marshall and Gene Logsdon. Postman, however, did not consider himself a Luddite and loathed being associated with the term.\n\nSome neo-Luddites use vandalism and or violence to achieve social change and promote their cause.\n\nIn May 2012, credit for the shooting of Roberto Adinolfi, an Ansaldo Nucleare executive, was claimed by an anarchist group who targeted him for stating that none of the deaths following the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami were caused by the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster itself: Adinolfi knows well that it is only a matter of time before a European Fukushima kills on our continent [...] Science in centuries past promised us a golden age, but it is pushing us towards self destruction and slavery [...] With our action we give back to you a small part of the suffering that you scientists are bringing to the world.\n\nKaczynski, also known as the \"Unabomber\", initially sabotaged developments near his cabin but dedicated himself to getting back at the system after discovering a road had been built over a plateau he had considered beautiful. Between 1978 and 1995, Kaczynski engaged in a nationwide bombing campaign against modern technology, planting or mailing numerous home-made bombs, killing three people and injuring 23 others. In his 1995 manifesto, \"Industrial Society and Its Future\", Kaczynski states: The kind of revolution we have in mind will not necessarily involve an armed uprising against any government. It may or may not involve physical violence, but it will not be a POLITICAL revolution. Its focus will be on technology and economics, not politics.\n\nIn August 2011 in Mexico a group or person calling itself Individuals Tending Towards the Wild perpetrated an attack with a bomb at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education, State of Mexico Campus, intended for the coordinator of its Business Development Center and Technology Transfer. The attack was accompanied by the publication of a manifesto criticizing nanotechnology and computer science.\n\nSale says that neo-Luddites are not motivated to commit violence or vandalism. The manifesto of the 'Second Luddite Congress', which Sale took a major part in defining, attempts to redefine neo-Luddites as people who reject violent action.\n\nAccording to Julian Young, Martin Heidegger was a Luddite in his early philosophical phase and believed in the destruction of modern technology and a return to an earlier agrarian world. However, the did not see technology as wholly negative and did not call for its abandonment or destruction. In \"The Question Concerning Technology\" (1953), Heidegger posited that the modern technological \"mode of Being\" was one which viewed the natural world, plants, animals, and even human beings as a \"standing-reserve\"—resources to be exploited as means to an end. To illustrate this \"monstrousness\", Heidegger uses the example of a hydroelectric plant on the Rhine river which turns the river from an unspoiled natural wonder to just a supplier of hydropower. In this sense, technology is not just the collection of tools, but a way of being in the world and of understanding the world which is instrumental and grotesque. According to Heidegger, this way of being defines the modern way of living in the West. For Heidegger, this technological process ends up reducing beings to not-beings, which Heidegger calls 'the abandonment of being' and involves the loss of any sense of awe and wonder, as well as an indifference to that loss.\n\nOne of the first major contemporary anti-technological thinkers was French philosopher Jacques Ellul. In his \"The Technological Society\" (1964), Ellul argued that the rationality of technology enforces logical and mechanical organization which \"eliminates or subordinates the natural world.\" Ellul defined \"technique\" as the entire totality of organizational methods and technology with a goal toward maximum rational efficiency. According to Ellul, technique has an impetus which tends to drown out human concerns: \"The only thing that matters technically is yield, production. This is the law of \"technique\"; this yield can only be obtained by the total mobilization of human beings, body and soul, and this implies the exploitation of all human psychic forces.\" Another critic of political and technological expansion was Lewis Mumford, who wrote \"The Myth of the Machine\". The views of Ellul influenced the ideas of the infamous American neo-Luddite Kaczynski. The opening of Kaczynski's manifesto reads: \"The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have been a disaster for the human race.\" Other philosophers of technology who have questioned the validity of technological progress include Albert Borgmann, Don Ihde and Hubert Dreyfus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1001880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1001880", "title": "Octavia Hill", "text": "Octavia Hill\n\nOctavia Hill (3 December 1838 – 13 August 1912) was an English social reformer, whose main concern was the welfare of the inhabitants of cities, especially London, in the second half of the nineteenth century. Born into a family with a strong commitment to alleviating poverty, she herself grew up in straitened circumstances owing to the financial failure of her father. With no formal schooling, she worked from the age of 14 for the welfare of working people.\n\nHill was a moving force behind the development of social housing, and her early friendship with John Ruskin enabled her to put her theories into practice with the aid of his initial investment. She believed in self-reliance, and made it a key part of her housing system that she and her assistants knew their tenants personally and encouraged them to better themselves. She was opposed to municipal provision of housing, believing it to be bureaucratic and impersonal.\n\nAnother of Hill's concerns was the availability of open spaces for poor people. She campaigned against development on existing suburban woodlands, and helped to save London's Hampstead Heath and Parliament Hill Fields from being built on. She was one of the three founders of the National Trust, set up to preserve places of historic interest or natural beauty for the enjoyment of the British public. She was a founder member of the Charity Organisation Society (now the charity Family Action) which organised charitable grants and pioneered a home-visiting service that formed the basis for modern social work. She was a member of the Royal Commission on the Poor Laws in 1905.\n\nHill's legacy includes the large holdings of the modern National Trust, several housing projects still run on her lines, a tradition of training for housing managers, and the museum established by the Octavia Hill Society at her birthplace.\n\nOctavia Hill was the daughter of James Hill, corn merchant, follower of Owenism and banker, and his third wife, Caroline Southwood Smith. He had been widowed twice, and had six children (five daughters and a son) from his previous marriages. He had been impressed by the writings on education of Caroline Southwood Smith, the daughter of Dr Thomas Southwood Smith, a pioneer of sanitary reform. He had engaged Caroline as a governess for his children in 1832, and they were married in 1835, three years before Octavia was born in Wisbech, Cambridgeshire, her father's eighth daughter and ninth child. The family's comfortably prosperous life was disrupted by James Hill's financial problems and his mental collapse. In 1840 he was declared bankrupt. Caroline Hill's father gave the family financial support, and took on some of Hill's paternal role.\n\nSouthwood Smith was a health and welfare reformer concerned with a range of social issues including child labour in mines and the housing of the urban poor. Caroline Hill held similar views on social reform, and her interest in progressive education, influenced by Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, and Southwood Smith's daily experience in his work at the London Hospital in the East End inspired Octavia Hill's concern for the poorest in early Victorian London. She received no formal schooling: her mother educated the family at home.\n\nThe family settled in a small cottage in Finchley, now a north London suburb, but then a village. Octavia Hill was impressed and moved by Henry Mayhew's \"London Labour and the London Poor\", a book that portrayed the daily lives of slum dwellers. She was also strongly influenced by the theologian, Anglican priest and social reformer F. D. Maurice, who was a family friend. She began her work on behalf of London's poor by helping to make toys for Ragged school children, and serving as secretary of the women's classes at the Working Men's College in Bloomsbury in central London.\n\nA co-operative guild providing employment for \"distressed gentlewomen\" accepted Hill for training in glass-painting when she was 13. When the work of the guild was expanded to provide work in toy-making for Ragged school children, she was invited, at the age of 14, to take charge of the workroom. The following year she began working in her spare time from the guild as a copyist for John Ruskin in Dulwich Art Gallery and the National Gallery. She was deeply aware of the dreadful living conditions of the children in her charge at the guild.\n\nHer views on encouraging self-reliance led to her association with the Charity Organisation Society (COS), described by Hill's biographer Gillian Darley as \"a contentious body which deplored dependence fostered by kindly but unrigorous philanthropy … support to the poor had to be carefully targeted and efficiently supervised. Later in life, however, she began to think the COS line … was over-harsh.\"\n\nHill was short, like all her family, and indifferent to fashion. Her friend Henrietta Barnett wrote: \"She was small in stature with long body and short legs. She did not dress, she only wore clothes, which were often unnecessarily unbecoming; she had soft and abundant hair and regular features, but the beauty of her face lay in brown and very luminous eyes, which quite unconsciously she lifted upwards as she spoke on any matter for which she cared. Her mouth was large and mobile, but not improved by laughter. Indeed, Miss Octavia was nicest when she was made passionate by her earnestness.\" Barnett also spoke of Hill's streak of ruthlessness. Gertrude Bell called Hill despotic. Later in Hill's life, the Bishop of London, Frederick Temple, encountered her at a meeting of the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, and wrote, \"She spoke for half an hour … I never had such a beating in all my life.\"\n\nParliament and many concerned reformers had been attempting to improve the housing of the working classes since the early 1830s. When Hill began her work, the model dwelling movement had been in existence for twenty years, royal and select committees had sat to examine the problems of urban well-being, and the first of many tranches of legislation aimed at improving working class housing had been passed. From Hill's point of view these had all failed the poorest members of the working class, the unskilled labourers. She found that their landlords routinely ignored their obligations towards their tenants, and that the tenants were too ignorant and oppressed to better themselves. She tried to find new homes for her charges, but there was a severe shortage of available property, and Hill decided that her only solution was to become a landlord herself.\n\nJohn Ruskin, who was interested in the co-operative guild, knew Hill from her work as his copyist and was impressed by her. As an aesthete and a humanitarian he was affronted by the brutal ugliness of the slums. In 1865, having inherited a substantial sum of money from his father, he acquired for £750 the leases of three cottages of six rooms each in Paradise Place, Marylebone.\n\nRuskin placed these houses, which were \"in a dreadful state of dirt and neglect\", under Hill's management. He told her that investors might be attracted to such schemes if a five percent annual return could be secured. In 1866 Ruskin acquired the freehold of five more houses for Hill to manage in Freshwater Place, Marylebone. \"The Times\" recorded, \"The houses faced a bit of desolate ground occupied by dilapidated cowsheds and manure heaps. The needful repairs and cleaning were carried out, the waste land was turned into a playground where Mr. Ruskin had some trees planted.\"\n\nAfter being improved the properties were let to those on intermittent and low incomes. A return of five per cent on capital was obtained as promised to Ruskin; any excess over the five per cent was reinvested within the properties for the benefit of the tenants. Rent arrears were not tolerated, and bad debts were minimal. As Hill said, \"Extreme punctuality, and diligence in collecting rents, and a strict determination that they shall be paid regularly, have accomplished this.\" In consequence of her prudent management, Hill was able to attract new backers, and by 1874 she had 15 housing schemes with around 3,000 tenants.\n\nHill's system was based on closely managing not only the buildings but the tenants; she insisted, \"you cannot deal with the people and their houses separately.\" She maintained close personal contact with all her tenants, and was strongly opposed to impersonal bureaucratic organisations and to governmental intervention in housing. In her view, \"municipal socialism and subsidized housing\" led to indiscriminate demolition, re-housing schemes, and the destruction of communities.\n\nAt the heart of the Octavia Hill system was the weekly visit to collect rent. From the outset, Hill conceived this as a job for women only. She and her assistants (who included Emma Cons and Eva McLaren) combined the weekly rent collection with checking every detail of the premises and getting to know the tenants personally, acting as early social workers. At first Hill believed, \"Voluntary workers are a necessity. They are better than paid workers, and can be had in sufficient numbers.\" Later, she found it expedient to maintain a paid workforce. Her system required a large staff. Rent was collected on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. Rent accounts were balanced in the afternoons and arrangements were made with contractors for repairs. On Thursdays and Fridays arrears were pursued, contractors' invoices paid, new tenancy lettings and tenants' moves organised.\n\nIf any of Hill's assistants had spare time, whether during normal working hours or in frequent voluntary after-hours working, it was used to promote tenants' associations and after-work and children's after-school clubs and societies. In 1859, Hill created the Southwark detachment of the Army Cadet Force, its first independent unit, which gave training along military lines for local boys. Hill considered that such an organisation would be more like the \"real thing\" than such existing outfits as the Church Lads' Brigade and therefore more attractive to young men \"who had passed the age of make-believe\". She invited a serving officer of the Derbyshire Regiment to set up the company, and such was its popularity that its numbers had to be capped at 160 cadets.\nHill's principles were summed up in an article of 1869: \"Where a man persistently refuses to exert himself, external help is worse than useless.\" She was an outspoken critic of the principles of \"outdoor relief\" or the Speenhamland system of poor relief as operated by various Poor Law Boards. Because these systems did not encourage recipients to work, she regarded them as \"a profligate use of public funds.\" Under her methods, personal responsibility was encouraged. She insisted on dealing with arrears promptly; she appointed reliable caretakers; she took up on references of prospective tenants, and visited them in their homes; she paid careful attention to allocations and the placing of tenants, with regard to size of families and the size and location of the accommodation to be offered; and she made no rules that could not be properly enforced.\n\nIn 1884, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners recognised her enlightened approach and turned to her to manage and reform their slum properties in South London, which were notorious for poverty and petty crime. Hill turned these estates into model properties, which still paid a return on investment. These estates continued to be let to tenants at affordable rents throughout much of the twentieth century, even when rent control was relaxed and open market rents substantially increased.\n\nAn American admirer described her as \"ruling over a little kingdom of three thousand loving subjects with an iron scepter twined with roses.\" Although Hill drove her associates hard, she drove herself harder. In 1877, she collapsed and had to take a break of several months from her work. Darley ascribes a number of contributory causes: \"chronic overwork, a lack of delegation, the death of her close friend Jane Senior, the failure of a brief engagement\", as well as an attack on her by John Ruskin. The Hill family found a companion for her, Harriot Yorke (1843–1930). Yorke took on a great amount of the everyday work that had caused Hill's collapse. She remained her companion until Hill's death. A further palliative was the building of a cottage, at Crockham Hill near Sevenoaks in Kent, where they could take breaks from their work in London.\n\n Among Hill's concerns was that her tenants, and all urban workers, should have access to open spaces. She believed in \"the life-enhancing virtues of pure earth, clean air and blue sky.\" In 1883 she wrote:\nShe campaigned hard against building on existing suburban woodlands, and helped to save Hampstead Heath and Parliament Hill Fields from development. She was the first to use the term \"Green Belt\" for the protected rural areas surrounding London. Three hills in Kent (Mariners Hill, Toys Hill and Ide Hill) which she helped to protect from development form part of the belt.\n\nIn 1876 Hill became the treasurer of the Kyrle Society, founded in that year by her eldest sister, Miranda, as a \"Society for the Diffusion of Beauty\". Under the slogan \"Bring Beauty Home to the Poor\" it aimed to bring art, books, music and open spaces into the lives of the urban poor. For a short period it flourished and expanded, and although it declined after a few years, it was a template for the National Trust, 20 years later.\n\nBefore that, however, Hill was engaged in a campaign in 1883 to stop the construction of railways from the quarries in the fells overlooking Buttermere, in the English Lake District, with damaging effect on the unspoilt scenery. The campaign was led by Canon Hardwicke Rawnsley, who secured the support of Ruskin, Hill, and Sir Robert Hunter, solicitor to the Commons Preservation Society. From 1875 onwards, Hunter had been Hill's legal adviser on the protection of open spaces in London. Both he and Rawnsley, building on an idea put forward by Ruskin, conceived of a trust that could buy and preserve places of natural beauty and historic interest for the nation.\n\nOn 16 November 1893, Hill, Hunter and Rawnsley met in the offices of the Commons Preservation Society and agreed to launch such a trust. Hill suggested that it should be called \"The Commons and Gardens Trust\", but the three agreed to adopt Hunter's suggested title, the \"National Trust\". Under its full formal title, the National Trust for Places of Historic Interest or Natural Beauty was inaugurated the following year. The trust was concerned primarily with protecting open spaces and endangered buildings of historic interest; its first property was Alfriston Clergy House and its first nature reserve was Wicken Fen.\n\nThe number of homes managed by Hill continued to grow. Although Ruskin had turned against her in a bout of mental instability, she found a new supporter, the Ecclesiastical Commissioners, who handed over to her the management of their housing estates in several poor areas of south London. By the end of the nineteenth century, Hill's women workers were no longer unpaid volunteers but trained professionals. Hill's influence spread beyond the properties under her own control. Her ideas were taken up and copied, with her enthusiastic support, in continental Europe and the United States of America. Beatrice Webb said that she \"first became aware of the meaning of the poverty of the poor,\" while staying with her sister, who was a rent collector for Octavia Hill in the East End. Queen Victoria's daughter, Princess Alice of Hesse-Darmstadt, was taken incognito on a tour of some of Hill's properties, and she translated Hill's \"Homes of the London Poor\" into German.\n\nAmong those whom Hill trained was her assistant and secretary, Maud Jeffery, who was later engaged by the Commissioners of Crown Lands to run new housing estates in London on Octavia Hill's lines. Even some local authorities, despite Hill's distrust, followed her model: some of the earliest examples of municipal council housing, at Kensington and Camberwell, were run on her lines, with the acquisition of working class houses, and their gradual improvement, without evictions or demolitions.\n\nDespite her opposition to interference by national or local government in the provision of housing, Hill had to cope with the newly created London County Council and the involvement of the council and other local authorities in providing housing for the poor. In 1884 a royal commission on the housing of the working classes was set up, but the prime minister, W.E. Gladstone, and his ministerial colleagues vetoed a proposal to include Hill among the members of the commission. The municipal authorities quickly surpassed her in the number of properties under their management.\n\nA.S. Wohl notes that in the 1880s Hill had about £70,000 worth of property under her management, and at the end of her career she was managing the dwellings of \"perhaps three or four thousand people at the most.\" The London County Council, by contrast, had a budget of £1,500,000 for its programme of rehousing London's poor in 1901–02.\n\nHill was opposed to other reforms that came about in the early part of the twentieth century. She was against female suffrage on the grounds that \"men and women help one another because they are different, have different gifts and different spheres.\" She also believed that provision of social services and old-age pensions by the government did more harm than good, sapping people's self-reliance.\n\nHill died from cancer on 13 August 1912 at her home in Marylebone, at the age of 73.\n\nWhen John Singer Sargent's portrait of her was presented by her fellow-workers in 1898, Hill made a speech in which she said, \"When I am gone, I hope my friends will not try to carry out any special system, or to follow blindly in the track which I have trodden. New circumstances require various efforts, and it is the spirit, not the dead form, that should be perpetuated. ... We shall leave them a few houses, purified and improved, a few new and better ones built, a certain amount of thoughtful and loving management, a few open spaces...\" But, she said, more important would be \"the quick eye to see, the true soul to measure, the large hope to grasp the mighty issues of the new and better days to come – greater ideals, greater hope, and patience to realize both.\"\n\nThe Horace Street Trust, founded by Hill, became a model for many subsequent housing associations and developed into the present trust that bears her name, Octavia Housing. Today it owns several of the homes, including Gable Cottages, designed by Elijah Hoole, who worked with Hill for many years. Hill's determination to provide community space can still be seen in the shape of the Red Cross site in Southwark (1888), among others. The Octavia Hill Society website states that with a community hall, and soundly maintained attractive houses, Hill here anticipated the fundamental ingredients of town planning by some 15 years.\n\nThe Settlement Movement (creating integrated mixed communities of rich and poor) grew directly out of Hill's work. Her colleagues Samuel and Henrietta Barnett, founded Toynbee Hall, the first university-sponsored settlement, which together with the Women's University Settlement (later called the Blackfriars Settlement) continues to serve local communities. Overseas, Hill's name is perpetuated in the Octavia Hill Association in Philadelphia, a small property company founded in 1896 to provide affordable housing to low and middle-income city residents.<ref name=\"davis/\"></ref>\n\nWomen who had trained under Hill formed the Association of Women Housing Workers in 1916. This later changed its name to the Society of Housing Managers in 1948. After merging with the Institute of Housing Managers in 1965, the society became the present day Chartered Institute of Housing in 1994. The CIH is a professional body for those working in the housing profession in the UK and overseas. The training that Hill gave to Charity Organisation Society volunteers contributed to the development of modern social work, and COS continued to be instrumental in developing social work as a profession during the twentieth century. COS is still in operation today as the charity Family Action.\n\nIn 1907, Parliament passed the first National Trust Act, enshrining the trust's permanent purpose and giving it powers to protect property for the benefit of the nation. The trust now looks after a wide range of coast, countryside and historic buildings. According to the trust's website, \"Staff, volunteers and tenants are engaged daily in providing access to open spaces for people's enjoyment, providing habitats for wildlife and in improving our environment – 'for ever, for everyone'.\"\n\nCommemorations of Hill herself include a monument to her at a Surrey beauty spot, on the summit of a hill called Hydon Ball (now owned by the National Trust). Shortly after her death, the family erected a stone seat there, from which walkers can enjoy views over the Surrey countryside. The Octavia Hill Society was set up in 1992 \"to promote awareness of the ideas and ideals of Octavia Hill, her family, fellow workers and their relevance in today's society nationally and internationally\". Under the society's auspices her birthplace at Wisbech has been turned into the Octavia Hill Birthplace Museum. In 1995, to mark the centenary of the National Trust, a new variety of rose, \"Octavia Hill\", was named in her honour. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2621705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2621705", "title": "Program on Negotiation", "text": "Program on Negotiation\n\nThe Program on Negotiation (PON) is a university consortium dedicated to developing the theory and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution. As a community of scholars and practitioners, PON serves a unique role in the world negotiation community. Founded in 1983 as a special research project at Harvard Law School, PON includes faculty, students, and staff from Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Tufts University.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation publishes the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\" and the monthly \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter, and distributes the annual \"Harvard Negotiation Law Review\". Throughout the year PON offers a number of courses and training opportunities ranging in length from one day to an entire semester.\n\nIn 1979, co-authors of the bestseller \"Getting to Yes: Negotiating Agreement without Giving In\", Roger Fisher and William Ury, along with Bruce Patton founded the Harvard Negotiation Project (HNP), with a mission to improve the theory, teaching, and practice of negotiation and dispute resolution, so that people could deal more constructively with conflicts ranging from the interpersonal to the international. Fisher began by asking the question of what kind of advice could be given to both sides of a dispute, and in researching this question he came in contact with various professors, including James Sebenius, Lawrence Susskind, Frank Sander, and Howard Raiffa, who collaborated to form the Program on Negotiation.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation was founded in 1983 as the world's first teaching and research center dedicated to negotiation and dispute resolution. As an umbrella organization with founding members from both Harvard and MIT, it soon expanded to include Tufts University as one of its consortium schools. Since the beginning, the Program on Negotiation has been multi-disciplinary, with scholars from economics, government, law, business, psychology, anthropology, education, and the arts. Faculty have focused on a wide range of research topics, including deal-making, diplomatic negotiations, international negotiations, psychological aspects of negotiations, decision-making, issues relating to ethics and trust, and labor negotiations.\n\nChair of the Program on Negotiation since 1994, Professor Robert H. Mnookin is Samuel Williston Professor of Law at Harvard Law School. Among his recent publications are the books, \"Beyond Winning: Negotiating to Create Value in Deals and Disputes\", and \"Bargaining with the Devil: When to Negotiate, When to Fight\".\n\nThe Program on Negotiation is responsible for multiple publications, including books, special reports, the \"Negotiation Briefings\" newsletter and the quarterly \"Negotiation Journal\", a multidisciplinary international journal published by Wiley-Blackwell detailing the latest advances in the field. PON also regularly produces free reports that are available through their website, such as: \"Teaching Negotiation: Understanding The Impact Of Role-Play Simulations\", \"Business Negotiation Strategies: How to Negotiate Better Business Deals\", \"Negotiation Skills: Negotiation Strategies and Negotiation Techniques to Help You Become a Better Negotiator\", \"Dealmaking: Secrets of Successful Dealmaking in Business Negotiations\", \"Negotiation Strategies for Women: Secrets to Success\", \"Dealing with Difficult People\", \"BATNA Basics: Boost Your Power at the Bargaining Table\", \"Sally Soprano: Role-Play Simulation\", \"Harborco: Role-Play Simulation\", and \"Win-Win or Hardball: Learn Top Strategies from Sports Contract Negotiations\". All of PONs publications including books, case studies, and DVDs can be obtained through the PON Clearinghouse.\n\nPON offers a number of training programs throughout the year on a variety of topics including negotiation, mediation, conflict resolution, deal design, difficult conversations, and many more. PON seminars and courses are open to the public.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation offers one day Author Sessions focused on recent book publications by PON faculty members as part of its Executive Education Series. Recent courses included: Deal-Making and Negotiauctions, Creating a World-class Negotiating Organization, Bargaining with the Devil, and Negotiating International Deals.\n\nExecutive Education courses last for three days, covering strategies for business leaders to handle both successful day-to-day management and long-term strategies for healthy workplace environments. Executives learn tactics for dealing with dirty tricks, threats, attacks, and stonewalls from the other side of the table.\n\nHarvard Negotiation Institute (HNI) classes are offered every June and September on the Harvard Law School campus and cover a broad range of negotiation and mediation skills, ranging from beginning to advanced techniques. Most of the courses offered are five-day classes. However, a 2-day Intensive Negotiation Workshop for Lawyers and Working Professionals is also offered. Recent course offerings included: a mediation workshop, Creating Value in Deals and Disputes, Tools for Preparing and Negotiating Effectively, Deal Design and Implementation, and Difficult Conversations.\n\nOpen to participants from all disciplines and professional fields, the PON Seminars provide negotiation and mediation courses to the community. These semester-length courses are designed to increase public awareness and understanding of successful conflict resolution efforts.\n\nTwo courses are taught each year: Negotiation and Dispute Resolution in the fall, and Mediation and Conflict Management in the spring. Both courses provide participants with a conceptual framework and practical advice for professional and personal development in dispute resolution. Faculty is drawn from the PON community of scholars and practitioners of alternative dispute resolution.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation also hosts a variety of smaller workshops and intensive two-day courses in addition to their normal course offerings, including on-site training.\n\nThe Program on Negotiation established the Great Negotiator Award in 2000 to honor individuals of extraordinary achievement in dispute resolution. The award is designed not only to honor the accomplishments of outstanding negotiators, but also to focus public attention on the important role of negotiation as society faces increasingly complex disputes in all sectors–public and private, technological and ethical, personal and professional. PON has recognized a diverse cast of distinguished negotiators from their respective fields: Juan Manuel Santos, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and President of Colombia (2017); Martti Ahtisaari, Nobel Peace Prize recipient and former President of Finland (2010); Christo and Jeanne-Claude, the artists who created The Gates in Central Park (2008); Bruce Wasserstein, Chairman and CEO of Lazard, an international financial advisory and asset management firm (2007); Sadako Ogata, former United Nations high commissioner for refugees (2005); Richard Holbrooke, former United States ambassador to the United Nations (2004); Stuart Eizenstat, former U.S. ambassador to the European Union (2003); Ambassador Lakhdar Brahimi, the United Nations’ special envoy for Afghanistan (2002); Charlene Barshefsky, U.S. trade representative in the second Clinton administration (2001); and former U.S. Senator George Mitchell for his work in Northern Ireland (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4573623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4573623", "title": "Proximity marketing", "text": "Proximity marketing\n\nProximity marketing is the localized wireless distribution of advertising content associated with a particular place. Transmissions can be received by individuals in that location who wish to receive them and have the necessary equipment to do so.\n\nDistribution may be via a traditional localized broadcast, or more commonly is specifically targeted to devices known to be in a particular area.\n\nThe location of a device may be determined by:\n\nCommunications may be further targeted to specific groups within a given location, for example content in tourist hot spots may only be distributed to devices registered outside the local area.\n\nCommunications may be both time and place specific, e.g. content at a conference venue may depend on the event in progress.\n\nUses of proximity marketing include distribution of media at concerts, information (weblinks on local facilities), gaming and social applications, and advertising.\n\nBluetooth, a short-range wireless system supported by many mobile devices, is one transmission medium used for proximity marketing. \nThe process of Bluetooth based proximity marketing involves setting up Bluetooth \"broadcasting\" equipment at a particular location and then sending information which can be text, images, audio or video to Bluetooth enabled devices within range of the broadcast server. These devices are often referred to as beacons. Other standard data exchange formats such as vCard can also be used. This form of proximity marketing is also referred to as close range marketing.\n\nIt used to be the case that due to security fears, or a desire to save battery life, many users keep their Bluetooth devices in OFF mode, or ON but not set to be 'discoverable'. Because of this, often regions where Bluetooth proximity marketing is in operation it is accompanied by advising via traditional media - such as posters, television screens or field marketing teams - suggesting people make their Bluetooth handsets 'discoverable' in order to receive free content - this is often referred to as a \"Call-to-Action.\" A 'discoverable' Bluetooth device within range of the server is automatically sent a message asking if the user would like to receive the free content.\n\nCurrent mobile phones usually have bluetooth switched ON by default, and some users leave bluetooth switched on for easy connection with car kits and headsets.\n\nIn the past some implementations of Bluetooth proximity marketing require users to run Java applications on their phones to enable them to receive content. This has the advantage that only those who choose to will receive content. Others require no handset-side software.\n\nThe diversity of mobile phones is huge. Screen sizes and supported file formats varies greatly. To obtain the optimal user experience with Bluetooth Marketing, the Bluetooth system must be able to automatically recognize phone models and deliver the proper content automatically. Some businesses choose to utilize multiple proximity marketing platforms to cater to different popular models of smart phones.\n\nFor Android devices, a notification can be sent without having an app installed using the Eddystone-URL. The Google Nearby is an in-built service that scans for beacon signals and displays the message tied to that signal. Apps that are compatible with Physical Web can also do the same. Chrome has since withdrawn support for the Physical Web. In regions where Google is banned, Samsung's browser Closeby does the same as Nearby. On iOS devices, the relevant app needs to be installed that can then receive messages from nearby beacons.\n\nThere are systems capable of detecting certain signals periodically emitted by any electronic devices equipped with WiFi or Bluetooth technology, and the subsequent use of gathered information to detect the position or presence of, and/or flows of information to and from, said devices, in a statistical or aggregate form.\n\nThis technology is used in a manner equivalent to other systems, such as Radio-frequency Identification (RFID), which serve for locating devices within a controlled environment; it works in conjunction with signals from WiFi issuers (also called wireless tags) and receiving antennas, in different locations, so that the movements and presence of WiFi-equipped devices can be analyzed in terms of arrival time, length of visit per zone, paths of movement, general flows, etc.\n\nThe continuously increasing use of smartphones and tablets has fueled a boom in WiFi tracking technology, specially in the retail environment. Such technology can be used by managers of a physical business to ascertain how many devices are present in a given area, and to observe or optimize business marketing and management.\n\nTechnically, such technology is based on two main models:\n\n1. Re-use of standard Access Point (AP) technologies with a Captive Portal, already deployed in numerous locations (airports, malls, shops, etc.). An example of this model is the Cisco [http://www.cisco.com <nowiki>[1]</nowiki>] technology.\n\n2. Use of antennas for the detection of signals in the 2.4 or 5 GHz frequency bands, positioning the detected devices within strategic areas, in order to obtain a unique identifier about every mobile device is detected in such locations, and with the corresponding HTML5, iOS and Android SDKs integrated in any APP or Web, allowing interaction by proximity with the users through the mobile devices. An example of this model is the Seeketing [http://www.seeketing.com <nowiki>[2]</nowiki>] technology.\n\nThe first option manifests weaker ability to detect and send messages to the public, because AP devices were created for purposes other than wireless tracking and operate by extracting information only from select devices (smartphones or tablets which have previously connected to the AP in question). In practice, and depending on the environment, as many as 10-20% of visitors access to the captive portal when they visit a point of sale\n\nThe second option is to analyze all signals detected within the bands used by the WiFi and Bluetooth technology, offering a higher detection ratio of total visitors (about 60%-70%) and extracting behavior patterns that allow the assignment of a unique identifier, each time a device is detected. Such identifiers are not linked to any data present on the device, nor to any information from the device manufacturer, so that relation to any particular user of the device cannot be made. Unlike in the above case, visitor security (in the sense of anonymity) is total.\n\nThanks to Seeketing SDKs for iOS, Android, and HTML5 APIs for Web pages, this model of technology allows retailers, or managers of any physical location, to send push notification to the smartphones with an APP installed, or to send SMS/WhatsAPP/Email messages to those users who previously was registered in a captive portal, even if they not are using the APs or Wifi connection to access internet.\n\nAssignment of the same unique identifier to tracking information obtained by the antennas, APP and Webs APIs remains a challenge, and allows to have both online and offline beviour information to optimize proximity communication campaigns in a non-intrusive way.\n\nNear Field Communication (NFC) tags are embedded in the NFC Smart Poster, Smart Product or Smart Book. The tag has a RFID chip with an embedded command. The command can be to open the mobile browser on a given page or offer. Any NFC-enabled phone can activate this tag by placing the device in close proximity. The information can be anything from product details, special accommodation deals, and information on local restaurants.\n\nThe German drugstore chain, Budnikowsky, launched the first NFC-enabled Smart Poster in October 2011 which allowed train commuters to tap their phones on the poster to shop and find more information. in November 2011, Atria Books/Simon & Schuster launched the Impulse Economy, the first NFC-enabled Smart Book.\n\nIn the UK NFC is being adopted by most of the outdoor poster contractors. Clear Channel have installed over 25,000 Adshel posters with NFC tags (and QR codes for Apple phones).\n\nRetailers are also looking at NFC as it offers a cost effective method by which consumers can engage with brands but doesn't require integrating the technology into their IT systems - which is a barrier to many new technologies like BLE. A number of retailers have already started using NFC to enhance the shopping experience, Casino in France and Vic in Holland.\n\nProximity Marketing Strategy using NFC Technology has been widely adopted in Japan and uses 'pull' rather than 'push' marketing allowing the consumer the choice of where and when they receive marketing messages.\n\nThere are a number NFC-enabled phones entering the market spurred by NFC mobile wallet trials globally. NFC wallets include the Google Wallet and ISIS (mobile payment system). While mobile payment is the driver for NFC, proximity marketing is an immediate beneficiary in-market.\n\nApple did not include this technology in their initial smartphone models. Apple added NFC to the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.\n\nProximity Marketing via SMS relies on GSM 03.41 which defines the Short Message Service - Cell Broadcast. SMS-CB allows messages (such as advertising or public information) to be broadcast to all mobile users in a specified geographical area. In the Philippines, GSM-based proximity broadcast systems are used by select Government Agencies for information dissemination on Government-run community-based programs to take advantage of its reach and popularity (Philippines has the world's highest traffic of SMS). It is also used for commercial service known as Proxima SMS. Bluewater, a super-regional shopping centre in the UK, has a GSM based system supplied by NTL to help its GSM coverage for calls, it also allows each customer with a mobile phone to be tracked though the centre which shops they go into and for how long. The system enables special offer texts to be sent to the phone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34048942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34048942", "title": "Race Against the Machine", "text": "Race Against the Machine\n\nRace Against the Machine is a non-fiction book from 2011 by Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAfee about the interaction of digital technology, employment and organization. The full title of the book is: \"Race Against the Machine: How the Digital Revolution Is Accelerating Innovation, Driving Productivity, and Irreversibly Transforming Employment and the Economy\".\n\nThe main thesis of this book is that we are in the midst of a technological revolution that is radically redefining what work is, how value is created, and how the economy distributes that value. The authors stumbled upon these ideas after analyzing the unique economic recovery that followed the Great Recession of 2008. When the recession ended, many measures of economic health (such as GDP, corporate profits, and investment in equipment and software) rebounded quickly; however, one measure, unemployment, lagged behind. This observation led the authors to conclude that a drastic shift in the means of production was taking place. The authors believe that technology is causing this shift, simultaneously boosting the productivity of firms while also eliminating the need for many forms of human labor. As the authors came to this conclusion, they looked around to see if anyone else had begun to analyze this trend. When they found that technology was largely being left out of the mainstream discussion of unemployment, they decided that they would write this book to help get the ball rolling. One supporting point in the book is that the pace of automation has picked up in recent years due to a combination of increasingly clever technologies such as robotics, numerically controlled machines, computerized inventory management software, speech recognition, speaker recognition, language translation, self-driving vehicles, pattern recognition and online commerce. The authors write that businesses are increasingly substituting machines for people, and that rate at which digital technologies are advancing is exponentially higher than that of the organizations, institutions, and individuals within our economy. Additionally, the corporate use of equipment and software is increasing faster than the rate than employment.\n\nBrynjolfsson and McAfee write that advanced digital technologies are making people more innovative, productive and richer, both in the short- and long-term, but potentially at the cost of increasing wealth inequality in society. In the authors' view, one of the main in-egalitarian consequences of digital technological developments is its potentially negative impact on some types of employment, such as routine information processing work. The authors appear to advocate for a collaborative partnership between computers and humans as the road to future job creation. \"In medicine, law, finance, retailing, manufacturing and even scientific discovery,\" they write, \"the key to winning the race is not to compete \"against\" machines but to compete \"with\" machines.\"\n\nGiven the advancement of technology, the authors have several recommendations for policymakers in the United States to increase economic prosperity, including:\n\nLike Jeremy Rifkin's book \"The End of Work\", \"The Race against the Machine\" has been criticized for lacking credible evidence in making predictions about future job loss. Recent research suggest the invention and distribution of computers during the 1990s increased employment, rather than decreased it. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44142441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44142441", "title": "Sacrifice zone", "text": "Sacrifice zone\n\nA sacrifice zone or sacrifice area (often termed a national sacrifice zone or national sacrifice area) is a geographic area that has been permanently impaired by environmental damage or economic disinvestment. These zones are most commonly found in low-income and minority communities. Commentators including Chris Hedges, Joe Sacco, and Stephen Lerner have argued that corporate business practices contribute to producing sacrifice zones.\n\nThe concept of sacrifice zones was first discussed during the Cold War, as a likely result of nuclear fallout. According to Helen Huntington Smith, the term was first used in discussing the long-term effects of strip-mining coal in the American West in the 1970s. The National Academy of Sciences/National Academy of Engineering Study Committee on the Potential for Rehabilitating Lands Surface Mined for Coal in the Western United States produced a 1973 report that introduced the term, finding:In each zone the probability of rehabilitating an area depends upon the land use objectives, the characteristics of the site, the technology available, and the skill with which this technology is applied. At the extremes, if surface mined lands are declared national sacrifice areas, all ecological zones have a high probability of being successfully rehabilitated. If, however, complete restoration is the objective, rehabilitation in each zone has no probability of success.Similarly in 1975, Genevieve Atwood wrote in \"Scientific American\":Surface mining without reclamation removes the land \"forever\" from \"productive use\"; such land can best be classified as a national sacrifice area. With successful reclamation, however, surface mining can become just one of a series of land \"uses\" that merely interrupt a current \"use\" and then return the land to an equivalent potential productivity or an even higher one.Huntington Smith wrote in 1975, \"The Panel that issued the cautious and scholarly National Academy of Sciences report unwitting touched off a verbal bombshell\" with the phrase National Sacrifice Area; \"The words exploded in the Western press overnight. Seized upon by a people who felt themselves being served up as 'national sacrifices,' they became a watchword and a rallying cry.\" The term sparked public debate, including among environmentalists and politicians such as future Colorado governor Richard Lamm.\n\n"}
{"id": "34314871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34314871", "title": "Sarah Page (prohibitionist)", "text": "Sarah Page (prohibitionist)\n\nSarah Page (26 August 1863 – 20 January 1950), also known as Sarah Saunders Page, was a New Zealand teacher, feminist, prohibitionist, socialist, social reformer, and politician.\nSarah Saunders was born in Waimea South, Nelson, New Zealand in 1863. She was one of ten children of Alfred Saunders, a radical politician, and grew up surrounded by Quakers. In 1896, she married Samuel Page, who was a science demonstrator at Canterbury Museum and like herself a Quaker. They were to have two sons.\n\nWith Ada Wells, she was a dominating influence on the Canterbury Women's Institute. She was also active with the National Council of Women of New Zealand and was the organisation's secretary in 1905–06. She was an ardent critic of conscription and upset Prime Minister William Massey and the Minister of Internal Affairs, George Warren Russell, with her criticism. Her son Robin was a conscientious objector and was imprisoned in 1918.\n\nStanding for the Labour Party, she failed to get elected to the Christchurch City Council in the 1919 local elections. The three candidates elected in the St Albans ward, which included John Beanland and Ernest Andrews, were all from the right-leaning Citizens Association. Page was elected to the North Canterbury Hospital Board in 1922. When the Labour Party developed into a strong party in the 1920s, Page's extreme left views became less accepted and her influence faded. She died in 1950 and is buried at Sydenham Cemetery next to her husband, who died in 1944.\n"}
{"id": "16052446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16052446", "title": "Social identity model of deindividuation effects", "text": "Social identity model of deindividuation effects\n\nThe social identity model of deindividuation effects (or SIDE model) is a theory developed in social psychology and communication studies. SIDE explains the effects of anonymity and identifiability on group behavior. It has become one of several theories of technology that describe social effects of computer-mediated communication.\n\nThe SIDE model provides an alternative explanation for effects of anonymity and other \"deindividuating\" factors that classic deindividuation theory cannot adequately explain. The model suggests that anonymity changes the relative salience of personal vs. social identity, and thereby can have a profound effect on group behavior. \n\nThe social identity model of deindividuation effects (or SIDE model) is a theory developed in social psychology and communication studies. SIDE explains the effects of anonymity and identifiability on group behavior. It has become one of several theories examining technology that describe social effects of computer-mediated communication. With advancing technology it is becoming increasingly researched what the effects of having the control of being incognito on the web, and also having profiles that represent ones person is doing to relationships and communication in our lives. The SIDE model provides an alternative explanation for effects of anonymity and other \"deindividuating\" factors that classic deindividuation theory cannot adequately explain. To understand the model of deindividuation, it is described by scholarly articles as \"the situation in which individuals act in groups and do not see themselves as individuals, thereby facilitating antinormative behavior\" . Furthermore, research on social identity model of deindividuation investigates prosocial behavior, prevent social disturbance and prevent child prejudice. It is said that conformity to group norms is a large part of deindividuation when understanding social identity with in it. The model suggests that anonymity changes the relative salience of personal vs. social identity, and thereby can have a profound effect on group behavior. While other studies on this suggest that the identification of self through online groups lessens ones actual idea of personal identity outside of online spaces; concluding that even when personal identity is seemingly salient in online spaces it still further disassociates the person with themselves outside of online communities.\n\nSIDE developed as a critique of deindividuation theory. Deindividuation theory was developed to explain the phenomenon that in crowds, people become capable of acts that rational individuals would not normally endorse (see also Crowd psychology). In the crowd, so it would seem, humans become disinhibited and behave anti-normatively. Early versions of deindividuation theory saw this as a consequence of reduced self-awareness and accountability. Diener and others later focused more exclusively on loss of self as the core psychological process underlying deindividuation.\n\nReicher criticized deindividuation theory for several reasons. Among others, historical evidence and case studies strongly suggested that the psychological process proposed by deindividuation theory (a loss of self) did not occur in the crowd. A meta-analysis of empirical deindividuation research confirmed there was no consistent empirical evidence for the processes it proposed. To the contrary: anonymity and reduced self-awareness enhanced sensitivity to local norms. SIDE researchers concluded that there is no good empirical support for the process of deindividuation, and factors that should produce deindividuation have highly variable effects on behavior. To account for this, SIDE proposes that there are no blanket indiscriminate effects of anonymity, but that anonymity effects are influenced by, and can only be understood through, their interaction with the social context.\n\nReicher also challenged the conceptualization of deindividuation as a loss of self. This process assumes that individuals have a unitary self-concept that they can be more or less aware of. Reicher and others argued that individuals do not have a unitary sense of self. Social identity theory, for instance, points out that one's sense of self is made up of personal identity and multiple social identities, all of which combine to shape one's personality. Social identities are likely to become the basis for self-definition when that social identity is salient, such as when making comparisons between \"them\" and \"us\". One consequence of salience is \"depersonalization\". Note that in research on social identity, depersonalization is not the same as deindividuation or a loss of self (cf. the entry on Depersonalization to read up on what it is not). In social identity research, the term depersonalization refers to a switch to a group level of self-categorization in which self and others are seen in terms of their group identities.\n\nAccording to self-categorization theory, depersonalization makes perceptions of the outgroup more stereotypical. Self-perceptions also shift: self and other ingroup members become interchangeable, and the individual self-stereotypes in terms of group attributes. Depersonalization thus transforms individuals into group members who regulate their behavior according to in-group norms. Importantly, and in contrast to deindividuation, the psychological state of depersonalization does not imply a loss of rationality or behavioural disinhibition; rather, the individual behaves rationally and regulates behaviour according to ingroup standards. These ideas from social identity theory and self-categorization theory provided not only key ingredients for Reicher's critique of deindividuation theory, they are also the foundations upon which SIDE was modelled.\n\nThe model was first named by Lea and Spears and later developed in a series of publications. The SIDE model took Reicher's ideas about the crowd, and applied and extended them to computer-mediated communication. Early research in this domain suggested that, similar to deindividuation theory, users of online computer were prone to flaming and other disinhibitions due to a reduction in social cues. The SIDE model was developed, in first instance, to account for contradictory effects of social cues in online groups. SIDE thus assumed that effects in the crowd and in online environments showed some similar properties.\n\nThe first comprehensive statement of SIDE was by Reicher, Spears, & Postmes. According to SIDE, a social identity approach can account for many of the effects observed in deindividuation research and in crowd psychology, as well as in computer-mediated communication. For example, deindividuation has been found to foster group identification and to induce greater opinion polarization in small groups communicating online. In order to understand effects of factors such as anonymity and reduced cues on group behavior, one needs to take the social and inter-group context into account. SIDE argues that anonymity and social context in interaction have cognitive and strategic consequences.\n\nGroup immersion and anonymity have cognitive consequences that affect the relative salience of personal and social identities. These factors do not produce a loss of self as proposed by deindividuation theory. Rather, anonymity and immersion in the group can enhance the salience of social identity and thereby depersonalize social perceptions of others and the self. SIDE argues this occurs principally because (visual) anonymity obscures individual features and interpersonal differences. As a result of the decreased visibility of the individual within anonymous groups, the process of depersonalization is accentuated, and cognitive efforts to perceive the group as an entity are amplified. Provided that there is some basis to perceive self and others as members of one group, anonymity therefore enhances the salience of the shared social identity. The net result is that people will tend to perceive self and others in terms of stereotypic group features, and are influenced accordingly.\n\nIt is important to note that anonymity does not automatically or mechanically influence the salience of social identities. An individual can be identified in such a way that it promotes a more individuated person-perception or alternatively that it promotes a stronger social categorization. In a few instances, making the individual more identifiable may strengthen social categorization. This may happen particularly in contexts within which these social categories are potentially meaningful and therefore accessible, and when group memberships are visually clearly identifiable (as is the case for gender, certain racial characteristics, disabilities, etc.).\n\nSIDE thus describes the cognitive process by which the salience of social identity is affected by the absence or presence of individuating information. It is important to note that this process can only operate to the extent that some sense of groupness exists from the outset. If individuals interact anonymously in the absence of any specific social identity or group boundaries, anonymity would have the reverse effect of accentuating one’s isolation from the group or by further obscuring group boundaries. Juxtaposing the two possibilities, anonymity in the group either has the effect of amplifying a shared social identity that, however rudimentary, is already in place, or it can amplify the individual independence which exists in contexts in which no shared identity is available. The latter process, whereby anonymity provides the opportunities for people to express and develop identities independent of the social influence of the group, is further elaborated in the Strategic SIDE.\n\nAnonymity also has strategic consequences: it affects the ability to express personal and social identities. Strategic concerns come into play when an out-group has more power than the ingroup, and where the norms of both groups are at odds with each other. In such cases, the identifiability of ingroup members towards the outgroup will shift the power balance between groups: identifiability towards a more powerful outgroup limits the degree to which the ingroup's identity can be expressed freely and without sanction on those dimensions where ingroup norms conflict with out-group standards and values, and which are punishable or otherwise sanctionable. Conversely, anonymity towards a more powerful outgroup may be a convenient instrument for the ingroup to express itself on those same dimensions.\n\nThe strategic SIDE thus proposes that anonymity may be \"used\" by less powerful groups to express aspects of their identity. This may appear to be similar to the effects that anonymity has for accountability in classic deindividuation theory. However, unlike deindividuation theory, SIDE takes account of the inter-group context within which identifiability and anonymity occur. By implication, a loss of accountability does not result in the disinhibited or random anti-normative behaviour of individuals that deindividuation theory is concerned with. Rather, according to SIDE, anonymity affects the ability for a group to express its identity, and thus to engage in targeted and ingroup normative behaviour, thereby changing power relations between groups. The close connection between identity expression and power proposed by SIDE may explain the patterned and targeted behaviour of crowds whose violent actions (if they occur) are very often symbolic, not random.\n\nIn addition to anonymity between groups, SIDE also considers strategic effects of anonymity within groups. Here, SIDE has particularly explored the consequences of anonymity (as well as isolation) from other ingroup members: On the one hand this deprives individual group members of social support from their fellows, and this may hinder their ability to express their ingroup identity in the face of a powerful and unsympathetic outgroup. On the other hand, the knowledge that other ingroup members are unable to identify the self may have consequences for (in particular) low identifiers to feel less committed to ingroup norms.\n\nToday, SIDE is used to explain the effects of anonymity and social isolation in various contexts. Research on SIDE has particularly focused on crowds and collective action, on online teams, electronic relationships and virtual communities, knowledge sharing, and more recently on social effects of surveillance (e.g., by means of CCTV or electronic tagging).\n\n"}
{"id": "42382285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42382285", "title": "Social journalism", "text": "Social journalism\n\nSocial journalism is a media model consisting of a hybrid of professional journalism, contributor and reader content. It is similar to open publishing platforms, like Twitter and WordPress.com, except that some or most content is also created and/or screened by professional journalists. Examples include Forbes.com, Medium, BuzzFeed, Soapbox and Gawker. The model, which in some instances has generated monthly audiences in the tens of millions, has been discussed as one way for professional journalism to thrive despite a marked decline in the audience for traditional journalism.\n\nWriting in Re/code, Jonathan Glick, CEO of Sulia, said the model of publishers as platforms (which he calls a \"platisher\") is \"on the rise\". Glick cites as examples Medium (from Twitter co-founders Evan Williams and Biz Stone), Vox Media, Sulia, Skift, First Look Media (backed by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar) and BuzzFeed. On March 12, 2014, Mark Little, the CEO of Storyful.com, now a division of News Corp., proposed \"10 Principles that Power Social Journalism,\" including \"UGC [User Generated Content] is governed by the same legal and ethical code as any other content\" and \"The currency of social journalism is authenticity not authority. We are not experts in every subject.\"\n\nIn an interview in \"The New York Times\", the editor of \"The Guardian\", Alan Rusbridger, said the Guardian was in the process of converting into a platform as well as a publisher. \"For years, news organizations had a quasi monopoly on information simply because we had the means of distribution. I think if as a journalist you are not intensely curious about what has been created by people who are not journalists, then you’re missing out on a lot,\" he said.\n\nOn April 1, 2014, in a column in GigaOM entitled \"Social journalism and open platforms are the new normal — now we have to make them work\" Mathew Ingram asked \"How can media entities take advantage of this phenomenon without losing their way in the process?\" and proceeded to review suggested rules for social journalism proposed by former FastCompany.com president Ed Sussman, an early adopter of the model. Ingram summarized Sussman's suggestions, including clear labeling types of contributors (e.g. staff, guest contributor, reader contribution); establishing guidelines, such as conflict of interest rules, that posters must consent to before posting; providing wiki-like tools for social improvements to content; elevating the best content with curators and algorithms; deleting weak or problematic content via curators or algorithms.\n\nSocial journalism has been attacked by media critic Michael Wolff in \"USA Today\" as the \"Forbes vanity model letting ‘contributors’ write whatever they want under your brand (‘as I wrote in Forbes …’) and not having to pay them anything — ultimately, of course, devaluing your authority.\" \n\nIn a March 20, 2014 op-ed for \"The New York Observer\", former FastCompany.com president Ed Sussman argued that social journalism does not devalue the authority of brands and that the success of Forbes.com in attracting a wide audience with its 1,000+ bloggers proved that the model could be successful for traditional media companies. Following revelations that some Forbes.com contributors used their columns to allegedly participate in a \"pump and dump\" scheme to promote, then sell stocks, Sussman followed up with \"The New Rules of Social Journalism: A Proposal\" in Pando Daily, on March 29, 2014. Sussman proposed various rules for elevating the quality and ethics of social journalism content.\n\nAn early, or perhaps the first \"social journalism\" platform at a major media company was FastCompany.com, in 2008. After the platform launched, in its first six months, FastCompany.com signed up 2,000 bloggers and 50,000 members. \"Fast Company is the first, but certainly not last, mainstream publication to integrate the majority of their site as a social community,\" wrote media analyst Jeremiah Owyang in 2008, then a senior social computing analyst for Forrester Research. After Ed Sussman left the website, the Fast Company print magazine editors reverted it to a standard journalism website.\n"}
{"id": "1174964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174964", "title": "Technological evolution", "text": "Technological evolution\n\nTechnological evolution is a theory of radical transformation of society through technological development. This theory originated with Czech philosopher Radovan Richta.\n\n\"Mankind In Transition; A View of the Distant Past, the Present and the Far Future\", Masefield Books, 1993. Technology (which Richta defines as \"a material entity created by the application of mental and physical effort to nature in order to achieve some value\") evolves in three stages: tools, machine, automation. This evolution, he says, follows two trends:\n\nThe pretechnological period, in which all other animal species remain today aside from some avian and primate species was a non-rational period of the early prehistoric man.\n\nThe emergence of technology, made possible by the development of the rational faculty, paved the way for the first stage: the tool. A tool provides a mechanical advantage in accomplishing a physical task, such as an arrow, plow, or hammer that augments physical labor to more efficiently achieve his objective. Later animal-powered tools such as the plow and the horse, increased the productivity of food production about tenfold over the technology of the hunter-gatherers. Tools allow one to do things impossible to accomplish with one's body alone, such as seeing minute visual detail with a microscope, manipulating heavy objects with a pulley and cart, or carrying volumes of water in a bucket.\n\nThe second technological stage was the creation of the machine. A machine (a powered machine to be more precise) is a tool that substitutes the element of human physical effort, and requires only to control its function. Machines became widespread with the industrial revolution, though windmills, a type of machine, are much older.\n\nExamples of this include cars, trains, computers, and lights. Machines allow humans to\nTremendously exceed the limitations of their bodies. Putting a machine on the farm, a tractor, increased food productivity at least tenfold over the technology of the plow and the horse.\n\nThe third, and final stage of technological evolution is the automation. The automation is a machine that removes the element of human control with an automatic algorithm. Examples of machines that exhibit this characteristic are digital watches, automatic telephone switches, pacemakers, and computer programs.\n\nIt's crucial to understand that the three stages outline the introduction of the fundamental types of technology, and so all three continue to be widely used today. A spear, a plow, a pen, a knife, a glove, a chicken and an optical microscope are all examples of tools.\n\nThe process of technological evolution culminates with the ability to achieve all the material values technologically possible and desirable by mental effort.\n\nAn economic implication of the above idea is that intellectual labour will become increasingly more important relative to physical labour. Contracts and agreements around information will become increasingly more common at the marketplace. Expansion and creation of new kinds of institutes that works with information such as universities, book stores, patent-trading companies, etc. is considered an indication that a civilization is in technological evolution.\n\nThis highlights the importance underlining the debate over intellectual property in conjunction with decentralized distribution systems such as today's internet. Where the price of information distribution is going towards zero with ever more efficient tools to distribute information is being invented. Growing amounts of information being distributed to an increasingly larger customer base as times goes by. With growing disintermediation in said markets and growing concerns over the protection of intellectual property rights it is not clear what form markets for information will take with the evolution of the information age.\n\n"}
{"id": "1695675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695675", "title": "Technophilia", "text": "Technophilia\n\nTechnophilia (from Greek τέχνη - \"technē\", \"art, skill, craft\" and φίλος - \"philos\", \"beloved, dear, friend\") refers generally to a strong enthusiasm for technology, especially new technologies such as personal computers, the Internet, mobile phones and home cinema. The term is used in sociology to examine individuals' interactions with society and is contrasted with technophobia.\n\nOn a psychodynamic level, technophilia generates the expression of its opposite, technophobia. Technophilia and technophobia are the two extremes of the relationship between technology and society. The technophile regards most or all technology positively, adopts new forms of technology enthusiastically and sees it as a means to improve life, whilst some may even view it as a means to combat social problems.\n\nThe term technophilia is used as a way of highlighting how technology can evoke in humans strong positive futuristic feelings. However, the reverential attitude towards technology that technophilia produces can sometimes inhibit realistic appraisals of the social and environmental impacts of technology on society. Technophiles do not fear of the effects of technological developments on society, as do technophobes. Technological determinism is the theory that humanity has little power to resist the influence that technology has on society.\n\nThe word technophile is said to have originated in the 1960s as an \"unflattering word introduced by technophobes.\" \n\nMany forms of technology are seen as venerable because the user experiences them as the embodiment of their own narcissism. Technophiles enjoy using technology and focus on the egocentric benefits of technology rather than seeing the potential issues associated with using technology too frequently. The notion of addiction is often negatively associated with technophilia, and describes technophiles who become too dependent on the forms of technology they possess.\n\nTechnophiles may view technology's interaction with society as creating a utopia, cyber or otherwise, and a strong indescribable futuristic feeling. \"In the utopian stories, technologies are seen as natural societal developments, improvements to daily life, or as forces that will transform reality for the better. Dystopian reactions emphasize fears of losing control, becoming dependent, and being unable to stop change\". Both utopian and dystopian streams are weaved in Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\" (1932) and George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43055550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43055550", "title": "Thumb tribe", "text": "Thumb tribe\n\nThumb tribe or sometimes thumb generation is a term used to describe a younger generation with members who are more adept at texting using their thumbs than talking on the phone. It identifies a trend among young people who use mobile phones for many activities, such as texting, email, entertainment and conversations, as opposed to using keyboards with traditional desktop computers. The term has been used by marketers to identify younger consumers. It marks a shift in the favorite digit, such that activities typically done by the forefinger, such as pointing at things or ringing doorbells, are being done with the thumb. It has been used in politics to identify persons who are not part of the younger generation, such as American politician Mitt Romney, who may have a mobile phone but does not use it dextrously. An effect is that for many young people, the thumb is physically stronger and more flexible, according to researchers. There are medical implications as well; excessive use of thumbs can lead to muscle pain and possible occupational problems.\n\nThe term was first used in Japan to identify the \"younger generation of Japanese texters\". Japanese youth used their \"keitai\" or mobile phone to download music, access Japan's version of Myspace called \"mixi\", surf the web, check train timetables and so forth. Sometimes it permitted them to form smart mobs to assemble seemingly spontaneously. The Japanese texting style relied heavily on the thumb, according to a report in \"NBC News\".\n\n"}
{"id": "48496349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48496349", "title": "Tower music", "text": "Tower music\n\nTower music is a musical performance from the top of a tower. It can also designate the music composed for or played in such a performance.\n\nIn the early European Middle Ages, musical instruments on towers were used to warn of danger and mark the passage of time. At first this was done by a tower watchman, later by ensembles of instrumentalists employed by the city. The music became more choral, and came to by played on specific days of the week, and to mark specific dates (feast days such as Christmas and Easter, for instance). The practice largely died out in the late 19th century, but was revived in the early twentieth, and continues to this day. Modern tower music is often played by volunteers. \n\nThe tower used would often be a church tower, but the tower or balcony of a civic building might also be used. \n\nThe instruments had to be audible to someone not on the tower. This eliminated the quieter (\"basse\") instruments, leaving the louder (\"haut\") instruments. Apart from bells, natural trumpets, slide trumpets, trombones, shawms, bagpipes, and drums were used.\n\nMusic was written specifically to be played from towers, but other works could also be used. Alta capella musicians playing the tower music would generally also perform in processions and ground-level outdoor events, and in some cases would also perform (on different instruments) indoors.\n\nMany English cities in the 1500s had town waits, as did rich individuals and institutions. In 1571, London ordered its waits to play “upon their instruments upon the turret at the Royal Exchange every Sunday and holiday toward the evening.” (with winter break, between September to late March, excepted). These may have been London’s first regularly scheduled public concerts. London's waits also played from its walls. \n\nThese civic wind bands of town pipers had been a feature of larger German towns and cities since well before the beginning of the sixteenth century, similar to the employment of waits with their sackbuts and shawms in England. Martin Luther, one of the chief figures of the Reformation, encouraged music-making in the service of God, and by around 1570 town councils were employing musicians specifically to take part in church services to supplement the organ playing. \n\nOne of the most popular forms of outdoors public music-making in the 17th century in Germany and central Europe was tower music (German: \"Turmmusik\"), organised by the town piper (\"Stadtpfeifer\") or tower master (\"Turmmeister\"). He and his band of musicians, also called \"Stadtpfeifer\" (the German plural is the same as the singular) played music for loud and penetrating wind or brass instruments from church towers and town hall balconies. \n\nGenerations of the Bach family in Erfurt filled the office of Stadtpfeifer or \"Ratsmusiker\" (German: 'town council musician'). By 1600 Halle, Dresden, Berlin, Cologne, Stettin, Nordhausen and even Eisenach (J. S. Bach's birthplace) with only 6,000 inhabitants, all had 'Stadpfeifers', whose job it was to sound the hours ('Stundenblasen') in the days before striking clocks were common in towers and churches. They started around 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning to start the working day, sounded (German: \"blasen\", lit. 'blew') the mid-morning break around 10 o'clock (Latin: \"decima hora\") and the afternoon break around three or four o'clock in the afternoon. Finally, at around 9 or 10 o'clock, there was an \"Abendsegen\", or evening blessing. Well known pieces by and for 'Stadtpfeifer' include Johann Schein's \"Banchetto musicale\" (1617) and Samuel Scheidt's \"Ludi Musici\" (1621).\n\nIn Nuremberg and Leipzig and there was a particular penchant for antiphonal tower music: three verses of a hymn would be echoed back and forth three times between the bands stationed in the towers of the Neukirche, St. Thomas Church and St. Nicholas Church, Leipzig. The Leipzig Stadtpfeifer and tower master ('Turmmeister') of St. Nicholas Church from 1669 was Johann Pezel (or Petzold, etc.) whose \"Hora decima musicorum Lipsiensium\" ('Leipzig 10 o'clock music') was published the following year, as well as \"Fünff-stimmigte blasende Music\" (1685) with five-part intradas and dance pieces for brass instruments. Another Leipzig Stadtpfeifer and virtuoso trumpet player Gottfried Reiche (1667-1734) described tower music in his preface to \"Vier und zwanzig Neue Quatricinia\" (1696) for cornett and three trombones, as \"a sign of joy and peace\", an embodiment of the spiritual-cultural life of the city \"certainly whenever the whole country is in mourning, or in war, or when other misfortune is to be lamented.\"\n\nAlthough the revival of music in churches was a particularly Lutheran initiative, Catholic areas like Vienna and Salzburg were just as keen to promote tower music. Among the most popular of tunes were the \"Heilig-Leider\", paraphrases in German of the Sanctus from the Latin Mass, which came into fashion after the enlightened reforms of the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph I promoted the use of the vernacular in church services. According to one Stadtpfeifer named Hornbock, quoted in Johann Kuhnau's \"Quack-Salber\": \"We know from experience that when our city pipers in the festive season play a religious song with nothing but trombones from the tower, then we are greatly moved, and imagine that we hear the angels singing.\".\n\nIn Austria, trombones were typically played from church towers (German \"Turmblasen\", lit 'tower blowing') or in cemeteries on All Souls' Day and the previous day (Hallowe'en in England). Their use is mentioned in a handbook explaining the multitude of church music regulations, \"Kirchenmusik-Ordnung\" (1828), by the Linz Stadtpfeifer Franz Glöggl. Glöggl commissioned the Three Equals from Beethoven in 1812. They were both pupils of Johann Albrechtsberger (d. 1807), who wrote one of the first trombone concertos.\n\nTower music reached a peak in around 1750, and thereafter declined towards the end of the 18th century. From around 1800 official civic concerts began to replace those given by the nobility, and what has been termed \"Saint Culture\" (\"'St\".-Kultur') suffered a split, leading on one side to the growth of professional symphony orchestras, and on the other to amateur \"Stadtkapellen\" conducted by professional or semi-professional town music directors.\n\nModern tower music is common in German-speaking areas.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54078737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54078737", "title": "Virtual exchange", "text": "Virtual exchange\n\nVirtual Exchange is a term used to describe \"technology-enabled, sustained, people-to-people education programs\" in which sustained communication and interaction takes place between individuals or groups who are geographically separated, with the support of educators and/or facilitators. This type of activity is most often situated in educational programs (but is also found in some youth organizations) in order to increase mutual understanding, global citizenship, digital literacies, and language learning. This activity is also known as telecollaboration, online intercultural exchange, globally networked teaching and learning, collaborative online international learning (COIL). In European school contexts, virtual exchange is part of eTwinning, a European Commission initiative. In 2017 the European Commission published a feasibility study into virtual exchange and in 2018 the Erasmus+ Virtual Exchange project was launched.\n\nGroups such as Soliya (Founder Lucas Welch) and the State University of New York's COIL Center use virtual exchange in higher education curricula to connect young people globally with a primary mission to help them grow in their understanding of each other's contexts (society, government, education, religion, environment, gender issues, etc.). Education which aims to integrate awareness and understanding of distant peoples, environmental issues that impact all planetary species, and geopolitical systems as part of the curriculum is sometimes referred to as Global Education.\n\nOnline intercultural exchange is an academic field of study connected to virtual exchange. It \"involves instructionally mediated processes...for social interaction between internationally distributed partner classes\". This activity has its roots in computer-assisted language learning (CALL) and computer-mediated communication. OIE is not restricted to language learning but happens across many educational disciplines where there is a desire to increase the internationalization of teaching and learning.\n\nDevelopments in communication technologies and the relative ease with which forms of human communication can be technically afforded internationally since the existence of the internet resulted in language teaching experimentation. Connecting individuals, classrooms or groups of students to work together on tasks online involves attempting to arrive at shared understanding through \"negotiation of meaning\" There is a body of research in the failures and successes of the endeavour which have informed a guide to language teacher practice. A consortium of researchers, the INTENT consortium supported by funding from the European Union promoted awareness of telecollaborative activities in Higher Education and the contribution made to internationalising the student experience, publishing a report and a position paper. The history of the evolution of this field was described by researcher Robert O'Dowd in his keynote to the European Computer-Assisted Language Learning Conference EUROCALL in 2015. Publications reveal learner perceptions of such activity.\n"}
{"id": "56419774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56419774", "title": "Whisper network", "text": "Whisper network\n\nA whisper network describes a chain of information privately passed between people, typically a list of powerful people in an industry alleged as being sexual harassers or abusers. The information is often shared between women by word of mouth, online in private communities, in forums, via spreadsheets, and sometimes using crowd-sourced documents. The stated purpose of maintaining these lists is to warn potential victims of \"people to avoid\" in their industry. Whisper networks also purportedly help victims realize they are not alone so they can find each other and come forward together about a serial abuser. The term \"whisper network\" was newly popularized during the #MeToo movement after several private lists were published outside private networks, for example the Shitty Media Men list, the California State Capitol list, and the Harvey Weinstein Google doc. Karen Kelsky created a less controversial list called \"Sexual Harassment In the Academy: A Crowdsourced Survey\" which had grown to over 2000 entries by the end of 2017, and includes stories without actually naming the accusing and accused parties. Kelsky said she hoped the list would help demonstrate the scope of sexual misconduct in the academic field, and it has resulted in the investigation of twelve men at the University of Michigan.\n\nPublishing whisper networks to the public has been widely criticized for spreading unsubstantiated rumors which can damage reputations, though there continues to be debate on the best alternatives to anonymous sharing for women who have been punished or ignored by official channels yet would still like to warn other women. It has been noted that certain vulnerable groups rarely get access to these private lists, for example women who are young and women of color. As a result, these groups rarely receive any protection from whisper networks unless they are published. The main problem with trying to protect more potential victims by publishing whisper networks is determining the best mechanism to verify allegations. Some suggestions have included strengthening unions in vulnerable industries so workers can report directly to the union, maintaining industry hotlines which have the power to trigger third-party investigations, and creating public systems that allow anonymous reporting with the ability to connect victims who report the same perpetrator. Several apps have been developed which offer various ways for women to report sexual misconduct, and some of these apps have the ability to connect victims with each other. Sex workers regularly share “bad date lists” and St. James Infirmary Clinic (which offers health and safety services for sex workers), created a “Bad Date” app that allows sex workers to anonymously log incidents with clients who have threatened, extorted, robbed, or been violent, potentially warning other sex workers in the future.\n"}
{"id": "6886026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6886026", "title": "World Congress on Communication for Development", "text": "World Congress on Communication for Development\n\nThe first World Congress on Communication for Development (WCCD) was held in Rome, Italy from October 25 to 27, 2006.\n\nThe First World Congress on Communication for Development was hosted by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and organized by The World Bank, Food and Agriculture Organization, and The Communication Initiative. It intended to clearly demonstrate to policy and decision-makers the effectiveness of \"Communication for Development\" in helping meet today's most pressing development challenges and to advocate among them for the systematic inclusion of communication in development policy and practice.\n\nCommunication for Development — as a process of dialogue, information sharing and building mutual understanding — is a powerful tool to promote the efficiency and effectiveness of development interventions, to assess and mitigate the political and social risks of those interventions and to build social ownership and sustainability.\n\nThe WCCD, the first event of its kind, brought together more than 500 policymakers, development practitioners, NGO and CSO representatives, and academics/researchers active in the field. Thousands more from around the world were able to participate via webcasting and broadcasting.\n\nFAO and the World Bank spearheaded this event, and involved more than 75 key institutions, including multilateral and bilateral partners, media institutions, academic and research institutions, and NGOs to help organize the Congress. The three party governance structure consisted of a steering committee (to provide overall advice and guidance to the planning), a Scientific Committee (to conduct the paper review and the Mainstreaming study) and an Advisory Body.\n\nNobel Prize Keynote Speakers, Highest Level of Representation from the UN and The World Bank, Italian Authorities, High Profile Public Figures, Ministries and Authorities from Developing Countries, Prime International University Representatives and Academicians.\n\nThe Congress was structured around four broad thematic areas: Health, Governance, Sustainable Development, and Communication Labs. During the Policymakers Forum leading policy and decision-makers discussed and debated the opportunities and constraints they envisaged vis-à-vis the proposed recommendations for mainstreaming communication in development policies and programs.\n\nA Mainstreaming and Policy Recommendations Study commissioned by the Scientific Committee served as the basis of discussions at the Policymakers' Forum, integrated the outcomes of the Forum and was then published, together with the proceedings of sessions and papers.\n\nMedia Partners included Inter Press Service-IPS, RAI (Italy), BBC (UK) and CNBC (Germany). Additional media outlets were Al-Jazeera (Qatar), Reuters, CNN Español, and major Latin-American media; Rome-based correspondents of the international press, together with major Italian newspapers covered the event. The BBC broadcast from the Congress site its flagship program, World Debate, while CNBC broadcast the show, Global Players.\n\nThis event generated an enormous amount of interest around the world with more than 600 papers submitted through the call for papers, more than 1,700 registered through the Congress website, more than 600,000 hits on the site, and more than 2,000 people participated in pre-Congress e-discussions on Congress-related topics and themes.\n\nOne of the most extensive efforts previous to the Congress was the latinamerican seminar \"Sin comunicación no hay desarrollo\" (Without Communication No Development), held on August, 2006 in the city of Lima (Perú) with participants from Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Perú, Uruguay, Venezuela, Germany and Italy. It reunited the following Peruvian (PE) and international institutions (I - International / LA - Latinamerican): Asociación de Comunicadores Sociales Calandria (PE), CESIP (PE), CNR (Perú), Colectivo Radial Feminista (PE), DEMUS (PE), Equipo Uno (PE), Voces Nuestras, PUCP (PE), Red Científica Peruana (PE), ILLA (PE), IEC (PE), MINSA (PE), CONAM (PE), CONCORTV (PE), IDL (PE), IUCM, Mesa de Comunicadores de Agencias de Cooperación, FELAFACS (LA), OCLAC (LA), OPS (LA), ANDI (LA), ALER (LA), AMARC (LA), Observatorio de Imprensa (LA), World Bank (I), AVINA (I), Broederlijk Delen (I), CAMECO (I), Communication for Social Change Consortium (I), FAO (I), Iniciativa de la Comunicación (I), ONU (I), OXFAM (I), UNICEF (I), USAID (I), WACC (I).\n\n"}
{"id": "29071145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29071145", "title": "World news", "text": "World news\n\nWorld news or international news or even foreign coverage is the news media jargon for news from abroad, about a country or a global subject. For journalism, it is a branch that deals with news either sent by foreign correspondents or news agencies, or – more recently – information that is gathered or researched through distance communication technologies, such as telephone, satellite TV or the internet.\n\nAlthough in most of the English-speaking world this field is not usually regarded as a specific specialization for journalists, it is so in nearly all the world. Particularly in the United States, there is a blurred distinction between world news and \"national\" news when they include directly the national government or national institutions, such as wars in which the US are involved or summits of multilateral organizations in which the US are a member.\n\nAt the birth of modern journalism, most news were foreign, as registered by the courants of the 17th century in West and Central Europe, such as the \"Daily Courant\" (England), the \"Nieuwe Tijudinger\" (Antwerp), the \"Relation\" (Strasbourg), the \"Avisa Relation oder Zeitung\" (Wolfenbüttel) and the \"Courante Uyt Italien, Duytsland & C.\" (Amsterdam). Since these papers were aimed at bankers and merchants, they brought mostly news from other markets, which usually meant other nations. In any case, it is worthy to remark that nation-states were still incipient in 17th-century Europe.\n\nFrom the 19th century on, with newspapers already established in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, innovations in telecommunications such as the telegraph made news from abroad easier to be spread. The first news agencies were then founded, like AFP (France), Reuters (UK), Wolff (currently DPA, Germany) and the AP (US).\n\nWar journalism is one of the best known subfields of world news (although war coverage can be national for the media of belligerent countries themselves).\n\nThere are essentially two types of reporters who do foreign reporting: the foreign correspondent (full-time reporter employed by a news source) and the special envoy (sent abroad to cover a specific subject, temporarily stationed in a location).\n\nThe correspondent is a reporter based in a foreign city (often the capital of a country) covering a region, a country or sometimes even an entire continent. He or she regularly files stories to the news editor. He/she gathers materials for these stories from local officials, members of the community, and the local media, as well as from events he/she directly witnesses. Correspondents typically stay in touch with the local community and maintain contacts with other journalists and correspondents in order to identify strategic sources in the government, among diplomats, members of the military and other organizations on the ground who may provide important information.\n\nThe number of foreign correspondents has dropped significantly over the past 20 years or more. Often, a media company is either uninterested or unable to afford to support a single correspondent, such as in many developing countries. In some places, they cannot obtain visas due to political constraints, or otherwise dangerous conditions prohibit a media company from stationing a reporter there. In recent years, the drop in foreign correspondents has been due to cutbacks within media companies (often, but not always, a result of economics alone). Among English language newspapers, only eight daily newspapers have full-time correspondents in more than ten foreign stations, four from the US, three from the UK and one from India: \n\n35 – \"Wall Street Journal\" (US): Baghdad, Bangkok, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Istanbul, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, Kuala Lumpur, Lagos, London, Manila, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, Paris, Prague, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, São Paulo, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, Tokyo, Toronto, Zurich\n\n24 – \"New York Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Berlin, Cairo, Caracas, Dakar, Hong Kong, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Mumbai, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Rome, São Paulo, Shanghai, Tokyo\n\n19 – \"Financial Times\" (UK): Beijing, Berlin, Bombay, Brussels, Dubai, Frankfurt, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Jerusalem, Moscow, Mumbai, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Taipei, Tokyo, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n17 – \"Washington Post\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Berlin, Bogotá, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, Paris, Shanghai, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n15 – \"The Guardian\" (UK): Accra, Bangkok, Beijing, Berlin, Brussels, Kabul, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Los Angeles, Madrid, New York, Paris, Rome, Tehran, Tokyo\n\n13 – \"The Daily Telegraph\" (UK): Beijing, Brussels, Jerusalem, Kabul, Los Angeles, Moscow, Nairobi, New Delhi, New York, Paris, Shanghai, Sydney, Washington\n\n13 – \"Los Angeles Times\" (US): Baghdad, Beijing, Beirut, Cairo, Islamabad, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Kabul, London, Mexico City, Moscow, New Delhi, Seoul\n\n12 – \"The Hindu\" (India): Addis Ababa, Beijing, Colombo, Dhaka, Dubai, Islamabad, Kathmandu, London, Moscow, Paris, Singapore, Washington \n\nWhen reporters working abroad have no permanent labor contract with media outlets, they are called stringers. Since they have no salary, stringers usually produce material for several different companies at once.\n\nA news agency is an organization of journalists established to supply news reports to news organizations: newspapers, magazines, and radio and television broadcasters. Such an agency may also be referred to as a wire service, newswire or news service. The bulk of major news agency services contains foreign news.\n\nThe major news agencies generally prepare hard news stories and feature articles that can be used by other news organizations with little or no modification, and then sell them to other news organizations. They provide these articles in bulk electronically through wire services (originally they used telegraphy; today they frequently use the Internet). Corporations, individuals, analysts and intelligence agencies may also subscribe.\n\n\n"}
